Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Rising to every occasion Night Hanging out Casual out with drink friends Barbecue Happy hour Holiday Enjoying the time outdoors Relaxing Brunch at home Music Watching festival sports Eating PostDinne party out workout Casual Special dining meal We are creating more occasions to bring people together We strive to understand We unite nearly 200,000 consumers’ preferences exceptional people around and create new occasions our passion for brewing and experiences. the highest-quality beer. We believe in celebrating Our economic contribution life. Through sports, music helps build communities and culture and, more and improves livelihoods. simply, friendships. We see countless new As the leading friendships, connections brewer, we take our and experiences built responsibility as a on a shared love of beer. steward of the industry very seriously. Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Contents 2 Letter to our shareholders 6 Global footprint 8 Delivering growth 22 Uniting through our passion 30 Creating a better world 43 Financial report 149 Corporate governance statement Open the foldout for an overview of our financial performance. 1 Anheuser-Busch InBev (Euronext: ABI; continents and generations. From our Michelob Ultra ®, Modelo Especial ®, NYSE: BUD; MEXBOL: ABI; JSE: ANB) European roots at the Den Hoorn brewery Quilmes ®, Victoria ®, Victoria Bitter ®, is the leading global brewer and one in Leuven, Belgium. To the pioneering Sedrin, Sibirskaya Korona ® and Skol ®. of the world’s top 5 consumer products spirit of the Anheuser & Co brewery in We are building a company to last. companies. We are geographically St. Louis, US. To the creation of the Castle Not just for a decade. But for the next diversified, with a balanced exposure Brewery in South Africa. To Bohemia, the 100+ years. We are committed to to developed and developing markets. first brewery in Brazil. helping farmers, retailers, entrepreneurs We draw on the collective strength of and communities thrive. Through Our diverse portfolio of over 500 brands nearly 200,000 colleagues in more than our brands — ​and our investment in includes global brands Budweiser ®, 50 countries worldwide. communities — ​we will make our company Corona® and Stella Artois®; multi-country an essential part of consumers’ lives We are committed to building great brands brands Beck’s ®, Castle ®, Castle Lite ®, for generations to come and achieve our that stand the test of time, and to brewing Hoegaarden ® and Leffe ®; and local Dream of bringing people together for the best beers using the finest natural champions such as Aguila ®, Antarctica ®, a better world. ingredients. Our brewing heritage dates Bud Light ®, Brahma®, Cass®, Chernigivske®, back more than 600 years, spanning Cristal ®, Harbin ®, Jupiler ®, Klinskoye ®, 2017 normalized EBITDA contribution by region* Normalized EBITDA (million USD) 2017 22,084 2016 reference base 28.0% 14.8% 19,633 North EMEA 11.9% 2016 reported America Asia 16,753 Pacific 2015 reference base 19.9% 18,145 Latin America 2015 reported West 16,839 18.4% 2014 Latin 18,542 America North 2013 reference base 7.0% 17,943 Latin America 2013 reported South 17,188 2017 volume contribution by region Revenue (million USD) 2017 56,444 21.5% 2016 reference base 18.5% EMEA 53,942 North 16.6% America 2016 reported Asia Pacific 45,517 18.1% 2015 reference base Latin 46,928 America West 2015 reported 19.5% 43,604 Latin 2014 America 47,063 North 5.6% 2013 reference base Latin 45,483 America South 2013 reported 43,195 * Excludes Global Export and Holding Companies 2017 beer volumes: We have We have over 613 million hl more than 500 beer brands We sell 600 years of brewing our beers in heritage more than 2017 normalized EBITDA: 100 countries Revenue of our 3 global brands 22,084 million grew 9.8% in 2017 To facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying performance, the analyses of growth, including all comments in the commercial part of this Annual Report, unless otherwise indicated, are based on organic growth and normalized numbers. Million USD unless 2013 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 stated otherwise reported reference reported reported reference reported reference reported base1 base2 base3 Volumes (million hls) 425 446 459 457 502 500 616 613 Revenue 43,195 45,483 47,063 43,604 46,928 45,517 53,942 56,444 Normalized EBITDA 17,188 17,943 18,542 16,839 18,145 16,753 19,633 22,084 EBITDA 23,428 – 18,465 17,057 – 16,360 – 21,429 Normalized profit from operations 14,203 14,800 15,308 13,768 14,882 13,276 15,520 17,814 Normalized profit 7,936 – 8,865 8,513 – 4,853 – 7,967 attributable to equity holders of Anheuser-Busch InBev Profit attributable to equity 14,394 – 9,216 8,273 – 1,241 – 7,996 holders of Anheuser-Busch InBev Net financial debt 38,800 – 42,135 42,185 – 107,953 – 104,390 Cash flow from 13,864 – 14,144 14,121 – 10,110 – 15,430 operating activities Normalized earnings per share (USD) 4.91 – 5.43 5.20 – 2.83 – 4.04 Dividend per share (USD) 2.83 – 3.52 3.95 – 3.85 – 4.33 Dividend per share (euro) 2.05 – 3.00 3.60 – 3.60 – 3.60 Payout ratio % 57.60 – 64.80 76.0 – 136.0 – 107.2 Weighted average number of ordinary 1,617 – 1,634 1,638 – 1,717 – 1,971 and restricted shares (million shares) Share price high (euro) 79.60 – 94.89 124.20 – 119.60 – 110.10 Share price low (euro) 63.44 – 69.14 87.73 – 92.13 – 92.88 Year-end share price (euro) 77.26 – 93.86 114.40 – 100.55 – 93.13 Market capitalization (million USD) 172,291 – 183,167 200,302 – 213,993 – 225,531 Market capitalization (million euro) 124,930 – 150,867 183,983 – 203,010 – 188,052 1.  The 2013 Reference Base includes 12 months of Grupo Modelo operations to facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying business. The 2013 reference base further reflects the combination of Western Europe and Central & Eastern Europe into a single Europe Zone, and a number of intra-Zone management reporting changes which took effect on 1 January 2014. 2.  The 2015 Reference Base and 2016 segment reporting exclude the results of the SABMiller business sold since the combination was completed, including the joint venture stakes in MillerCoors and CR Snow, and the sale of the Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brands and associated businesses in Italy, the Netherlands, the UK and internationally. The 2015 Reference Base and 2016 segment reporting also exclude the results of the CEE Business and the stake in Distell. The results of the CEE Business will be reported as “Results from discontinued operations” and the results of Distell will be reported as share of results of associates until the respective sales are completed. 3.  The differences between the 2016 Reference base and the 2016 income statement as Reported represent the effect of the combination with SAB. The profit, cash flow and balance sheet are presented as Reported in 2016. The results of the CEE Business were reported as “Results from discontinued operations” until the completion of the disposal that took place on 31 March 2017. The results of Distell were reported as share of results of associates until the completion of the sale that occurred on 12 April 2017, and accordingly, are excluded from normalized EBIT and EBITDA. Furthermore, the company stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as from the completion of the CCBA disposal on 4 October 2017. To our shareholders: 2017 was a transformative year for our company. We are well on our way to achieving our most successful business integration ever and we delivered the best performance in three years. Our reshaped brand portfolio is rising to every occasion to capture future growth. 191 beer awards won globally 2 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Realizing the best of both worlds Our 2017 financial performance was our best in the past three years: The combination with SAB has exceeded our expectations. We have incorporated ● We grew top-line in many of our new the best of both companies by bringing and established markets. Gaining together world-class talent, integrating momentum throughout the year, we best practices and deepening our underdelivered particularly strong results standing of consumers and occasions in the fourth quarter. Our three across all markets. global brands led the way, with 2017 revenue growing by a combined 9.8%. Cost synergies are not only greater than Budweiser grew its global revenue originally expected, but they are also by 4.1% and remains the world’s most being delivered at a faster pace. Revenue valuable beer brand according to synergies, although not externally BrandZ™. According to Plato Logic quantified, are well underway through the in 2017, Budweiser extended its lead successful launch of our global brands as the #1 beer brand in ex-domestic into new territories, among other activities. sales volumes. Stella Artois continued We have also adopted a new way of its long-term trajectory, with revenue looking at the beer category that recognizes up 12.8% driven by sales in North different market maturities and the role America, repatriation in Australia and of brand portfolios in driving category its entry into South Africa and other growth. As we look forward, we are excited new markets. Corona grew its revenue about the growth opportunities in our by 19.9% globally, led by Mexico, Global organic revenue growth expanded footprint for both developed China, Australia and Argentina. (5-YEAR CAGR FROM 2012–2017 FY) and developing markets. ● We grew profitability in our two 4.6% largest markets. In the US, EBITDA The combination has created something greater than the sum of its parts. This has was up by 1.9% and Michelob Ultra 4.4% only been possible through our Dreamremains the biggest share gainer 3.9% People-Culture platform, which has driven in the country for the 11th straight us in the past and will continue to drive quarter. We continue to develop our 3.8% performance for the next 100+ years. high end brands while working closely 3.8% with our wholesaler partners to grow Achieving strong performance our total portfolio. We know we have 3.6% For the five years ending 2017, our work to do in the US to balance the 3.5% revenue CAGR of 4.6% exceeded that of share and profitability equation and all our global FMCG peers. The structural we remain committed to improving our 3.3% share performance. In Brazil, despite change in our global footprint resulting 3.1% from the combination with SAB positions the challenging macroeconomic us towards higher growth markets, as conditions, we outgrew the industry, 2.4% with beer volumes up by 0.7%. evidenced by the accelerated momentum in 2017, with revenue growth of 5.1%. Strong revenue per hl growth of 2.4% 6.2% supported our top line and was 2.2% In addition to the synergy capture from enhanced by our premium portfolio, one of the largest business combinations which grew volumes by double-digits. 2.0% in history, we rebounded in Brazil and In 2H17, EBITDA grew by 20.4%, 1.6% continued to reshape the portfolio in the rebounding from a -19.7% decline in US in order to reach consumers in more 1H17, finishing the year up 1.7%. SOURCE: Compiled by Bain & Company, based on publicly available company reports and presentations. occasions. We achieved 5.1% revenue NOTE: 5-year CAGR from 2012 to 2017 based on fiscal year growth, up from 2.4% in 2016, and 13.4% ● Deleveraging to around 2x remains our ending December 31, except for Diageo, Pernod Ricard and Procter & Gamble, which are based on a fiscal year ending EBITDA growth, up from -0.1% in 2016. commitment. We are tracking in line June 30. with our internal deleveraging targets, 3 and we will prioritize debt repayment trends, we define the optimal portfolio in order to meet this objective. Our Net for any market to drive long-term Debt to EBITDA ratio decreased from growth. Western Europe and Australia 5.5x on a reported basis in 2016 to 4.8x are good examples of how the optimal in 2017, or 4.7x when adjusted for the portfolio — whether as an industry leader closing of pending disposals and or as a challenger — ​c an become the the foreign exchange time mismatch source of consistent, profitable revenue between the balance sheet and growth, even in developed markets. P&L translation. We will continue to Driving long-term category health proactively manage our debt portfolio, and growth of which 93% holds a fixed-interest rate, 42% is denominated in currencies We are a truly global brewer, embedded other than USD, and maturities are in communities around the world. We well-distributed across the next several take our responsibility for industry With just 95 calories, typically years. Our cash flow from operating stewardship very seriously. We are less than a glass of wine, people activities increased by 52.6% from brewers at heart — ​in 2017 our beers can enjoy the refreshing taste of Michelob Ultra without compromising 10.1 billion USD in 2016 to 15.4 billion received 191 awards globally, more their active lifestyles. USD in 2017. In addition, we than any other brewer. The natural maintained over 20 billion USD in cash ingredients that go into beer, combined and revolving credit facility liquidity. with the humble, but complex, craft of brewing, gives beer an advantage over Delivering top-line growth other alcohol categories. Our passion Delivering consistent, profitable top-line for beer and brewing heritage, united growth remains our number one priority. with our global footprint and our talented Consumers are We are building a company to last, colleagues, positions us well to drive pursuing more brewing beers that will continue to bring category growth. people together across generations and balanced lifestyles, communities. Our commercial priorities are as follows: and both men and ● Expand global brands: We continue women want Our portfolio now offers more than 500 more choices. to leverage the potential of our global brands and seven of the top 10 most brands by expanding into new markets valuable beer brands worldwide, according such as South Africa, Colombia to BrandZ™. Nineteen of our brands and Australia. These brands are also generate more than 1 billion USD in retail addressing consumer demand for sales annually. We distribute our beers premium and super premium choices. to more than 100 countries, offering In 2017, we grew revenue of Budweiser, consumers a choice for every occasion. Stella Artois and Corona by 4.1%, This scale, combined with the strength of 12.8% and 19.9%, respectively, for a our brands and the depth of our talent, combined total growth rate of 9.8%. allows us to use new disruptive technologies Outside of their home markets, we to listen to and reach consumers with grew our global brands by 16.8%. 16.8 % multiple platforms. ZX Ventures, our global ● Premiumize and invigorate beer: growth and innovation group, identifies We are bringing new vigor and energy exciting opportunities to pilot new to consumers’ experience with beer products, channels, occasions and retail and expanded options. Our High End experiences to offer more choice to Company, a business unit made up of consumers, with the same great quality. our global, specialty and craft brands, By combining a deep understanding of is now established in 22 markets that growth of global brands’ different market maturities with analysis account for approximately 70% of revenue outside of their of changing consumer habits and the High End opportunity worldwide. home markets 4 2017 Annual Report Our specialized teams are dedicated to demand a commitment to sustainability to growing our business the right way. accelerating our growth rate versus from the brands they purchase. Integrity and ethics are embedded in our historical performance with revenue company culture, and it is our expectation In 2018, we will announce a set of ambitious of 4.6 billion USD in 2017 and 25.8% that all our nearly 200,000 colleagues act Sustainability Goals which will include: growth versus 2016. We are also with the highest ethical standards. clean energy, smart agriculture, water gaining share in virtually all relevant conservation, recyclable packaging as Continuing our journey beer types and we introduced new well as safer workplaces and communities. variants of our core brands to increase As the world’s leading brewer, we take We are investing in these goals globally consumers’ beer choices. responsibility for the health and growth and locally. Already in 2017, we committed of the global beer category. We are using ● Elevate core lager: We employ a to sourcing 100% of our purchased our industry-leading analytics, insights number of strategies to reinforce the electricity from renewable energy sources and brands to understand and address quality heritage of core lager, including by 2025. the evolving needs of consumers around leveraging social media, sponsoring Smart drinking and road safety are the world. events, using differentiated messaging equally critical to our future. As part of our and developing unique packaging. Our geographic diversity limits our commitment to make every experience Our goal is always to convey the unique dependence and exposure to any one with beer positive and empower consumers character and quality of our brands region, and our global footprint positions to make smart choices, we are expanding and connect with beer drinkers. us for sustainable long-term growth. our portfolio of noand low-alcohol beer Furthermore, our robust portfolio of ● Create new consumer experiences products. To promote road safety and award-winning local, regional and global and occasions: To further develop the reduce the harmful use of alcohol, we are brands, combined with continuous beer category, we have broadened our continuing our focus on city pilots around innovation, allows us to expand our approach beyond near beer products. the world, in partnership with local offerings to consumers across a broad We continue to respond to consumers’ governments, multilateral organizations, range of occasions. desire for more balanced lifestyles by NGOs and other companies. We are also increasing our selection of noand expanding programs such as the Budweiser In the past year, as our integration with low-alcohol beer products (NABLAB) and Lyft ride share collaboration. SAB has successfully progressed, our and near beer options that go well colleagues have amazed us by humbly As a company of owners, we keep an with a variety of experiences and adopting and embracing what we like to entrepreneurial mindset and take occasions. Several of these brands call the “best of both” in everything we performance personally. We not only also support our Global Smart Drinking do across our company. We have always seek out opportunity in our own business, Goals to have NABLAB represent been a company of owners, and we but also support growth among our 20% of our global beer volumes by take results personally as we constantly partners and communities for the long 2025. In addition, we are creating new drive towards a better future. While we term. Knowing that brewing has sustained experiences and occasions that bring delivered solid results in 2017, this is only livelihoods and driven economic growth people together and make beer more the beginning of our combined company’s for centuries, we have developed relevant. journey for the next 100 years and beyond. programs to support the economies of our Contributing to a better world communities, including our SmartBarley program that helps local farmers increase For centuries, the experience of sharing crop quality and yields. a beer has brought people and cultures together. Even in our hyper-connected, It is our Dream to Bring People Together always-on world, this simple act is as for a Better World. As a category leader, powerful today as it was generations ago. it is our responsibility to set the standard. Carlos Brito Olivier Goudet Even as we celebrate our progress, we Chief Executive Chairman To brew the highest-quality beers, we are never completely satisfied with our Officer of the Board need a sustainable environment and results. For instance, we are committed thriving communities. Sustainability to creating a more diverse workforce to is not just related to our business, it is benefit from a broader range of our business. Consumers increasingly perspectives. We are also committed 5 Global footprint Delivering more of what consumers thirst for across the globe Operations in virtually every major beer market, and brands sold in more than 100 countries We are a truly global brewer, positioned to serve the evolving needs of consumers worldwide. Our portfolio of more than 500 brands means we have beers for every type of occasion and our iconic brands bring people together across generations and communities. We expect to generate significant growth opportunities by building on the strengths of our combination with SAB. We are focused on enhancing our portfolio and expanding the beer category while continually diversifying and innovating our products to offer more choice with the same quality. We have operations in virtually every major beer market and our brands are sold in more than 100 countries. We are brewers at heart and are proud of our 600 years of brewing heritage. Our beers have received 191 awards including 59 gold medals from major beer competitions over the last year alone. 6 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report North America United States and Canada Expanded our gross margins every year since 2009, with 2017 delivering the best gross margin in the past nine years. Revenue declined by 1.8% due to industry softness in the US and Canada. Expanding our global Latin America West brands to drive growth Middle Americas — Mexico, El Salvador Our global brands — Budweiser, and Honduras Stella Artois and Corona — are growing COPEC — Colombia, Peru and Ecuador revenue at 9.8%. Outside of their Revenue grew 7.5% with strong top-line respective home markets, they grew growth accelerated by the success of our revenue by 16.8%. We continue to unlock core plus and premium brands as well as growth by applying learnings and our the scale-up of our global brands in our brand building experience to new markets. new markets. This approach has made our brands among the most preferred brands around Latin America North the world, including seven of the top 10 Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, most valuable beer brands worldwide.* St. Vincent, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Barbados, Dominica and the Caribbean Revenue was up by 6.1%. Brazil is leading Fast-growing brands the way in elevating the beer category Michelob Ultra: Has had the largest share with the packaging revamp of the Brahma gain for the past 11 quarters in the US, brand family and double-digit growth of making it the country’s fastest-growing our premium brand portfolio. beer brand. Sales of the brand more than doubled in Mexico in 2017. We also Latin America South launched Michelob Ultra in Shanghai and Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Paraguay and Bolivia Honduras. Revenue grew by 26.1% driven by Brahma: The Brahma brand in Brazil saw premiumization as well as revenue accelerated performance as a result of management initiatives and an enhanced our intense focus on quality, ingredients, consumer strategy. Argentina was the packaging upgrades and line extensions. main engine of growth, with beer volumes Brahma Extra, our core plus variant, grew up by double digits and achieving success volumes by high double digits in 2017, across the portfolio. while Brahma 0.0 offers consumers a no-alcohol choice. EMEA Europe — UK, Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, Hoegaarden: Following a brand refresh in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, 2016, Hoegaarden’s new packaging began Switzerland, Austria, Ukraine, Russia and Export rolling out worldwide in 2017, building on Europe and Middle East (EEME) Africa — South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland, positive momentum in international markets. Mozambique, Malawi, Namibia, Zambia, Lesotho, In Asia, Hoegaarden is growing in high Uganda, Ethiopia, African Islands, Tanzania, South double digits, while in South Korea the Sudan, Kenya, Nigeria and Ghana brand climbed from #4 to become the #1 Revenue grew by 6.3%. Drivers included premium brand. growth of premium and global brands in Harbin: In China, our new Harbin wheat Western Europe, which enabled us to gain beer, Harbin Baipi, continues to outperform market share in a majority of countries, as in mixed-gender and food occasions. In well as beer volume growth in Africa, and addition, Harbin Ice continues to grow our global brands are now in South Africa. volumes and has reached historically high levels of “Top 1 Favorite Brand.” Asia Pacific Asia Pacific North — China, South Korea and Japan Great Northern: Continues to be one of Asia Pacific South — Australia, New Zealand, the fastest-growing brands in Australia, India, Vietnam and other South and Southeast engaging consumers through aspirational Asian countries communications of escapism and Revenue grew by 7.5% driven primarily by relaxation. Our national rollout and content brand mix, led by the strength of core plus, partnerships have propelled the brand to premium and super premium brands in high double-digit growth. China, as well as several strong brand performances in Australia, which continues to fuel growth by addressing * SOURCE: 2017 BrandZ™ shifting consumer preferences. Top Most Valuable Brands 7 8 Delivering growth Our passion for beer positions us well to deliver growth. Our passion for brewing the highest quality beer and bringing people together for a better world positions us well to deliver growth over the long term. In 2017, we grew organic revenue in virtually every beer market outside the US. We have built a portfolio of brands that addresses changing consumer preferences and makes beer relevant for more occasions. Our four commercial priorities continue to drive growth and deliver more of what consumers want. The priorities are: ● Expand our global brands by leveraging the potential of Budweiser, Stella Artois and Corona and addressing consumer demand for premium brands. ● Premiumize and invigorate beer by bringing new vigor and energy to consumers’ experiences with beer and offering expanded options, such as craft. ● Elevate core lager by reinforcing its heritage and conveying the unique character and quality of our beers. ● Create new consumer experiences and occasions by bringing people together and providing innovative noand low-alcohol and near beer choices that enable us to compete in a wider range of occasions. 9 Expanding our global brands Budweiser: the king of beers Adolphus Busch introduced Budweiser in 1876, and it is still brewed with the same high standards today. This refreshing lager is a natural choice for enjoying good times with friends — and at events such as Tomorrowland and the 2018 FIFA World Cup™ Russia. Budweiser is a bold symbol of freedom and ambition, an energizing and optimistic brand that thrives in the world’s great cities. 1 Most valuable beer brand in the world* *SOURCE: 2017 BrandZTM Budweiser remains the world’s most Budweiser local brewing rounded out our 100 Most Valuable Brands valuable beer brand and is enjoyed in 73 global brand portfolio in South Africa. countries. In 2017, two out of every three Drawing in consumers with packaging Budweiser beers were consumed outside # and product innovation the US. Budweiser grew revenue by 10.8% outside the US, led by China, Brazil, the In 2017, we expanded our aluminum UK and South Korea. Budweiser bottle designs and introduced a proprietary Budweiser bottle. Following Expanding into new markets launches in some new Budweiser markets, Wherever it is sold, Budweiser stays at the bottle will be rolled out to key the leading edge by understanding local markets in 2018. To celebrate the repeal market dynamics and creating relevant, of Prohibition in the US, we also released unique and memorable experiences a limited edition 1933 Repeal Reserve that bring people together. In 2017, Amber Lager with a heritage recipe and we introduced Budweiser to five new packaging that highlighted the brand’s countries: Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, quality credentials. South Africa and Australia. We also Celebrating holidays old and new launched the brand in South Africa with our #TheKingIsHere campaign across We have developed more occasions for 250 select points of sale in urban centers, enjoying beer, including our Halloween culminating in a Bud Hotel experience in campaigns in India, China and the UK. Johannesburg and a Boiler Room music We made the holiday more of an event in Cape Town. The addition of occasion by creating unique experiential 10 2017 Annual Report 10.8 growth outside the US was led by China, Brazil, % the UK and South Korea promotional events in these markets. in the US beginning in spring 2018 and Meanwhile, our powerful gratituderoll out to additional international markets Budweiser, with its “Give a Damn. Don’t Drive Drunk” campaign, based Budweiser Chinese New Year by 2025. teamed up with Lyft for the second campaign boosted the region’s annual year in a row to reduce drunk revenue and resulted in an all-time driving and celebrate those latehigh in brand health. night heroes who give — and take — ​ responsible rides home. Supporting smart drinking and renewable energy Budweiser explored new ways of promoting road safety through a partnership with Lyft in the US. Following a successful 150,000 2016 pilot program in six states, we expanded the 2017 campaign to offer up to 150,000 round-trip rides in nine states round-trip rides plus Washington, D.C. — ​all to help people get safely to and from their nights were provided by the out every weekend. In early 2018, we Budweiser-Lyft also introduced a renewable electricity partnership in symbol to celebrate our commitment to the US brew Budweiser with 100% renewable electricity. The symbol will first appear on the label of every Budweiser brewed 11 Expanding our global brands Stella Artois: the world’s #1 Belgian beer Stella Artois is part of a rich Belgian brewing heritage dating back to 1366. The beer is still brewed using the finest natural ingredients in the tradition of hand-crafted luxury. Stella Artois is the ideal choice for curated meal occasions, where its taste elevates the food and dining experience. Stella Artois is the #1 Belgian beer in the world and the fourth most valuable beer brand. Served in 90 countries, the lager's revenue grew 12.8% in 2017, led by performance in the US, Argentina and Brazil. During the year, we regained our ownership and distribution of Stella Artois in Australia and accelerated growth in new markets, including Colombia and South Africa. Addressing the global water crisis Water is a fundamental human need, yet 663 million people live without access to safe water. Water is also a key ingredient in Stella Artois and has helped the brand build its 600-year brewing legacy. In 2017, Stella Artois reaffirmed its commitment to ending the global water crisis at the World Economic Forum with a multi-year extension of its partnership with Water.org and the “Buy A Lady A Drink” campaign to help provide clean water for people in 12 2017 Annual Report We helped 1 million people in the developing world get access to clean water To support our water commitment, Stella Artois released a new set of Limited-Edition Chalices designed by three influential artists from Cambodia, Brazil and Uganda. These artists created chalices that interpret the water crises in their countries and places where Water.org provides support. the developing world. The brand will help period of Stella Artois across all major ● Our Spiritual Homes promotion in provide 3.5 million people with sustainable markets, and this year it included our South Africa, South Korea, Australia access to clean water by 2020. first global promo mechanic, selling and Argentina created special spaces over 1 million chalices. to fully experience Stella Artois at Offering new ways to experience its best, where the brand brings its Stella Artois ● Stella Sensorium, an ultra-premium heritage, identity and meaning to dining experience personalized for 90 Stella Artois is about savoring life in the physical realm. consumers and media personalities, many ways. engaged top chefs from around the ● We introduced Le Village de Stella country and temporarily relocated Artois through immersive European them to five major Australian cities to markets and café experiences in showcase Stella Artois inspired menus. Argentina, South Korea, Canada, the ● In 2017, we launched our Host One To US, Mexico, COPEC and Australia, Remember campaign in North America offering people a chance to enjoy a countries, including new to create unforgettable gatherings freshly poured Stella Artois with some markets such as Colombia 4 supported by activations in the trade, delicious bites, the way we do where and South Africa th experiential events and a partnership we come from. with the New York Times. By combining ● Stella Artois was originally brewed as the brand’s Belgian heritage alongside a holiday gift for the people of Leuven cultural tastemakers, we tapped into and it has been enjoyed around the food and wine festivals and Fashion world ever since. The holiday season Week events usually associated with most valuable beer continues to be the biggest selling wine and spirits. brand in the world 13 Expanding our global brands Corona: this is living Born outside in the sun, with the beach as its homeland, every Corona is an invitation to come outside and unwind. Brewed 100% in Mexico, Corona is the most popular Mexican beer worldwide. It has been complementing life’s simple moments since 1925, and is now enjoyed in over 120 countries around the world. Corona’s steady growth in the premium is reducing plastic use across all events, category reflects its branded association including Corona SunSets, the worldwide with the beach, outdoor culture and series of music festivals that reaches popular music. Its taste profile appeals more than 350,000 people each year. to a co-ed market. The brand is also In 2018, we plan to launch Clean Waves aligned with preserving the environmental sunglasses, a new fashion brand made health of the world’s beaches. from upcycled ocean plastic. Corona experienced 19.9% revenue Connecting with the world’s surfers growth in 2017 and 39.9% growth outside The 2017 Corona Open in South Africa of Mexico. It had excellent performance in was our first-ever title sponsorship of Mexico, China, Australia and Argentina. the World Surf League (WSL) tour. Our In 2017, Corona was the world’s sixth most digital campaign supporting the event valuable beer brand. reached some 2 million people. In addition, Helping address ocean plastic pollution leveraging our Better World platform, we created the WSL’s first plastic-free event. The beach is the heart of Corona. That is why we partnered with Parley for the Celebrating sunsets and music Oceans to address marine plastic Each year, Corona sponsors a global pollution. Together, we have committed music festival platform celebrating to protect 100 islands by 2020 in six key the transformational power of sunset regions affected by plastic, and to at the world’s most iconic beaches, educate consumers. In addition, Corona 14 Anheuser-Bush InBev 2017 Annual Report An estimated 8 million metric tons of plastic waste enter the oceans each year. On May 17, 2017, Corona partnered with Parley for the Oceans with the commitment to protect 100 islands from marine plastic pollution by 2020. 1 mountains and city centers. In 2017, Adding more options to enjoy Corona Corona SunSets live streamed Many consumers are seeking more performances from artists Bruno Martini, balanced lifestyles. And one of our goals # Vintage Culture, Bakermat and Duke is to have noand low-alcohol beer Dumont from the festival in San Pancho, products represent 20% of our global Mexico to 17 million viewers around beer volumes by 2025. We have launched the world. no-alcohol varieties of several brands, Creating a virtual getaway including Corona Cero in Mexico. It joins Corona Light, our lower alcohol version To inspire people to spend time outside of Corona. In 2017, we also launched a and live more moments that matter, most popular Mexican new Coronita campaign in Chile. These we created a secret paradise in the heart beer brand worldwide 210 ml bottles of Corona are designed to of Mexico City. Stripping away the 19.9 capture weekday occasions for the brand. % surrounding concrete jungle, ‘Paraíso Secreto’ combined theatrics, VR technology and interactive set design to immerse visitors into a natural mirage — taking them away from the stresses of urban reality to experience nature. revenue growth with excellent performance in Mexico, China, Australia and Argentina 15 Responding to Premiumizing consumer desire for choices & invigorating beer Premium means creating excitement around beer — especially among young consumers of legal drinking age — by bringing new vigor and energy to experiences beyond beer. Our Consumers are developing more sophisticated palates and demanding premiumization approach includes innovation, more choices in everything from customization, exclusivity and unique brand packaging to experiences. We have a broad portfolio of more than 500 experiences. brands worldwide that addresses nearly all beer styles from lagers to IPAs to stout, with a wide range of price points. Bringing premium to more markets about beer styles ahead of competitors. knowledge of beer and reinforce around the world This led us to offer five styles of superinnovation and quality. premium beer to the Asian markets: To advance our premiumization strategy, We partner with craft brewers and brands super-premium lager, white segment we developed our High End Company, who share our passion to help shape (wheat), dark, craft and IPA. We a business unit made up of our global, the beer category and find creative ways also introduced new variations of our specialty and craft brands across to meet changing consumer needs. We core brands. 22 countries. exchange ideas, share best practices and Growing our craft portfolio develop new styles with our craft brewers. In Asia, for example, we are applying In 2017, we added four craft breweries to our understanding of premiumization Craft beer is a lever to elevate the category our portfolio: Boxing Cat in China, Wicked by building the super-premium segment by bringing beer into new territories Weed in the US and 4 Pines and Pirate in China. Currently, super premium and occasions. Craft beer also provides Life in Australia. Pirate Life was recently accounts for less than 1% of the beer an opportunity to increase consumer voted Australia’s best craft brewery. market, giving us the opportunity to talk 16 Anheuser-Busch InBev Annual Report 2017 Elevating With centuries of brewing history, we have seen countless new friendships, connections and core lager experiences built on a shared love of beer, such as our clean, crisp lagers. We have a long, proud heritage of brewing lagers, which remain consumer favorites and account for most of our brands and beer volumes. We are excited to share the rich traditions of core lager with new generations of consumers. Making core lager more relevant generated critically needed farm jobs facing immigrant discrimination. and provided Ugandans an affordable The story conveys our heritage and the We are using a number of strategies to alternative to unhealthy informal or illicit uncompromising commitment that goes elevate lager, and make our brands more alcohol. The program also supports into brewing our beer. relevant in consumers’ lives, including: women’s economic empowerment as Tapping into the energy of London’s ● Engaging consumers and educating more than half of the farmer associations vibrant nightlife them about our brands through key that supply sorghum to us are led by occasions and moments. women. In recognition of its contribution Camden is one of the trendiest areas of to agricultural communities, our team London in terms of music, culture and ● Unique packaging that conveys quality. secured a 30% excise rate for Eagle Lager, nightlife. Now, Camden Hells has become half the amount levied on beer brewed one of the fastest-growing beers in our ● Appealing to young adults of legal from imported ingredients. This enables European craft portfolio — and an integral drinking age through music, sports Eagle to be sold at a lower price. Today, part of London’s night scene. The Raise and food. Eagle accounts for 62% of our total sales, Hell Camden portfolio is also available in ● Connecting with beer drinkers online, and we are applying the learnings from Paris and Stockholm, where it is gaining through events and invitations to our Uganda to other markets around the world. momentum in new urban centers. breweries to “talk beer.” Becoming a part of popular culture Differentiating lager by standing for Dilly Dilly is a cheer that became a diversity cultural phenomenon in the US as part In Brazil, our Skol lager brand is standing of our Bud Light campaign ahead of up for diversity and inclusion. Skol the Game of Thrones series premiere. became the first beer brand to support Consumers now use the Dilly Dilly the LGBT Pride Parade with the film catchphrase when toasting during a “Respect Is On.” Continuing its campaign variety of occasions. for respect, for International Women’s Day 2017, Skol released the “Reposter” video in which six female illustrators recreate past ads with more inclusive messaging. Dilly Dilly Supporting local communities Another spot released during the 2017 in Uganda Super Bowl, “Born the Hard Way,” told In 2002, our colleagues in Uganda the story of our founder Adolphus Busch launched a sorghum-based Eagle Lager and his unrelenting pursuit of the in a pioneering move to brew beer from American dream. He makes the difficult what had been a subsistence crop. This journey from Germany to St. Louis while 17 Creating new Expanding noand consumer low-alcohol beer products and near beer options experiences and occasions Our Dream is bringing people together for a better world. Our portfolio includes a range of noand lowalcohol beer as well as near beer options to offer consumers more choice for a variety of occasions. Through sports, music, culture and, more simply, friendships — beer is part of life’s great moments. We continue to brew beer and build brands for new occasions and experiences that will bring people together for the next 100+ years.. Innovating the noand low-alcohol ● Mexico — Corona Cero, LowerExpanding the category with near beer category ABV Corona brand variants and By introducing new alternatives to wine Michelob Ultra. In response to consumer demand for and hard liquor, we are expanding the more balanced lifestyle choices, we ● UK — Bud Prohibition, an alcoholcategory to give consumers more options have developed an expanded selection free beer that tastes like Budweiser. and to drive growth. For example: of noand low-alcohol products. These ● Belgium — Jupiler 0.0 — Leads the Flying Fish Chill: This apple-flavored products — which include non-alcohol category in Belgium and won Gold malt beverage is South Africa’s largest beers that can be enjoyed after sports at the 2017 World Beer Awards. growth contributor. and beers for people who want to drink less alcohol — are also helping us to ● Australia — Great Northern Super Cola & Pola: A low-alcohol (2%) beer in achieve our Global Smart Drinking Goals Crisp is one of Australia’s fastestColombia, Cola & Pola has created a (see page 36). They include: growing beer brands. visibility plan in restaurants to continue building the meal occasion with a beer ● Canada — Bud Light Radler, a mix and cola cocktail, resulting in double-digit of grapefruit juice and beer. growth. Hiball (an organic energy drink made with caffeine, guarana and ginseng) and Alta Palla (a brand of organic sparkling juices and sparkling waters): The latest additions to an expanding portfolio of no-alcohol beverages, which is targeted to consumers interested in a healthy and active lifestyle. Kombrewcha: This refreshing, delicious, low-alcohol beverage (3.2% ABV) is gluten-free, organic and low in sugar. 18 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report 19 Innovating with ZX Ventures and GITeC GITeC created technology that enables us to repurpose millions of tons of formerly spent grain from our brewing process that we now call “saved grains.” Together with ZX Ventures, we utilized this technology to create the first sustainable, plant-based beverage, an innovative fiber + protein shake called Canvas. It provides a rich and convenient source of dietary fiber, complete plant protein, essential fats and a blend of delicious ingredients. 20 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Tapping into life’s moments and creating new experiences Cheering with the world’s sports fans Developing new occasions to ● Our global growth and innovation group, enjoy beer ZX Ventures, develops new products For centuries, people have come and businesses that address together through sports. Today, we We are developing more opportunities to emerging consumer needs relating to continue to bring sports fans together by bring people together through occasions international craft and specialties beer, partnering globally with FIFA, the World such as food pairings, weekday sports e-commerce, homebrewing, brand Surf League and Wimbledon, to name watching and socializing with friends after experience (including retail stores) a few. Budweiser is an official sponsor exercise. Introducing beer to these new and exploration. of the 2018 FIFA World Cup™ Russia, occasions is expanding consumption of and nearly 100 countries are activating our light and premium beers in a number ● Our Global Innovation and Technology Budweiser and our core brands locally to of countries. Center, GITeC, works with our packaging, bring fans together for the world’s most product and process development Delivering beer to consumers’ viewed sporting event. teams to develop new products and front doors technologies. Bringing people together through music We have established an e-commerce People love to hear live music. That is business with ZX Ventures that enables why our brands support both well-known consumers to take advantage of onemusical events and bespoke music hour delivery of cold beer, making it more venues. Tomorrowland, the largest convenient to enjoy our beers at home. global electronic dance music festival in the world, is sponsored by Budweiser. Corona SunSets is a worldwide series of music festivals reaching more than Culture, 350,000 people each year, and Budweiser STORM Music Festivals have expanded events, innovation from Mainland China to Taipei. Creating new spaces to gather with friends With ZX Ventures, our global growth and Innovating to stay ahead of innovation group (see more on page 20), consumer needs our brands are creating inspiring venues We have two key innovation hubs to where consumers can come together. develop new products and businesses We have opened more than 300 unique that address emerging consumer needs: spaces in 12 countries, including Goose Island, Bogota Beer Company and Patagonia brew pubs and brew houses. 21 22 Uniting through our passion One team with one Dream. Our people have amazed us. Following our combination with SAB, we have truly brought the best of both together to create one team with one Dream. We learned from one another and grew into a better, stronger company. We are now a global brewer, embedded in communities around the world as a family of local companies. Our world-class talent is focused on combining analytical insights with solid execution, and passionate about our Dream of bringing people together for a better world. 23 Sharing our passion for beer Everything we do starts with our passion for brewing high-quality beer. We protect the heritage and the integrity of our brands. We depend on clean water, high-quality barley and other crops to brew our beers, and believe in brewing beer that is fresh, minimally processed and free of preservatives. We source ingredients carefully and provide transparency about our brewing practices. As always, we are mindful to conserve natural resources in brewing and listen to our stakeholders for advice. Delivering a brewery fresh experience relevant content that educates and trains beer taste, safety, service levels and our colleagues about beer, our brands packaging efficiency. We are now To give consumers the opportunity to and programs. This app is part of our leveraging these key performance try brewery fresh beer, we offered our commitment to provide a best-in-class indicators (KPIs) to measure and improve Tank Beer program to 191 retail locations service level to customers, memorable quality across our global organization. around the world. This program delivers experiences to consumers and an unpasteurized beer direct from the extraordinary execution of our brands brewery to the pub. It is the ultimate in the trade. experience of draught beer at its finest and freshest. We plan to add 114 retail Passion, locations in 2018. Drawing on intellectual synergies to Brewing quality enhance our craft expertise, beer in Brazil quality We enhance our craft by sharing our Quality is front and center in Brazil. knowledge throughout our global company. To reinforce our connection to the land, we gathered more than 350 This creates powerful intellectual synergies, farmers in Passo Fundo in southern such as combining SAB’s packaging Brazil to celebrate a barley harvest expertise with our extensive knowledge and discuss the best breeding of brewing methods. We have also Measuring quality practices for barley. We also opened the doors to our brewery adopted a new way of looking at the beer Grupo Modelo, our team in Mexico, in Jaguariúna, São Paulo, and category that recognizes different market invited consumers to learn about has always had a strong commitment maturities and t he role of brand portfolios beer production. In 2017, Brazil to quality and brewing tradition that is was proud to win 27 medals in the in driving category growth. evident in the day-to-day routine and World Beer Awards. Sharing our beer expertise with focus of our colleagues. As our VPO customers management system has matured, we learned we could obtain specific and We are piloting a digital learning platform measurable quality improvements by across our top markets to cascade focusing on 11 key areas including 24 Anheuser-Bush InBev Annual Report 2017 Quilmes Clásica’s new taste is 100 years old We love brewing the highest-quality beers using the finest natural ingredients. In Argentina, we developed a formula for Quilmes Clásica, which is 100% natural and free of additives. We unearthed the beer’s traditional recipe, and Quilmes Clásica is now brewed with raw materials extracted from the Argentine countryside. We introduced this innovation with a new visual identity for the brand in 2017. 25 Integrity and ethics are part of our core values Living the Dream Our Dream-People-Culture platform is the foundation of our success and what drives our performance. It inspires our nearly 200,000 colleagues in more than 50 countries to brew beers and build a company to last. A company that will continue to bring people together across generations and communities for the next 100+ years. At the heart of our dynamic global growth is a simple belief that nothing should come between incredibly talented people and an accelerated career. That is why we dream big. Why we look to the future, not the past. Why we value talent over title. And why we hire people who can be better than ourselves. Recruiting world-class talent leaders and challenges everyone to perform at their best. Our people are our biggest competitive advantage. These are not token words. Embracing diversity in all its forms We are passionate about this, and We strive for a community where our leaders play an instrumental role everyone is included and respected, in recruitment to identify and nurture bringing people together for a better the best talent we can find. People world. A diverse and inclusive workforce with strong leadership potential and a enables us to better understand and disruptive outlook. serve consumers. We have approximately That was especially true following our 100 nationalities represented across combination with SAB. Our CEO and our company, with almost 30 different company leaders traveled around to the nationalities on our senior leadership world to meet with our new colleagues team alone. Diverse perspectives in Town Hall meetings and one-onlead to innovation and growth, so we both companies’ compliance systems. ones. They interviewed 350 people to continue to recruit and promote people By developing a data aggregation and ensure we learned from one another and with different ideas, experiences, analytics program called BrewRIGHT combined the best of both companies. backgrounds and nationalities to join (BRIGHT) to manage vast quantities our culture of meritocracy. of data from the two companies, our Supporting a company of owners Legal and Compliance team could use Growing our business the right way In addition to being a company of algorithms to spot risky transactions passionate brewers, we are a company Integrity and ethics are part of our core more quickly and cost-effectively, thus of owners. Our owner mentality means values, embodied in our company culture. reducing investigation and compliance we are accountable for our actions and As the world’s leading brewer, it is our costs. BRIGHT was recognized by the make decisions in the long-term best expectation that all our nearly 200,000 Financial Times as the most innovative interests of our business. We execute colleagues act with the highest ethical use of data for a legal project in Europe. with focus, excellence and integrity. Our standards. When we combined two The Financial Times also recognized meritocratic approach encourages our multinational companies into one, we our Compliance Channel App as a best people to take ownership, accelerates faced a challenging task of integrating practice. 26 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report 10 guiding principles Training the leaders Dream of tomorrow Our shared Dream energizes everyone to We look for leaders who can help us 1 work in the same direction: Bringing people as we innovate and build a company to last for the next 100 years and beyond. together for a better world. We provide intensive training programs for top university and MBA students that expose them to senior leaders and People different areas of our business. In 2017, we had 217 graduates join our Global Our greatest strength is our people. Great Management Trainee (GMT) program 2 people grow at the pace of their talent and and 37 joined our Global MBA (GMBA) program. are rewarded accordingly. We recruit, develop, and retain people who 3 can be better than ourselves. We will be judged by the quality of our teams. Culture We are never completely satisfied with our Generating 4 results, which are the fuel of our company. employment across Focus and zero-complacency guarantee our value chain lasting competitive advantage. Every year, our value chain generates jobs and wages directly through brewing, The consumer is the boss. We serve our distributing and selling our beers, as 5 consumers by offering brand experiences well as indirectly through buying from that play a meaningful role in their lives, suppliers and induced through employee personal spending. In 2017, we comand always in a responsible way. pleted a project1 that estimated the magnitude of our economic contribution We are a company of owners. Owners take across nine of our countries, 2 using 6 results personally. 2014 data. The study estimates that our total contri­bution in those nine countries represents 1.6 million jobs: directly We believe common sense and simplicity are employing more than 120,000 people, 7 usually better guidelines than unnecessary supporting (directly, indirectly and induced) roughly 500,000 further jobs via our sophistication and complexity. suppliers, and another 1 million jobs via distribution and sale channels. We manage our costs tightly, to free up 8 resources that will support sustainable and profitable top-line growth. Leadership by personal example is at the 9 core of our culture. We do what we say. We never take shortcuts. Integrity, hard work, 10 quality, and responsibility are key to building 1. Study performed by EY’s QUEST practice applying country-specific IMPLAN Input-Output Economic Models to the company’s 2014 data for nine countries, our company. to estimate indirect and induced effects. IMPLAN, developed at the University of Minnesota, is used by more than 500 universities and government agencies for estimation purposes. 2. The nine countries were part of AB InBev in 2014, are located in different geographical Zones, and contributed 48% of our volumes in 2017. 27 Our Voluntarios Modelo program won a UN Global Compact Award 28 Anheuser-Busch InBev Volunteering & disaster response For us, contributing to our communities includes volunteering for relevant causes and supporting disaster response. Acting in our communities and wholesalers throughout the month provided more than 400 company of September. trucks to transport donated food and Volunteering is one of the best ways to supplies after September’s magnitude 7.1 bring people together for a better world. Our local teams also organized their own earthquake. We also donated the proceeds In communities around the world — ​ volunteering efforts. In 2017, two countries from the sale of 3 million limited-edition both large and small — ​our people are leveraged digital technology to enhance Corona cans. In the US, we halted the passionate about helping communities their approach to volunteering. In Mexico, production of beer to produce and donate to grow and prosper. We encourage 184,015 volunteers took part in our more than 2.9 million cans of water to these efforts through regional and global Voluntarios Modelo program, which won affected areas through our partnership volunteering initiatives that are often also a UN Global Compact Award; and in with the American Red Cross. open to our families, friends, partners Colombia, Peru and Ecuador, 18,632 and consumers. citizens and colleagues volunteered through the #MeUno platform. One key global program is Global Be(er) Responsible Day, which in 2017 Supporting disaster response Cans or bottles of drinking water donated engaged more than 60,000 colleagues In 2017, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, worldwide to promote awareness about wildfires and other natural disasters smart drinking. Together, we spread smart struck with great force and frequency in 2,963,520 drinking messages to 461,000 consumers in 2017 many countries. We supported disaster on one day through direct interactions. relief and recovery efforts, including We reached more than 300 million people through water donations, funds for 2,175,600 through traditional and social media in 2016 reconstruction, equipment, fuel and other activity, and we engaged with over 1 million assets, and volunteering. In Mexico, we 60,000 of our points of consumption, retailers colleagues worldwide engaged to promote awareness about smart drinking in 2017 29 30 Creating a better world As owners, we take results personally. Brewing our beers requires a healthy natural environment and thriving communities. We are committed to improving lives in the communities we are part of and playing a positive role within them. Sustainability is not just related to our business, it is our business. We want to create a better world through what we do and how we do it every day. In this section, we report on our 2017 performance against our environmental commitments and progress toward our social commitments. We focus on conserving natural resources, supporting communities, promoting smart drinking and road safety, and maintaining safe workplaces. All of this is supported by doing business with integrity. Our information responds to performance indicators for the Directive 2014/95/EU for non-financial reporting, selected indicators from the GRI Standards and relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. 31 Improving We depend on natural resources to brew our beers and strive to use resources environmental responsibly and preserve them for the future. That is why we factor sustainability into how we do business, including how & community we source energy and raw materials. We develop innovative programs across our supply chain to improve our sustainability sustainability performance with our business partners. To improve lives in the communities we are part of, we also support the farmers and small retailers in our value chain to help them be more productive. To facilitate progress, we combined our sustainability and procurement activities under a single function led by a member of our Executive Board of Management (EBM). In 2017, we achieved the last of our eight significant portion of our malt barley and announced a global partnership with environmental goals we set for ourselves other raw materials through our own local leading agro-tech firm Agrible that will in 2012, but our work is ongoing.* We sourcing programs across 15 countries enable us to help farmers around the world will announce a new set of goals in that reach around 50,000 farmers, access better data and predictive insights 2018, focusing on broader sustainability including both commercial-scale and on crop management and climate effects. issues that are most critical to our smallholder farmers. We also set up local projects to help business and to the communities where We engage directly with farmers in our farmers in our supply chain tackle largerwe live and work. supply chain to help them to improve scale challenges, such as water stress. productivity while conserving natural In 2017, we collaborated with university resources. We employ a team of more partners to test and scale LESA (low Setting goals for every than 150 researchers and agronomists elevation spray application) irrigation step of the value chain globally who develop new crop varieties technology with farmers in Idaho and suited to local conditions, and work with Montana to improve water efficiency and Agriculture farmers to improve their agricultural reduce disease pressure. Water practices and operations. We also In Uganda, we are piloting a partnership partner with more than 30 organizations, Energy with TechnoServe to provide agronomic including leading universities, research centers, agribusiness companies, NGOs Packaging & waste and technology firms. Retailer development We believe technology has enormous potential to positively transform the future of farming. For this reason, we Accelerating agricultural created SmartBarley: an innovative development digital platform that leverages data, technology and insights to help growers We rely on agricultural crops to brew improve productivity and environmental our popular brands, and believe we can performance. In 2017, over 5,000 farmers help create a step-change in sustainable across 12 countries participated in our agricultural production. We source a SmartBarley platform. In addition, we 32 * Goals and achievements relate to the pre-combination scope. Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report For the second Our previous eight year in a row, CDP* sustainability goals achieved named us to its A List for water Reduce water risks and improve Reduce global greenhouse gas stewardship. water management in 100% of emissions per hectoliter of *CDP is a non-profit organization our key barley-growing regions, production by 10%, including a that runs the global disclosure in partnership with local 15% reduction per hectoliter in system for managing stakeholders China environmental impacts. Engage in watershed Reduce global energy usage protection measures at 100% of our facilities located per hectoliter of production by 10% Providing clean in key areas in Argentina, Reduce packaging materials water through Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru and the United States, by 100,000 tons “Water Health in partnership with local stakeholders Reach a 70% global average of Centers” eco-friendly cooler purchases annually In many communities around the world, Reduce global water villagers must walk miles each day just usage to a leading-edge Reduce greenhouse gas to secure clean drinking water for their 3.2 hectoliters of water per emissions in logistics families. In some developing countries, hectoliter of production operations by 15% per clean water will become an increasingly hectoliter sold from our scarce resource. We are piloting a 2013 baseline program in India that delivers clean water through Water Health Centers. These centers oversee the attachment of air-filtration systems to local water sources and dispense large bottles of clean water through vending machines. In the first few months of operation, over 100,000 people received water access. and business skills training to 2,000 us to return water to the local watershed sorghum and barley farmers, over from which it was withdrawn, such as Total water use (in billion hl) half of whom are women and youth, to through irrigation for agriculture or by 2017 AB InBev help improve their yields and incomes. (combined) 1.775 recharging an aquifer. This program is also helping farmers 2017 AB InBev 1.419 (pre-combination) Beyond our plants, we are working across form savings groups and link to formal 2016 AB InBev (pre-combination) 1.466 markets and ecosystems to improve financial institutions. water access and security by restoring Increasing water efficiency watersheds and introducing sustainable Water use by hectoliter of and availability irrigation and other water-conservation production (in hl) programs in high-water-stress areas Water quality and availability are critical 2017 AB InBev (combined) 3.09 across Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, to brewing. Without water, there is 2017 AB InBev 3.06 Colombia, Mexico, Peru, South Africa, no beer. We must also be responsible (pre-combination) 2016 AB InBev the US and Zambia. We are currently stewards of water supplies for the (pre-combination) 3.14 exploring the use of innovative financing communities where we operate. We listen and technology to help make these carefully to major water conservation programs viable for our suppliers. organizations, and combine their Assured Metric: Our goals on water pertain to our beverage facilities only and do not encompass our vertical operations such as malt plants and knowledge with our scale and expertise packaging facilities. We also partner with local authorities, to help ensure a reliable, clean supply of other water users and NGOs, such as In 2017, we made measurable progress water, not only for ourselves but also for the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) in reducing the amount of water we use to local communities and watersheds. and The Nature Conservancy (TNC). brew beer. Together, we invested in financial and To guide our water conservation efforts, We achieved this year-over-year technical resources in projects that we actively engage with international reduction by creating efficiencies in build green infrastructure, conserve and experts on watersheds, water systems on-site water use. We have also focused restore forests, restore natural habitats, and sustainable agriculture. These on managing our water-related risks, and conserve soil in key markets such experts help us develop and implement protecting local watersheds, investing in as Brazil, South Africa and Zambia. In strategies and measure the economic, community water-access programs and 2017, we partnered with TNC to begin a environmental and social impacts of engaging our colleagues in our efforts. watershed-protection program that will our efforts. We invested in technologies that enable finance important conservation and 33 In 2017, we made the following progress against our energy goals: Total GJ of energy Total direct and indirect (in millions) GHG emissions (in million metric tonnes of CO2e) restoration efforts in the water basin 2017 AB InBev 2017 AB InBev (combined) 61.4 6.18 (combined) that supports Mexico City, a city facing 2017 AB InBev 2017 AB InBev (pre-combination) 49.9 4.47 substantial water stress. For information (pre-combination) 2016 AB InBev 2016 AB InBev on our partnership with Water.org and (pre-combination) 52.6 4.68 (pre-combination) the Stella Artois “Buy A Lady A Drink” campaign, see page 12. Energy usage per hectoliter GHG emissions per hectoliter Conserving energy and of production (in Mj/hl) of production (in kg CO2e/hl) lowering our carbon footprint 2017 AB InBev 111.6 2017 AB InBev 8.55 (combined) (combined) 2017 AB InBev 2017 AB InBev Climate change has far-reaching (pre-combination) 113.3 (pre-combination) 7.42 consequences for our business and for 2016 AB InBev 116.1 2016 AB InBev (pre-combination) (pre-combination) 7.54 the communities where we live and work. Believing we can make a difference through our global reach and scale, we Assured Metric Energy & GHG emissions: have committed to securing 100% of our • Our goals on GHG emissions per hectoliter of production and energy pertain to our beverage facilities only and do not encompass our vertical purchased electricity from renewable operations such as malt plants and packaging facilities. • Total direct and indirect GHG emissions data encompass beverage facilities and most vertical operations, including malt plants and packaging facilities. sources by 2025. This commitment, • Scope 1 accounts for 60% of our emissions and includes CO2 equivalent (CO2e) from fuel used in our manufacturing processes and in cogeneration plants that generate on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts for about 40% and represents emissions from purchased electricity. which will reduce our operational carbon footprint by 30%, enabled us to join to measure and commit to reducing We also track our total energy use RE100, a collaborative global initiative their energy use in manufacturing and (absolute reduction), fuels mix by uniting more than 100 influential transportation. percentage, and conversion of coalbusinesses committed to using 100% powered plants to natural gas or renewable electricity. In 2017, we accelerated our global green steam. Although our energy usage logistics program. We installed GPS To achieve this goal, we are engaging per hectoliter of production went down devices across our transportation fleet in power purchase agreements that for the combined 2017 data, the GHG to track fuel and route efficiencies and will support investments in renewable emissions per hectoliter went up. This monitor patterns that have an impact on energy infrastructure. Specifically, in is due to a shift in the energy mix in our driver safety. In addition, we reserved 2017 our US team signed a power operations (pre-combination versus the 40 of Tesla’s Semi trailers for shipments purchase agreement with Enel Green combined company). Finally, although to distributors from our breweries. Power for energy produced by a portion important to global climate change In addition, in China we increased our of the Thunder Ranch wind farm. The mitigation efforts, given the nature of volume delivered by liquified natural renewable energy produced by Thunder our operations air pollution has not gas-powered vehicles by 50%. Overall, Ranch under the agreement is expected been identified as a material issue to we have reduced our logistics emissions to amount to approximately 630 GWh our business and stakeholders. As a by 16.4% since 2013, exceeding our of renewable energy each year, enough result, we do not specifically track key target of 15%. to brew more than 20 billion 12-ounce performance indicators on air pollution. (355 cc) servings of beer annually. In another energy deal, we contracted to buy energy from a new wind farm in Mexico that will meet all our local power purchase needs in that market, including for our largest brewery in Zacatecas. The purchase agreement will also expand local wind generation by as much as 4.7%. Beyond our own operations, our Responsible Sourcing Policy requires all business partners to observe applicable laws and regulations concerning the environment. We also require suppliers 34 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Creating 10,000 jobs in South Africa two new partnerships to collect postIn 2017, South African Breweries Rethinking packaging and (SAB) launched an entrepreneurship reducing waste consumer packaging waste in Mexico and program with an ambitious goal the Dominican Republic. As we continue to create 10,000 jobs over five Part of our commitment to the environment to learn from these collaborations, we years. Working in partnership with is reducing waste. We are one of the world’s will continue to identify opportunities to NGOs, government and the private sector, the program supports largest buyers of glass and aluminum partner with NGOs and local communities entrepreneurs to develop and and we have a responsibility to promote in additional markets. grow their business, and offers circular packaging methods of these opportunities for them to become materials. We have begun by promoting Empowering entrepreneurial part of SAB’s supply chain. The initiative aims to contribute to South and protecting returnable packaging, small businesses to grow Africa’s national agenda of growing increasing the amount of recycled content and thrive the economy through jobs and in our packaging, generating less waste offer tailored support for youth As part of our commitment to help comand women. and recovering post-consumer waste, munities thrive, we have a responsibility light-weighting our packaging, educating to help the small businesses in our supply consumers, and partnering with others. chain. From the suppliers that help We are starting to uncover best practices power our production to the retailers that in many areas, but acknowledge that connect with our consumers every day, there is much more to learn. small businesses play a vital role as an Supporting Through light-weighting initiatives, we engine of economic growth and employcommunities removed 126,800 tonnes of material ment. They are critical to the success of around the world from our packaging in 2016 versus a our business operations. We value our At a local level, we also work to drive 2012 baseline, achieving our 2017 target relationships with our small business positive impact in our communities partners and recognize the challenges through local foundations, such as one year early. In 2017, we removed an the Bavaria Foundation, Anheuser additional 15,140 tonnes, bringing our many face in sustaining and growing Busch Foundation, and Grupo Modelo total reduction since 2012 to 141,976 their operations, such as limited business Foundation. tonnes.* skills and the need for affordable finanBavaria Foundation: This foundation cial services and infrastructure. As their was created to support populations We also seek to minimize the amount business partner, we believe we can help involved in the brand’s value chain and of waste we send to landfill from our them address these barriers to unlock all communities in Colombia. Highlights breweries through recycling initiatives, in 2017 included the “Growing for their entrepreneurial potential and enable a Dream” program that empowered including using waste as fuel in our us to grow together. women retailers with training and operations. In 2017, we decreased the favorable financial rates, and support amount of waste sent to landfill by 43% In 2017, we evolved our small retailer for victims of the Colombian conflict development program to holistically focus through “peace stores” and strengthening compared to 2016, and decreased our local agribusiness. total waste by 0.9% over the same period. on business skills, financial inclusion and infrastructure development. Aligned to Anheuser Busch Foundation: This In 2017, we recycled 99.4% of brewery foundation is focused on improving waste, compared with 99.2% in 2016.* this, we launched the Creciendo por un the lives of individuals in the US, Sueno “Growing for a Dream” program predominantly through grants to Reducing post-consumer packaging to empower 80,000 women-run small organizations that support college waste is an industry-wide challenge. retailers in Colombia, Peru and Ecuador education, economic impact, In a number of our markets, we have responsible drinking and disaster relief. with access to business skills training A 1 million USD grant was given to the partnered with local stakeholders to and affordable financial services to help American Red Cross Annual Disaster develop recovery and recycling solutions. improve their livelihoods and business Giving Program to support relief efforts. For example, in Zambia, through our operations. We also tested small retailer Grupo Modelo Foundation: This Manja Pamodzi (Hands Together) development programs in Mexico and foundation provided support in Mexico program with the Lusaka City Council, Africa regions, with a plan to continue through earthquake response and volunteering (see stories page 29). we have piloted support for small-scale in 2018. It also worked with the National waste collectors to gather cartons and Commission for Addictions to reduce plastic bottles. In 2017, in addition to car accidents in Zacatecas by 39% Corona’s partnership with Parley for the over 2016, and planted 120,000 trees during World Environment Day. Oceans (see story page 14), we launched * These figures are AB InBev pre-combination only. 35 Promoting Part of our dream for a better world is aspiring to make every experience with smart drinking beer a positive one. Through our Global Smart Drinking Goals, launched in 2015, we aim to reduce the harmful use of alcohol and foster a culture of smart drinking and road safety globally. We are aligned with the World Health Organization’s global target of a 10% How are we going to do it? or greater reduction in the harmful use Changing Behaviors Through Social Norms of alcohol by 2025, as well as with this Multi-Year Pilots Social Norms area of focus within the UN Sustainable Reduce the harmful Influence social norms Development Goals. use of alcohol by at and individual behaviors -10% least 10% in six cities to reduce harmful alcohol by the end of 2020. use by investing at least Targeting smart drinking efforts 1 billion USD across our Implement the best $1B markets in dedicated social through our City Pilots practices globally by marketing campaigns and the end of 2025. related programs by the end of 2025. We are attempting to reduce harmful drinking through our City Pilots program Empowering Consumers Through Choice in six cities. These were chosen based Product Portfolio Alcohol Health Literacy on a combination of factors, including where we have a strong presence, Ensure Noor LowerPlace a Guidance Label Alcohol beer products on all of our beer products evidence suggests the need is most represent at least in all of our markets by the 20% of AB InBev’s end of 2020. acute, there is political will to implement global beer volume by Increase alcohol health the end of 2025. literacy by the end of 2025. the necessary programs, and there are local organizations with relevant technical expertise. To help measure progress and report on our impact, in US, Anheuser-Busch and Lyft introduced drinking and violence, and in Gurugram, 2016 we began independent baseline a safe rides and law enforcement program India, our work focused on road safety. studies for these cities, measuring that encouraged residents to plan ahead Influencing social norms and current alcohol use and attitudes toward for safe transportation, offering round marketing responsibly drinking. We are combining research with trip rides as part of the “Be A Designated public-private partnerships to help find, Rider” campaign. In Jiangshan, China, We use our global marketing capabilities to test and measure effective interventions. we implemented a screening and brief influence social norms and individual If successful, we will introduce these intervention program via vans in public behaviors around smart drinking. In 2016, methodologies in more markets. spaces and a program to increase alcohol we invested approximately 64 million USD health literacy. in social norms programs, social marketing In 2017, we made progress in our pilots and related initiatives; we will report using innovative initiatives to reduce Beyond City Pilots, in 2017 we launched our 2017 investments on our website harmful alcohol consumption. For example, targeted intervention programs in three later this year. In 2017, we developed an in Zacatecas, Mexico, we implemented additional cities. In El Alto, Bolivia, our internal tool to track our progress against a mystery shopper program to prevent efforts focused on reducing binge drinking these investments, as well as a toolkit underage consumption. In Brasilia, Brazil, and public disorder resulting from harmful with evidence-based approaches for we used screening and brief interventions alcohol use. In Bogota, Colombia, our developing social norms programs and to prevent hospitalizations. In Columbus, interventions addressed underage social marketing campaigns. 36 Anheuser-Bush InBev 2017 Annual Report We also updated our Responsible the Pacific Institute for Research and Marketing and Communications Code Evaluation, to measure and evaluate In 2017, we earned recognition for our smart drinking and road safety to continue marketing our beers in a performance on our City Pilots goal. efforts. Specifically, AB InBev responsible way by not appealing to The Foundation is also working with China was named The Most underage consumers, by not depicting researchers in public health at the Tufts Outstanding Enterprise of China irresponsible alcohol consumption, University School of Medicine to look in Social Responsibility, during the 2017 XinHua.com CSR Awards and by putting safeguards in place at the effect guidance labels placed on Ceremony, for its campaign on our digital platforms. The updated packaging may have on alcohol health promoting positive behavior and Code includes an internal review and literacy and reducing harmful drinking advocating against drunk driving. approval process to ensure compliance. behaviors. Offering more noand In 2017, the Foundation engaged with low-alcohol options the National Academy of Medicine’s Public-Private Partnership Forum on Reducing the alcohol content in Global Health and Safety to identify ways Safe roads are also a high priority for beverages has been advocated by to further reduce harmful alcohol use governments and advocacy groups, and researchers as one of the viable through multi-sector partnerships. we are strengthening the impact of our mechanisms of reducing harmful alcohol use. In 2017, we continued to efforts through partnerships. These 13 include our leadership in Together for % expand our portfolio of noand lowalcohol beer products (read more about Safer Roads (TSR), a private-sector the portfolio on page 18). As of January coalition focused on safer companies 2017, noand low-alcohol beer made and fleets, addressing local road up approximately 6.7% of our beer safety challenges, data collection and management, and advocacy and portfolio by volume. These beers provide fewer road fatalities in thought leadership. Through TSR, we alternatives to consumers who want light, 62 cities in Brazil refreshing beers that are in line with a created the first Road Safety Global balanced lifestyle. Entrepreneurship Program to connect our coalition members with the best Pursuing solutions through the Investing in road safety new approaches for reducing traffic AB InBev Foundation crashes and fatalities. In addition, in Around the world, we invest in innovative Shanghai we identified crash hot spots To further advance our Global Smart programs to improve road safety and and implemented improvement plans to Drinking Goals, we established the reduce injuries and fatalities from traffic reduce crashes. In Brazil, TSR has been AB InBev Foundation in 2017. The accidents. This work is aligned with an advisor to the State of São Paulo’s Foundation focuses on four areas: UN Sustainable Development Goals Movimento Paulista de Segurança no supporting transparent and verifiable 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), 11 Trânsito (MPST), which aims to halve the monitoring and evaluation of our Global (Sustainable Cities and Communities), number of fatalities in São Paulo state Smart Drinking Goals; supporting and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals). In traffic by 2020. implementation of our City Pilots program 2017, we expanded our Budweiser “Give with science-based interventions A Damn” program in partnership with Within our operations, we have made and technical advice; promoting the Lyft, distributing more than 85,000 significant investments in our fleet education of health care professionals; safe rides across nine US states and technology and driver training to improve and advancing alcohol health literacy Washington, D.C., in just over three road safety performance, which in turn as one way to reduce harmful alcohol months. In the state of São Paulo in Brazil, improves community safety. We installed consumption. we continued to work with government telematics (GPS tracking) systems in and local partners to implement a road trucks, cars and motorcycles to monitor The Foundation partners with leading safety intervention program in 62 cities. vehicles, driver safety, speed and driving academic and research institutions and From 2015 to 2017, road fatalities were patterns. Our 2017 World Safety Day receives guidance from a Technical reduced by 13% in those 62 cities, focused on road and driving safety to Advisory Group with global expertise. representing 496 lives saved. further demonstrate our commitment. The Foundation has contracted with HBSA, a supporting organization of 37 Increasing We are committed to doing everything possible to create a safe work environ­ workplace ment. We encourage employees and contractors to follow safe practices and make healthy choices in our workplaces safety and local communities. Our safety programs are vital to our new zones has already resulted in a conditions in the facilities, the roll out of operations — and essential to our people significant decrease in number of our behavioral safety programs and the and communities. In 2017, we focused accidents. The further roll out of the full challenging safety targets that have been on implementing these programs in our VPO and DPO management systems, allocated to the main stakeholders will new Africa, APAC South, and COPEC investments in improving the safety drive further improvement. Zones, and capturing best practices. These Zones are fully integrated in our management systems for supply and 2017 AB InBev 2017 AB InBev 2016 AB InBev logistic operations. We also continued to (combined) (pre-combination) (pre-combination) implement behavioral safety programs Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) for senior management teams, local brewery and logistics management staff, Supply Employees (Own) 233 60 96 and frontline operators. Second Tier/Sales Employees 360 209 302 In 2017, we continued to improve our Contractors (All) 890 74 122 safety performance, but know we can Total Recordable Injuries (TRIs)* do better. A number of our recorded Supply Employees (Own) * 269 378 injuries resulted from driving accidents and assaults in dangerous locations. Second Tier/Sales Employees * 811 1,293 In addition to the fleet improvements described on page 37, we gave our Fatalities** people guidance on how to avoid violent Supply Employees (Own) 0 0 1 *** situations that put them at risk. However, Second Tier/Sales Employees (Own) 4 3 7 *** unfortunately we know that injuries Contractors (All) 6 2 4 *** and fatalities also occur in parts of the distribution chain that we do not fully control. Twelve fatal accidents involving Key Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) Second Tier/Sales Assured Metric trucks are not included in these data, Occupational injury resulting Employees Second-tier * TRI data encompass AB InBev pre-combination plants (sixin more than one-day absence logistics, sales, Zone and zones). Due to the focus on more severe accidents during because these transports are fully from work. global corporate employees. 2017 TRIs from former SAB plants will not be reported. Internal controls regarding the reporting of TRIs were not yet sufficiently managed by the contracted transport Total Recordable Injuries Commuting Fatality implemented during 2017, resulting in lower data quality and company. LTIs + modified duty injuries + medical treatment injuries. An incident that occurs while coming to work or going home robustness. TRIs for the combined company will be reported in 2018. resulting in a fatality to our ** Fatalities data do not include commuting and community related fatalities as per AB InBev’s reporting definitions. The table also The increase in Lost Time Injuries & Supply Employees employee(s). does not include road fatalities of contractors which are fully Brewery and manufacturing Fatalities in 2017 AB InBev (combined) facility employees, including Community Fatalities managed by the contracted firm/company. *** On 23 June 2016 a worker died inside the Nanchang plant, first-tier logistics. Fatalities that occur to people against 2016 AB InBev (pre-combination) outside of our operation in the China, due to a heat stroke. The investigation could not determine if this case was work related or not. Heat strokes which course of doing business. is due to the inclusion of Africa, COPEC are not clearly work related are not considered to be in scope for this report. However, we have decided to consider all heat and APAC South. The implementation stroke cases inside the plants as work related as of 2017, unless there is clear evidence that the case is not work related. of the VPO and DPO Safety pillars in the 38 Anheuser-Busch InBev In 2017, we received a Best Compliance Practice (Compliance Champions) award from CEMEFI (Mexican Center for Philanthropy). Business Our leaders set the tone for our company. We expect our colleagues to deliver results and to Ethics inspire each other through our passion for brewing and a sense of ownership. Most importantly, we never take shortcuts. Integrity, hard work, quality and responsibility are essential to our growth. Preventing corruption and bribery Supporting human rights through our contracting process. During 2017, we established a supplier preOur anti-corruption compliance We believe in treating people with respect qualification process that assesses program is managed by a global team and dignity and providing safe working suppliers’ performance against this policy that oversees policy implementation, conditions. We embrace internationally and triggers third-party audits if a supplier investigations, operational dashboards, recognized human rights frameworks, is identified as high risk. To support this and organizational change across including the International Bill of Human process, we developed tools leveraging all Zones. We have invested in data Rights, the International Convention data from the International Trade Union analytics systems to provide signposts on Civil and Political Rights, and the Confederation’s Global Rights Index, the as to operational and compliance-related International Covenant on Economic, Trafficking of Persons Index, UNICEF and risk in every market where we operate. Social and Cultural Rights, as well as other sources. Based on these audits, we (More details can be found on page 26, the International Labour Organisation’s provide suppliers with a corrective action Growing Our Business the Right Way.) Declaration on the Fundamental plan that we monitor over time. Principles and Rights at Work. Our compliance officers are available Finally, we worked with the World Wide around the clock to advise our people We have been a signatory to the United Fund for Nature to map the social and on specific issues. Colleagues can ask Nations Global Compact since 2005. environmental risks to our key crops, questions or raise concerns in person, via Our Global Human Rights Policy is providing greater visibility on the types a mobile app or website, or anonymously approved by our Global Audit Committee, of human rights issues that may exist. through a global compliance hotline. In and its implementation is overseen by our In 2018, we will continue to engage our 2017, 100% of our colleagues had access Global Compliance Committee. Legal supply chain to better understand these to the whistle-blowing hotline, and every and Compliance lead day-to-day human issues and identify steps to address them. country where we had a physical rights management, with support from our presence had a toll-free version. Procurement and People teams. We update our Audit Committee on our During 2017, we conducted a risk-based compliance initiatives and train colleagues global analysis leading to more than 20 on our Global Code of Business Conduct, separate legal assessments. Then Zones and in 2017, nearly 100% of employees developed remediation plans to address at a manager level or above were trained any identified gaps. Our Global and Zone on our Global Anti-Corruption Policy. Compliance Committees oversee these The Policy defines our colleagues’ risk-based reviews, assessing standards responsibilities and expected behavior, enforcement and adherence to our Global and strictly prohibits our colleagues Human Rights Policy. from offering or giving anything of value Our commitment to upholding human to someone with the aim of obtaining rights extends to our supply chain. We or retaining business or influencing require our suppliers to commit to our decision-making in connection with our Global Responsible Sourcing Policy commercial activities. 39 Report scope The Better World section of the 2017 considered most material to our business and SAB, selected data represent 2016 AB InBev Annual Report provides information critical to our stakeholders. We are specifically pre-combination, 2017 AB InBev pre-combion the status of our Better World focused on areas and SDGs for which our nation and 2017 AB InBev combined with goals and, together with content scale and partnerships can drive meaningful SAB, as noted. Prior to the combination, the on our corporate website, presents Anheuser-Busch InBev’s annual positive change. data definitions AB InBev and SAB used for update on key performance data and water usage, total energy usage and greenThe data and stories presented in this report information for calendar year 2017. house gas emissions were different. As a This section and the People Dream were gathered and verified with the assisresult, reporting on combined AB InBev and Culture description on page 27 have tance of content owners across all functions SAB data for these indicators would have been established in accordance with and geographic Zones. been an inaccurate data representation. For the law of 3 September 2017 imple­ menting Directive 2014/95/EU of 22 The company has established a Data 2017 reporting of this data, all SAB sites October 2014 amending Directive Management Plan to ensure accurate and aligned to AB InBev pre-combination defini2013/34/EU as regards disclosure tions to enable combined data reporting. consistent reporting of smart drinking, of nonfinancial and diversity infor­ environ­mental and safety goal performance mation by certain large undertakings In the scope of our reported Better World and groups. Together, they form data, as well as key performance indicators. goals only beverage operations are included. the non-financial statement required In the Assurance Report of the Independent Our per-hectoliter goals on GHG emissions, under such law. Auditor (on pages 41–42) and in key locations energy and water pertain to our beverage throughout the report , we have noted The Better World section is organized into four facilities only and do not encompass our verwhich environmental and social metrics subject areas: Sustainability, Smart Drinking tical operations such as malt plants and have been externally assured by KPMG. and Road Safety, Workplace Safety, and packaging facilities. However, our vertical For information included in our consolidated Business Ethics. Additional information on voloperations are also measured using our financial statements, AB InBev’s statutory unteering and disaster response can be found Voyager Plant Optimization (VPO) global auditor is Deloitte. on page 29. This section is intended to provide management system and reported annually meaningful updates to stakeholders around Environmental data from newly acquired bevto the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). the world, including investors, employees, erage operations are excluded from the Specific data tables contain additional footgovernments, NGOs, and customers and conrunning reporting cycle. These facilities will be notes about environmental performance data. sumers in the countries where we operate in included in future reporting, which typically This section contains “forward-looking stateconnection with our Better World initiatives. It takes six months to a year after acquisition. ments”, which generally include the words or includes information on environmental matters, Safety data is immediately tracked and incorphrases “will likely result”, “are expected to”, social and employee-related matters, human porated into global data for all sites and “will continue”, “is anticipated”, “anticipate”, rights and anti-corruption and bribery matters. operations unless indicated otherwise in the “estimate”, “project”, “may”, “might”, “could”, text or footnotes. Pre-combination data only AB InBev prepared this Better World reporting “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “potential” or similar cover sites for which AB InBev has full man(this section and the website) using the Global expressions. These statements are subject to agement control since 01 Jan 2016. For all Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards as a certain risks and uncertainties. Actual results environmental and safety data, when a plant guide. To help determine the content for our may differ materially from those suggested by is divested or closed, it will be removed from reporting, we conducted a materiality assessthese statements due to, among others, the scope, but prior year reported values will not ment that helped identify the issues most impact of water availability, climate change, be adjusted. important to our stakeholders and our company. economic recession, negative publicity, our A more detailed look at our materiality process, Global goal performance for water, energy use ability to hire and retain the best talent, governincluding the resulting Boundary Analysis and greenhouse gas emissions, presented in ment regulations, the reputation of our brands, Table, and a GRI Index for this year’s report, this section, encompasses AB InBev’s comthe ability to make acquisitions or divest divican be found at http://www.ab-inbev.com/ pany-wide wholly-owned operations unless sions, access to capital, volatility in the stock better-world/reporting.html otherwise noted. Energy usage per hectoliter market, exposure to litigation and other associof production excludes the energy exported ated risks, as well as the risks described in our Our Better World agenda aligns with several to third parties and certain large projects conannual report on Form 20-F filed with the US of the UN Sustainable Development Goals structions. The excluded energy use does not Securities and Exchange Commission. (SDGs) established by the United Nations in reflect the amount of energy used in our beer Additional information about AB InBev’s GHG 2015. Throughout our operations and supply brewing processes. For comparison purand water risks, management and perforchain, we are aligning our Better World activiposes following the combination with mance is available through CDP. ties with the SDGs that address areas 40 Anheuser-Busch InBev 2017 Annual Report Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor To the readers of the Anheuser-Busch “Assurance Engagements other than provide a conclusion about The Selected InBev 2017 Annual Report: Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Information”. Our conclusion Responsibilities of the Executive This review engagement is aimed at Board of Management for The We have reviewed the following obtaining a limited level of assurance. Selected Information information in the Anheuser-Busch InBev Our responsibilities under this standard 2017 Annual Report (hereafter ‘The The Executive Board of Management are further described in the section ‘Our Selected Information’) of Anheuser-Busch of AB InBev is responsible for the responsibilities for the review of The InBev SA/NV (hereafter ‘AB InBev’) preparation of The Selected Information Selected Information’ of our report. based in Leuven, Belgium: in accordance with the applied reporting We are independent of Anheuser-Busch criteria as described in the section Water Use by Hectoliter of Production InBev SA/NV in accordance with the ‘Report Scope’ on page 40 in the Annual and Total Water Use (page 33) ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid Report, including the identification Total GJ of Energy and Energy Usage van accountants bij assuranceof stakeholders and the definition of per Hectoliter of Production (page 34) opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for material matters. The choices made by Professional Accountants, a regulation the Executive Board of Management Total Direct and Indirect GHG of AB InBev regarding the scope of the with respect to independence) and other Emissions and GHG Emissions per information in the Annual Report and relevant indepen­dence regulations in Hectoliter of Production (page 34) the reporting policy are summarized the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have Lost Time Injuries (LTI) — ​Supply complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsin the section ‘Report Scope’ on page Employees (own), Second Tier and en beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, 40 in the Annual Report. Sales Employees (page 38) Dutch Code of Ethics). The Executive Board of Management is Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) — ​ We believe that the assurance evidence also responsible for such internal control Supply Employees (own) (page 38) we have obtained is sufficient and as the Executive Board of Management appropriate to provide a basis for our determines is necessary to enable the Fatalities (page 38) preparation of The Selected Information conclusion. that is free from material misstatement, The information reviewed as part of Scope of the group review whether due to fraud or error. our assurance engagement has been indicated throughout the Annual Report AB InBev is the parent company of a group Our responsibilities for the review with the symbol . A review is aimed of entities. The Selected Information of The Selected Information at obtaining a limited level of assurance. incorporates the consolidated information of this group of entities to the extent as Our responsibility is to plan and perform Based on our procedures performed, specified in the Better World Chapter of the assurance engagement in a manner nothing has come to our attention that the Annual Report. that allows us to obtain sufficient and causes us to believe that The Selected appropriate assurance evidence for our Information is not prepared, in all material Our group review procedures consisted conclusion. respects, in accordance with the applied of both review procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level. Procedures performed in an assurance reporting criteria as disclosed in the Our selection of sites in scope of our engagement to obtain a limited level of section ‘Report Scope’ on page 40 in review procedures is primarily based on assurance are aimed to determine the the Annual Report. the site’s individual contribution to the plausibility of information and are less Basis for our conclusion consolidated information. Furthermore, extensive than a reasonable assurance our selection of sites considered relevant engagement. The level of assurance We have performed our review on The reporting risks and geographical spread. obtained in assurance engagements Selected Information in accordance with is therefore substantially less than the Dutch law, including Dutch Standard By performing our procedures at level of assurance obtained in an audit 3000A: “Assurance Engagements other site level, together with additional engagement. than Audits or Reviews of Historical procedures at corporate level, we Financial Information”, which is aligned Misstatements can arise from fraud have been able to obtain sufficient and with the International Standard on or errors and are considered material appropriate assurance evidence about Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: if, individually or in the aggregate, the group’s reported information to 41 they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of The Selected Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (Regulations on quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000A, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our review engagement included, among others, the following procedures: Identifying areas of The Selected Information where material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, designing and performing assurance procedures made by management and related Reviewing relevant internal and responsive to those areas, and disclosures to The Selected external documentation, on a limited obtaining assurance evidence that is Information; test basis, in order to determine the sufficient and appropriate to provide reliability of The Selected Information; Interviewing relevant staff responsible a basis for our conclusion; for providing the information for, An analytical review of data and trends. Developing an understanding of carrying out internal control procedures Amsterdam, 1 March 2018 internal control relevant to the on The Selected Information and assurance engagement in order to consolidating the data in the 2017 KPMG Sustainability, design assurance procedures that are Annual Report; Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. appropriate in the circumstances, but Visits to seven production sites in M.A.S. Boekhold-Miltenburg RA not for the purpose of expressing a Colombia, Ghana, Belgium, China, Director conclusion on the effectiveness of the Mexico and the United States of company’s internal control; America (two sites) aimed at, on a Evaluating the appropriateness of local level, validating source data the reporting criteria used and their and evaluating the design and consistent application, including implementation of internal control the reasonableness of estimates and validation procedures; 42 Financial report Contents 44 Management report 61 Statement of the Board of Directors 62 Independent auditors’ report 65 Consolidated financial statements 142 Information to our shareholders 144 Excerpt from the AB InBev NV separate (non-consolidated) financial statements prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP 146 Glossary 43 Management report nheuser-Busch InBev is a publicly traded company (Euronext: ABI) based in Leuven, Belgium, with secondary listings on the Mexico (MEXBOL: NB) and South Africa (JSE: ANH) stock exchanges and with American Depositary Receipts on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BUD). Our Dream is to bring people together for a better world. Beer, the original social network, has been bringing people together for thousands of years. We are committed to building great brands that stand the test of time and to brewing the best beers using the finest natural ingredients. Our diverse ortfolio of well over 500 beer brands includes global brands Budweiser ®, Corona® and Stella Artois®; multi-country brands Beck’s®, Castle®, astle Lite®, Hoegaarden® and Leffe®; and local champions such as Aguila®, Antarctica®, Bud Light ®, Brahma®, Cass®, Chernigivske®, Cristal®, arbin®, Jupiler ®, Klinskoye®, Michelob Ultra®, Modelo Especial®, Quilmes®, Victoria®, Sedrin®, Sibirskaya Korona® and Skol®. Our brewing heritage ates back more than 600 years, spanning continents and generations. From our European roots at the Den Hoorn brewery in Leuven, Belgium. o the pioneering spirit of the Anheuser & Co brewery in St. Louis, US. To the creation of the Castle Brewery in South Africa during the ohannesburg gold rush. To Bohemia, the first brewery in Brazil. Geographically diversified with a balanced exposure to developed and developing markets, we leverage the collective strengths of nearly 200 000 employees based in more than 50 countries worldwide. For 2017, AB InBev’s eported revenue was 56.4 billion US dollar (excluding joint ventures and associates). he following management report should be read in conjunction with Anheuser-Busch InBev’s audited consolidated financial statements. n the rest of this document we refer to Anheuser-Busch InBev as “AB InBev” or “the company”. Combination with SAB On 10 October 2016, AB InBev announced the completion of the Belgian Merger and the successful completion of the business combination with he former SABMiller Group (“SAB”). he combined company has operations in virtually every major beer market and an expanded portfolio that includes global, multi-country and local rands, providing more choices for consumers around the world. Following the combinations with SAB, AB InBev benefits from a geographically iversified platform, with a stronger presence in key emerging regions with attractive growth prospects, such as Africa and Latin America. The growth pportunities in these developing markets complement the stability and strength of the company’s strong existing presence in developed markets. s a result of the Belgian merger, which was the final step in completion of the combination, the former AB InBev merged into Newbelco, and ewbelco has become the holding company for the combined former AB InBev and SAB groups. All assets and liabilities of the former AB InBev have een transferred to Newbelco, and Newbelco has automatically been substituted for the former AB InBev in all its rights and obligations by operation f Belgian law. Newbelco has been renamed Anheuser-Busch InBev, and the former AB InBev has been dissolved by operation of Belgian law. he shares in the former AB InBev were delisted from Euronext Brussels, the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. he new ordinary shares were admitted to listing and trading on Euronext Brussels, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Bolsa Mexicana de alores at the opening of business in each market on 11 October 2016. In addition, ADSs trading on the New York Stock Exchange, each of which sed to represent one ordinary share of the former AB InBev, now each represent one new ordinary share, effective as of the opening of business n New York on 11 October 2016. he share capital of AB InBev now amounts to 1 238 608 344 euro. It is represented by 2 019 241 973 shares without nominal value, of which 5 541 785 are held in treasury by AB InBev and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017. All shares are new ordinary shares, except for 325 999 817 estricted shares. ollowing the combination, AB InBev is consolidating SAB and reporting the results of the retained SAB operations in its income statement as of the ourth quarter 2016. Recent events Completion of the disposal of the former SAB Central and Eastern European business On 31 March 2017, the company announced the completion of the divestiture of the businesses formerly owned by SAB in Poland, the Czech epublic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania (the “CEE Business”) for a transaction value of 7.3 billion euro on a cash free/debt free basis. The results f the CEE Business were presented as part of “Results from discontinued operations” until the completion of the disposal. Disposal of the company’s interest in Distell Group Limited to the Public Investment Corporation On 12 April 2017, the company announced the completion of the sale of its entire indirect shareholding in Distell Group Limited to the Public nvestment Corporation Limited, acting on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund. The sale was required as a condition of the South frican Competition Tribunal’s approval on 30 June 2016 of the business combination between AB InBev and SAB. Repayment of 8 billion US dollar Term Loan due 2021 On 10 April 2017, the company repaid 6 billion US dollar of the 8 billion US dollar Term Loan due 2021. On 12 June 2017, AB InBev fully repaid he remaining 2 billion US dollar outstanding. This Term Loan was the last remaining facility of the 75 billion US dollar senior facilities raised in October 2015 to finance the combination with SAB. 44 Extension of 9.0 billion US Dollar 2010 senior facilities AB InBev extended its 9.0 billion US dollar 2010 senior facilities by two years, effective on 3 October 2017. The new maturity date of the facility is 30 August 2022. Completion of CCBA disposal On 4 October 2017, the company announced the completion of the transition of its 54.5% equity stake in Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (“CCBA”) for 3.15 billion US dollar, after customary adjustments. AB InBev stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as of that date. CCBA, the largest Coca-Cola bottler in Africa, was formed in 2016 through the combination of the African non-alcohol ready-to-drink bottling interests of SAB, The Coca-Cola Company and Gutsche Family Investments. It includes the countries of South Africa, Namibia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Ghana, Mayotte, and Comoros. Following completion, CCBA will remain subject to the agreement reached with the South African Government and the South African Competition Authorities on several conditions, all of which were previously announced. In addition AB InBev and The Coca-Cola Company continue to work towards finalizing the terms and conditions of the agreement for The Coca-Cola Company to acquire AB InBev’s interest in, or the bottling operations of, its businesses in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, El Salvador, and Honduras. These transactions are subject to the relevant regulatory and shareholder approvals in the different jurisdictions. Combination of the AB InBev and Anadolu Efes Russia and Ukraine businesses On 9 August 2017, the company announced it had reached a non-binding agreement with Anadolu Efes (IST: AEFES), the leading brewer in Turkey, regarding a 50:50 merger of AB InBev’s and Anadolu Efes’ existing Russia and Ukraine businesses. The announcement of this non-binding agreement follows AB InBev’s acquisition of a 24% stake in Anadolu Efes as part of the company’s combination with SAB, which completed in October 2016. The transaction remains conditional on the completion of satisfactory due diligence and is subject to regulatory approvals in Russia and Ukraine. This intended combination of the companies’ operations in Russia and Ukraine would strengthen the competitive position of both AB InBev’s and Anadolu Efes’ brands in these markets, with the potential for further growth. The combined business’ ambitions would be to lead the Russian and Ukrainian markets, with a diverse portfolio of brands and a broader range of beers for consumers. In addition, the combination would enhance AB InBev’s existing relationship with Anadolu Efes and the value of its stake in Anadolu Efes. Following the closing of the intended transaction, the combined business would be fully consolidated in the Anadolu Efes financial accounts. As a result, AB InBev would stop consolidating its operations in Russia and Ukraine and account for its investment resulting from this transaction under the equity method. The transaction is expected to complete during the first half of 2018. Until completion of the transaction, both AB InBev and Anadolu Efes’ businesses in Russia and Ukraine remain separate and continue business as usual. Cervecería Nacional Dominicana S.A. (“CND”) put option On 1 December 2017, Ambev announced that E. León Jimenes S.A. (“ELJ”) partially exercised its option to sell approximately 30% of the shares of Cervecería Nacional Dominicana S.A. (“CND”) for an amount of 0.9 billion US dollar. The put option was included in the 2012 shareholders’ agreement between Ambev and ELJ. The transaction closed in January 2018 resulting in Ambev’s participation in CND increasing from 55% to 85%. Selected financial figures To facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying performance, the comments in this management report, unless otherwise indicated, are based on organic and normalized numbers. “Organic” means the financials are analyzed eliminating the impact of changes in currencies on translation of foreign operations, and scopes. Scopes represent the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, the start-up or termination of activities or the transfer of activities between segments, curtailment gains and losses and year-over-year changes in accounting estimates and other assumptions that management does not consider part of the underlying performance of the business. To facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying performance the company is presenting in this management report the 2016 consolidated volumes and results up to Normalized EBIT on a 2016 Reference base and as such these financials are included in the organic growth calculation. The 2016 Reference base includes, for comparative purposes, the results of SAB business from the 1st January 2016. The tables in this management report provide the segment information per region for the period ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 in the format up to Normalized EBIT level that is used by management to monitor performance. The differences between the 2016 Reference base and the 2016 income statement as Reported represent the effect of the combination with SAB. The profit, cash flow and balance sheet are presented as Reported in 2016. The results of the CEE Business were reported as “Results from discontinued operations” until the completion of the disposal that took place on 31 March 2017. The results of Distell were reported as share of results of associates until the completion of the sale that occurred on 12 April 2017, and accordingly, are excluded from normalized EBIT and EBITDA. Furthermore, the company stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as from the completion of the CCBA disposal on 4 October 2017. 45 Whenever used in this report, the term “normalized” refers to performance measures (EBITDA, EBIT, Profit, EPS, effective tax rate) before on-recurring items and discontinued operations. Non-recurring items are either income or expenses which do not occur regularly as part of the ormal activities of the company. They are presented separately because they are important for the understanding of the underlying sustainable erformance of the company due to their size or nature. Normalized measures are additional measures used by management, and should not eplace the measures determined in accordance with IFRS as an indicator of the company’s performance, but rather should be used in conjunction ith the most directly comparable IFRS measures. he tables below set out the components of AB InBev’s operating income and operating expenses, as well as the key cash flow figures. 2016 2016 Reference illion US dollar 2017 % Reported % base % Revenue1 56 444 100% 45 517 100% 53 942 100% ost of sales (21 386) 38% (17 803) 39% (21 166) 39% Gross profit 35 058 62% 27 715 61% 32 776 61% G&A (18 099) 32% (15 171) 33% (18 111) 34% Other operating income/(expenses) 854 2% 732 2% 855 2% Normalized profit from operations (Normalized EBIT) 17 814 32% 13 276 29% 15 520 29% on-recurring items (662) – (394) – rofit from operations (EBIT) 17 152 30% 12 882 28% Depreciation, amortization and impairment 4 270 8% 3 477 8% 4 113 8% Normalized EBITDA 22 084 39% 16 753 37% 19 633 36% BITDA 21 429 38% 16 360 36% Normalized profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 967 14% 4 853 11% rofit from continuing operations attributable to equity olders of AB InBev 7 968 14% 1 193 3% rofit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 14% 1 241 3% illion US dollar 2017 2016 Operating activities rofit 9 183 2 769 nterest, taxes and non-cash items included in profit 12 484 13 572 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital and use of rovisions 21 667 16 341 hange in working capital 219 173 ension contributions and use of provisions (616) (470) nterest and taxes (paid)/received (5 982) (5 977) ividends received 142 43 Cash flow from operating activities 15 430 10 110 nvesting activities et capex (4 124) (4 768) cquisition of SAB, net of cash acquired (65 166) et of tax proceeds from SAB transaction-related divestitures 8 248 16 342 cquisition and sale of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired/disposed of (556) (792) et of tax proceeds from the sale of assets held for sale 16 146 roceeds from the sale/(acquisition) of investment in short-term debt securities 4 337 (5 583) Other (67) (256) Cash flow from investing activities 7 854 (60 077) inancing activities ividends paid (9 275) (8 450) et (payments on)/proceeds from borrowings (9 981) 62 675 Other (including net finance (cost)/income other than interest) (1 748) (3 494) Cash flow from financing activities (21 004) 50 731 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2 280 764 Turnover less excise taxes. In many jurisdictions, excise taxes make up a large proportion of the cost of beer charged to the company’s customers. 46 Financial performance Given the transformational nature of the combination with SAB, that closed on 10 October 2016, the company updated its 2016 segment reporting for purposes of results announcements and internal review by senior management. This presentation includes, for comparative purposes, the results of SAB from the 1st January 2016. AB InBev is presenting its results under six regions: North America, Latin America West, Latin America North, Latin America South, EMEA and Asia Pacific. For further information on the basis under which the Reference Base was prepared, please refer to section Adjusted segment information presented in the 2016 Management Report. The tables in this management report provide the segment information per region for the period ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 in the format down to Normalized EBIT level that is used by management to monitor performance. To facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying performance the company is presenting in this management report the 2016 consolidated volumes and results down to Normalized EBIT on a 2016 Reference base and as such these financials are included in the organic growth calculation. The profit, cash flow and balance sheet are presented as Reported in 2016. The tables below provide a summary of the performance of AB InBev for the period ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 (in million US dollar, except volumes in thousand hectoliters) and the related comments are based on organic numbers. 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic AB INBEV WORLDWIDE base Scope1 translation growth 2017 growth % Volumes 615 880 (4 382) 1 073 612 572 0.2% Revenue 53 942 (784) 601 2 685 56 444 5.1% Cost of sales (21 166) 521 (211) (529) (21 386) (2.6)% Gross profit 32 776 (263) 390 2 155 35 058 6.7% SG&A (18 111) (58) (217) 288 (18 099) 1.6% Other operating income/(expenses) 855 (94) 36 58 854 7.6% Normalized EBIT 15 520 (415) 208 2 501 17 814 16.5% Normalized EBITDA 19 633 (373) 255 2 569 22 084 13.4% Normalized EBITDA margin 36.4% 39.1% 288 bps In 2017 AB InBev delivered normalized EBITDA growth of 13.4%, while its normalized EBITDA margin increased 288 bps, reaching 39.1%. Consolidated volumes grew by 0.2%, with own beer volumes growing 0.6% and non-beer volumes decreasing 3.1%. Consolidated revenue grew by 5.1% to 56 444m US dollar, with revenue per hectoliter increasing 5.1%. On a constant geographic basis (i.e. eliminating the impact of faster growth in countries with lower revenue per hectoliter), revenue per hectoliter grew by 5.1%. Combined revenues of the three global brands, Budweiser, Stella Artois and Corona grew 9.8% and 16.8 % outside of their respective home markets. Budweiser remains the world’s most valuable brand, generating strong results in China, Brazil and South Korea with 4.1% revenue growth. Stella Artois continued its long-term trajectory, with revenue growth of 12.8% driven by sales in North America, repatriation in Australia and its entry into South Africa and other new markets. Corona grew by 19.9% globally, led by Mexico, China, Australia and Argentina. Consolidated Cost of Sales (CoS) increased by 2.6% and by 2.6% on a per hectoliter basis. On a constant geographic basis, CoS per hectoliter increased by 3.1%. Volumes The table below summarizes the volume evolution per region and the related comments are based on organic numbers. Volumes include not only brands that AB InBev owns or licenses, but also third party brands that the company brews as a subcontractor and third party products that it sells through AB InBev’s distribution network, particularly in Europe. Volumes sold by the Global Export business, which includes the company’s global headquarters and the export businesses which have not been allocated to the company’s regions, are shown separately. 1 See Glossary. 47 2016 Reference Organic Organic housand hectoliters base Scope growth 2017 growth % orth America 116 890 423 (3 817) 113 496 (3.3)% atin America West 108 995 (98) 1 729 110 625 1.6% atin America North 119 757 (25) (358) 119 374 (0.3)% atin America South 32 158 – 1 904 34 062 5.9% MEA 134 821 (4 157) 1 027 131 692 0.9% sia Pacific 101 320 148 518 101 986 0.5% Global Export and Holding Companies 1 939 (673) 70 1 336 5.5% B InBev Worldwide 615 880 (4 382) 1 073 612 572 0.2% orth America total volumes decreased 3.3%. The company estimates that the United States industry beer sales-to-retailers adjusted for the umber of selling days declined by 1.3%. On the same basis, the company estimates that its shipment volumes in the United States and its eer sales-to-retailers declined by 3.5% and 3.0% respectively. The Above Premium brand portfolio had a strong year, gaining 45 bps of share. Michelob Ultra led the growth in this segment, with volumes up by double-digits, continuing its run as the top share gainer in the US for the eleventh onsecutive quarter. Stella Artois had a solid year as well, gaining share each quarter. The regional craft portfolio also performed well this year, rowing volume and share. In the Premium and Premium Light segments, the company underperformed the industry with an estimated total market hare loss of 40 bps for Budweiser and 85 bps for Bud Light. Budweiser saw improved brand health and consideration trends, as it amplified key ultural moments throughout the year. While the company continues to face challenges on Bud Light, it saw some encouraging signs. In the second alf of 2017, the brand was prevalent across US pop-culture with its highly popular “Dilly-Dilly” campaign, making it the leading beer in social onversation in the fourth quarter and solidifying the brand’s “Famous Among Friends” positioning. anada faced a challenging industry environment, however Bud Light remains the fastest growing brand in Canada, completing its 22nd onsecutive year of market share growth. The portfolio mix continues to improve, bolstered by growth in craft portfolio and Stella Artois. atin America West total volumes increased 1.6%. The company delivered another solid year in Mexico, with volumes up mid-single digits. The full rand portfolio performed well throughout the year. Victoria built upon its strong momentum, driven by the ongoing success of its Mexican heritage ositioning. Corona also performed well and Bud Light continued to grow volumes throughout the country, leveraging successful sports and music ctivations. In Colombia, non-beer volumes performed very well, growing by 10.3% in the year as a result of commercial initiatives and a favorable omparable, while beer volumes declined by 4.2% due to a challenging macroeconomic environment and tough comparable in the first half of 2017. eru volumes were up low single digits, as a result of the company’s commercial plans, with Cristal leveraging a key cultural moment by capitalizing n the country’s World Cup qualification. Ecuador’s volumes increased by low single-digits helped by packaging innovations as well as the launch f the three global brands, the company gained share of total alcohol this year and offered consumers more choice across a variety of price points. atin America North total volumes decreased 0.3%. The business in Brazil recovered well throughout the year and delivered its strongest results n the fourth quarter. For the full year, beer volume grew by 0.7% whereas the beer industry was slightly negative and soft drinks volumes declined y 4.3%. The premium portfolio continued broad-based, double-digit growth this year fueled by our three global brands, especially Budweiser. atin America South total volumes increased 5.9%. Argentina delivered a very strong performance, with volumes growing high single digit, fueled y the repositioning of Brahma as well as the successful launch of Quilmes Clásica and the accelerated growth of the premium portfolio led by tella Artois, Corona and local craft brand Patagonia. The soft drink portfolio also performed well as a result of a new commercial and portfolio trategy, achieving its best result in more than six years. MEA total volumes increased 0.9% and own beer volumes increased 2.3%. In South Africa, beer volumes grew by 0.9%. The high end portfolio, ed by Stella Artois, Corona and the recent seeding of Budweiser, showed consistent growth in volumes and market share, finishing the year with riple-digit growth. In the near beer segment, Flying Fish recorded over 60% growth. In the core plus segment, Castle Lite had another year of onsistent growth. In Africa excluding South Africa, own beer volumes grew in the mid-teens this year. Own beer volumes grew double digit in the majority of the markets, including Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia as the company continues to expand the offerings to consumers through oth affordability and premiumization strategies. Western Europe total volumes grew by 3.2%, achieving market share gains in the majority of the markets. The UK performed especially well, resulting from a strong commercial performance mainly related to the company’s three global brands. n Eastern Europe, total volumes declined by mid single digits this year driven by the ongoing headwind of the large PET ban in Russia affecting the otal industry. However, global and premium brands performed well throughout the year. sia Pacific total volumes increased 0.5%. In China, the company continued premiumization driving volume growth of 1.1% in an industry that s estimated to have declined. The company’s brand portfolio benefited from strong consumer preference for premium brands. Budweiser grew ationally with some notable successes this year, including establishing itself as the leading beer brand in sales in e-commerce while in the core lus segment, Harbin Ice outperformed the industry nationally. The super premium portfolio, led by Corona, Hoegaarden, and Franziskaner, ccelerated its growth throughout the year, with volumes almost doubling versus last year, establishing the company as market leader in all super remium beer styles in China. In Australia, the Great Northern franchise became the number one brand by volume this year as the company ontinues to fuel growth by addressing shifting consumer preferences. Global brands accelerated their growth throughout the year with volumes up n the mid-teens, driven by distribution gains as well as commercial activations. 48 Operating activities by region The tables below provide a summary of the performance of each region, for the period ended 31 December 2017 (in million US dollar, except volumes in thousand hectoliters) and the related comments are based on organic numbers. 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic AB INBEV WORLDWIDE base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % Volumes 615 880 (4 382) 1 073 612 572 0.2% Revenue 53 942 (784) 601 2 685 56 444 5.1% Cost of sales (21 166) 521 (211) (529) (21 386) (2.6)% Gross profit 32 776 (263) 390 2 155 35 058 6.7% SG&A (18 111) (58) (217) 288 (18 099) 1.6% Other operating income/(expenses) 855 (94) 36 58 854 7.6% Normalized EBIT 15 520 (415) 208 2 501 17 814 16.5% Normalized EBITDA 19 633 (373) 255 2 569 22 084 13.4% Normalized EBITDA margin 36.4% 39.1% 288 bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic NORTH AMERICA base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % Volumes 116 890 423 – (3 817) 113 496 (3.3)% Revenue 15 698 145 22 (277) 15 588 (1.8)% Cost of sales (5 858) (95) (7) 183 (5 777) 3.1% Gross profit 9 841 49 16 (94) 9 811 (1.0)% SG&A (4 438) (66) (9) 152 (4 361) 3.4% Other operating income/(expenses) 39 – – (3) 36 (7.4)% Normalized EBIT 5 441 (16) 7 54 5 486 1.0% Normalized EBITDA 6 250 (10) 8 81 6 329 1.3% Normalized EBITDA margin 39.8% 40.6% 124 bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic LATIN AMERICA WEST base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % Volumes 108 995 (98) – 1 729 110 625 1.6% Revenue 8 595 (13) 14 642 9 238 7.5% Cost of sales (2 488) 7 3 (77) (2 555) (3.1)% Gross profit 6 107 (5) 17 565 6 683 9.3% SG&A (2 842) (53) 1 17 (2 876) 0.6% Other operating income/(expenses) 105 (50) – 33 89 59.3% Normalized EBIT 3 370 (107) 18 615 3 896 18.9% Normalized EBITDA 3 983 (109) 18 620 4 512 16.0% Normalized EBITDA margin 46.3% 48.8% 358 bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic LATIN AMERICA NORTH base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % Volumes 119 757 (25) – (358) 119 374 (0.3)% Revenue 8 630 (3) 624 524 9 775 6.1% Cost of sales (3 239) 1 (236) (269) (3 744) (8.3)% Gross profit 5 391 (3) 389 254 6 031 4.7% SG&A (2 701) (42) (201) (116) (3 060) (4.2)% Other operating income/(expenses) 330 (2) 25 7 361 2.1% Normalized EBIT 3 020 (46) 213 145 3 332 4.9% Normalized EBITDA 3 790 (46) 267 170 4 180 4.5% Normalized EBITDA margin 43.9% 42.8% (63) bps 49 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic ATIN AMERICA SOUTH base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % olumes 32 158 – – 1 904 34 062 5.9% Revenue 2 850 – (230) 743 3 363 26.1% ost of sales (927) – 73 (354) (1 207) (38.2)% Gross profit 1 923 – (157) 389 2 156 20.2% G&A (704) (8) 57 (126) (781) (17.7)% Other operating income/(expenses) 20 – (1) (6) 13 (29.6)% ormalized EBIT 1 240 (8) (101) 257 1 388 20.9% Normalized EBITDA 1 431 (8) (115) 287 1 595 20.1% ormalized EBITDA margin 50.2% 47.4% (234) bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic MEA base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % olumes 134 821 (4 157) – 1 027 131 692 0.9% Revenue 9 700 (128) 207 565 10 344 6.3% ost of sales (4 381) (19) (73) (136) (4 609) (3.5)% Gross profit 5 319 (147) 134 429 5 735 8.6% G&A (3 197) (4) (80) (54) (3 336) (1.8)% Other operating income/(expenses) 42 (2) 5 63 108 154.7% ormalized EBIT 2 163 (153) 58 438 2 507 21.8% Normalized EBITDA 2 903 (112) 74 485 3 349 17.9% ormalized EBITDA margin 29.9% 32.4% 331 bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic SIA PACIFIC base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % olumes 101 320 148 – 518 101 986 0.5% Revenue 7 250 44 (36) 546 7 804 7.5% ost of sales (3 293) (36) 28 99 (3 201) 3.0% Gross profit 3 958 8 (8) 645 4 603 16.3% G&A (2 747) (61) 24 49 (2 735) 1.7% Other operating income/(expenses) 163 (1) (3) 8 168 4.8% ormalized EBIT 1 374 (53) 14 701 2 035 53.0% Normalized EBITDA 2 114 (64) 2 643 2 695 31.2% ormalized EBITDA margin 29.2% 34.5% 625 bps 2016 Reference Currency Organic Organic LOBAL EXPORT AND HOLDING COMPANIES base Scope translation growth 2017 growth % olumes 1 939 (673) 70 1 336 5.5% Revenue 1 218 (828) (58) 332 (14.8)% ost of sales (980) 663 (1) 25 (292) 8.0% Gross profit 238 (165) (1) (33) 40 (42.4)% G&A (1 482) 174 (9) 367 (950) 28.9% Other operating income/(expenses) 155 (41) 9 (44) 79 (38.9)% ormalized EBIT (1 089) (31) 290 (830) 26.9% Normalized EBITDA (837) (24) 1 283 (577) 34.4% Revenue onsolidated revenue grew 5.1% to 56 444m US dollar with revenue per hectoliter increasing 5.1%. On a constant geographic basis (i.e. eliminating he impact of faster growth in countries with lower revenue per hectoliter), revenue per hectoliter grew by 5.1%, driven by the company’s revenue management and brand mix as the company continues to implement its premiumization strategy around the world. 50 Cost of sales Cost of Sales (CoS) increased 2.6% or 2.6% on a per hectoliter basis. The increase in cost of sales was driven primarily by unfavorable transactional foreign exchange impacts, partially offset by synergy capture. On a constant geographic basis CoS per hectoliter increased by 3.1%. Operating expenses Total operating expenses decreased 2.0% in 2017: • Selling, General & Administrative Expenses (SG&A) decreased by 1.6%, with incremental investments behind the company’s global brands and premium portfolio more than offset by synergy capture and optimization of the company’s commercial investments. • Other operating income increased by 7.6% in 2017, due to the sale of non-core assets and a reduction in operating expenses. Normalized profit from operations before depreciation and amortization (Normalized EBITDA) Normalized EBITDA increased by 12.5% in nominal terms and 13.4% organically to 22 084m US dollar, with an EBITDA margin of 39.1%, and an organic growth of 288 bps. • North America EBITDA increased 1.3% to 6 329m US dollar, with a margin enhancement of 124 bps to 40.6%, driven by the company’s premiumization strategy, disciplined cost management, and continued optimization of commercial investments. • Latin America West EBITDA increased 16.0% to 4 512m US dollar, with a margin enhancement of 358 bps to 48.8%, driven by strong top-line performance as well as synergy capture and cost discipline partially offset by operating leverage constraints in Mexico and increased SG&A in Colombia largely due to investments behind the global brand portfolio. • Latin America North EBITDA increased 4.5% to 4 180m US dollar, with a margin contraction of 63 bps to 42.8%, Challenging first half results were offset by double-digit growth in the fourth quarter, as the company saw consumer environment gradually improving in the second half of the year and achieved its strongest performance in the fourth quarter. • Latin America South EBITDA increased 20.1% to 1 595m US dollar, with a margin contraction of 234 bps to 47.4%, due to volume and revenue growth as a result of a new commercial and portfolio strategy. • EMEA EBITDA increased 17.9% to 3 349m US dollar, with a margin expansion of 331 bps to 32.4%, with strong top-line growth combined with synergy capture in Africa and good performance in Western Europe driven by strong performances of the company’s global brands and premium portfolio. • Asia Pacific EBITDA increased 31.2% to 2 695m US dollar, with a margin expansion of 625 bps to 34.5%, driven by top-line growth and increased premiumization in China, as well as top-line growth as a result of several strong brand performances across the portfolio and commercial activations in Australia. • Global Export and Holding Companies reported EBITDA of (577)m US dollar in the period ended 31 December 2017 (2016: (837)m US dollar). Differences in normalized EBITDA margins by region are due to a number of factors such as different routes to market, share of returnable packaging in the region’s sales and premium product mix. Reconciliation between normalized EBITDA and profit attributable to equity holders Normalized EBITDA and EBIT are measures utilized by AB InBev to demonstrate the company’s underlying performance. Normalized EBITDA is calculated excluding profit from discontinued operations and the following effects from profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of AB InBev: (i) Non-controlling interest, (ii) Income tax expense, (iii) Share of results of associates, (iv) Net finance cost, (v) Non-recurring net finance cost, (vi) Non-recurring items above EBIT (including non-recurring impairment) and (vii) Depreciation, amortization and impairment. Normalized EBITDA and EBIT are not accounting measures under IFRS accounting and should not be considered as an alternative to Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders as a measure of operational performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity. Normalized EBITDA and EBIT do not have a standard calculation method and AB InBev’s definition of normalized EBITDA and EBIT may not be comparable to that of other companies. 2016 Million US dollar Notes 2017 Reported Profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 1 241 Non-controlling interest 1 187 1 528 Profit 9 183 2 769 Profit from discontinued operations (28) (48) Profit from continuing operations 9 155 2 721 Income tax expense 12 1 920 1 613 Share of result of associates (430) (16) Non-recurring net finance cost/(income) 8 693 3 356 Net finance cost 11 5 814 5 208 Non-recurring items above EBIT (including non-recurring impairment) 8 662 394 Normalized EBIT 17 814 13 276 Depreciation, amortization and impairment (excluding non-recurring impairment) 4 270 3 477 Normalized EBITDA 22 084 16 753 51 on-recurring items are either income or expenses which do not occur regularly as part of the normal activities of the company. They are presented eparately because they are important for the understanding of the underlying sustainable performance of the company due to their size or nature. etails on the nature of the non-recurring items are disclosed in Note 8 Non-recurring items. mpact of foreign currencies oreign currency exchange rates have a significant impact on AB InBev’s financial statements. The following table sets forth the percentage of its evenue realized by currency for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: 2016 2017 Reference base S dollar 27.5% 29.5% razilian real 14.5% 13.3% hinese yuan 7.5% 7.4% Mexican peso 7.0% 7.8% outh African rand 6.2% 6.2% uro 5.5% 5.7% olombian peso 3.8% 3.7% rgentinean peso 3.5% 2.9% anadian dollar 3.3% 3.4% ustralian dollar 3.0% 2.4% outh Korean won 2.5% 2.4% eruvian peso 2.6% 2.5% ominican peso 1.5% 1.6% ound sterling 1.7% 1.5% Other 9.9% 9.7% he following table sets forth the percentage of its normalized EBITDA realized by currency for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 1 December 2016: 2016 2017 Reference base S dollar 27.8% 28.5% razilian real 16.1% 16.2% hinese yuan 5.6% 4.7% Mexican peso 7.6% 9.2% outh African rand 5.7% 5.2% uro 2.7% 3.1% olombian peso 5.3% 5.3% rgentinean peso 4.3% 3.9% anadian dollar 3.1% 3.6% ustralian dollar 4.4% 3.4% outh Korean won 2.5% 2.2% eruvian peso 3.9% 3.4% ominican peso 1.8% 2.0% ound sterling 1.1% 1.0% Other 8.1% 8.3% n 2017, the fluctuation of the foreign currency rates had a positive translation impact of 601m US dollar on AB InBev’s revenue (2016: negative mpact of (2 852)m US dollar), of 255m US dollar on its normalized EBITDA (2016: negative impact of (1 199)m US dollar) and of 208m US dollar on s normalized EBIT (2016: negative impact of (970)m US dollar). B InBev’s profit (after tax) has been positively affected by the fluctuation of foreign currencies for 126m US dollar (2016: negative impact of 649)m US dollar), while the positive translation impact on its EPS (profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev) was 100m US dollar or .05 US dollar per share (2016: negative impact of (505)m US dollar or (0.27) US dollar per share). he impact of the fluctuation of the foreign currencies on AB InBev’s net debt amounted to 4 184m US dollar (increase of net debt) in 2017, as ompared to an impact of (349)m US dollar (decrease of net debt) in 2016. The impact of the fluctuation of the foreign currencies on the equity ttributable to the equity holders of AB InBev amounted to 1 053m US dollar (increase of equity), as compared to an impact of (3 265)m US dollar decrease of equity) in 2016 on a reported basis. 52 Profit Normalized profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev was 7 967m US dollar (normalized EPS 4.04 US dollar) in 2017, compared to 4 853m US dollar (normalized EPS 2.83 US dollar) in 2016 (see Note 23 Changes in equity and earnings per share for more details). Profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev for 2017 was 7 996m US dollar, compared to 1 241m US dollar for 2016 and includes the following impacts: • Net finance costs (excluding non-recurring net finance items): 5 814m US dollar in 2017 compared to 5 208m US dollar in 2016. This increase was primarily driven by the annualization impact of the additional debt related to the SAB combination as well as the legacy SAB debt. Other finance results include net losses on hedging instruments, foreign exchange losses, and a negative mark-to-market adjustment of 291m US dollar, linked to the hedging of the company’s share-based payment programs, compared to a loss of 384m US dollar last year and negative foreign exchange translation adjustments. • Non-recurring net finance income/(cost): (693)m US dollar in 2017 compared to (3 356)m US dollar in 2016. Non-recurring net finance costs in 2017 include non-cash foreign exchange translation losses on intragroup loans that were historically reported in equity and were recycled to profit and loss account, upon the reimbursement of these loans. Furthermore, the 2017 non-recurring net finance cost includes mark-to-market losses on derivative instruments entered into to hedge the deferred share instrument issued in a transaction related to the combination with Grupo Modelo, and derivative instruments entered into to hedge part of the restricted shares issued in relation to the combination with SAB. The 2016 non-recurring net finance costs include a negative mark-to-market adjustment of 2 693m US dollar, related to the portion of the foreign exchange hedging of the purchase price of the combination with SAB that did not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS rules. Furthermore, the 2016 non-recurring net finance costs include commitment fees for the 2015 committed senior acquisition facilities, as well as costs linked to the early redemption of SAB bonds. • Income tax expense: 1 920m US dollar in 2017 with an effective tax rate of 18.0% compared to 1 613m US dollar in 2016 with an effective tax rate of 37.4%. The 2017 effective tax rate was positively impacted by a 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment following the US tax reform enacted on 22 December 2017. This 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment results mainly from the remeasurement of the deferred tax liabilities set up in 2008 in line with IFRS as part of the purchase price accounting of the combination with Anheuser Busch following the change in federal tax rate from 35% to 21%. The adjustment represents the company’s current best estimate of the deferred tax liability remeasurement resulting from the US Tax reform and is recognized as a non-recurring gain per 31 December 2017. The estimate will be updated in 2018 once the company will have analyzed all necessary information to complete the exhaustive computation. This impact was partially offset by Ambev and certain of its subsidiaries joining the Brazilian Tax Regularization Program in September 2017 whereby Ambev committed to pay some tax contingencies that were under dispute, totaling 3.5 billion Brazilian real (1.1 billion US dollar), with 1.0 billion Brazilian real (0.3 billion US dollar) paid in 2017 and the remaining amount payable in 145 monthly installments starting January 2018, plus interest. Within these contingencies, a dispute related to presumed taxation at Ambev’s subsidiary CRBs was not provided for until September 2017 as the loss was previously assessed as possible. The total amount recognized as non-recurring amount to 2.9 billion Brazilian real (0.9 billion US dollar) of which 2.8 billion Brazilian real (0.9 billion US dollar) is reported in the income tax line and 141m Brazilian real (44m US dollar) in the finance line. The 2016 effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the non-deductible negative mark-to-market adjustment related to the hedging of the purchase price of the combination with SAB that could not qualify for hedge accounting. The normalized effective tax rate for the period ended 31 December 2017 is 22.9% (2016: 20.9%). • Profit attributable to non-controlling interest: 1 187m US dollar in 2017 compared to 1 528m US dollar in 2016, mainly as a result of the impact of the combination with SAB being more than offset by the Brazilian Tax Regularization Program. • Profit from discontinued operations relates to the results of the CEE Business reported until the completion of the disposal that took place on 31 March 2017. Liquidity position and capital resources Cash flows Million US dollar 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities 15 430 10 110 Cash flow from investing activities 7 854 (60 077) Cash flow from financing activities (21 004) 50 731 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2 280 764 Cash flows from operating activities Million US dollar 2017 2016 Profit 9 183 2 769 Interest, taxes and non-cash items included in profit 12 484 13 572 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital and use of provisions 21 667 16 341 Change in working capital 219 173 Pension contributions and use of provisions (616) (470) Interest and taxes (paid)/received (5 982) (5 977) Dividends received 142 43 Cash flow from operating activities 15 430 10 110 53 B InBev’s cash flow from operating activities reached 15 430m US dollar in 2017 compared to 10 110m US dollar in 2016. The year over year hange is mainly explained by increased profit following the SAB combination. ash flow from investing activities illion US dollar 2017 2016 et capex (4 124) (4 768) cquisition of SAB, net of cash acquired – (65 166) et of tax proceeds from SAB transaction-related divestitures 8 248 16 342 cquisition and sale of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired/disposed of (556) (792) et of tax proceeds from the sale of assets held for sale 16 146 roceeds from the sale/(acquisition) of investment in short-term debt securities 4 337 (5 583) Other (67) (256) Cash flow from investing activities 7 854 (60 077) et cash inflow from investing activities was 7 854m US dollar in 2017 as compared to a net cash used of 60 077m US dollar in 2016. The cash flow rom investing activities mainly reflects the proceeds from the announced divestitures completed during 2017, net of taxes paid in 2017 on prior year ivestitures. The 2016 cash flow from investing activities is mainly impacted by the payment associated with the combination with SAB net of the ash acquired and the proceeds from the announced divestitures. B InBev’s net capital expenditures amounted to 4 124m US dollar in 2017 and 4 768m US dollar in 2016. Out of the total 2017 capital expenditures pproximately 45% was used to improve the company’s production facilities while 30% was used for logistics and commercial investments and 25% as used for improving administrative capabilities and purchase of hardware and software. ash flow from financing activities illion US dollar 2017 2016 ividends paid (9 275) (8 450) et (payments on)/proceeds from borrowings (9 981) 62 675 Other (including net finance (cost)/income other than interest) (1 748) (3 494) Cash flow from financing activities (21 004) 50 731 he cash outflow from AB InBev’s financing activities amounted to 21 004m US dollar in 2017, as compared to a cash inflow of 50 731m US dollar n 2016. uring 2017, the company repaid 8 billion US dollar outstanding under the Term Loan B. This Term Loan was the last remaining facility of the 5 billion US dollar senior facilities raised in October 2015 to finance the combination with SAB. See also Note 24 Interest-bearing loans and orrowings. The cash inflow from financing activities in 2016 reflected the funding of the combination with SAB. B InBev’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in debt securities less bank overdrafts as of 31 December 2017 amounted to 1 659m US dollar. As of 31 December 2017, the company had total liquidity of 20 659m US dollar, which consisted of 9 billion US dollar available nder committed long-term credit facilities and 11 659m US dollar of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in debt securities less bank verdrafts. Although the company may borrow such amounts to meet its liquidity needs, the company principally relies on cash flows from operating ctivities to fund the company’s continuing operation. Capital resources and equity B InBev’s net debt decreased to 104.4 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2017, from 108.0 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2016. et debt is defined as non-current and current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts minus debt securities and cash. Net debt s a financial performance indicator that is used by AB InBev’s management to highlight changes in the company’s overall liquidity position. The ompany believes that net debt is meaningful for investors as it is one of the primary measures AB InBev’s management uses when evaluating its rogress towards deleveraging. part from operating results net of capital expenditures, the net debt is mainly impacted by the proceeds from the announced divestitures ompleted during 2017 (11.7 billion US dollar), the payment of taxes on disposals completed in 2016 (3.4 billion US dollar), dividend payments to hareholders of AB InBev and Ambev (9.3 billion US dollar), the payment of interests and taxes (6.0 billion US dollar) and the impact of changes in oreign exchange rates (4.2 billion US dollar increase of net debt). et debt to normalized EBITDA decreased from 5.5x on an amended basis for the 12-month period ending 31 December 2016, incorporating he Reference base EBITDA of the combined group from 1 January 2016 until December 2016, to 4.8x on an amended basis for the 12-month eriod ending 31 December 2017. The 2017 net debt to EBITDA calculation excludes any EBITDA from CCBA, the CEE business and the take in Distell which were divested during 2017. The 2016 net debt to EBITDA calculation excludes any EBITDA from the CEE business and he stake in Distell. 54 Consolidated equity attributable to equity holders of AB InBev as at 31 December 2017 was 72 585m US dollar, compared to 71 339m US dollar as at 31 December 2016. The combined effect of the strengthening of mainly the closing rates of the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Chinese yuan, the euro, the Mexican peso, the Peruvian nuevo sol, the South African rand and the South Korean won and the weakening of mainly the closing rates of the Argentinean peso, the Brazilian real and the Nigerian naira resulted in a positive foreign exchange translation adjustment of 1 053m US dollar. Further details on equity movements can be found in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. Further details on interest-bearing loans and borrowings, repayment schedules and liquidity risk, are disclosed in Note 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. As of 31 December 2017, the company’s credit rating from Standard & Poor’s was Afor long-term obligations and A-2 for short-term obligations, with a negative outlook, and the company’s credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service was A3 for long-term obligations and P-2 for short-term obligations, with a stable outlook. Research and development Given its focus on innovation, AB InBev places a high value on research and development. In 2017, AB InBev spent 276m US dollar in research and development (2016: 244m US dollar). The spend focused on product innovations, market research, as well as process optimization and product development. Research and development in product innovation covers liquid, packaging and draft innovation. Product innovation consists of breakthrough innovation, incremental innovation and renovation. The main goal for the innovation process is to provide consumers with better products and experiences. This implies launching new liquid, new packaging and new draught products that deliver better performance both for the consumer and in terms of top-line results, by increasing AB InBev’s competitiveness in the relevant markets. With consumers comparing products and experiences offered across very different drink categories and the offering of beverages increasing, AB InBev’s research and development efforts also require an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of other beverage categories, spotting opportunities for beer and developing consumer solutions (products) that better address consumer need and deliver better experience. This requires understanding consumer emotions and expectations. Sensory experience, premiumization, convenience, sustainability and design are all central to AB InBev’s research and development efforts. Research and development in process optimization is primarily aimed at quality improvement, capacity increase (plant debottlenecking and addressing volume issues, while minimizing capital expenditure) and improving efficiency. Newly developed processes, materials and/or equipment are documented in best practices and shared across business regions. Current projects range from malting to bottling of finished products. Knowledge management and learning is also an integral part of research and development. AB InBev seeks to continuously increase its knowledge through collaborations with universities and other industries. AB InBev’s research and development team is briefed annually on the company’s and the business regions’ priorities and approves concepts which are subsequently prioritized for development. The research & development teams invest in both short and long-term strategic projects for future growth, with the launch time depending on complexity and prioritization. Launch time usually falls within the next calendar year. The Global Innovation and Technology Center (“GITeC”), located in Leuven, accommodates the Packaging, Product, Process Development teams and facilities such as Labs, Experimental Brewery and the European Central Lab, which also includes Sensory Analysis. In addition to GITeC, AB InBev also has Product, Packaging and Process development teams located in each of the AB InBev geographic regions focusing on the shortterm needs of such regions. Risks and uncertainties Under the explicit understanding that this is not an exhaustive list, AB InBev’s major risk factors and uncertainties are listed below. There may be additional risks which AB InBev is unaware of. There may also be risks AB InBev now believes to be immaterial, but which could turn out to have a material adverse effect. Moreover, if and to the extent that any of the risks described below materialize, they may occur in combination with other risks which would compound the adverse effect of such risks. The sequence in which the risk factors are presented below is not indicative of their likelihood of occurrence or of the potential magnitude of their financial consequence. Risks relating to AB InBev and the beer and beverage industry AB InBev relies on the reputation of its brands and its success depends on its ability to maintain and enhance the image and reputation of its existing products and to develop a favorable image and reputation for new products. An event, or series of events, that materially damages the reputation of one or more of AB InBev’s brands could have an adverse effect on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business. Further, any restrictions on the permissible advertising style, media and messages used may constrain AB InBev’s brand building potential and thus reduce the value of its brands and related revenues. 55 B InBev may not be able to protect its current and future brands and products and defend its intellectual property rights, including trademarks, atents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, cash flows r financial condition, and in particular, on AB InBev’s ability to develop its business. ertain of AB InBev’s operations depend on independent distributors’ or wholesalers’ efforts to sell AB InBev’s products and there can be no ssurance that such distributors will not give priority to AB InBev’s competitors. Further, any inability of AB InBev to replace unproductive or nefficient distributors or any limitations imposed on AB InBev to purchase or own any interest in distributors or wholesalers as a result of contractual estrictions, regulatory changes, changes in legislation or the interpretations of legislation by regulators or courts could adversely impact AB InBev’s usiness, results of operations and financial condition. hanges in the availability or price of raw materials, commodities, energy and water could have an adverse effect on AB InBev’s results of perations to the extent that AB InBev fails to adequately manage the risks inherent in such volatility, including if AB InBev’s hedging and derivative rrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity prices. B InBev relies on key third parties, including key suppliers, for a range of raw materials for its beer, alcoholic beverages and soft drinks, and for ackaging material. The termination of or a material change to arrangements with certain key suppliers or the failure of a key supplier to meet s contractual obligations could have a material impact on AB InBev’s production, distribution and sale of beer, alcoholic beverages and soft rinks and have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Certain of AB InBev’s ubsidiaries may purchase nearly all their key packaging materials from sole suppliers under multi-year contracts. The loss of or temporary iscontinuity of supply from any of these suppliers without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could cause AB InBev to spend increased mounts on supplies in the future. In addition, a number of key brand names are both licensed to third-party brewers and used by companies over hich AB InBev does not have control. Although AB InBev monitors brewing quality to ensure its high standards, to the extent that one of these key rand names or joint ventures, companies in which AB InBev does not own a controlling interest and/or AB InBev’s licensees are subject to negative ublicity, it could have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. ompetition and changing consumer preferences in its various markets and increased purchasing power of players in AB InBev’s distribution hannels could cause AB InBev to reduce prices of its products, increase capital investment, increase marketing and other expenditures or prevent B InBev from increasing prices to recover higher costs and thereby cause AB InBev to reduce margins or lose market share. Any of the foregoing ould have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, innovation faces inherent risks, and he new products AB InBev introduces may not be successful, while competitors may be able to respond more quickly to the emerging trends, such s the increasing consumer preference for “craft beers” produced by smaller microbreweries. he continued consolidation of retailers in markets in which AB InBev operates could result in reduced profitability for the beer industry as a whole nd indirectly adversely affect AB InBev’s financial results. B InBev could incur significant costs as a result of compliance with, and/or violations of or liabilities under, various regulations that govern B InBev’s operations or the operations of its licensed third parties, including the General Data Protection Regulation adopted in the European nion, which must be fully implemented by May 2018. Also, public concern about beer, alcoholic beverages and soft drink consumption and any esulting restrictions may cause the social acceptability of beer, alcoholic beverages and soft drinks to decline significantly and consumption trends o shift away from these products, which would have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, financial condition and results of operations. B InBev’s operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could expose it to significant compliance costs and litigation relating to nvironmental issues. ntitrust and competition laws and changes in such laws or in the interpretation and enforcement thereof, as well as being subject to regulatory crutiny, could affect AB InBev’s business or the businesses of its subsidiaries. For example, in connection with AB InBev’s previous acquisitions, arious regulatory authorities have imposed (and may impose) conditions with which AB InBev is required to comply. The terms and conditions of ertain of such authorizations, approvals and/or clearances required, among other things, the divestiture of the company’s assets or businesses o third parties, changes to the company’s operations, or other restrictions on the company’s ability to operate in certain jurisdictions. Such actions ould have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, such conditions ould diminish substantially the synergies and advantages which the company expect to achieve from such future transactions. n recent years, there has been increased public and political attention directed at the alcoholic beverage and food and soft drinks industries, as result of health care concerns related to the harmful use of alcohol (including drunk driving, drinking while pregnant and excessive, abusive and nderage drinking) and to health concerns such as diabetes and obesity related to the overconsumption of food and soft drinks. Negative publicity egarding AB InBev’s products and brands, publication of studies indicating a significant risk in using AB InBev’s products or changes in consumer erceptions in relation to AB InBev’s products generally could adversely affect the sale and consumption of AB InBev’s products and could harm s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Concerns over alcohol abuse and underage drinking have also caused overnments, including those in Argentina, Brazil, Spain, Russia, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Australia and the United States, to consider measures such as increased taxation, implementation of minimum alcohol pricing regimes or other changes to the regulatory framework governing B InBev’s marketing and other commercial practices. B InBev may be subject to adverse changes in taxation, which makes up a large proportion of the cost of beer charged to consumers in many urisdictions. Increases in excise and other indirect taxes applicable to AB InBev’s products tend to adversely affect AB InBev’s revenue or margins, oth by reducing overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to other categories of beverages. Minimum pricing is another form 56 of fiscal regulation that can affect AB InBev’s profitability. Furthermore, AB InBev may be subject to increased taxation on its operations by national, local or foreign authorities, to higher corporate income tax rates or to new or modified taxation regulations and requirements. For example, the work being carried out by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on base erosion and profit shifting or initiatives at the European Union level (including the anti-tax-avoidance directive adopted by the Council of the European Union on 12 July 2016) as a response to increasing globalization of trade and business operations could result in changes in tax treaties, the introduction of new legislation, updates to existing legislation, or changes to regulatory interpretations of existing legislation, any of which could impose additional taxes on businesses. An increase in excise taxes or other taxes could adversely affect the financial results of AB InBev as well as its results of operations. Furthermore, the US tax reform signed on 22 December 2017 (the “Tax Act”) brings major tax legislation changes into law. While the Tax Act reduces the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax to 21% and provides an exemption for certain dividends from 10%-owned foreign subsidiaries, the Tax Act expands the tax base by introducing further limitations on deductibility of interest, the imposition of a “base erosion and anti-abuse tax” and the imposition of minimum tax for “global intangible low-tax income”, among other changes, which would adversely impact the company’s results of operations. The overall impact of the Tax Act also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by U.S. tax authorities, and it is possible that future guidance could adversely impact the financial results of the company. Climate change or other environmental concerns, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change or other environmental concerns, could have a long-term, material adverse impact on AB InBev’s business and results of operations. Further, water scarcity or poor water quality may affect AB InBev by increasing production costs and capacity constraints, which could adversely affect AB InBev’s business and results of operations. Additionally, AB InBev’s inability to meet its compliance obligations under EU emissions trading regulations may also have an adverse impact on AB InBev’s business and results of operations. A substantial portion of AB InBev’s operations are carried out in developing European, African, Asian and Latin American markets. AB InBev’s operations and equity investments in these markets are subject to the customary risks of operating in developing countries, which include, amongst others, political instability or insurrection, external interference, changes in government policy, political and economic changes, changes in the relations between the countries, actions of governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, regulations on repatriation of funds, interpretation and application of local laws and regulations, enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, local labor conditions and regulations, potential political and economic uncertainty, application of exchange controls, nationalization or expropriation, crime and lack of law enforcement as well as financial risks, which include risk of liquidity, inflation, devaluation, price volatility, currency convertibility and country default. Moreover, the economies of developing countries are often affected by changes in other developing market countries, and, accordingly, adverse changes in developing markets elsewhere in the world could have a negative impact on the markets in which AB InBev operates. Such developing market risks could adversely impact AB InBev’s business, results of operations and financial condition. If any of AB InBev’s products is defective or found to contain contaminants, AB InBev may be subject to product recalls or other liabilities. Although AB InBev maintains insurance policies against certain product liability (but not product recall) risks, it may not be able to enforce its rights in respect of these policies and any amounts it recovers may not be sufficient to offset any damage it may suffer, which could adversely impact its business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. AB InBev may not be able to obtain the necessary funding for its future capital or refinancing needs and may face financial risks due to its level of debt and uncertain market conditions. AB InBev may be required to raise additional funds for AB InBev’s future capital needs or refinance its current indebtedness through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements and there can be no assurance that the funding, if needed, will be available on attractive terms, or at all. AB InBev has incurred substantial indebtedness by entering into several senior credit facilities and accessing the bond markets from time to time based on its financial needs, including as a result of the acquisition of SAB. The portion of AB InBev’s consolidated balance sheet represented by debt will remain significantly higher as compared to its historical position. AB InBev’s increased level of debt could have significant adverse consequences on AB InBev, including (i) increasing its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, (ii) limiting its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which AB InBev operates; (iii) impairing its ability to obtain additional financing in the future and limiting its ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities or to otherwise realize the value of its assets and opportunities fully, (iv) requiring AB InBev to issue additional equity (potentially under unfavorable market conditions), and (v) placing AB InBev at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. AB InBev’s ability to repay and renegotiate its outstanding indebtedness will be dependent upon market conditions. Unfavorable conditions, including significant price volatility and liquidity disruptions in the global credit markets in recent years, as well as downward pressure on credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength, could increase costs beyond what is currently anticipated. Such costs could have a material adverse impact on AB InBev’s cash flows, results of operations or both. Further, AB InBev may restrict the amount of dividends it will pay as a result of AB InBev’s level of debt and its strategy to give priority to deleveraging. Also, a credit rating downgrade could have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s ability to finance its ongoing operations or to refinance its existing indebtedness. In addition, a failure of AB InBev to refinance all or a substantial amount of its debt obligations when they become due, or more generally a failure to raise additional equity capital or debt financing or to realize proceeds from asset sales when needed, would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. AB InBev’s results could be negatively affected by increasing interest rates. Although AB InBev enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and also enters into cross-currency interest rate swap agreements to manage both its foreign currency risk and interest-rate risk on interest-bearing financial liabilities, there can be no assurance that such instruments will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. AB InBev’s results of operations are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Any change in exchange rates between AB InBev’s operating companies’ functional currencies and the US dollar will affect its consolidated income statement and balance sheet when the results of those operating companies are translated into US dollar for reporting purposes as translational exposures are not hedged. Also, there can be no 57 ssurance that the policies in place to manage commodity price and transactional foreign currency risks to protect AB InBev’s exposure will be able o successfully hedge against the effects of such foreign exchange exposure, especially over the long-term. Further, the use of financial instruments o mitigate currency risk and any other efforts taken to better match the effective currencies of AB InBev’s liabilities to its cash flows could result in ncreased costs. B InBev’s ordinary shares currently trade on Euronext Brussels in euros, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South African rand, the Mexican tock Exchange in Mexican pesos and its ordinary shares represented by American Depositary Shares (the “ADSs”) trade on the New York Stock xchange in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the euro, the South African rand, the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar may esult in temporary differences between the value of AB InBev’s ordinary shares trading in different currencies, and between its ordinary shares and s ADSs, which may result in heavy trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences. he ability of AB InBev’s subsidiaries to distribute cash upstream may be subject to various conditions and limitations. The inability to obtain ufficient cash flows from its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliated companies could adversely impact AB InBev’s ability to pay dividends nd otherwise negatively impact its business, results of operations and financial condition. ailure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through initiatives for improving operational efficiencies could adversely affect B InBev’s profitability and AB InBev’s ability to achieve its financial goals. A number of AB InBev’s subsidiaries are in the process of executing a major cost saving and efficiency program and AB InBev is pursuing a number of initiatives to improve operational efficiency. If AB InBev fails for any eason to successfully complete these measures and programs as planned or to derive the expected benefits from these measures and programs, here is a risk of increased costs associated with these efforts, delays in benefit realization, disruption to the business, reputational damage or a educed competitive advantage in the medium term. B InBev reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice in relation to the combination with Grupo Modelo, which included a threeear transition services agreement to ensure the smooth transition of the operation of the Piedras Negras brewery as well as certain distribution uarantees for Constellation Brands, Inc. in the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia and Guam. AB InBev’s compliance with its bligations under the settlement agreement is monitored by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Monitoring Trustee appointed by them. Were B InBev to fail to fulfill its obligations under the settlement, whether intentionally or inadvertently, AB InBev could be subject to monetary fines. B InBev entered into a consent decree with the U.S. Department of Justice in relation to the combination with SAB, pursuant to which AB InBev’s ubsidiary, Anheuser-Busch Companies, LLC, agreed not to acquire control of a distributor if doing so would result in more than 10% of its annual olume being distributed through distributorships controlled by AB InBev in the U.S. AB InBev’s compliance with its obligations under the settlement greement is monitored by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Monitoring Trustee appointed by them. Were AB InBev to fail to fulfill its bligations under the consent decree, whether intentionally or inadvertently, AB InBev could be subject to monetary fines. f the business of AB InBev does not develop as expected, impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets may be incurred in the future hich could be significant and which could have an adverse effect on AB InBev’s results of operations and financial condition. lthough AB InBev’s operations in Cuba are quantitatively immaterial, its overall business reputation may suffer or it may face additional regulatory crutiny as a result of Cuba being a target of US economic and trade sanctions. If investors decide to liquidate or otherwise divest their investments n companies that have operations of any magnitude in Cuba, the market in and value of AB InBev’s securities could be adversely impacted. n addition, US legislation known as the “Helms-Burton Act” authorizes private lawsuits for damages against anyone who traffics in property onfiscated without compensation by the Government of Cuba from persons who at the time were, or have since become, nationals of the United tates. Although this section of the Helms-Burton Act is currently suspended, claims accrue notwithstanding the suspension and may be asserted the suspension is discontinued. AB InBev has received notice of a claim purporting to be made under the Helms-Burton Act. AB InBev is currently nable to express a view as to the validity of such claims, or as to the standing of the claimants to pursue them. B InBev may not be able to recruit or retain key personnel and successfully manage them, which could disrupt AB InBev’s business and have an nfavorable material effect on AB InBev’s financial position, its income from operations and its competitive position. urther, AB InBev may be exposed to labor strikes, disputes and work stoppages or slowdowns, within its operations or those of its suppliers, or an nterruption or shortage of raw materials for any other reason that could lead to a negative impact on AB InBev’s costs, earnings, financial condition, roduction level and ability to operate its business. AB InBev’s production may also be affected by work stoppages or slowdowns that affect its uppliers, distributors and retail delivery/logistics providers as a result of disputes under existing collective labor agreements with labor unions, in onnection with negotiations of new collective labor agreements, as a result of supplier financial distress or for other reasons. A work stoppage or lowdown at AB InBev’s facilities could interrupt the transport of raw materials from its suppliers or the transport of its products to its customers. uch disruptions could put a strain on AB InBev’s relationships with suppliers and clients and may have lasting effects on its business even after the isputes with its labor force have been resolved, including as a result of negative publicity. B InBev relies on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. Although AB InBev takes various actions o prevent cyber-attacks and to minimize potential technology disruptions, such disruptions could impact AB InBev’s business. For example, if utside parties gained access to AB InBev’s confidential data or strategic information and appropriated such information or made such information ublic, this could harm AB InBev’s reputation or its competitive advantage. More generally, technology disruptions could have a material adverse ffect on AB InBev’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 58 The size of AB InBev, contractual limitations it is subject to and its position in the markets in which it operates may decrease its ability to successfully carry out further acquisitions and business integrations. AB InBev cannot enter into further transactions unless it can identify suitable candidates and agree on the terms with them. The size of AB InBev and its position in the markets in which it operates may make it harder to identify suitable candidates, including because it may be harder for AB InBev to obtain regulatory approval for future transactions. If appropriate opportunities do become available, AB InBev may seek to acquire or invest in other businesses; however, any future acquisition may pose regulatory, anti-trust and other risks. AB InBev’s business and operating results could be negatively impacted by social, technical, natural, physical or other disasters. Although AB InBev maintains insurance policies to cover various risks, it also uses self-insurance for most of its insurable risks. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, this could adversely impact AB InBev’s business, results of operations and financial condition. AB InBev is exposed to the risk of a global recession or a recession in one or more of its key markets, and to credit and capital market volatility and economic financial crisis, which could result in lower revenue and reduced profit, as beer consumption in many of the jurisdictions in which AB InBev operates is closely linked to general economic conditions and changes in disposable income. A continuation or worsening of the levels of market disruption and volatility seen in the recent past could have an adverse effect on AB InBev’s ability to access capital, on its business, results of operations and financial condition, and on the market price of its shares and American Depositary Shares. AB InBev operates its business and markets its products in certain countries that, as a result of political and economic instability, a lack of welldeveloped legal systems and potentially corrupt business environments, present it with political, economic and operational risks. Although AB InBev is committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner in compliance with local and international statutory requirements and standards applicable to its business, there is a risk that the employees or representatives of AB InBev’s subsidiaries, affiliates, associates, joint ventures/operations or other business interests may take actions that violate applicable laws and regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, including laws relating to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. The audit report included in AB InBev’s annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). This lack of PCAOB inspections in Belgium prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in Belgium, including AB InBev’s auditors. As a result, US and other investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. AB InBev is now, and may in the future be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including collective suits (class actions), and significant damages may be asserted against it. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, it is possible that AB InBev might incur liabilities as a consequence of the proceedings and claims brought against it, including those that are not currently believed by it to be reasonably possible, which could have a material adverse effect on AB InBev’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Important contingencies are disclosed in Note 32 Contingencies of the consolidated financial statements. AB InBev may not be able to successfully complete the integration of the SAB business or fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the combination with SAB, and any such benefits and synergies will be offset by the significant transaction fees and other costs AB InBev incurred in connection with the Combination. The integration process involves inherent costs and uncertainties, which uncertainties are exacerbated because SAB was active in new or developing markets in which AB InBev did not have significant operations. Additionally, the Tax Matters Agreement AB InBev has entered into with Altria Group Inc. imposes some limits on the ability of the Combined Group to effect some group reorganizations, which may limit its capacity to integrate SAB’s operations. As a result of the combination with SAB, AB InBev recognized a significant amount of incremental goodwill on its balance sheet. If the integration of the businesses meets with unexpected difficulties, or if the business of AB InBev does not develop as expected, impairment charges may be incurred in the future that could be significant and that could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. A portion of the company’s global portfolio consists of associates in new or developing markets, including investments where the company may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations. The company faces several challenges inherent to these various culturally and geographically diverse business interests. Although the company works with its associates on the implementation of appropriate processes and controls, the company also faces additional risks and uncertainties with respect to these minority investments because the company may be dependent on systems, controls and personnel that are not under the company’s control, such as the risk that the company’s associates may violate applicable laws and regulations, which could have an adverse effect on the company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Risks arising from financial instruments Note 29 of the 2017 consolidated financial statements on Risks arising from financial instruments contains detailed information on the company’s exposures to financial risks and its risk management policies. 59 Events after the balance sheet date lease refer to Note 35 Events after the balance sheet date of the consolidated financial statements. Corporate governance or information with respect to Corporate Governance, please refer to the Corporate Governance section, which forms an integral part of B InBev’s annual report. 60 Statement of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of AB InBev SA/NV certifies, on behalf and for the account of the company, that, to their knowledge, (a) the financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the entities included in the consolidation as a whole and (b) the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the entities included in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 61 Independent auditors’ report Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders’ meeting of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 In the context of the audit of the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements of Anheuserof Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries, Busch InBev NV/SA give a true and fair view of the Group’s net equity joint ventures, joint operations and associates (together “the Group”), and financial position as of 31 December 2017 and of its consolidated we hereby submit our audit report to you. This report includes our results and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended, in report on the consolidated financial statements together with our accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) report on other legal and regulatory requirements. These reports are as adopted by the European Union and with the legal and regulatory one and indivisible. requirements applicable in Belgium. We were appointed in our capacity as independent auditor by the Basis for the unqualified opinion shareholders’ meeting of 27 April 2016 in accordance with the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on proposal of the board of directors issued upon recommendation of Auditing (ISA). Our responsibilities under those standards are further the Audit Committee and as presented to the works council. described in the “Responsibilities of the independent auditor for the Our mandate will expire on the date of the shareholders’ meeting audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. approving the consolidated financial statements for the year ending We have complied with all ethical requirements relevant to the audit of 31 December 2018. consolidated financial statements in Belgium, including those regarding independence. Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Unqualified opinion We have obtained from the board of directors and the Company’s We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group, officials the explanations and information necessary for performing which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position our audit. as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. cash flow for the year then ended, as well as the summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. Key audit matters The consolidated statement of financial position shows total assets of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, 246 126 million USD and the consolidated income statement shows a were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial consolidated profit for the year then ended of 9 183 million USD. statements. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters: Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter & reference to the Company’s disclosures Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life – We assessed and tested the critical assumptions, the discount rates, impairment testing methodologies and data used by the Company, by comparing them Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives represent to external data such as expected inflation rates, external market 75 % of the total consolidated statement of financial position at growth expectations and by analyzing sensitivities in the Company’s 31 December 2017. The annual impairment testing was significant discounted cash flow model. We included valuation specialists in our to our audit because of the financial quantum of the assets it team to assist us in these activities. Goodwill and intangible assets supports as well as the fact that the testing relies on a number of with indefinite useful lives are allocated to Cash Generating Units critical judgments, estimates and assumptions. The Company uses (CGU’s) and groups of CGU’s. We assessed the adequacy of the a strategic plan based on external sources in respect of macroCompany’s disclosure notes 14 and 15 in the financial statements economic assumptions, industry, inflation, foreign exchange rates about the assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment test and past experience and assumptions in terms of market share, is most sensitive. revenue, variable and fixed cost, capital expenditure and working capital assumptions. We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the available headroom of CGU’s and whether a reasonable possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. We also assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. The details on the accounting for goodwill and intangible assets and the disclosure requirements under IAS 36 Impairment of assets are included in Note 3. Summary of significant accounting policies, Note 4. Use of estimates and judgments, Note 14. Goodwill and Note 15. Intangible assets to the financial statements. 62 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter & reference to the Company’s disclosures Taxes – provisions for uncertain tax positions With assistance from our tax specialists, we obtained a detailed The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions. There understanding of the Company’s tax strategy as well as key technical are some transactions for which the ultimate tax position is uncertain tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments. and which requires significant judgment to determine the provision We assessed the status of ongoing local tax authority audits for income tax. In those cases where the amount of tax payable using, where applicable, our local and international specialized tax or recoverable is uncertain, the Company establishes provisions knowledge. We evaluated and challenged management’s judgment based on its judgment of the probable amount of the payable or in respect of estimates of tax exposures, recoverable amounts and receivable. Some subsidiaries within the Group are currently subject contingencies. We considered correspondence with tax authorities to tax audits and local enquiries usually in relation to prior years. and also assessed legal opinions from third party tax advisors who Investigations and negotiations with local tax authorities can take act on behalf of the Company. considerable time to conclude. Due to the level of judgment involved and the uncertain nature of the tax positions, we consider this to be We considered the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures in Note 3. a significant matter in our audit. Summary of significant accounting policies, Note 4. Use of estimates and judgments, Note 12. Income taxes and Note 32. Contingencies of the financial statements. Responsibilities of the board of directors for the consolidated We also: financial statements • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and fair consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to the European Union and with the legal and regulatory requirements provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material applicable in Belgium; and for such internal control as the board misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting of directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation from an error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional of consolidated financial statements that are free from material omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the In preparing the consolidated financial statements the board of circumstances; directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters to be considered reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures for going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting made by management; unless the board of directors either intends to liquidate the Company • conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events Responsibilities of the independent auditor for the audit of the or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s consolidated financial statements ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or accordance with the ISA will always detect a material misstatement conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are concern; considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users consolidated financial statements, and whether the consolidated taken on the basis of these financial statements. financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; As part of an audit in accordance with ISA, we exercise professional • obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 63 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA | 31 December 2017 We communicate with the audit committee regarding, amongst other In the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements we matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant are responsible for considering, in particular based on information that audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control we became aware of during the audit, if the directors’ report on the that we identify during our audit. consolidated financial statements is free of material misstatements, either by information that is incorrectly stated or otherwise misleading. We also provide the audit committee with a statement that we have In the context of the procedures performed, we are not aware of such complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, a material misstatement. and we communicate with them about all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear our independence, Statements regarding independence and where applicable, related safeguards. • We did not perform any services that are incompatible with the audit of the consolidated financial statements and remained independent From the matters communicated to the audit committee, we from the Company during the performance of our mandate. determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit • The fees for the non-audit services compatible with the audit of the of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and consolidated financial statements as defined in article 134 of the are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in Companies Code have been properly disclosed and disaggregated in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes any public the disclosures to the consolidated financial statements. disclosure about the matter. Other statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • This report is consistent with our additional report to the audit Responsibilities of the board of directors committee referred to in article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and the content of the directors’ report on the consolidated financial Zaventem, 28 February 2018 statements and other matters disclosed in this report. The statutory auditor Responsibilities of the independent auditor As part of our mandate and in accordance with the Belgian (revised) auditing standard which is complementary to the ISA applicable in Belgium, our responsibility is to verify, in all material respects, the director’s report on the consolidated financial statements and other matters disclosed in the annual report, as well as to report on these matters. _______________________________________________________________ DELOITTE Bedrijfsrevisoren / Réviseurs d’Entreprises Aspects regarding the directors’ report on the consolidated BV o.v.v.e. CVBA / SC s.f.d. SCRL financial statements Represented by Joël Brehmen In our opinion, after performing the specific procedures on the directors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, the directors’ report on the consolidated financial statements is consistent with the consolidated financial statements for the year and it has been established in accordance with the requirements of article 119 of the Companies Code. Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren / Réviseurs d’Entreprises Burgerlijke vennootschap onder de vorm van een coöperatieve vennootschap met beperkte aansprakelijkheid / Société civile sous forme d’une société coopérative à responsabilité limitée Registered Office: Gateway building, Luchthaven Nationaal 1 J, B-1930 Zaventem VAT BE 0429.053.863 RPR Brussel/RPM Bruxelles IBAN BE 17 2300 0465 6121 BIC GEBABEBB Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 64 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December Million US dollar, except earnings per shares in US dollar Notes 2017 2016 Revenue 56 444 45 517 Cost of sales (21 386) (17 803) Gross profit 35 058 27 715 Distribution expenses (5 876) (4 543) Sales and marketing expenses (8 382) (7 745) Administrative expenses (3 841) (2 883) Other operating income/(expenses) 7 854 732 Profit from operations before non-recurring items 17 814 13 276 Restructuring 8 (468) (323) Business and asset disposal 8 (39) 377 Acquisition costs business combinations 8 (155) (448) Profit from operations 17 152 12 882 Finance cost 11 (6 192) (5 860) Finance income 11 378 652 Non-recurring net finance income/(cost) (693) (3 356) Net finance income/(cost) (6 507) (8 564) Share of result of associates and joint ventures 430 16 Profit before tax 11 076 4 334 Income tax expense 12 (1 920) (1 613) Profit from continuing operations 9 155 2 721 Profit from discontinued operations 22 28 48 Profit of the year 9 183 2 769 Profit from continuing operations attributable to: Equity holders of AB InBev 7 968 1 193 Non-controlling interest 1 187 1 528 Profit of the year attributable to: Equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 1 241 Non-controlling interest 1 187 1 528 Basic earnings per share 23 4.06 0.72 Diluted earnings per share 23 3.98 0.71 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 23 4.04 0.69 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 23 3.96 0.68 Basic earnings per share before non-recurring items and discontinued operations1 23 4.04 2.83 Diluted earnings per share before non-recurring items and discontinued operations1 23 3.96 2.77 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 1  asic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share before non-recurring items are not defined metrics in IFRS. Refer to Note 23 Changes in equity and earnings per share for B more details. 65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the year ended 31 December illion US dollar 2017 2016 rofit 9 183 2 769 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: e-measurements of post-employment benefits (37) (226) (37) (226) Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1 716 (2 918) Foreign exchange contracts recognized in equity in relation to the SAB combination – (7 099) Foreign exchange contracts reclassified from equity in relation to the SAB combination – 8 837 Effective portion of changes in fair value of net investment hedges (542) (161) Cash flow hedges recognized in equity (60) 110 Cash flow hedges reclassified from equity to profit or loss (36) (3) 1 077 (1 234) Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1 040 (1 460) otal comprehensive income 10 223 1 309 ttributable to: Equity holders of AB InBev 8 838 (275) Non-controlling interest 1 385 1 584 he accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 Consolidated statement of financial position 31 December 31 December As at 31 December 2016 2016 Million US dollar Notes 2017 Adjusted1 Reported2 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 27 184 26 219 27 522 Goodwill 14 140 940 135 864 136 533 Intangible assets 15 45 874 44 789 44 568 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 5 263 4 324 4 324 Investment securities 17 100 82 82 Deferred tax assets 18 1 216 1 261 1 261 Employee benefits 25 22 10 10 Income tax receivables 708 6 6 Derivatives 29H 25 146 146 Trade and other receivables 20 834 868 868 222 166 213 569 215 320 Current assets Investment securities 17 1 304 5 659 5 659 Inventories 19 4 119 3 889 3 913 Income tax receivables 908 1 112 1 112 Derivatives 29H 458 971 971 Trade and other receivables 20 6 566 6 352 6 391 Cash and cash equivalents 21 10 472 8 579 8 579 Assets classified as held for sale 22 133 16 458 16 439 23 960 43 017 43 061 Total assets 246 126 256 586 258 381 Equity and Liabilities Equity Issued capital 23 1 736 1 736 1 736 Share premium 17 620 17 620 17 620 Reserves 24 835 23 769 23 769 Retained earnings 28 394 28 214 28 214 Equity attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 72 585 71 339 71 339 Non-controlling interests 33 7 635 10 086 10 086 80 220 81 425 81 425 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 108 949 113 941 113 941 Employee benefits 25 2 993 3 014 3 014 Deferred tax liabilities 18 13 107 14 703 16 678 Income tax payables 732 – – Derivatives 29H 937 471 471 Trade and other payables 28 1 462 1 316 1 328 Provisions 27 1 515 1 347 1 409 129 695 134 792 136 841 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 21 117 184 184 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 7 433 8 618 8 618 Income tax payables 1 558 3 845 3 922 Derivatives 29H 1 457 1 263 1 263 Trade and other payables 28 24 762 23 086 23 086 Provisions 27 885 1 199 869 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 22 – 2 174 2 174 36 211 40 369 40 116 Total equity and liabilities 246 126 256 586 258 381 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 1 2  016 as reported, adjusted to reflect the opening balance sheet adjustments related to the final allocation of the SAB purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, which requires retrospective application of post-acquisition adjustments (see also Note 6 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries). 2 2016 amounts previously reported. 67 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Issued Share Treasury illion US dollar Capital premium shares As per 1 January 2016 1 736 17 620 (1 626) rofit – – – Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (gains/(losses)) – – – Foreign exchange contracts recognized in equity in relation to the SAB combination – – – Foreign exchange contracts reclassified from equity in relation to the SAB combination – – – Cash flow hedges – – – Re-measurements of post-employment benefits – – – otal comprehensive income – – – ssuance of restricted shares for SAB ordinary shares 9 528 27 244 – ransfer to reserves1 (9 528) (27 244) (8 953) cquisitions through business combinations2 – – – ividends – – – reasury shares – – 174 hare-based payments – – – cope and other changes3 – – 1 425 As per 31 December 2016 1 736 17 620 (8 980) Issued Share Treasury illion US dollar Capital premium shares As per 1 January 2017 1 736 17 620 (8 980) rofit – – – Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (gains/(losses)) – – – Cash flow hedges – – – Re-measurements of post-employment benefits – – – otal comprehensive income – – – ividends – – – reasury shares – – – hare-based payments – – – urchase/(sale) of non-controlling interests – – – cope and other changes – – – As per 31 December 2017 1 736 17 620 (8 980) he accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. See Note 23 Changes in equity and earnings per share. See Note 6 Acquisitions and disposals. During 2016, the company reclassified the results of treasury shares of 1 452m US dollar to retained earnings. 68 Attributable to equity holders of AB InBev Other Share-based comprehensive Deferred payment income share Retained Non-controlling Total Reserves reserves reserves1 instrument earnings Total interest equity – 1 264 (14 110) 1 304 35 949 42 137 3 582 45 719 – – – – 1 241 1 241 1 528 2 769 – – (3 265) – – (3 265) 186 (3 079) – – (7 099) – – (7 099) – (7 099) – – 8 837 – – 8 837 – 8 837 – – 223 – – 223 (116) 107 – – (212) – – (212) (14) (226) – – (1 516) – 1 241 (275) 1 584 1 309 – – – – – 36 772 – 36 772 45 726 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 6 201 6 201 – – – (92) (7 041) (7 133) (1 347) (8 480) – – – – (124) 50 – 50 – 173 – – – 173 7 180 – – – – (1 812) (386) 59 (327) 45 726 1 437 (15 626) 1 212 28 214 71 339 10 086 81 425 Attributable to equity holders of AB InBev Other Share-based comprehensive Deferred payment income share Retained Non-controlling Total Reserves reserves reserves instrument earnings Total interest Equity 45 726 1 437 (15 626) 1 212 28 214 71 339 10 086 81 425 – – – – 7 996 7 996 1 187 9 183 – – 1 053 – – 1 053 121 1 174 – – (158) – – (158) 61 (96) – – (53) – – (53) 16 (37) – – 842 – 7 996 8 838 1 385 10 223 – – – (93) (7 821) (7 914) (1 316) (9 230) – – – – – – – – – 316 – – – 316 18 333 – – – – – – (2 401) (2 401) – – – – 5 5 (137) (132) 45 726 1 753 (14 784) 1 119 28 394 72 585 7 635 80 220 69 Consolidated statement of cash flows or the year ended 31 December illion US dollar Notes 2017 2016 Operating activities rofit 9 183 2 769 epreciation, amortization and impairment 10 4 276 3 477 mpairment losses on receivables, inventories and other assets 130 110 dditions/(reversals) in provisions and employee benefits 178 293 et finance cost/(income) 11 6 507 8 564 oss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (117) (4) oss/(gain) on sale of subsidiaries, associates and assets held for sale (47) (410) quity-settled share-based payment expense 26 351 231 ncome tax expense 12 1 920 1 613 Other non-cash items included in profit (284) (286) hare of result of associates and joint ventures (430) (16) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital and use of rovisions 21 667 16 341 ecrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 67 (714) ecrease/(increase) in inventories (213) (364) ncrease/(decrease) in trade and other payables 365 1 251 ension contributions and use of provisions (616) (470) Cash generated from operations 21 270 16 044 nterest paid (4 652) (3 279) nterest received 811 558 ividends received 142 43 ncome tax paid (2 141) (3 256) Cash flow from operating activities 15 430 10 110 nvesting activities cquisition of property, plant and equipment and of intangible assets 13/15 (4 741) (4 979) roceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and of intangible assets 617 211 cquisition of SAB, net of cash acquired 6 (65 166) roceeds from SAB transaction-related divestitures 22 11 697 16 342 axes on SAB transaction-related divestitures (3 449) cquisition of other subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 6 (598) (1 445) ale of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of 6 42 653 et of tax proceeds from the sale of assets held for sale 16 146 et proceeds from sale/(acquisition) of investment in short-term debt securities 17 4 337 (5 583) et proceeds from sale/(acquisition) of other assets (280) (27) et repayments/(payments) of loans granted 213 (229) 0 Cash flow from investing activities 7 854 (60 077) inancing activities urchase of non-controlling interest 23 (206) (10) roceeds from borrowings 13 352 86 292 ayments on borrowings (23 333) (23 617) ash net finance (cost)/income other than interests (1 542) (3 484) ividends paid (9 275) (8 450) Cash flow from financing activities (21 004) 50 731 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2 280 764 ash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts at beginning of year 8 395 6 910 ffect of exchange rate fluctuations (319) 721 Cash and cash equivalents less bank overdrafts at end of period 21 10 356 8 395 he accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note Corporate information 1 Statement of compliance 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Use of estimates and judgments 4 Segment reporting 5 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 6 Other operating income/(expenses) 7 Non-recurring items 8 Payroll and related benefits 9 Additional information on operating expenses by nature 10 Finance cost and income 11 Income taxes 12 Property, plant and equipment 13 Goodwill 14 Intangible assets 15 Investment in associates 16 Investment securities 17 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 18 Inventories 19 Trade and other receivables 20 Cash and cash equivalents 21 Assets classified as held for sale and discontinued operations 22 Changes in equity and earnings per share 23 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 24 Employee benefits 25 Share-based payments 26 Provisions 27 Trade and other payables 28 Risks arising from financial instruments 29 Operating leases 30 Collateral and contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, loans to customers and other.. 31 Contingencies 32 Non-controlling interests 33 Related parties 34 Events after the balance sheet date 35 AB InBev companies 36 71 . Corporate information nheuser-Busch InBev is a publicly traded company (Euronext: ABI) based in Leuven, Belgium, with secondary listings on the Mexico (MEXBOL: NB) and South Africa (JSE: ANH) stock exchanges and with American Depositary Receipts on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: BUD). Our ream is to bring people together for a better world. Beer, the original social network, has been bringing people together for thousands of years. We are committed to building great brands that stand the test of time and to brewing the best beers using the finest natural ingredients. Our diverse ortfolio of well over 500 beer brands includes global brands Budweiser ®, Corona® and Stella Artois®; multi-country brands Beck’s®, Castle®, Castle ite®, Hoegaarden® and Leffe®; and local champions such as Aguila®, Antarctica®, Bud Light ®, Brahma®, Cass®, Chernigivske®, Cristal®, Harbin®, upiler ®, Klinskoye®, Michelob Ultra®, Modelo Especial®, Quilmes®, Victoria®, Sedrin®, Sibirskaya Korona® and Skol®. Our brewing heritage dates ack more than 600 years, spanning continents and generations. From our European roots at the Den Hoorn brewery in Leuven, Belgium. To the ioneering spirit of the Anheuser & Co brewery in St. Louis, US. To the creation of the Castle Brewery in South Africa during the Johannesburg old rush. To Bohemia, the first brewery in Brazil. Geographically diversified with a balanced exposure to developed and developing markets, we everage the collective strengths of nearly 200 000 employees based in more than 50 countries worldwide. For 2017, AB InBev’s reported revenue as 56.4 billion US dollar (excluding joint ventures and associates). he consolidated financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the company and its subsidiaries (together eferred to as “AB InBev” or the “company”) and the company’s interest in associates, joint ventures and operations. he financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2018. . Statement of Compliance he consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International ccounting Standards Board (‘IASB”) and in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union up to 31 December 2017 (collectively “IFRS”). B InBev did not early apply any new IFRS requirements that were not yet effective in 2017 and did not apply any European carve-outs from IFRS. . Summary of significant accounting policies he accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements by the ompany and its subsidiaries. A) Basis of preparation and measurement epending on the applicable IFRS requirements, the measurement basis used in preparing the financial statements is cost, net realizable value, fair alue or recoverable amount. Whenever IFRS provides an option between cost and another measurement basis (e.g. systematic re-measurement), he cost approach is applied. B) Functional and presentation currency nless otherwise specified, all financial information included in these financial statements has been stated in US dollar and has been rounded o the nearest million. As from 2009, following the combination with Anheuser-Bush, the company changed the presentation currency of the onsolidated financial statements from the euro to the US dollar to provide greater alignment of the presentation currency with AB InBev’s most ignificant operating currency and underlying financial performance. The functional currency of the parent company is the euro. C) Use of estimates and judgments he preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect he application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are ased on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the asis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may iffer from these estimates. he estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in hich the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both urrent and future periods. D) Principles of consolidation ubsidiaries are those entities controlled by AB InBev. AB InBev controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its nvolvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. In assessing control, potential voting rights re taken into account. Control is presumed to exist where AB InBev owns, directly or indirectly, more than one half of the voting rights (which does ot always equate to economic ownership), unless it can be demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control. The financial statements f subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. Total omprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the nonontrolling interests having a deficit balance. ssociates are undertakings in which AB InBev has significant influence over the financial and operating policies, but which it does not control. This s generally evidenced by ownership of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is an arrangement in which AB InBev has joint ontrol, whereby AB InBev has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. Associates nd joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of accounting, from the date that significant influence or joint control commences until 72 the date that significant influence or joint control ceases. When AB InBev’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that AB InBev has incurred legal or constructive obligations on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Joint operations arise when AB InBev has rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities of a joint arrangement. AB InBev accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as from the moment joint operation commences until the date that joint operation ceases. The financial statements of the company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures, joint operations and associates are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. In exceptional cases when the financial statements of a subsidiary, joint venture, joint operation or associate are prepared as of a different date from that of AB InBev, adjustments are made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur between that date and the date of AB InBev’s financial statements. In such cases, the difference between the end of the reporting period of these subsidiaries, joint ventures, joint operations or associates from AB InBev’s reporting period is no more than three months. Results from the company’s associate Anadolu Efes are reported on a three month lag. Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions with equity owners of the company. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity where there is no loss of control. All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains and losses on transactions between group companies have been eliminated. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with joint ventures, joint operations and associates are eliminated to the extent of AB InBev’s interest in the entity. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. A listing of the company’s most important subsidiaries, joint ventures, joint operations and associates is set out in Note 36 AB InBev companies. (E) Summary of changes in accounting policies A number of new standards, amendment to standards and new interpretations became mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017, and have not been listed in these consolidated financial statements because of either their non-applicability to or their immateriality to AB InBev’s consolidated financial statements. (F) Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the balance sheet date rate. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to US dollar at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. Translation of the results and financial position of foreign operations Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to US dollar at foreign exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income statements of foreign operations, excluding foreign entities in hyperinflationary economies, are translated to US dollar at exchange rates for the year approximating the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. The components of shareholders’ equity are translated at historical rates. Exchange differences arising from the translation of shareholders’ equity to US dollar at period-end exchange rates are taken to other comprehensive income (translation reserves). In hyperinflationary economies, re-measurement of the local currency denominated non-monetary assets, liabilities, income statement accounts as well as equity accounts is made by applying a general price index. These re-measured accounts are used for conversion into US dollar at the closing exchange rate. AB InBev did not have material operations in hyperinflationary economies in 2017 and 2016. Exchange rates The most important exchange rates that have been used in preparing the financial statements are: Closing rate Average rate 1 US dollar equals: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Argentinean peso 18.774210 15.850116 16.580667 14.762591 Australian dollar 1.279580 1.384689 1.308997 1.3440978 Brazilian real 3.308005 3.259106 3.201667 3.474928 Canadian dollar 1.253982 1.345983 1.303248 1.318844 Colombian peso 2 988.60 3 002.14 2 965.94 2 986.89 Chinese yuan 6.507500 6.944520 6.785290 6.607635 Euro 0.833819 0.948677 0.886817 0.902821 Mexican peso 19.735828 20.663842 18.811612 18.464107 Pound sterling 0.739790 0.812238 0.773029 0.737400 Peruvian nuevo sol 3.244558 3.352820 3.267432 3.394121 Russian ruble 57.631946 60.657097 58.144309 66.905365 South Korean won 1 067.63 1 203.90 1 134.04 1 154.50 South African rand 12.345193 13.714953 13.338803 14.0166901 Turkish lira 3.790879 3.516940 3.615028 3.50148 Ukrainian hryvnia 28.068098 27.190513 26.501419 25.408674 73 G) Intangible assets esearch and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge nd understanding, is recognized in the income statement as an expense as incurred. xpenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved roducts and processes, is capitalized if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable nd the company has sufficient resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalized includes the cost of materials, direct labor and an ppropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognized in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalized evelopment expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortization (see below) and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy P). mortization related to research and development intangible assets is included within the cost of sales if production related and in sales and marketing if related to commercial activities. orrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are capitalized as part of the cost of uch assets. upply and distribution rights A supply right is the right for AB InBev to supply a customer and the commitment by the customer to purchase rom AB InBev. A distribution right is the right to sell specified products in a certain territory. cquired distribution rights are measured initially at cost or fair value when obtained through a business combination. mortization related to supply and distribution rights is included within sales and marketing expenses. rands If part of the consideration paid in a business combination relates to trademarks, trade names, formulas, recipes or technological expertise hese intangible assets are considered as a group of complementary assets that is referred to as a brand for which one fair value is determined. xpenditure on internally generated brands is expensed as incurred. oftware Purchased software is measured at cost less accumulated amortization. Expenditure on internally developed software is capitalized hen the expenditure qualifies as development activities; otherwise, it is recognized in the income statement when incurred. mortization related to software is included in cost of sales, distribution expenses, sales and marketing expenses or administrative expenses based n the activity the software supports. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, acquired by the company, are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization and mpairment losses. Other intangible assets also include multi-year sponsorship rights acquired by the company. These are initially recognized at the present value of he future payments and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. ubsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalized intangible assets is capitalized only when it increases the future economic enefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditures are expensed as incurred. mortization Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Licenses, brewing, upply and distribution rights are amortized over the period in which the rights exist. Brands are considered to have an indefinite life unless plans xist to discontinue the brand. Discontinuance of a brand can be either through sale or termination of marketing support. When AB InBev purchases istribution rights for its own products the life of these rights is considered indefinite, unless the company has a plan to discontinue the related brand r distribution. Software and capitalized development costs related to technology are amortized over 3 to 5 years. rands are deemed intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and, therefore, are not amortized but tested for impairment on an annual basis refer to accounting policy P). Gains and losses on sale Net gains on sale of intangible assets are presented in the income statement as other operating income. Net losses on ale are included as other operating expenses. Net gains and losses are recognized in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards f ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs can be estimated reliably, and here is no continuing managerial involvement with the intangible assets. H) Business combinations he company applies the acquisition method of accounting to account for acquisitions of businesses. The cost of an acquisition is measured as he aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of the assets given, liabilities incurred and equity instruments issued. Identifiable assets, abilities and contingent liabilities acquired or assumed are measured separately at their fair value as of the acquisition date. The excess of the cost f the acquisition over the company’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. he allocation of fair values to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on various assumptions requiring management judgment. 74 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of AB InBev’s previously held interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognized in profit or loss. (I) Goodwill Goodwill is determined as the excess of the consideration paid over AB InBev’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate recognized at the date of acquisition. All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. In conformity with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is stated at cost and not amortized but tested for impairment on an annual basis and whenever there is an indicator that the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, may be impaired (refer to accounting policy P). Goodwill is expressed in the currency of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity to which it relates and is translated to US dollar using the year-end exchange rate. In respect of associates and joint ventures, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. If AB InBev’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized exceeds the cost of the business combination such excess is recognized immediately in the income statement as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill is expensed as incurred. (J) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (refer to accounting policy P). Cost includes the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management (e.g. nonrefundable tax and transport cost). The cost of a self-constructed asset is determined using the same principles as for an acquired asset. The depreciation methods, residual value, as well as the useful lives are reassessed and adjusted if appropriate, annually. Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are capitalized as part of the cost of such assets. Subsequent expenditure The company recognizes in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value. Residual values, if not insignificant, are reassessed annually. Depreciation is calculated from the date the asset is available for use, using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The estimated useful lives are defined in terms of the asset’s expected utility to the company and can vary from one geographical area to another. On average the estimated useful lives are as follows: Industrial buildings – other real estate properties 20 50 years Production plant and equipment: Production equipment 10 15 years Storage, packaging and handling equipment 5 7 years Returnable packaging: Kegs 2 10 years Crates 2 10 years Bottles 2 5 years Point of sale furniture and equipment 5 years Vehicles 5 years Information processing equipment 3 5 years Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated as it is deemed to have an indefinite life. Gains and losses on sale Net gains on sale of items of property, plant and equipment are presented in the income statement as other operating income. Net losses on sale are presented as other operating expenses. Net gains and losses are recognized in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs can be estimated reliably, and there is no continuing managerial involvement with the property, plant and equipment. 75 K) Accounting for leases eases of property, plant and equipment where the company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance eases. Finance leases are recognized as assets and liabilities (interest-bearing loans and borrowings) at amounts equal to the lower of the fair alue of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease. Depreciation and impairment testing for epreciable leased assets is the same as for depreciable assets that are owned (refer to accounting policies J and P). ease payments are apportioned between the outstanding liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the emaining balance of the liability. eases of assets under which all the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. ayments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of penalty is ecognized as an expense in the period in which termination takes place. L) Investments ll investments are accounted for at trade date. nvestments in equity securities Investments in equity securities are undertakings in which AB InBev does not have significant influence or ontrol. This is generally evidenced by ownership of less than 20% of the voting rights. Such investments are designated as available-for-sale inancial assets which are at initial recognition measured at fair value unless the fair value cannot be reliably determined in which case they are measured at cost. Subsequent changes in fair value, except those related to impairment losses which are recognized in the income statement, are ecognized directly in other comprehensive income. On disposal of an investment, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized directly in other comprehensive income is recognized in rofit or loss. nvestments in debt securities Investments in debt securities classified as trading or as being available-for-sale are carried at fair value, with any esulting gain or loss respectively recognized in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income. Fair value of these investments s determined as the quoted bid price at the balance sheet date. Impairment charges and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in the ncome statement. nvestments in debt securities classified as held to maturity are measured at amortized cost. n general, investments in debt securities with maturities of more than three months when acquired and remaining maturities of less than one year re classified as short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may be classified as short-term based on their highly liquid ature and because such marketable securities represent the investment of cash that is available for current operations. Other investments Other investments held by the company are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with any resulting gain r loss recognized directly in other comprehensive income. Impairment charges are recognized in the income statement. M) Inventories nventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing hem to their existing location and condition. The weighted average method is used in assigning the cost of inventories. he cost of finished products and work in progress comprises raw materials, other production materials, direct labor, other direct cost and an llocation of fixed and variable overhead based on normal operating capacity. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary ourse of business, less the estimated completion and selling costs. nventories are written down on a case-by-case basis if the anticipated net realizable value declines below the carrying amount of the inventories. he calculation of the net realizable value takes into consideration specific characteristics of each inventory category, such as expiration date, emaining shelf life, slow-moving indicators, amongst others. N) Trade and other receivables rade and other receivables are carried at amortized cost less impairment losses. An estimate of impairment losses for doubtful receivables is made based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the balance sheet date. n allowance for impairment of trade and other receivables is established if the collection of a receivable becomes doubtful. Such receivable ecomes doubtful when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the eceivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter into bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default r delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the receivable is impaired. The amount of the allowance is the difference between the sset’s carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement, as are ubsequent recoveries of previous impairments. 76 (O) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include all cash balances and short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily convertible into cash. They are stated at face value, which approximates their fair value. In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts. (P) Impairment The carrying amounts of financial assets, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. In addition, goodwill, intangible assets that are not yet available for use and intangibles with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually at the business unit level (that is a country or group of countries managed as a group below a reporting region). An impairment loss is recognized whenever the carrying amount of an asset or the related cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the company’s investments in unquoted debt securities is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the debt securities’ original effective interest rate. For equity investments classified as available for sale and quoted debt securities the recoverable amount is their fair value. The recoverable amount of other assets is determined as the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units to which the goodwill and the intangible assets with indefinite useful life belong is based on discounted future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators. Impairment losses recognized in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. Reversal of impairment losses Non-financial assets other than goodwill and equity investments classified as available for sale that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized. (Q) Share capital Repurchase of share capital When AB InBev buys back its own shares, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognized as a deduction from equity under treasury shares. Dividends Dividends are recognized in the consolidated financial statements on the date that the dividends are declared unless minimum statutory dividends are required by local legislation or the bylaws of the company’s subsidiaries. In such instances, statutory minimum dividends are recognized as a liability. Share issuance costs Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. (R) Provisions Provisions are recognized when (i) the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognized when the company has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. Costs relating to the ongoing activities of the company are not provided for. The provision includes the benefit commitments in connection with early retirement and redundancy schemes. Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the company from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. Such provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Disputes and litigations A provision for disputes and litigation is recognized when it is more likely than not that the company will be required to make future payments as a result of past events, such items may include but are not limited to, several claims, suits and actions relating to antitrust laws, violations of distribution and license agreements, environmental matters, employment related disputes, claims from tax authorities, and alcohol industry litigation matters. (S) Employee benefits Post-employment benefits Post-employment benefits include pensions, post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical benefits. The company operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separate trustee-managed funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and the company, and, for defined benefit plans taking account of the recommendations of independent actuaries. AB InBev maintains funded and unfunded pension plans. 77 ) Defined contribution plans Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense in the income statement when incurred. defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which AB InBev pays fixed contributions into a fund. AB InBev has no legal or constructive bligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in he current and prior periods. ) Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an mount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and ompensation. For defined benefit plans, the pension expenses are assessed separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method. The rojected unit credit method considers each period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement. Under this method, the cost f providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees in accordance with he advice of qualified actuaries who carry out a full valuation of the plans at least every three years. The amounts charged to the income statement nclude current service cost, net interest cost (income), past service costs and the effect of any curtailments or settlements. Past service costs are ecognized at the earlier of when the amendment / curtailment occurs or when the company recognizes related restructuring or termination costs. he pension obligations recognized in the balance sheet are measured at the present value of the estimated future cash outflows using interest ates based on high quality corporate bond yields, which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related liability, less the fair value f any plan assets. Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (excluding net interest) and the eturn on plan assets (excluding net interest) are recognized in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. e-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. Where the calculated amount of a defined benefit liability is negative (an asset), AB InBev recognizes such pension asset to the extent that conomic benefits are available to AB InBev either from refunds or reductions in future contributions. Other post-employment obligations Some AB InBev companies provide post-employment medical benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to hese benefits is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over he period of employment, using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. ermination benefits Termination benefits are recognized as an expense at the earlier when the company is demonstrably committed, without ealistic possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment before the normal retirement date and when the company ecognizes costs for a restructuring. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognized if the company has made an offer encouraging oluntary redundancy and when the company can no longer withdraw the offer of termination, which is the earlier of either when the employee ccepts the offer or when a legal, regulatory or contractual requirement or restriction on the company’s ability to withdraw the offer takes effect. onuses Bonuses received by company employees and management are based on pre-defined company and individual target achievement. The stimated amount of the bonus is recognized as an expense in the period the bonus is earned. To the extent that bonuses are settled in shares of he company, they are accounted for as share-based payments. T) Share-based payments ifferent share and share option programs allow company senior management and members of the board to acquire shares of the company and ome of its affiliates. The fair value of the share options is estimated at grant date, using an option pricing model that is most appropriate for the espective option. Based on the expected number of options that will vest, the fair value of the options granted is expensed over the vesting period. When the options are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of the proceeds received. quity-settled share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees are measured at the fair value of the goods or services eceived, except where that fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments ranted, measured at the date the company obtains the goods or the counterparty renders the service. U) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings nterest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, nterest-bearing loans and borrowings are stated at amortized cost with any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount being ecognized in the income statement (in accretion expense) over the expected life of the instrument on an effective interest rate basis. V) Trade and other payables rade and other payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. W) Income tax ncome tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case the tax effect is also recognized directly in equity. urrent tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet ate, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. n accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes deferred taxes are provided using the so-called balance sheet liability method. This means that, for all axable and deductible differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the balance sheet a deferred tax 78 liability or asset is recognized. Under this method a provision for deferred taxes is also made for differences between the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination and their tax base. IAS 12 prescribes that no deferred taxes are recognized i) on initial recognition of goodwill, ii) at the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit and iii) on differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and to the extent that the company is able to control the timing of the reversal. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realization or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using currently or substantively enacted tax rates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. The company recognizes deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward, to the extent that future probable taxable profit will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. A deferred tax asset is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized. Tax claims are recorded within provisions on the balance sheet (refer to accounting policy R). (X) Income recognition Income is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the company and the income can be measured reliably. Goods sold In relation to the sale of beverages and packaging, revenue is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, and no significant uncertainties remain regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the possible return of goods, and there is no continuing management involvement with the goods. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates, discounts for cash payments and excise taxes. Rental and royalty income Rental income is recognized under other operating income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Royalties arising from the use by others of the company’s resources are recognized in other operating income on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement. Government grants A government grant is recognized in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the company will comply with the conditions attached to it. Grants that compensate the company for expenses incurred are recognized as other operating income on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that compensate the company for the acquisition of an asset are presented by deducting them from the acquisition cost of the related asset in accordance with IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance. Finance income Finance income comprises interest received or receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains, losses on currency hedging instruments offsetting currency gains, gains on hedging instruments that are not part of a hedge accounting relationship, gains on financial assets classified as trading as well as any gains from hedge ineffectiveness (refer to accounting policy Z). Interest income is recognized as it accrues (taking into account the effective yield on the asset) unless collectability is in doubt. Dividend Income Dividend income is recognized in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. (Y) Expenses Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, calculated using the effective interest rate method, foreign exchange losses, gains on currency hedging instruments offsetting currency losses, results on interest rate hedging instruments, losses on hedging instruments that are not part of a hedge accounting relationship, losses on financial assets classified as trading, impairment losses on available-forsale financial assets as well as any losses from hedge ineffectiveness (refer to accounting policy Z). All interest costs incurred in connection with borrowings or financial transactions are expensed as incurred as part of finance costs. Any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount of interest bearing loans and borrowings, such as transaction costs and fair value adjustments, are recognized in the income statement (in accretion expense) over the expected life of the instrument on an effective interest rate basis (refer to accounting policy U). The interest expense component of finance lease payments is also recognized in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Research and development, advertising and promotional costs and systems development costs Research, advertising and promotional costs are expensed in the year in which these costs are incurred. Development costs and systems development costs are expensed in the year in which these costs are incurred if they do not meet the criteria for capitalization (refer to accounting policy G). Purchasing, receiving and warehousing costs Purchasing and receiving costs are included in the cost of sales, as well as the costs of storing and moving raw materials and packaging materials. The costs of storing finished products at the brewery as well as costs incurred for subsequent storage in distribution centers are included within distribution expenses. 79 Z) Derivative financial instruments B InBev uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the transactional impact of foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices and commodity rices on the company’s performance. AB InBev’s financial risk management policy prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for trading urposes and the company does therefore not hold or issue any such instruments for such purposes. Derivative financial instruments that are conomic hedges but that do not meet the strict IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement hedge accounting rules, however, are ccounted for as financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. erivative financial instruments are recognized initially at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is either he quoted market price or is calculated using pricing models taking into account current market rates. These pricing models also take into account he current creditworthiness of the counterparties. ubsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are re-measured to their fair value at balance sheet date. Depending on whether ash flow or net investment hedge accounting is applied or not, any gain or loss is either recognized directly in other comprehensive income or in he income statement. ash flow, fair value or net investment hedge accounting is applied to all hedges that qualify for hedge accounting when the required hedge ocumentation is in place and when the hedge relation is determined to be effective. ash flow hedge accounting When a derivative financial instrument hedges the variability in cash flows of a recognized asset or liability, the oreign currency risk of a firm commitment or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any resulting gain or loss on the derivative inancial instrument is recognized directly in other comprehensive income (hedging reserves). When the firm commitment in foreign currency or the orecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from other omprehensive income and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. When the hedge relates to financial assets or liabilities, the umulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument is reclassified from other comprehensive income into the income statement in the same period uring which the hedged risk affects the income statement (e.g. when the variable interest expense is recognized). The ineffective part of any gain r loss is recognized immediately in the income statement. When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point) remains in equity and is reclassified in accordance with the above policy when the hedged transaction occurs. If the hedged ransaction is no longer probable, the cumulative gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified into the income tatement immediately. air value hedge accounting When a derivative financial instrument hedges the variability in fair value of a recognized asset or liability, any esulting gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized in the income statement. The hedged item is also stated at fair value in respect of the isk being hedged, with any gain or loss being recognized in the income statement. et investment hedge accounting When a foreign currency liability hedges a net investment in a foreign operation, exchange differences arising n the translation of the liability to the functional currency are recognized directly in other comprehensive income (translation reserves). When a derivative financial instrument hedges a net investment in a foreign operation, the portion of the gain or the loss on the hedging instrument hat is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized directly in other comprehensive income (translation reserves), while the ineffective portion s reported in the income statement. nvestments in equity instruments or derivatives linked to and to be settled by delivery of an equity instrument are stated at cost when such equity nstrument does not have a quoted market price in an active market and for which other methods of reasonably estimating fair value are clearly nappropriate or unworkable. Offsetting derivative assets with derivative liabilities A derivative asset and a derivative liability shall be offset and the net amount presented n the statement of financial position when, and only when, the company has a currently legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts; nd intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. AA) Segment reporting Operating segments are components of the company’s business activities about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated egularly by senior management. B InBev’s operating segment reporting format is geographical because the company’s risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by the act that AB InBev operates in different geographical areas. The company’s management structure and internal reporting system to the Board of irectors is set up accordingly. The company has nine operating segments. Given the transformational nature of the combination with SAB, that closed on 10 October 2016, the company has updated its segment reporting n order to add the former SAB geographies into the previous AB InBev geographies. Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Honduras and El Salvador are eported together with Mexico as Latin America West, Panama is reported within Latin America North, Africa is reported together with Europe as MEA, and Australia, India and Vietnam are reported within Asia Pacific. he company’s six geographic regions are North America, Latin America West, Latin America North, Latin America South, EMEA and Asia Pacific. 80 The aggregation criteria applied are based on similarities in the economic indicators (e.g. margins) that have been assessed in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar economic characteristics, as prescribed in IFRS 8. Furthermore management assessed additional factors such as management’s views on the optimal number of reporting segments, the continuation of the previous AB InBev geographies, peer comparison (e.g. Asia Pacific and EMEA being a commonly reported regions amongst the company’s peers), as well management’s view on the optimal balance between practical and more granular information. The results of Global Export and Holding Companies, which includes the company’s global headquarters and the export businesses in countries in which AB InBev has no operations are reported separately. The company six geographic regions plus the Global Export and Holding Companies comprise the company’s seven reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill. (BB) Non-recurring items Non-recurring items are those that in management’s judgment need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence. Such items are disclosed on the face of the consolidated income statement or separately disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. Transactions which may give rise to non-recurring items are principally restructuring activities, impairments, gains or losses on disposal of investments and the effect of the accelerated repayment of certain debt facilities. (CC) Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale A discontinued operation is a component of the company that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. AB InBev classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use if all of the conditions of IFRS 5 are met. A disposal group is defined as a group of assets to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, together as a group in a single transaction, and liabilities directly associated with those assets that will be transferred. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the company measures the carrying amount of the asset (or all the assets and liabilities in the disposal group) in accordance with applicable IFRS. Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognized at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated or amortized. (DD) Recently issued IFRS To the extent that new IFRS requirements are expected to be applicable in the future, they have been listed hereafter. For the year ended 31 December 2017 they have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued recently, but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) is the standard issued as part of a wider project to replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 introduces a logical approach for the classification of financial assets, which is driven by cash flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held; defines a new expected-loss impairment model that will require more timely recognition of expected credit losses; and introduces a substantially-reformed model for hedge accounting, with enhanced disclosures about risk management activity. The new hedge accounting model represents a significant overhaul of hedge accounting that aligns the accounting treatment with risk management activities. IFRS 9 also removes the volatility in profit or loss that was caused by changes in the credit risk of liabilities elected to be measured at fair value. The company does not expect that the application of IFRS 9 will have a significant impact on its financial position and/or its financial performance. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The core principle of the new standard is for companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration (that is, payment) to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard will also result in enhanced disclosures about revenue, provide guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively (for example, service revenue and contract modifications) and improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements. In view of the company’s activities, the company does not expect that the application of IFRS 15 will have a significant impact on its financial position and/or its financial performance. IFRS 16 Leases (effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) replaces the existing lease accounting requirements and represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases that were previously classified as operating leases, with more assets and liabilities to be reported on the balance sheet and a different recognition of lease costs. The company is in process of assessing the full impact of IFRS 16 and, apart from changes in the presentation of operating leases in the balance sheet, does not expect significant impacts in the consolidated income statement. Other standards, interpretations and amendments to standards A number of other amendments to standards are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2017, and have not been listed above because of either their non-applicability to or their immateriality to AB InBev’s consolidated financial statements. 81 . Use of estimates and judgments he preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect he application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are ased on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the asis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may iffer from these estimates. he estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in hich the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both urrent and future periods. lthough each of its significant accounting policies reflects judgments, assessments or estimates, AB InBev believes that the following accounting olicies reflect the most critical judgments, estimates and assumptions that are important to its business operations and the understanding of its esults: business combinations, intangible assets, goodwill, impairment, provisions, share-based payments, employee benefits and accounting for urrent and deferred tax. he fair values of acquired identifiable intangibles are based on an assessment of future cash flows. Impairment analyses of goodwill and indefiniteved intangible assets are performed annually and whenever a triggering event has occurred, in order to determine whether the carrying value xceeds the recoverable amount. These calculations are based on estimates of future cash flows. he company uses its judgment to select a variety of methods including the discounted cash flow method and option valuation models and makes ssumptions about the fair value of financial instruments that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date. ctuarial assumptions are established to anticipate future events and are used in calculating pension and other long-term employee benefit xpense and liability. These factors include assumptions with respect to interest rates, rates of increase in health care costs, rates of future ompensation increases, turnover rates, and life expectancy. he company is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for ncome tax. There are some transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Some subsidiaries within the roup are involved in tax audits and local enquiries usually in relation to prior years. Investigations and negotiations with local tax authorities are ngoing in various jurisdictions at the balance sheet date and, by their nature, these can take considerable time to conclude. In assessing the mount of any income tax provisions to be recognized in the financial statements, estimation is made of the expected successful settlement of hese matters. Estimates of interest and penalties on tax liabilities are also recorded. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from he amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period such etermination is made. udgments made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are further discussed in the relevant notes hereafter. n preparing these consolidated financial statements, the significant judgments made by management in applying the company’s accounting olicies and the key sources of estimating uncertainty mainly related to the valuation of the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part f the allocation of the SAB purchase price and to the impact on current and deferred taxes of the US tax reform enacted on 22 December 2017, for hich a 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment was provisionally estimated and recognized as a non-recurring gain per 31 December 2017. This 1.8 billion S dollar adjustment results mainly from the re-measurement of the deferred tax liabilities set up in 2008 in line with IFRS as part of the purchase rice accounting of the combination with Anheuser Busch and certain deferred tax assets following the change in federal tax rate from 35% to 1%. The company estimated the deemed repatriation tax charge resulting from the Tax reform to be not material. The adjustment represents the ompany’s current best estimate of the deferred tax liability re-measurement resulting from the Tax reform, including state taxes. The estimate will e updated in 2018 once the company will have analyzed all necessary information , including earnings and profits (E&P) of the foreign subsidiaries f the company’s US operations per 2 November and 31 December 2017 and their cash held abroad to complete the exhaustive computation of he deemed repatration tax and state taxes. During 2018, the company will also assess if a deferred tax liability should be set up in view of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions of the US tax reform, for which the company did not set up any deferred tax liabilities y 31 December 2017 and believes the impact to be not material. The estimate may change as the company receives additional clarification and mplementation guidance from the authorities. Detail is provided in Note 6 Acquisitions and disposals of Subsidiaries, Note 12 Income Taxes and in ote 18 Deferred tax assets and liabilities of these consolidated financial statements. 82 5. Segment reporting Segment information is presented by geographical segments, consistent with the information that is available and evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker. AB InBev operates its business through seven business segments. Regional and operating company management is responsible for managing performance, underlying risks, and effectiveness of operations. Internally, AB InBev’s management uses performance indicators such as normalized profit from operations (normalized EBIT) and normalized EBITDA as measures of segment performance and to make decisions regarding allocation of resources. The company’s six geographic regions: North America, Latin America West, Latin America North, Latin America South, EMEA and Asia Pacific, plus its Global Export and Holding Companies comprise the company’s seven reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Given the transformational nature of the transaction with SAB, that closed on 10 October 2016, and to facilitate the understanding of AB InBev’s underlying performance, AB InBev has updated its 2016 segment reporting for purposes of result announcement and internal review by management. This presentation (further referred to as the “2016 Reference base”) includes, for comparative purposes, the SAB results as from the 1st January 2016. The tables below provide the segment information per segment for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2017 in the format that is used by management to monitor performance. The former SAB geographies: Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Honduras and El Salvador are reported together with Mexico as Latin America West, Panama is reported within Latin America North, Africa is reported together with Europe as EMEA, and Australia, India and Vietnam are reported within Asia Pacific. Exports to countries in which AB InBev has operations following the combination, were allocated to the respective regions in the 2016 Reference Base. The 2016 Reference Base and 2017 segment reporting exclude the results of the SAB businesses sold since the combination was completed, including the joint venture stakes in MillerCoors and CR Snow, and the sale of the Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime brands and associated businesses in Italy, the Netherlands, the UK and internationally. The 2016 Reference Base and 2017 segment reporting also exclude the results of the Central and Eastern Europe business and the stake in Distell. The results of the Central and Eastern Europe business were reported as “Results from discontinued operations” until the completion of the sale that took place on 31 March 2017. The results of Distell were reported as share of results of associates until the completion of the sale that occurred on 12 April 2017, and accordingly, are excluded from normalized EBIT and EBITDA. Furthermore, the company stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as from the completion of the CCBA disposal on 4 October 2017. The differences between the 2016 Reference base and the 2016 audited income statement as Reported represent the effect of the combination with SAB. All figures in the tables below are stated in million US dollar, except volume (million hls) and Normalized EBITDA margin (in %). 83 egment reporting (reference base) unaudited North America Latin America West Latin America North 2016 2016 2016 Reference Reference Reference 2017 base 2017 base 2017 base olumes 114 117 111 109 119 120 Revenue 15 588 15 698 9 238 8 595 9 775 8 630 Normalized EBITDA 6 329 6 250 4 512 3 983 4 180 3 790 ormalized EBITDA margin % 40.6% 39.8% 48.8% 46.3% 42.8% 43.9% epreciation, amortization and impairment (843) (809) (616) (613) (848) (770) Normalized profit from operations (EBIT) 5 486 5 441 3 896 3 370 3 332 3 020 egment reporting (2016 reported) North America Latin America West Latin America North 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 olume 114 117 111 64 119 118 Revenue 15 588 15 698 9 238 5 188 9 775 8 461 Normalized EBITDA 6 329 6 250 4 512 2 376 4 180 3 751 ormalized EBITDA margin % 40.6% 39.8% 48.8% 45.8% 42.8% 44.3% epreciation, amortization and impairment (843) (809) (616) (388) (848) (750) Normalized profit from operations (EBIT) 5 486 5 441 3 896 1 988 3 332 3 001 on-recurring items (refer Note 8) 4 (29) (153) 252 (18) (20) rofit from operations (EBIT) 5 490 5 412 3 743 2 240 3 314 2 981 et finance income/(cost) hare of results of associates and joint ventures ncome tax expense rofit from continuing operations iscontinued operations rofit/(loss) egment assets (non-current)1 63 045 62 467 71 219 69 472 13 756 13 656 Gross capex 530 895 1 079 710 580 709 TE2 19 306 19 314 48 892 51 418 38 651 40 416 or the period ended 31 December 2017, net revenue from the beer business amounted to 50 301m US dollar (2016: 41 421m US dollar) while the et revenue from the non-beer business (soft drinks and other business) accounted for 6 143m US dollar (2016: 4 096m US dollar). On the same asis, net revenue from external customers attributable to AB InBev’s country of domicile (Belgium) represented 704m US dollar (2016: 687m S dollar) and non-current assets located in the country of domicile represented 1 658m US dollar (2016: 1 440m US dollar). 2 016 as reported, adjusted to reflect the opening balance sheet adjustments related to the final allocation of the SAB purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, which requires retrospective application of post-acquisition adjustments (see also Note 6 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries). ncludes FTE from SAB retained operations at year end 2016 per AB InBev’s definition in the glossary. This definition is different than the one formerly applied by SAB. The reduction n FTEs mainly results from the disposals completed during the year. 84 Global Export and Latin America South EMEA Asia Pacific holding companies Effect of acquisition Consolidated 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Reference Reference Reference Reference Bridge to 2016 2017 base 2017 base 2017 base 2017 base 2017 Reported 2017 Reported 34 32 132 135 102 101 1 2 – (116) 613 500 3 363 2 850 10 344 9 700 7 804 7 250 332 1 218 – (8 424) 56 444 45 517 1 595 1 431 3 349 2 903 2 695 2 114 (577) (837) – (2 881) 22 084 16 753 47.4% 50.2% 32.4% 29.9% 34.5% 29.2% 39.1% 36.8% (207) (191) (843) (740) (660) (740) (253) (252) – 638 (4 270) (3 477) 1 388 1 240 2 507 2 163 2 035 1 374 (830) (1 089) – (2 243) 17 814 13 276 Global Export and Latin America South EMEA Asia Pacific holding companies Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 34 32 132 75 102 92 1 2 613 500 3 363 2 850 10 344 6 010 7 804 6 074 332 1 237 56 444 45 517 1 595 1 431 3 349 1 774 2 695 1 639 (577) (474) 22 084 16 753 47.4% 50.2% 32.4% 29.6% 34.5% 27.1% – – 39.1% 36.8% (207) (191) (843) (473) (660) (658) (253) (210) (4 270) (3 477) 1 388 1 240 2 507 1 302 2 035 987 (830) (683) 17 814 13 276 (13) (12) (144) (118) (97) (84) (241) (383) (662) (394) 1 375 1 228 2 363 1 184 1 939 903 (1 071) (1 066) 17 152 12 882 (6 507) (8 564) 430 16 (1 920) (1 613) 9 155 2 721 28 48 9 183 2 769 2 396 2 357 45 920 41 749 24 088 22 071 1 741 1 797 222 166 213 569 323 389 1 086 1 001 635 837 247 379 4 479 4 919 9 603 9 571 26 823 43 456 36 386 39 213 3 254 3 245 182 915 206 633 85 . Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries ombination with SAB On 10 October 2016, AB InBev announced the completion of the Belgian Merger and the successful completion of the business combination with he former SABMiller Group (“SAB”). he combination with SAB was implemented through a series of steps, including the acquisition of SAB by Newbelco, a newly incorporated Belgian ompany formed for the purposes of the combination with SAB, and completed on 10 October 2016. During the final step of the combination with AB, former AB InBev merged into Newbelco (the “Belgian Merger”) so that, following completion of the combination with SAB, Newbelco, now amed Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, became the new holding company for the Combined Group. nder the terms of the combination with SAB, each SAB shareholder was entitled to receive GBP 45.00 in cash in respect of each SAB share. he combination with SAB also included a partial share alternative (the “Partial Share Alternative”), under which SAB shareholders could elect to eceive GBP 4.6588 in cash and 0.483969 Restricted Shares in respect of each SAB share in lieu of the full cash consideration to which they would therwise be entitled under the combination with SAB (subject to scaling back in accordance with the terms of the Partial Share Alternative). On 6 October 2016, Newbelco issued 163 276 737 100 ordinary shares (“Initial Newbelco Shares”) to SAB shareholders through a capital increase f 85 531m euro equivalent to 75.4 billion pound sterling, as consideration for 1 632 767 371 ordinary shares of SAB pursuant to a UK law courtanctioned scheme of arrangement (the “UK Scheme”). Following completion of the tender offer, AB InBev acquired 102 890 758 014 Initial ewbelco Shares tendered into the Belgian offer. Based on the terms of the UK Scheme, all Initial Newbelco Shares not tendered to AB InBev in he context of the Belgian Offer (i.e. 60 385 979 086 Initial Newbelco Shares) were reclassified into 325 999 817 restricted shares, in accordance ith the mechanism by which any Initial Newbelco Shares that were retained after closing of the Belgian offer were automatically reclassified nd consolidated. he restricted shares are unlisted, not admitted to trading on any stock exchange, and are subject to, among other things, restrictions on transfer ntil converted into new ordinary shares. The restricted shares will be convertible at the election of the holder into new ordinary shares on one-for-one basis with effect from the fifth anniversary of completion of the combination. From completion of the combination, such restricted hares rank equally with the new ordinary shares with respect to dividends and voting rights. Following completion of the combination, AB InBev cquired 105 246 SAB shares from option holders that had not exercised their option rights prior to the completion of the combination for a total onsideration of 5m euro. Following this transaction AB InBev owns 100 % of the SAB shares. he SAB purchase consideration is calculated as follows: Newbelco Newbelco Newbelco number valuation in valuation in of shares million pound sterling million euro ender offer 102 890 758 014 46 301 52 522 onverted to restricted shares 60 385 979 086 29 099 33 009(i) 163 276 737 100 75 400 85 531 otal equity value at offer in million euro 85 531 urchase from option holder 5 otal equity value in million euro 85 536 otal equity value in million US dollar 95 288 oreign exchange hedges and other 7 848(ii) urchase consideration 103 136 dd: fair market value of total debt assumed 11 870 ess: total cash acquired (1 198) Gross purchase consideration 113 808 otes i)The Restricted Share valuation is based on the valuation of the Newbelco shares that were not tendered into the Belgian Offer and has regard to the share price of former AB InBev of the day of the closing of the combination with SAB, adjusted for the specificities of the Restricted Shares in line with fair value measurement rules under IFRS. ii)During 2015 and 2016, the company entered into derivative foreign exchange forward contracts, as well as other non-derivative items also documented in a hedge accounting relationship, in order to economically hedge against exposure to changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate for the cash component of the purchase consideration in pound sterling and South African rand. Although these derivatives and non-derivative items were considered to be economic hedges, only a portion of such derivatives could qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS rules. Since inception of the derivative contracts in 2015 and upon the completion of the combination with SAB, 12.3 billion US dollar negative mark-tomarket adjustment related to such hedging were recognized cumulatively over 2015 and 2016, of which 7.4 billion US dollar qualified for hedge accounting and was, accordingly, allocated as part of the consideration paid. The settlement of the portion of the derivatives that did not qualify as hedge accounting was classified as cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement. 86 AB InBev financed the cash consideration of the transaction with 18.0 billion US dollar drawn down under the 75.0 billion US dollar Committed Senior Acquisition Facilities agreement dated 28 October 2015, as well excess liquidity resulting from the issuance of bonds in 2016 that were mainly invested in US Treasury Bills pending the closing of the combination. The transaction costs incurred in connection with the transaction, which include transaction taxes, advisory, legal, audit, valuation and other fees and costs, amounted to approximately 1.0 billion US dollar. In addition AB InBev incurred approximately 0.7 billion US dollar of costs in connection with the transaction-related financing arrangements. In accordance with IFRS, the merger of the former AB InBev into Newbelco is considered for accounting purposes as a reverse acquisition, operation by which Newbelco legally absorbed assets and liabilities of former AB InBev. As a consequence, the legal acquirer (Newbelco) should be considered as the accounting acquiree and the legal acquiree (former AB InBev) should be considered the accounting acquirer. Therefore, the consolidated financial statements represent the continuation of the financial statements of former AB InBev. The assets and liabilities of former AB InBev remained recognized at their pre-combination carrying amounts. The identified assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests of SAB are recognized in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. In 2017, the company completed the purchase price allocation to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the SAB combination, in compliance with IFRS 3. The valuation of the property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investment in associates, interest bearing loans and borrowings, employee benefits, other assets and liabilities and non-controlling interests was based on the AB InBev management best estimate of fair value with input from independent third parties. IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. The following table summarizes the provisional and final purchase price allocation of the SAB business with adjustments being retrospectively applied as of 10 October 2016: Provisional fair values Fair values Million US dollar Reported 2016 Adjustments Adjusted 2016 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 060 (1 303) 7 757 Intangible assets 20 040 221 20 261 Investment in associates 4 386 – 4 386 Investment securities 21 – 21 Deferred tax assets 179 – 179 Derivatives 579 – 579 Trade and other receivables 59 – 59 Current assets Inventories 977 (24) 953 Income tax receivable 189 – 189 Derivatives 60 – 60 Trade and other receivables 1 257 (39) 1 218 Cash and cash equivalents 1 410 – 1 410 Assets held for sale 24 805 19 24 824 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (9 021) – (9 021) Employee benefits (195) – (195) Deferred tax liabilities (5 801) 2 983 (2 818) Derivatives (24) – (24) Trade and other payables (146) 12 (134) Provisions (688) 62 (626) Current liabilities Bank overdraft (212) – (212) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (2 849) – (2 849) Income tax payable (4 310) 77 (4 233) Derivatives (156) – (156) Trade and other payables (3 520) – (3 520) Provisions (847) (330) (1 177) Net identified assets and liabilities 35 253 1 677 36 930 Non-controlling interests (6 200) – (6 200) Goodwill on acquisition 74 083 (1 677) 72 406 Purchase consideration 103 136 – 103 136 87 Given the nature of the adjustments, the impact to the consolidated income statement as of 31 December 2016 is immaterial. he combination with SAB resulted in 72.4 billion US dollar of goodwill allocated primarily to the businesses in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Australia, outh Africa and other African, Asia Pacific and Latin American countries. The factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include the cquisition of an assembled workforce and the premiums paid for cost synergies expected to be achieved in SAB. Our assessment of the future conomic benefits supporting recognition of this goodwill is in part based on expected savings through the implementation of best practices such s, among others, a zero based budgeting program and initiatives that are expected to bring greater efficiency and standardization, generate ost savings and maximize purchasing power. Goodwill also arises due to the recognition of deferred tax liabilities in relation to the fair value djustments on acquired intangible assets for which the amortization does not qualify as a tax deductible expense. None of the goodwill recognized s deductible for tax purposes. On 11 October, 2016, AB InBev completed the disposal of SAB’s interest in MillerCoors LLC and all trademarks, contracts and other assets rimarily related to the “Miller International Business” to Molson Coors Brewing Company. The disposal was completed for 12 billion US dollar in ash, subject to a downward purchase price adjustment. AB InBev set up a provision of 330m US dollar as part of the opening balance sheet related o the purchase price adjustment. The parties entered into a settlement agreement on 21 January 2018 for 330m US dollar of which 328m US dollar onstitutes the purchase price adjustment amount. Other acquisitions and disposals he table below summarizes the impact of acquisitions on the Statement of financial position and cash flows of AB InBev for 31 December 2017 and 1 December 2016: 2017 2016 2017 2016 illion US dollar Acquisitions Acquisitions Disposal Disposal on-current assets roperty, plant and equipment 169 286 – (115) ntangible assets 417 679 – – nvestments in associates – 62 – – eferred tax assets – 4 – – mployee benefits – 3 – – rade and other receivables 1 – – – urrent assets nventories 9 41 – (17) rade and other receivables 20 28 – (4) ash and cash equivalents 5 45 – (75) ssets held for sale 27 – – – on-current liabilities nterest-bearing loans and borrowings (1) (109) – – mployee benefits – (1) – – eferred tax liabilities (74) (11) – 6 rade and other payables – – – 10 urrent liabilities nterest-bearing loans and borrowings – (3) – – rade and other payables (24) (72) – 41 et identifiable assets and liabilities 549 952 – (156) on-controlling interest (114) (14) – – Goodwill on acquisitions and goodwill disposed of 398 803 – (187) oss/(gain) on disposal – – (42) (406) rior year payments – (143) – – onsideration to be paid (375) (365) – – et cash paid on prior years acquisitions 136 34 – (5) onsideration paid/(received) 594 1 267 (42) (754) ash (acquired)/ disposed of (5) (45) – 75 et cash outflow / (inflow) 589 1 222 (42) (679) n the first quarter of 2017, AB InBev and Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. established a joint venture for conducting research and development of an n-home alcohol drink system, focusing on the US and Canadian markets. The transaction included the contribution of intellectual property and manufacturing assets from Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, AB InBev owns 70% of the voting and conomic interest in the joint venture. Under IFRS, this transaction was accounted for as a business combination as AB InBev was deemed as the ccounting acquirer as per IFRS rules. uring 2017, AB InBev collected 42m US dollar proceeds from prior years’ sale of SeaWorld to Blackstone. 88 During 2016, AB InBev completed the acquisition of the Canadian rights to a range of primarily spirit-based beers and ciders from Mark Anthony Group. In a separate transaction, Mark Anthony Group agreed to sell certain non-U.S. and non-Canadian trademark rights and other intellectual property to one of the company’s subsidiaries. Mark Anthony Group retains full ownership of its U.S. business, as well as the Canadian wine, spirits and beer import and distribution business. The company undertook a series of additional acquisitions and disposals during 2016 and 2017, with no significant impact in the company’s consolidated financial statements. 7. Other operating income/(expenses) Million US dollar 2017 2016 Government grants 404 432 License income 65 65 Net (additions to)/reversals of provisions (4) (50) Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets held for sale 154 37 Net rental and other operating income 235 248 854 732 Research expenses as incurred 276 244 The government grants relate primarily to fiscal incentives given by certain Brazilian states and Chinese provinces, based on the company’s operations and developments in those regions. In 2017, the company expensed 276m US dollar in research, compared to 244m US dollar in 2016. The spend focused on product innovations, market research, as well as process optimization and product development. 8. Non-recurring items IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements requires material items of income and expense to be disclosed separately. Non-recurring items are items, which in management’s judgment need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information. The company considers these items to be of significance in nature, and accordingly, management has excluded these from their segment measure of performance as noted in Note 5 Segment Reporting. The non-recurring items included in the income statement are as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Restructuring (468) (323) Acquisition costs business combinations (155) (448) Business and asset disposal (including impairment losses) (39) 377 Impact on profit from operations (662) (394) Non-recurring net finance income/(cost) (693) (3 356) Non-recurring taxes 830 77 Non-recurring non-controlling interest 526 13 Net impact on profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 1 (3 659) The non-recurring restructuring charges for 2017 amount to (468)m US dollar. These charges primarily relate to the SAB integration. These changes aim to eliminate overlapping organizations or duplicated processes, taking into account the right match of employee profiles with the new organizational requirements. These one-time expenses, as a result of the series of decisions, provide the company with a lower cost base in addition to a stronger focus on AB InBev’s core activities, quicker decision-making and improvements to efficiency, service and quality. 2017 acquisition costs of business combinations amount to (155)m US dollar are primarily related to cost incurred to facilitate the combination with SAB. Business and asset disposals amount to (39)m US dollar by year-end 2017 mainly relate to the costs incurred to complete the diposals of the former SAB Central and Eastern Europe business and CCBA during 2017, partly offset by proceeds from prior years’ sale of SeaWorld to Blackstone. The non-recurring restructuring charges for 2016 total (323)m US dollar. These charges primarily relate to organizational alignments in EMEA and Asia Pacific. 89 he company incurred non-recurring net finance cost of (693)m US dollar by the end of December 2017 (2016: (3 356)m US dollar cost) see ote 11 Finance cost and income and non-recurring income tax income of 830m US dollar mainly related to a 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment ollowing the US tax reform enacted on 22 December 2017 partially offset by provisions accrued for tax contingencies covered by the Brazilian ederal Tax Regularization Program entered into by Ambev – see Note 12 Income taxes and Note 18Deferred tax assets and liabilities, on-controlling interest on the non-recurring items amounts to 526m US dollar for 2017 (2016: 13m US dollar). . Payroll and related benefits illion US dollar 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (4 884) (4 404) ocial security contributions (699) (647) Other personnel cost (762) (580) ension expense for defined benefit plans (196) (194) hare-based payment expense (359) (228) ontributions to defined contribution plans (118) (77) (7 018) (6 130) umber of full time equivalents (FTE) at year-end 182 915 206 633 he number of full time equivalents can be split as follows: 2017 2016 B InBev NV (parent company) 215 225 Other subsidiaries 182 700 206 408 182 915 206 633 he 2017 increase in payroll and related benefits is mainly due to the full year reporting of the retained operations following the combination with AB, whereas the reduction in FTEs mainly results from the disposals completed during the year. See also Note 22 – Assets classified as held for ale and discontinued operations. 0. Additional information on operating expenses by nature epreciation, amortization and impairment charges are included in the following line items of the 2017 income statement: Depreciation and Amortization and impairment of property, impairment of Impairment of illion US dollar plant and equipment intangible assets goodwill ost of sales 2 817 40 – istribution expenses 199 4 – ales and marketing expenses 425 196 – dministrative expenses 337 248 – Other operating expenses 4 – 6 3 782 488 6 epreciation, amortization and impairment charges were included in the following line items of the 2016 income statement: Depreciation and Amortization and impairment of property, impairment of Impairment of illion US dollar plant and equipment intangible assets goodwill ost of sales 2 292 21 – istribution expenses 143 1 – ales and marketing expenses 363 208 – dministrative expenses 222 218 – Other operating expenses 2 1 – 3 025 452 – he depreciation, amortization and impairment of property, plant and equipment included a full-cost reallocation of 1m US dollar in 2017 from the ggregate depreciation, amortization and impairment expense to cost of goods sold (2016: 9m US dollar). he 2017 increase in depreciation, amortization and impairment charges is mainly due to the business combination with SAB. 90 11. Finance cost and income Recognized in profit or loss Finance costs Million US dollar 2017 2016 Interest expense (4 314) (4 092) Capitalization of borrowing costs 22 12 Net interest on net defined benefit liabilities (101) (113) Accretion expense (614) (648) Net foreign exchange losses (net of the effect of foreign exchange derivative instruments) (304) (21) Net losses on hedging instruments that are not part of a hedge accounting relationship (674) (797) Tax on financial transactions (68) (70) Other financial costs, including bank fees (139) (131) (6 192) (5 860) Non-recurring finance cost (693) (3 522) (6 885) (9 382) Finance costs, excluding non-recurring items, increased by 332m US dollar from prior year mainly as a result of interest expense on the bonds issued in 2016 to fund the combination with SAB, as well as interest expenses on the legacy debt of SAB. Mark-to-market result on certain derivatives related to the hedging of share-based payment programs reached net losses of 291m US dollar in 2017 (2016: 384m US dollar cost). Borrowing costs capitalized relate to the capitalization of interest expenses directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of qualifying assets mainly in Brazil and China. Interest is capitalized at a borrowing rate ranging from 4% to 8%. Non-recurring net finance cost for 2017 includes: • 261m US dollar foreign exchange translation losses on intragroup loans that were historically reported in equity and were recycled to profit and loss account, upon the reimbursement of these loans; • 44m US dollar related to the Brazilian Federal Tax Regularization Program entered into by Ambev – see Note 12 Income taxes; • 100m US dollar related to accelerated accretion expenses associated to the repayment of the 2015 senior facilities agreement and the early redemption of certain notes. See also Note 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings; • 146m US dollar resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on derivative instruments entered into to hedge the deferred share instrument issued in a transaction related to the combination with Grupo Modelo. By 31 December 2017, 100% of the deferred share instrument had been hedged at an average price of approximately 68 euro per share. See also Note 23 Changes in equity and earnings per share; • 142m US dollar resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives entered into to hedge the restricted shares issued in connection with the combination with SAB. 2016 non-recurring finance cost mainly relates to: • 2 693m US dollar negative mark-to-market adjustments related to the portion of the foreign exchange hedging of the purchase price of the combination with SAB that did not qualify for hedge accounting as per IFRS rules; • 306m US dollar related to accelerated accretion expenses associated to the 2015 senior facilities agreement, as well as commitment fees and other fees; • 304m US dollar resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on derivative instruments entered into to hedge the deferred share instrument issued in a transaction related to the combination with Grupo Modelo and • 127m US dollar resulting from mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives entered into to hedge the restricted shares issued in connection with the combination with SAB. Interest expense is presented net of the effect of interest rate derivative instruments hedging AB InBev’s interest rate risk – see also Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. Finance Income Million US dollar 2017 2016 Interest income 287 561 Other financial income 91 91 378 652 Non-recurring finance income – 166 378 818 No interest income was recognized on impaired financial assets. The interest income stems from the following financial assets: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 207 479 Investment debt securities held for trading 16 16 Other loans and receivables 64 66 287 561 91 he interest income on other loans and receivables includes the interest accrued on cash deposits given as guarantees for certain legal roceedings pending resolution. or further information on instruments hedging AB InBev’s foreign exchange risk see Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. 2. Income taxes ncome taxes recognized in the income statement can be detailed as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 Current tax expense urrent year (3 833) (1 544) Underprovided)/overprovided in prior years 1 47 (3 832) (1 497) Deferred tax (expense)/income Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 872 (459) Utilization)/recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses 23 116 ecognition of previously unrecognized tax losses 16 227 1 912 (116) otal income tax expense in the income statement (1 920) (1 613) he reconciliation of the effective tax rate with the aggregated weighted nominal tax rate can be summarized as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 rofit before tax 11 076 4 334 educt share of result of associates and joint ventures 430 16 rofit before tax and before share of result of associates and joint ventures 10 646 4 318 Adjustments on taxable basis oreign source income – (809) Government incentives (982) (769) axable intercompany dividends – 619 xpenses not deductible for tax purposes 2 374 4 351 Other non-taxable income (178) (415) 11 860 7 296 Aggregated weighted nominal tax rate 28.5% 32.7% ax at aggregated weighted nominal tax rate (3 378) (2 387) Adjustments on tax expense tilization of tax losses not previously recognized 23 76 ecognition of deferred taxes assets on previous years’ tax losses 16 229 Write-down of deferred tax assets on tax losses and current year losses for which no eferred tax asset is recognized (143) (975) Underprovided)/overprovided in prior years 1 63 eductions from interest on equity 553 644 eductions from goodwill 57 63 Other tax deductions 723 869 S Tax reform (change in tax rate and other) 1 760 – hange in tax rate (other) (59) (1) Withholding taxes (386) (286) razilian Federal Tax Regularization Program (870) – Other tax adjustments (217) 93 (1 920) (1 613) ffective tax rate 18.0% 37.4% he total income tax expense for 2017 amounts to 1 920m US dollar compared to 1 613m US dollar for 2016. The effective tax rate decrease from 7.4% for 2016 to 18.0% for 2017. he 2017 effective tax rate was positively impacted by a 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment following the US tax reform enacted on 22 December 2017. his 1.8 billion US dollar adjustment results mainly from the re-measurement of the deferred tax liabilities set up in 2008 in line with IFRS as part of he purchase price accounting of the combination with Anheuser Busch and certain deferred tax assets following the change in federal tax rate from 5% to 21%. The adjustment represents the company’s current best estimate of the deferred tax liability re-measurement resulting from the US Tax eform and is recognized as a non-recurring gain per 31 December 2017. The estimate will be updated in 2018 once the company will have analyzed 92 all necessary information to complete the exhaustive computation. This impact was partially offset by Ambev and certain of its subsidiaries joining the Brazilian Federal Tax Regularization Program in September 2017 whereby Ambev committed to pay some tax contingencies that were under dispute, totaling 3.5 billion Brazilian real (1.1 billion US dollar), with 1.0 billion Brazilian real (0.3 billion US dollar) paid in 2017 and the remaining amount payable in 145 monthly installments starting January 2018, plus interest. Within these contingencies, a dispute related to presumed taxation at Ambev’s subsidiary CRBs was not provided for until September 2017 as the loss was previously assessed as possible. The total amount recognized as non-recurring amount to 2.9 billion Brazilian real (0.9 billion US dollar) of which 2.8 billion Brazilian real (0.9 billion US dollar) is reported in the income tax line and 141m Brazilian real (44m US dollar) in the finance line. The 2016 effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the non-deductible negative mark-to-market adjustment related to the hedging of the purchase price of the combination with SAB that could not qualify for hedge accounting. The company benefits from tax exempted income and tax credits which are expected to continue in the future. The company does not have significant benefits coming from low tax rates in any particular jurisdiction. The normalized effective tax rate for the period ended 31 December 2017 is 22.9% (2016: 20.9%). Normalized effective tax rate is not an accounting measure under IFRS accounting and should not be considered as an alternative to the effective tax rate. Normalized effective tax rate method does not have a standard calculation method and AB InBev’s definition of normalized effective tax rate may not be comparable to other companies. Income taxes were directly recognized in other comprehensive income as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Income tax (losses)/gains Re-measurements of post-employment benefits (39) 54 Cash flow and net investment hedges (95) (258) (134) (204) 13. Property, plant and equipment 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Plant and equipment, Land and fixtures and Under Million US dollar buildings fittings construction Total Total Acquisition cost Balance at end of previous year as reported 12 483 30 611 2 561 45 655 35 329 Adjustments (469) (834) – (1 303) – Balance at end of previous year as adjusted 12 014 29 777 2 561 44 352 35 329 Effect of movements in foreign exchange 378 988 65 1 431 (156) Acquisitions 192 1 512 2 518 4 221 4 395 Acquisitions through business combinations 81 85 2 169 9 346 Disposals (344) (1 193) (29) (1 566) (1 683) Disposals through the sale of subsidiaries (14) (45) – (60) (88) Transfer (to)/from other asset categories and other movements1 435 2 594 (2 852) 177 (1 487) Balance at end of the period 12 742 33 717 2 265 48 724 45 655 Depreciation and impairment losses Balance at end of previous year (3 065) (15 068) – (18 133) (16 377) Effect of movements in foreign exchange (118) (579) – (697) (190) Depreciation (472) (3 095) – (3 567) (2 986) Disposals 141 1 020 – 1 161 1 431 Disposals through the sale of subsidiaries 9 39 – 48 (27) Impairment losses (2) (83) – (85) (39) Transfer to/(from) other asset categories and other movements1 (7) (260) – (267) 56 Balance at end of the period (3 514) (18 026) – (21 540) (18 132) Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 as reported 9 418 15 543 2 561 27 522 27 522 at 31 December 2016 as adjusted 8 949 14 709 2 561 26 219 26 219 at 31 December 2017 9 228 15 691 2 265 27 184 – The transfer (to)/from other asset categories and other movements mainly relates to transfers from assets under construction to their respective asset categories, to contributions of 1 assets to pension plans and to the separate presentation in the balance sheet of property, plant and equipment held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations. 93 he carrying amount of property, plant and equipment subject to restrictions on title amounts to 14m US dollar. ontractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment amounted to 550m US dollar as at 31 December 2017 compared to 17m US dollar as at 31 December 2016. B InBev’s net capital expenditures amounted to 4 124m US dollar in 2017 and 4 768m US dollar in 2016. Out of the total 2017 capital expenditures pproximately 45% was used to improve the company’s production facilities while 30% was used for logistics and commercial investments and 25% as used for improving administrative capabilities and purchase of hardware and software. eased assets he company leases land and buildings as well as equipment under a number of finance lease agreements. The carrying amount as at 1 December 2017 of leased land and buildings was 300m US dollar (31 December 2016: 302m US dollar). 4. Goodwill illion US dollar 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 cquisition cost alance at end of previous year as reported 136 566 65 099 djustments (669) – alance at end of previous year as adjusted 135 897 65 099 ffect of movements in foreign exchange 4 684 (2 222) isposals through the sale of subsidiaries – (187) cquisitions through business combinations 398 74 886 eclassified as held for sale – (1 008) alance at end of the period 140 980 136 566 mpairment losses alance at end of previous year (34) (38) mpairment losses (6) – ffect of movements in foreign exchange and other movements – 4 alance at end of the period (40) (34) arrying amount t 31 December 2016 as reported 136 533 136 533 t 31 December 2016 as adjusted 135 864 135 864 t 31 December 2017 140 940 – urrent year acquisitions through business combinations primarily reflect acquisitions of craft breweries in the US and in China, and resulted in the ecognition of goodwill of 398m US dollar. n 2017, the company completed the purchase price allocation to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the SAB ombination, including the allocation of goodwill to the different business units in compliance with IFRS 3. The combination with SAB resulting in the ecognition of goodwill of 72 406m US dollar (compared to 74 083m US dollar on a provisional basis). he business combinations that took place in 2016, other than the combination with SAB, resulted in goodwill recognition of 803m US dollar. ee also Note 6 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries. 94 The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to the different business unit levels as follows: Million US dollar 2016 Business unit 2017 as reported SAB – 73 736 USA 33 277 33 056 Colombia 20 425 – South Africa 18 551 – Peru 15 074 – Mexico 12 580 12 035 Rest of Africa 8 326 – Australia 6 922 – Brazil 5 523 5 531 South Korea 4 119 3 652 Ecuador 3 925 – China 2 914 2 710 Honduras & El Salvador 2 335 – Canada 2 056 1 892 Other countries 4 913 4 928 Reclassified as held for sale1 – (1 008) 140 940 136 533 AB InBev completed its annual impairment test for goodwill and concluded that, based on the assumptions described below, no impairment charge was warranted. The company cannot predict whether an event that triggers impairment will occur, when it will occur or how it will affect the value of the asset reported. AB InBev believes that all of its estimates are reasonable: they are consistent with the company’s internal reporting and reflect management’s best estimates. However, inherent uncertainties exist that management may not be able to control. During its valuation, the company ran sensitivity analysis for key assumptions including the weighted average cost of capital and the terminal growth rate, in particular for the valuations of the US, Colombia, South Africa, Mexico and Peru, countries that show the highest goodwill. While a change in the estimates used could have a material impact on the calculation of the fair values and trigger an impairment charge, the company, based on the sensitivity analysis performed is not aware of any reasonably possible change in a key assumption used that would cause a business unit’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Goodwill impairment testing relies on a number of critical judgments, estimates and assumptions. Goodwill, which accounted for approximately 57% of AB InBev’s total assets as at 31 December 2017, is tested for impairment at the business unit level (that is one level below the operating segments). The business unit level is the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Except in cases where the initial allocation of goodwill has not been concluded by the end of the initial reporting period following the business combination, goodwill is allocated as from the acquisition date to each of AB InBev’s business units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination whenever a business combination occurs. AB InBev’s impairment testing methodology is in accordance with IAS 36, in which fair-value-less-cost-to-sell and value in use approaches are taken into consideration. This consists in applying a discounted free cash flow approach based on acquisition valuation models for its major business units and the business units showing a high invested capital to EBITDA multiple, and valuation multiples for its other business units. The key judgments, estimates and assumptions used in the discounted free cash flow calculations are generally as follows: • In the first three years of the model, free cash flows are based on AB InBev’s strategic plan as approved by key management. AB InBev’s strategic plan is prepared per business unit and is based on external sources in respect of macro-economic assumptions, industry, inflation and foreign exchange rates, past experience and identified initiatives in terms of market share, revenue, variable and fixed cost, capital expenditure and working capital assumptions; • For the subsequent seven years of the model, data from the strategic plan is extrapolated generally using simplified assumptions such as macro-economic and industry assumptions, variable cost per hectoliter and fixed cost linked to inflation, as obtained from external sources; • Cash flows after the first ten-year period are extrapolated generally using expected annual long-term consumer price indices (CPI), based on external sources, in order to calculate the terminal value, considering sensitivities on this metric; • Projections are discounted at the unit’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC), considering sensitivities on this metric; • Cost to sell is assumed to reach 2% of the entity value based on historical precedents. For the main cash generating units, the terminal growth rate applied generally ranged between 0% and 3%. 1 See also Note 22 Assets classified as held for sale and discontinued operations 95 he WACC applied in US dollar nominal terms were as follows: usiness unit 2017 S 6% olombia 7% outh Africa 8% Mexico 9% eru 7% cuador 11% ustralia 6% est of Africa 10% n the sensitivity analysis performed by management, an adverse change of 1% in WACC would not cause a business unit’s carrying amount to xceed its recoverable amount. he above calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly-traded subsidiaries or other available fair value ndicators (i.e. recent market transactions from peers). lthough AB InBev believes that its judgments, assumptions and estimates are appropriate, actual results may differ from these estimates under ifferent assumptions or market or macro-economic conditions. 5. Intangible assets 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Commercial illion US dollar Brands intangibles Software Other Total Total Acquisition cost Balance at end of previous year s reported 42 077 2 715 1 872 306 46 969 31 719 djustments – 261 (40) – 221 – Balance at end of previous year s adjusted 42 077 2 976 1 832 306 47 191 31 719 ffect of movements in foreign exchange 973 110 170 33 1 286 (805) cquisitions through business combinations 411 – – 6 417 20 723 cquisitions and expenditures 8 24 124 156 312 563 isposals – (32) (95) (64) (191) (161) ransfer (to)/from other asset categories nd other movements1 (67) (174) 146 (49) (144) (5 070) Balance at end of period 43 402 2 904 2 177 388 48 871 46 969 Amortization and impairment losses Balance at end of previous year (32) (1 124) (1 151) (94) (2 401) (2 042) ffect of movements in foreign exchange – (49) (88) (2) (139) 34 mortization – (198) (275) (25) (498) (446) mpairment losses – – – – – (3) isposals – 23 56 10 89 142 ransfer to/(from) other asset categories nd other movements1 – (31) (14) (3) (48) (86) Balance at end of period (32) (1 379) (1 472) (114) (2 997) (2 401) Carrying value t 31 December 2016 as reported 42 045 1 591 720 212 44 568 44 568 t 31 December 2016 as adjusted 42 045 1 852 681 212 44 789 44 789 t 31 December 2017 43 370 1 525 705 274 45 874 – B InBev is the owner of some of the world’s most valuable brands in the beer industry. As a result, brands and certain distribution rights are xpected to generate positive cash flows for as long as the company owns the brands and distribution rights. Given AB InBev’s more than 600-year istory, brands and certain distribution rights have been assigned indefinite lives. cquisitions and expenditures of commercial intangibles mainly represent supply and distribution rights, exclusive multi-year sponsorship rights nd other commercial intangibles. T he transfer (to)/from other asset categories and other movements mainly relates to transfers from assets under construction to their respective asset categories, to contributions of assets to pension plans and to the separate presentation in the balance sheet of property, plant and equipment held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations. 96 Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are comprised primarily of brands and certain distribution rights that AB InBev purchases for its own products, and are tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of the year or whenever a triggering event has occurred. As of 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of the intangible assets amounted to 45 874m US dollar (31 December 2016: 44 568m US dollar) of which 43 595m US dollar was assigned an indefinite useful life (31 December 2016: 42 272m US dollar) and 2 279m US dollar a finite life (31 December 2016: 2 296m US dollar). The carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives was allocated to the different countries as follows: Million US dollar Country 2017 2016 USA 21 960 21 570 Colombia 3 820 3 803 South Africa 3 899 3 518 Mexico 3 058 2 920 Peru 2 825 2 731 Australia 2 773 2 373 South Korea 1 058 938 Ecuador 595 604 China 403 373 Dominican Republic 353 366 Rest of Africa 1 353 1 364 Other countries 1 498 1 712 43 595 42 272 Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been tested for impairment using the same methodology and assumptions as disclosed in Note 14 Goodwill. Based on the assumptions described in that note, AB InBev concluded that no impairment charge is warranted. While a change in the estimates used could have a material impact on the calculation of the fair values and trigger an impairment charge, the company is not aware of any reasonable possible change in a key assumption used that would cause a business unit’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 16. Investments in associates A reconciliation of the summarized financial information to the carrying amount of the company’s interests in material associates is as follows: 2017 2016 Million US dollar Castel 1 Efes Castel1 Efes Balance at 1 January 2 793 750 – – Combination with SAB – – 2 932 895 Dividends received (23) – – – Share of results of associates 354 (2) 18 (27) Effect of movements in foreign exchange 356 (54) (158) (119) Balance at 31 December 3 480 694 2 793 750 Summarized financial information of the company’s material associates is as follows: 2017 2016 Million US dollar Castel1 Efes Castel1 Efes Current assets 4 894 2 415 3 970 1 058 Non-current assets 3 912 5 243 2 900 4 668 Current liabilities 1 724 1 106 1 391 561 Non-current liabilities 857 2 494 547 1 570 Non-controlling interests 879 1 520 762 1 464 Net assets 5 346 2 538 4 170 2 131 Revenue 5 447 3 415 1 236 659 Profit (loss) 746 (7) 42 (111) Other comprehensive income (loss) (94) 553 (108) 75 Total comprehensive income (loss) 652 546 (66) (35) 1  rasseries Internationales Holding Ltd, Société des Brasseries et Glacières Internationales SA, Algerienne de Bavaroise Spa, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding (Angola) Ltd, B Marocaine d’Investissements et de Services SA, Skikda Bottling Company SARL, Société de Boissons de I’Ouest Algerien SARL, and Société des Nouvelles Brasseries together make up Castel’s African beverage operations. Details of individual ownership percentages are included in Note 36 AB InBev companies. 97 econciliation of the above summarized financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in Castel and Efes recognized in the onsolidated financial statements is as follows: 2017 2016 illion US dollar Castel1 Efes Castel1 Efes et assets of the associate 5 346 2 538 4 170 2 131 nterest in associates (%) 20-40 24 20-40 24 nterest in associate 1 293 609 939 511 Goodwill 2 187 85 1 854 239 arrying amount of investment in associates 3 480 694 2 793 750 uring 2017, associates that are not individually material contributed to 78m US dollar to the results of investment in associates (2016: 47m US dollar). dditional information related to the significant associates is presented in Note 36 AB InBev Companies. 7. Investment securities illion US dollar 2017 2016 Non-current investments nvestments in unquoted companies – available for sale 76 58 ebt securities held to maturity 24 24 100 82 Current investments ebt securities held for trading 1 304 5 659 1 304 5 659 s of 31 December 2017, current debt securities of 1 304m US dollar mainly represented investments in US Treasury Bills. The company’s nvestments in such short-term debt securities are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. he securities available for sale consist of investments in unquoted companies and are measured at cost as their fair value cannot be eliably determined. 8. Deferred tax assets and liabilities he amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities by type of temporary difference can be detailed as follows: 2017 illion US dollar Assets Liabilities Net roperty, plant and equipment 324 (2 586) (2 262) ntangible assets 113 (11 387) (11 274) nventories 114 (63) 51 rade and other receivables 148 (62) 86 nterest-bearing loans and borrowings 431 (646) (215) mployee benefits 663 (10) 653 rovisions 562 (17) 545 erivatives 40 (49) (9) Other items 200 (796) (596) oss carry forwards 1 130 – 1 130 Gross deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 3 725 (15 616) (11 891) Netting by taxable entity (2 509) 2 509 – Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 1 216 (13 107) (11 891) B rasseries Internationales Holding Ltd, Société des Brasseries et Glacières Internationales SA, Algerienne de Bavaroise Spa, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding (Angola) Ltd, Marocaine d’Investissements et de Services SA, Skikda Bottling Company SARL, Société de Boissons de I’Ouest Algerien SARL, and Société des Nouvelles Brasseries together make up Castel’s African beverage operations. Details of individual ownership percentages are included in Note 36 AB InBev companies. 98 2016 Million US dollar Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment 533 (4 017) (3 484) Intangible assets 200 (14 863) (14 663) Inventories 145 (95) 50 Trade and other receivables 74 (59) 15 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 322 (456) (134) Employee benefits 704 (22) 682 Provisions 578 (234) 344 Derivatives 42 (30) 12 Other items 147 (1 119) (972) Loss carry forwards 1 278 – 1 278 Reclassified as held for sale (4) 1 459 1 455 Gross deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 4 019 (19 436) (15 417) Netting by taxable entity (2 758) 2 758 – Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) as reported 1 261 (16 678) (15 417) Adjustments – 1 975 1 975 Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) as adjusted 1 261 (14 703) (13 442) The change in net deferred taxes recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position can be detailed as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January as reported (15 417) (10 780) Adjustments 1 975 – Balance at 1 January as adjusted (13 442) (10 780) Recognized in profit or loss 1 912 (116) Recognized in other comprehensive income (134) (204) Acquisitions through business combinations (74) (5 623) Reclassified as held for sale – 1 455 Other movements and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (153) (149) Balance at 31 December as reported (11 891) (15 417) Balance at 31 December as adjusted – (13 442) Following the US Tax reform enancted on 22 December 2017 whereby the US Federal tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%, the company adjusted the deferred tax liabilities set up in 2008 in line with IFRS, as part of the purchase price accounting of the combination with Anheuser Busch and certain deferred tax assets. This adjustment provisionally estimated at 1.8 billion US dollar was recognized as a non-recurring tax gain – see also Note 12 – Income Taxes. Most of the temporary differences are related to the fair value adjustment on intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and property, plant and equipment acquired through business combinations. The realization of such temporary differences is unlikely to revert within 12 months. On 31 December 2017, a deferred tax liability of 111m US dollar (2016: 121m US dollar) relating to investment in subsidiaries has not been recognized because management believes that this liability will not be incurred in the foreseeable future. Tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences on which no deferred tax asset is recognized amount to 4 449m US dollar (2016: 4 499m US dollar). 2 077m US dollar of these tax losses and deductible temporary differences do not have an expiration date, 67m US dollar, 88m US dollar and 116m US dollar expire within respectively 1, 2 and 3 years, while 2 101m US dollar have an expiration date of more than 3 years. Deferred tax assets have not been recognized on these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilized and the company has no tax planning strategy currently in place to utilize these tax losses and deductible temporary differences. 99 9. Inventories 2016 2016 illion US dollar 2017 Adjusted Reported repayments 101 90 90 aw materials and consumables 2 304 2 119 2 143 Work in progress 387 391 391 inished goods 1 216 1 166 1 166 Goods purchased for resale 111 124 124 4 119 3 889 3 913 nventories other than work in progress nventories stated at net realizable value 57 42 42 arrying amount of inventories subject to collateral – – – he cost of inventories recognized as an expense in 2017 amounts to 21 386m US dollar, included in cost of sales (2016: 17 803m US dollar). mpairment losses on inventories recognized in 2017 amount to 72m US dollar (2016: 70m US dollar). 0. Trade and other receivables Non-current trade and other receivables illion US dollar 2017 2016 ash deposits for guarantees 209 200 oans to customers 13 15 eferred collection on disposals 11 11 ax receivable, other than income tax 68 105 rade and other receivables 533 537 834 868 or the nature of cash deposits for guarantees see Note 31 Collateral and contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and quipment, loans to customers and other. Current trade and other receivables 2016 2016 illion US dollar 2017 Adjusted Reported rade receivables and accrued income 4 752 4 523 4 562 nterest receivable 6 10 10 ax receivable, other than income tax 368 572 572 oans to customers 166 85 85 repaid expenses 428 316 316 Other receivables 846 846 846 6 566 6 352 6 391 he fair value of trade and other receivables equals their carrying amounts as the impact of discounting is not significant. he ageing of the current trade receivables and accrued income, interest receivable, other receivables and current and non-current loans to ustomers can be detailed as follows for 2017 and 2016 respectively: Of which: Of which not impaired as of the reporting date and past due neither Net carrying impaired amount as of nor past due on December 31, the reporting Less than 30 Between 30 Between 60 More than 2017 date days and 59 days and 89 days 90 days rade receivables and accrued income 4 752 4 369 265 47 40 31 oans to customers 179 179 – – – – nterest receivable 6 6 – – – – Other receivables 846 803 19 6 14 4 5 783 5 357 284 53 54 35 100 Of which: Of which not impaired as of the reporting date and past due neither Net carrying impaired nor amount as of past due on December 31, the reporting Less than 30 Between 30 Between 60 More than 2016 date days and 59 days and 89 days 90 days Trade receivables and accrued income 4 562 4 201 189 64 37 70 Loans to customers 100 96 – 2 2 – Interest receivable 10 10 – – – – Other receivables 846 721 42 21 6 56 5 518 5 028 231 87 45 126 In accordance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the above analysis of the age of financial assets that are past due as at the reporting date but not impaired also includes non-current loans to customers. Past due amounts were not impaired when collection is still considered likely, for instance because the amounts can be recovered from the tax authorities or AB InBev has sufficient collateral. Impairment losses on trade and other receivables recognized in 2017 amount to 59m US dollar (2016: 40m US dollar). AB InBev’s exposure to credit, currency and interest rate risks is disclosed in Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. 21. Cash and cash equivalents Million US dollar 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Short-term bank deposits 3 896 3 231 Treasury Bills – 250 Cash and bank accounts 6 576 5 098 Cash and cash equivalents 10 472 8 579 Bank overdrafts (117) (184) 10 355 8 395 The cash outstanding per 31 December 2017 includes restricted cash for an amount of 2m US dollar (31 December 2016: 2m US dollar). This restricted cash refers to outstanding consideration payable to former Anheuser-Busch shareholders who did not yet claim the proceeds from the 2008 combination. 22. Assets classified as held for sale, liabilities associated with assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets classified as held for sale Million US dollar 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Balance at the end of previous year as reported 16 439 48 Adjustments 19 – Balance at the end of previous year as adjusted 16 458 48 Combination with SAB – 24 805 Disposals from SAB transaction-related divestitures (15 514) (16 342) Reclassified to assets held for sale in the period 91 7 959 Disposals (26) (28) Effect of movements in foreign exchange 132 (51) Other movements (1 008) 48 Balance at the end of year as reported 133 16 439 Balance at the end of year as adjusted – 16 458 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale Million US dollar 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Balance at the end of previous year 2 174 – Reclassified to assets held for sale in the period – 2 174 Disposals from SAB transaction-related divestitures (1 166) – Other movements (1 008) – Balance at the end of year – 2 174 101 Completion of CCBA disposal On 4 October 2017, AB InBev announced the completion of the transition of its 54.5% equity stake in Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (“CCBA”) for .15 billion US dollar, after customary adjustments. AB InBev stopped consolidating CCBA in its consolidated financial statements as of that date. CBA, the largest Coca-Cola bottler in Africa, was formed in 2016 through the combination of the African non-alcohol ready-to-drink bottling nterests of SAB, The Coca-Cola Company and Gutsche Family Investments. It includes the countries of South Africa, Namibia, Kenya, Uganda, anzania, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Ghana, Mayotte, and Comoros. ollowing completion, CCBA will remain subject to the agreement reached with the South African Government and the South African Competition uthorities on several conditions, all of which were previously announced. n addition the companies continue to work towards finalizing the terms and conditions of the agreement for The Coca-Cola Company to acquire B InBev’s interest in, or the bottling operations of, its businesses in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, El Salvador, and Honduras. hese transactions are subject to the relevant regulatory and shareholder approvals in the different jurisdictions. By 31 December 2017, the assets nd liabilities of the above operations were not reported as assets classified as held for sale and liabilities associated with assets held for sale. AB announced divestitures roceeds from assets held for sale in the period also relate to the completion of the divestitures of the businesses formerly owned by SAB in Poland, he Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, and the completion of the sale of the company’s indirect shareholding in Distell Group imited in South Africa to the Public Investment Corporation Limited. The results of the Central and Eastern European businesses acquired through he SAB combination exclusively with a view to resale, qualified as discontinued operations and have been presented as such in these consolidated inancial statements until the completion of the disposal on 31 March 2017. The results of Distell were reported as share of results of associates until he completion of the disposal on 12 April 2017. On 11 October 2016, the company completed the disposals of SAB’s interests in MillerCoors and the global Miller brand, SAB’s interest in China esources Snow Breweries and part of SAB’s European business. These businesses had been classified as assets held for sale upon the ombination with SAB. 3. Changes in equity and earnings per share tatement of capital he tables below summarize the changes in issued capital and treasury shares during 2017: Issued capital SSUED CAPITAL Million shares Million US dollar t the end of the previous year 2 019 1 736 hanges during the period – – 2 019 1 736 Of which: Ordinary shares 1 693 Restricted shares 326 Result on the use of Treasury shares treasury shares REASURY SHARES Million shares Million US dollar Million US dollar t the end of the previous year 85.5 (8 980) (1 452) hanges during the period – – – 85.5 (8 980) (1 452) s at 31 December 2017, the share capital of AB InBev amounts to 1 238 608 344.12 euro (1 736 million US dollar). It is represented by 019 241 973 shares without nominal value, of which 85 541 785 are held in treasury by AB InBev and its subsidiaries. All shares are new ordinary hares, except for 325 999 817 Restricted Shares. As at 31 December 2017, the total of authorized, un-issued capital amounts to 37m euro. he treasury shares held by the company are reported in equity in Treasury shares. he holders of ordinary and restricted shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the company. In respect of the company’s shares that are held by AB InBev, rights are suspended. he restricted shares are unlisted, not admitted to trading on any stock exchange, and are subject to, among other things, restrictions on transfer ntil converted into new ordinary shares. The restricted shares will be convertible at the election of the holder into new ordinary shares on a ne-for-one basis with effect from the fifth anniversary of completion of the SAB combination. From completion of the SAB combination, such estricted shares will rank equally with the new ordinary shares with respect to dividends and voting rights. 102 The shareholders’ structure based on the notifications made to the company pursuant to the Belgian Law of 02 May 2007 on the disclosure of significant shareholdings in listed companies is included in the Corporate Governance section of AB InBev’s annual report. Changes in ownership interests In compliance with IFRS 10, the acquisition of additional shares in a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction with owners. During 2017, AB InBev purchased non-controlling interests in subsidiaries for a total consideration of 206m US dollar. As the related subsidiaries were already fully consolidated, the purchases did not impact AB InBev’s profit, but reduced the non-controlling interests and thus impacted the profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev. Report according to article 624 of the Belgian Companies Code purchase of own shares During 2017, the company proceeded with the following sale transactions: • 778 668 shares were granted to executives of the group according to the company’s executive remuneration policy; • 3 025 512 shares were sold, as a result of the exercise of options granted to employees of the group. At the end of the period, the group owned 85 541 785 own shares of which 85 000 000 were held directly by AB InBev. The par value of the shares is 0.61 euro. As a consequence, the shares that were sold during the year 2017 represent 2 783 038 US dollar (2 320 550 euro) of the subscribed capital and the shares that the company still owned at the end of 2017 represent 62 580 115 US dollar ( 52 180 489 euro) of the subscribed capital. Dividends On 25 October 2017, an interim dividend of 1.60 euro per share or 3 089m euro was approved by the Board of Directors. This interim dividend was paid out on 16 November 2017. On 28 February 2018, in addition to the interim dividend paid on 16 November 2017, a dividend of 2.00 euro per share or 3 867m euro was proposed by the Board of Directors, reflecting a total dividend payment for 2017 fiscal year of 3.60 euro per share or 6 956m euro. On 27 October 2016, an interim dividend of 1.60 euro per share or 3 091m euro was approved by the Board of Directors. This interim dividend was paid out on 17 November 2016. On 26 April 2017, in addition to the interim dividend paid on 17 November 2016, a dividend of 2.00 euro per share or 3 856m euro was approved at the shareholders meeting, reflecting a total dividend payment for 2016 fiscal year of 3.60 euro per share or 6 947m euro. The dividend was paid out on 4 May 2017. Translation reserves The translation reserves comprise all foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. The translation reserves also comprise the portion of the gain or loss on the foreign currency liabilities and on the derivative financial instruments determined to be effective net investment hedges in conformity with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement hedge accounting rules. Hedging reserves The hedging reserves comprise the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedges to the extent the hedged risk has not yet impacted profit or loss. Transfers from subsidiaries The amount of dividends payable to AB InBev by its operating subsidiaries is subject to, among other restrictions, general limitations imposed by the corporate laws, capital transfer restrictions and exchange control restrictions of the respective jurisdictions where those subsidiaries are organized and operate. Capital transfer restrictions are also common in certain emerging market countries, and may affect AB InBev’s flexibility in implementing a capital structure it believes to be efficient. As at 31 December 2017, the restrictions above mentioned were not deemed significant on the company’s ability to access or use the assets or settle the liabilities of its operating subsidiaries. Dividends paid to AB InBev by certain of its subsidiaries are also subject to withholding taxes. Withholding tax, if applicable, generally does not exceed 15%. Deferred share instrument In a transaction related to the combination with Grupo Modelo, selected Grupo Modelo shareholders committed, upon tender of their Grupo Modelo shares, to acquire 23 076 922 AB InBev shares to be delivered within 5 years for a consideration of approximately 1.5 billion US dollar. The consideration was paid on 5 June 2013. Pending the delivery of the AB InBev shares, AB InBev will pay a coupon on each undelivered AB InBev share, so that the Deferred Share Instrument holders are compensated on an after tax basis, for dividends they would have received had the AB InBev shares been delivered to them prior to the record date for such dividend. The deferred share instrument is classified as an equity instrument, in line with IAS 32, as the number of shares and consideration received are fixed. The coupon to compensate for the dividend equivalent is reported through equity. On 4 May 2017, the company paid a coupon of 2.00 euro per share or approximately 51m US dollar. On 16 November 2017, the company paid a coupon of 1.60 euro per share or approximately 42m US dollar. 103 tock lending n order to fulfil AB InBev’s commitments under various outstanding stock option plans, AB InBev entered into stock lending arrangements for up o 19 million of its own ordinary shares. As of 31 December 2017, the outstanding balance of loaned securities amounted to 19 million, of which 7 million were used to fulfil stock option plan commitments. AB InBev shall pay any dividend equivalent, after tax in respect of the loaned securities. his payment will be reported through equity as dividend. Other comprehensive income reserves he changes in the other comprehensive income reserves are as follows: Translation Hedging Post–employment Total OCI illion US dollar reserves reserves benefits reserves s per 1 January 2017 (14 758) 744 (1 612) (15 626) Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (gains/(losses)) 1 053 – – 1 053 Cash flow hedges – (158) – (158) Re–measurements of post–employment benefits – – (53) (53) otal comprehensive income 1 053 (158) (53) 842 s per 31 December 2017 (13 705) 586 (1 665) (14 784) Translation Hedging Post–employment Total OCI illion US dollar reserves reserves benefits reserves s per 1 January 2016 (11 493) (1 217) (1 400) (14 110) Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (gains/(losses)) (3 265) – – (3 265) Foreign exchange contracts recognized in equity in relation to the SAB combination – (7 099) – (7 099) Foreign exchange contracts reclassified from equity in relation to the SAB combination 8 837 8 837 Cash flow hedges – 223 – 223 Re–measurements of post–employment benefits – – (212) (212) otal comprehensive income (3 265) 1 961 (212) (1 516) s per 31 December 2016 (14 758) 744 (1 612) (15 626) arnings per share he calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2017 is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev of 996m US dollar (31 December 2016: 1 241m US dollar) and a weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares outstanding (including eferred share instruments and stock lending) per end of the period, calculated as follows: illion shares 2017 2016 ssued ordinary and restricted shares at 1 January, net of treasury shares 1 934 1 606 ffect of restricted shares issued upon the SAB combination – 94 ffect of shares issued and share buyback programs – (20) ffect of stock lending 14 12 ffect of undelivered shares under the deferred share instrument 23 23 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares at 31 December 1 971 1 717 he calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev of 7 996m US dollar (31 December 016: 1 241m US dollar) and a weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (diluted) outstanding (including deferred share nstruments and stock lending) per end of the period, calculated as follows: illion shares 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares at 31 December 1 971 1 717 ffect of share options and restricted stock units 39 38 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (diluted) at 31 December 2 010 1 755 104 The calculation of earnings per share before non-recurring items and discontinued operations is based on the profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of AB InBev. A reconciliation of profit before non-recurring items and discontinued operations, attributable to equity holders of AB InBev to profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev is calculated as follows: Million US dollar 2017 20161 Profit before non-recurring items and discontinued operations, attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 967 4 853 Non-recurring items, before taxes (refer to Note 8) (662) (394) Non-recurring finance income/(cost), before taxes (refer to Note 8) (693) (3 356) Non-recurring taxes (refer to Note 8) 830 77 Non-recurring non-controlling interest (refer to Note 8) 526 13 Profit from discontinued operations 28 48 Profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 1 241 The table below sets out the EPS calculation: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 1 241 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares 1 971 1 717 Basic EPS from continuing and discontinued operations 4.06 0.72 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 968 1 193 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares 1 971 1 717 Basic EPS from continuing operations 4.04 0.69 Profit from continuing operations before non-recurring items, attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 967 4 853 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares 1 971 1 717 EPS from continuing operations before non-recurring items 4.04 2.83 Profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 996 1 241 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (diluted) 2 010 1 755 Diluted EPS from continuing and discontinued operations 3.98 0.71 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 968 1 193 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (diluted) 2 010 1 755 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 3.96 0.68 Profit from continuing operations before non-recurring items, attributable to equity holders of AB InBev 7 967 4 853 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (diluted) 2 010 1 755 Diluted EPS from continuing operations before non-recurring items 3.96 2.77 The average market value of the company’s shares for purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share options and restricted stock units was based on quoted market prices for the period that the options and restricted stock units were outstanding. 5m share options were anti-dilutive and not included in the calculation of the dilutive effect as at 31 December 2017. 24. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign exposure currency risk refer to Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Million US dollar 2017 2016 Secured bank loans 230 210 Unsecured bank loans 153 8 266 Unsecured bond issues 108 327 105 146 Unsecured other loans 53 111 Finance lease liabilities 186 208 108 949 113 941 1 Reclassified to conform to 2017 presentation. 105 URRENT LIABILITIES illion US dollar 2017 2016 ecured bank loans 272 652 ommercial papers 1 870 2 053 nsecured bank loans 739 1 396 nsecured bond issues 4 510 4 481 nsecured other loans 15 10 inance lease liabilities 27 26 7 433 8 618 he current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings amount to 116.4 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2017, compared to 22.6 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2016. ommercial papers amount to 1.9 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2017 and include programs in US dollar and euro with a total authorized ssuance up to 3.0 billion US dollar and 1.0 billion euro, respectively. uring 2017, AB InBev completed the issuance of the following series of bonds: Aggregate principal amount Issue date (in millions) Currency Interest rate Maturity date 15 May 2017 1 300 Canadian dollar 2.600% 15 May 2024 15 May 2017 700 Canadian dollar 4.320% 15 May 2047 24 May 2017 650 Pound sterling 1.750% 7 March 2025 24 May 2017 700 Pound sterling 2.250% 24 May 2029 24 May 2017 900 Pound sterling 2.850% 25 May 2037 6 September 2017 550 Australian dollar 3.250% 6 September 2022 6 September 2017 650 Australian dollar 3.750% 6 September 2024 6 September 2017 450 Australian dollar 4.100% 6 September 2027 6 September 2017 300 Australian dollar 3M BBSW+97bps 6 September 2022 n connection with the combination with SAB, AB InBev entered into a 75.0 billion US dollar Committed Senior Acquisition Facilities agreement ated 28 October 2015 to fund the cash consideration of the transaction. The financing consisted of a 10.0 billion US dollar Disposal Bridge Facility, 15.0 billion US dollar Cash/DCM Bridge Facility A, a 15.0 billion US dollar Cash/DCM Bridge Facility B, a 25.0 billion US dollar Term Facility A, and 10.0 billion US dollar Term Facility B, (“2015 senior facilities agreement”). uring the first half of 2016, AB InBev cancelled the Bridge to Cash / DCM Facilities A & B and Term Facility A for a total of 55 billion US dollar of the 5.0 billion US dollar Committed Senior Acquisition Facilities following the issuance of bonds to pre-finance the SAB combination. On 6 October 2016, the company drew down 8.0 billion US dollar under the Term Facility B and 10.0 billion US dollar under the Disposal Bridge acility to finance the acquisition of SAB and announced that it had chosen to make an additional voluntary cancellation of 2.0 billion US dollar of the erm Facility B. On 20 October 2016, the company fully repaid the Disposal Bridge Facility, following completion of the disposals of SAB’s interests n MillerCoors and the global Miller brand, SAB’s interest in China Resources Snow Breweries and part of SAB’s European business – see also ote 6 – Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries of the 31 December 2016 consolidated financial statements. On 10 April 2017, the company repaid 6 billion US dollar of the 8 billion US dollar Term Facility B and on 12 June 2017, AB InBev fully repaid he remaining 2 billion US dollar outstanding. This Term Loan was the last remaining facility of the 75 billion US dollar credit facilities raised in October 2015 to finance the combination with SAB. A summation of the Facilities, related cancellations and drawdowns as of 31 December 2017 is resented below: October October April June Original 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 Amount Cancellation Drawdown Repayment Repayment Repayment Applicable (billion (billion (billion (billion (billion (billion acility Term Margin (bps) US dollar) US dollar) US dollar) US dollar) US dollar) US dollar) erm Facility A 3 Years LIBOR + 110 25.0 (25.0) – – – – erm Facility B 5 Years LIBOR + 125 10.0 (2.0) (8.0) – 6.0 2.0 isposal Bridge Facility 1 Year LIBOR + 100 10.0 – (10.0) 10.0 – – ridge to Cash / DCM Facility A 1 Year LIBOR + 100 15.0 (15.0) – – – – ridge to Cash / DCM Facility B 2 Years LIBOR + 100 15.0 (15.0) – – – – 75.0 (57.0) (18.0) 10.0 6.0 2.0 he facilities bore interest calculated at the LIBOR rate for a period equal to the length of the interest period plus an applicable margin. The margins n each facility were determined based on ratings assigned by rating agencies to AB InBev long-term debt. For Term Facility B, the margin ranged etween 1.00% per annum and 1.45% per annum. 106 Customary commitment fees were payable on any undrawn but available funds under the 2015 senior facilities agreement. These fees were recorded in 2016 as exceptional finance cost. On 19 April 2017, the company announced the final results of U.S. private exchange offers for any and all of the outstanding notes listed below in exchange for a combination of AB InBev’s notes due 2048 and cash: Original principal Principal amount Principal amount amount not outstanding outstanding exchanged Title of series of notes issued (thousand US exchanged1 (thousand Issuer exchanged dollar) (thousand US dollar) US dollar) Anheuser-Busch Companies 7.55% Debentures due 2030 200 000 74 046 125 954 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.80% Debentures due 2031 200 000 19 986 180 014 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.80% Debentures due 2032 300 000 126 932 173 068 Anheuser-Busch Companies 5.95% Debentures due 2033 300 000 148 183 151 817 Anheuser-Busch Companies 5.75% Debentures due 2036 300 000 192 686 107 314 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.45% Debentures due 2037 500 000 252 556 247 444 Anheuser Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. 6.375% Notes due 2040 500 000 255 575 244 425 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.00% Debentures due 2041 250 000 83 583 166 417 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.50% Debentures due 2042 250 000 74 449 175 551 Anheuser-Busch Companies 6.50% Debentures due 2043 300 000 122 392 177 608 The new notes mature on 6 October 2048 and will bear interest at a rate per annum of 4.439%. On 11 October 2017, AB InBev announced that the company exercised its option to redeem in full the entire outstanding principal amount of the following series of notes on 10 November 2017: Aggregate principal amount Issuer Title of series of notes (million US dollar) Anheuser-Busch InBev Finance 1.25% Notes due 2018 1 000 Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide 6.50% Notes due 2018 627 Anheuser-Busch Companies 4.50% Notes due 2018 200 Anheuser-Busch Companies 5.50% Notes due 2018 500 ABI SAB Group Holding Limited 6.50% Notes due 2018 73 The total principal amount of the retired notes was 2.4 billion US dollar and the redemption of the notes was financed with cash. In 2017, the company extended the maturity date of the 9.0 billion US dollar 2010 senior facilities by two years to a new maturity date of August 30, 2022. As at 31 December 2017, there are no amounts drawn down under the 9.0 billion US dollar 2010 senior facilities. AB InBev is in compliance with all its debt covenants as of 31 December 2017. The 2010 senior facilities do not include restrictive financial covenants. TERMS AND DEBT REPAYMENT SCHEDULE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1 year or More than 5 Million US dollar Total less 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–5 years years Secured bank loans 502 272 128 18 33 51 Commercial papers 1 870 1 870 – – – – Unsecured bank loans 892 739 122 31 – – Unsecured bond issues 112 837 4 510 9 956 9 389 18 441 70 541 Unsecured other loans 68 15 18 7 3 25 Finance lease liabilities 213 27 29 20 23 114 116 382 7 433 10 253 9 465 18 500 70 731 TERMS AND DEBT REPAYMENT SCHEDULE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 1 year or More than 5 Million US dollar Total less 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–5 years years Secured bank loans 862 652 107 26 21 56 Commercial papers 2 053 2 053 – – – – Unsecured bank loans 9 662 1 396 195 91 7 980 – Unsecured bond issues 109 627 4 481 6 234 10 032 18 697 70 183 Unsecured other loans 121 10 20 15 22 54 Finance lease liabilities 234 26 26 31 46 105 122 559 8 618 6 582 10 195 26 766 70 398 1 In accordance to IAS 39 the exchanged bonds were kept at their previous amortized cost in accordance to IAS 39 rules. 107 INANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 illion US dollar Payments Interests Principal Payments Interests Principal ess than one year 42 15 27 45 19 26 etween one and two years 42 13 29 43 16 27 etween two and three years 31 11 20 44 13 31 etween three and five years 40 17 23 70 24 46 More than 5 years 146 32 114 144 40 104 301 88 213 346 112 234 et debt is defined as non-current and current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts minus debt securities and cash and cash quivalents. Net debt is a financial performance indicator that is used by AB InBev’s management to highlight changes in the company’s overall quidity position. The company believes that net debt is meaningful for investors as it is one of the primary measures AB InBev’s management uses hen evaluating its progress towards deleveraging. B InBev’s net debt decreased to 104.4 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2017, from 108.0 billion US dollar as of 31 December 2016. Apart from perating results net of capital expenditures, the net debt is mainly impacted by the proceeds from the announced divestitures completed during 017 (11.7 billion US dollar), the payment of taxes on disposals completed in 2016 (3.4 billion US dollar), dividend payments to shareholders of B InBev and Ambev (9.3 billion US dollar), the payment of interests and taxes (6.0 billion US dollar) and the impact of changes in foreign exchange ates (4.2 billion US dollar increase of net debt). he following table provides a reconciliation of AB InBev’s net debt as at 31 December: illion US dollar 2017 2016 on-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 108 949 113 941 urrent interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7 433 8 618 116 382 122 559 ank overdrafts 117 184 ash and cash equivalents (10 472) (8 579) nterest bearing loans granted and other deposits (included within Trade and other receivables) (309) (528) ebt securities (included within Investment securities) (1 328) (5 683) et debt 104 390 107 953 5. Employee benefits B InBev sponsors various post-employment benefit plans worldwide. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans, and defined enefit plans, and other post-employment benefits. In accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits post-employment benefit plans are classified as ither defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. Defined contribution plans or defined contribution plans, AB InBev pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension funds or insurance contracts. Once the ontributions have been paid, the group has no further payment obligation. The regular contributions constitute an expense for the year in which hey are due. For 2017, contributions paid into defined contribution plans for the company amounted to 118m US dollar compared to 77m US dollar or 2016. The increase mainly results from the combination with SAB. Defined benefit plans uring 2017, the company contributed to 86 defined benefit plans, of which 64 are retirement or leaving service plans, 18 are medical cost plans nd 4 other long-term employee benefit plans. Most plans provide retirement and leaving service benefits related to pay and years of service. In many of the countries the plans are partially funded. When plans are funded, the assets are held in legally separate funds set up in accordance with pplicable legal requirements and common practice in each country. The medical cost plans in Barbados, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, South Africa nd US provide medical benefits to employees and their families after retirement. Many of the defined benefit plans are closed to new entrants. he present value of funded obligations includes a 230m US dollar liability related to two medical plans in Brazil, for which the benefits are provided hrough the Fundação Antonio Helena Zerrenner (“FAHZ”). The FAHZ is a legally distinct entity which provides medical, dental, educational and ocial assistance to current and retired employees of Ambev. On 31 December 2017, the actuarial liabilities related to the benefits provided by the AHZ are fully offset by an equivalent amount of assets existing in the fund. The net liability recognized in the balance sheet is nil. he employee benefit net liability amounts to 2 971m US dollar as of 31 December 2017 compared to 3 004m US dollar as of 31 December 2016. In 017, the fair value of the plan assets increased by 446m US dollar and the defined benefit obligations increased by 458m US dollar. The decrease n the employee benefit net liability is mainly driven by positive asset returns and decreases in the irrecoverable surplus. 108 The company’s net liability for post-employment and long-term employee benefit plans comprises the following at 31 December: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Present value of funded obligations (7 506) (7 044) Fair value of plan assets 5 623 5 177 Present value of net obligations for funded plans (1 883) (1 867) Present value of unfunded obligations (904) (908) Present value of net obligations (2 787) (2 775) Unrecognized asset (111) (168) Net liability (2 898) (2 943) Other long term employee benefits (73) (73) Reclassified as held for sale – 12 Total employee benefits (2 971) (3 004) Employee benefits amounts in the balance sheet: Liabilities (2 993) (3 014) Assets 22 10 Net liability (2 971) (3 004) The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Defined benefit obligation at 1 January (7 952) (7 594) Current service costs (74) (73) Interest cost (340) (347) Past service gain/(cost) 17 8 Settlements 6 174 Benefits paid 502 482 Contribution by plan participants (4) (4) Acquisition and disposal through business combination – (260) Actuarial gains/(losses) – demographic assumptions 24 (1) Actuarial gains/(losses) – financial assumptions (264) (607) Experience adjustments (21) 37 Exchange differences (343) 256 Transfers and other movements 39 (23) Defined benefit obligation at 31 December (8 410) (7 952) As at the last valuation date, the present value of the defined benefit obligation was comprised of approximately 1.9 billion US dollar relating to active employees, 1.6 billion US dollar relating to deferred members and 4.9 billion US dollar relating to members in retirement. The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 5 177 5 075 Interest income 239 249 Administration costs (22) (24) Return on plan assets exceeding interest income 233 297 Contributions by AB InBev 315 302 Contributions by plan participants 4 4 Benefits paid net of administration costs (502) (478) Acquisition through business combination – 68 Assets distributed on settlements (7) (164) Exchange differences 214 (155) Transfers and other movements (28) 3 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 5 623 5 177 Actual return on plans assets amounted to a gain of 472m US dollar in 2017 compared to a gain of 546m US dollar in 2016. 109 he changes in the unrecognized asset are as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 rrecoverable surplus impact at 1 January (168) (137) nterest expense (17) (17) hanges excluding amounts included in interest expense 74 (14) rrecoverable surplus impact at 31 December (111) (168) he expense recognized in the income statement with regard to defined benefit plans can be detailed as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 urrent service costs (74) (73) dministration costs (22) (24) ast service cost due to plan amendments and curtailments 17 8 Losses)/gains on settlements – 10 Losses)/gains on due to experience and demographic assumption changes 3 – rofit from operations (76) (79) et finance cost (120) (115) otal employee benefit expense (196) (194) he employee benefit expense is included in the following line items of the income statement: illion US dollar 2017 2016 ost of sales (24) (59) istribution expenses (10) (9) ales and marketing expenses (15) (13) dministrative expenses (29) (15) Other operating (expense)/income (4) 10 on-recurring items 6 7 et finance cost (120) (115) (196) (194) Weighted average assumptions used in computing the benefit obligations of the company’s significant plans at the balance sheet date are as ollows: 2017 United United States Canada Mexico Brazil Kingdom AB InBev iscount rate 3.7% 3.6% 8.0% 10.0% 2.6% 4.0% rice inflation 2.5% 2.0% 3.5% 4.3% 3.3% 2.7% uture salary increases – 1.0% 4.3% 5.6% – 3.5% uture pension increases – 2.0% 3.5% 4.3% 3.0% 2.8% Medical cost trend rate 6.2%–5.0% 4.5% – 7.9% – 6.8%–6.4% ife expectation for a 65 year old male 85 87 82 85 87 85 ife expectation for a 65 year old female 88 89 85 88 89 88 2016 United United States Canada Mexico Brazil Kingdom AB InBev iscount rate 4.2% 3.9% 7.8% 10.5% 2.7% 4.4% rice inflation 2.5% 2.0% 3.5% 4.5% 3.4% 2.8% uture salary increases – 1.0% 4.8% 5.8% – 3.5% uture pension increases – 2.0% 3.5% 4.5% 3.1% 2.8% Medical cost trend rate 7.0%–5.0% 4.5% – 8.2% – 7.2%–6.5% ife expectation for a 65 year old male 85 86 82 85 87 86 ife expectation for a 65 year old female 88 89 85 88 89 88 hrough its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant re detailed below: 110 Investment strategy In case of funded plans, the company ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. Within this framework, the company’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The company actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. Asset volatility In general, the company’s funded plans are invested in a combination of equities and bonds, generating high but volatile returns from equities and at the same time stable and liability-matching returns from bonds. As the plans mature, the company usually reduces the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities. Since 2015, the company started the implementation of a new pension de-risking strategy to reduce the risk profile of certain plans by reducing gradually the current exposure to equities and shifting those assets to fixed income securities. Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. Inflation risk Some of the company’s pension obligations, mainly in the UK, are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majority of the plan’s assets are either unaffected by or loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation could potentially increase the company’s net benefit obligation. Life expectancy The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 13.8 years (2016: 14.0 years). The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: 2017 Change in Increase in Decrease in Million US dollar assumption assumption assumption Discount rate 0.5% (530) 581 Price inflation 0.5% 172 (130) Future salary increase 0.5% 28 (23) Medical cost trend rate 1% 55 (47) Longevity One year 248 (246) The above are purely hypothetical changes in individual assumptions holding all other assumptions constant: economic conditions and changes therein will often affect multiple assumptions at the same time and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not linear. Sensitivities are what is reasonably possible changes in assumptions and they are calculated using the same approach as was used to determine the defined benefit obligation. Therefore, the above information is not necessarily a reasonable representation of future results. The fair value of plan assets at 31 December consists of the following: 2017 2016 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Government bonds 27% – 27% 30% – 30% Corporate bonds 37% – 37% 38% – 38% Equity instruments 26% – 26% 22% – 22% Property – 4% 4% – 3% 3% Insurance contracts and others 5% 1% 6% 6% 1% 7% 95% 5% 100% 96% 4% 100% AB InBev expects to contribute approximately 311m US dollar for its funded defined benefit plans and 79m US dollar in benefit payments to its unfunded defined benefit plans and post-retirement medical plans in 2018. 111 6. Share-based payments1 ifferent share and share option programs allow company senior management and members of the board of directors to receive or acquire hares of AB InBev or Ambev. AB InBev has three primary share-based compensation plans, the share-based compensation plan (“Share-Based ompensation Plan”), established in 2006 and amended as from 2010, the long-term incentive warrant plan (“LTI Warrant Plan”), established in 999 and replaced by a long-term incentive stock option plan for directors (“LTI Stock Option Plan Directors”) in 2014, and the long-term incentive tock-option plan for executives (“LTI Stock Option Plan Executives”), established in 2009. For all option plans, the fair value of share-based ayment compensation is estimated at grant date, using a binomial Hull model, modified to reflect the IFRS 2 Share-based Payment requirement hat assumptions about forfeiture before the end of the vesting period cannot impact the fair value of the option. All the company share-based ayment plans are equity-settled. hare-based payment transactions resulted in a total expense of 359m US dollar for the year 2017, as compared to 228m US dollar for the year 2016. AB InBev share-based compensation programs Share-Based Compensation Plan s from 1 January 2010, the structure of the Share-Based Compensation Plan for certain executives, including the executive board of management nd other senior management in the general headquarters, has been modified. From 1 January 2011, the new plan structure applies to all other enior management. Under this plan, the executive board of management and other senior employees will receive their bonus in cash but have he choice to invest some or all of the value of their bonus in AB InBev shares with a five-year vesting period, referred to as bonus shares. Such oluntary investment leads to a 10% discount to the market price of the shares. The company will also match such voluntary investment by granting hree matching shares for each bonus share voluntarily invested in, up to a limited total percentage of each participant’s bonus. The percentage of he variable compensation that is entitled to get matching shares varies depending on the position of the executive. The matching is based on the ross amount of the variable compensation invested. The discount shares and matching shares are granted in the form of restricted stock units hich have a five-year vesting period. Additionally, the holders of the restricted stock units may be entitled to receive from AB InBev additional estricted stock units equal to the dividends declared since the restricted stock units were granted. uring 2017, AB InBev issued 0.3m of matching restricted stock units in relation to bonus granted to company employees and management. These matching restricted stock units are valued at the share price at the day of grant representing a fair value of approximately 31m US dollar and cliff est after five years. During 2016, AB InBev issued 0.7m of matching restricted stock units in relation to bonus granted to company employees and management. These matching restricted stock units are valued at the share price at the day of grant representing a fair value of approximately 5m US dollar and cliff vest after five years. TI Stock Option Plan for Directors efore 2014, the company issued regularly warrants, or rights to subscribe for newly issued shares under the LTI Warrant Plan for the benefit f directors and, until 2006, for the benefit of members of the executive board of management and other senior employees. LTI warrants were ubject to a vesting period ranging from one to three years. Forfeiture of a warrant occurs in certain circumstances when the holder leaves the ompany’s employment. ince 2007, members of the executive board of management and other employees are no longer eligible to receive warrants under the LTI Warrant lan, but instead receive a portion of their compensation in the form of shares and options granted under the Share-Based Compensation Plan and he LTI Stock Option Plan Executives. ince 2014, directors are no longer eligible to receive warrants under the LTI Warrant Plan. Instead, on 30 April 2014, the annual shareholders meeting decided to replace the LTI Warrant Plan by a LTI Stock Option plan for directors. As a result, grants for directors now consist of LTI stock ptions instead of LTI warrants (i.e. the right to purchase existing shares instead of the right to subscribe to newly issued shares). Grants are made nnually at the company’s shareholders meeting on a discretionary basis upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. The LTI stock ptions have an exercise price that is set equal to the market price at the time of the granting, a maximum lifetime of 10 years and an exercise period hat starts after 5 years. The LTI stock options cliff vest after 5 years. Unvested options are subject to specific forfeiture provisions in the event that he directorship is not renewed upon the expiry of its term or is terminated in the course of its term, both due to a breach of duty by the director. urthermore, at the annual shareholders meeting of 30 April 2014, all outstanding LTI warrants granted under the company’s LTI Warrant Plan were onverted into LTI stock options, i.e. the right to purchase existing ordinary shares of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV instead of the right to subscribe o newly issued shares. All other terms and conditions of the existing grants under the LTI Warrant Plan remain unchanged. B InBev granted 0.2m stock options to members of the board of directors during 2017 representing a fair value of approximately 4m US dollar 2016: 0.2m stock options with a fair value of approximately 5m US dollar). TI Stock Option Plan for Executives s from 1 July 2009, senior employees are eligible for an annual long-term incentive to be paid out in LTI stock options (or, in future, similar shareased instruments), depending on management’s assessment of the employee’s performance and future potential. Amounts have been converted to US dollar at the average rate of the period, unless otherwise indicated. 112 During 2017 AB InBev issued 7.8m LTI stock options with an estimated fair value of 149m US dollar, whereby 1.4m options relate to American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and 6.4m options to AB InBev shares. In December 2016 AB InBev issued 4.6m LTI stock options with an estimated fair value of 83m US dollar, whereby 1.3m options relate to American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and 3.3m options to AB InBev shares. Exceptional incentive stock options During 2017, approximately 6.5m options were granted to a selected group of members of the senior management of the company considering the significant contribution that these employees can make to the success of the company and the achievement of integration benefits. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The options granted have an estimated fair value of 118m US dollar (2016: 13.2m options with an estimated fair value of 228m US dollar). The options have a duration of 10 years from grant and vest on 1 January 2022. The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met. Members of the Executive Board of Management were granted an aggregate amount of 1.8m options under this program. During 2017, approximately 0.8m options were granted to employees of SAB. The grant results from the commitment that AB InBev has made under the terms of the combination with SAB, that it would, for at least one year, preserve the terms and conditions for employment of all employees that remain with SAB. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The options granted have an estimated fair value of 14m US dollar (2016: 1.3m options with an estimated fair value of 29m US dollar). The options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vest after 3 years. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the vesting date. During 2017, approximately 18m options were granted to a selected group of members of the senior management of the company, including a number of members of our Executive Board of Management, under a new long term special incentive Plan which is designed to incentivize and retain senior leaders who are considered to be instrumental in achieving our long-term growth agenda over the next 10 years. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The options granted have an estimated fair value of 360m US dollar. The options have a duration of 15 years from grant and vest on 1 January 2028. The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company before the performance test achievement or vesting date. Performance related incentive plan for Disruptive Growth Function In 2016 the company implemented a new performance related incentive plan which will substitute the long-term incentive stock option plan for executives of the Disruptive Growth Function. This function was created in 2015 to accelerate new business development opportunities, focusing on initiatives in e-commerce, mobile, craft and branded experiences such as brew pubs. During 2017, approximately 2.0m performance units were granted to senior management of the Disruptive Growth Function (2016: approximately 2.4m performance units). The value of the performance units will depend on the return of the Disruptive Growth business area. Out of these, 0.2m performance units were granted to a member of the Executive Board of Management. The units vest after 5 years provided a performance test is met. Specific forfeiture rules apply in case the executive leaves the company. Other Grants AB InBev has in place three specific long-term incentive programs. One program allows for the offer of restricted stock units to certain employees in certain specific circumstances, whereby grants are made at the discretion of the CEO, e.g. to compensate for assignments of expatriates in countries with difficult living conditions. The restricted stock units vest after five years and in case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. In 2017, 0.1m restricted stock units with an estimated fair value of 9m US dollar were granted under this program to a selected number of employees (2016: 0.4m restricted stock units with an estimated fair value of 40m US dollar). A second program allows for the exceptional offer of restricted stock units to certain employees at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee of AB InBev as a long-term retention incentive for key employees of the company. Employees eligible to receive a grant under this program receive two series of restricted stock units, the first half of the restricted stock units vesting after five years, the second half after ten years. In case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. As of 2017, instead of restricted stock units, stock options may be granted under the program with similar vesting and forfeiture rules. During 2017, 0.8m options were granted under the program to a member of the Executive Board of Management. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The options granted have an estimated fair value of 15m US dollar. In 2016, 0.2m restricted stock units with an estimated fair value of 18m US dollar were granted under this program to a selected number of employees. A third program allows certain employees to purchase company shares at a discount aimed as a long-term retention incentive for (i) high-potential employees of the company, who are at a mid-manager level (“People bet share purchase program”) or (ii) for newly hired employees. The voluntary investment in company shares leads to the grant of an amount of matching restricted stock units or stock options which vest after 5 years. In case of termination before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. In 2017, employees purchased 0.1m shares under this program for the equivalent of 5 m US dollar (2016: equivalent of 0.5m US dollar). Out of these, 0.1m shares were purchased by a member of the Executive Board of Management. 113 n order to maintain consistency of benefits granted to executives and to encourage international mobility of executives, an options exchange rogram can be executed whereby unvested options are exchanged against restricted shares that remain locked-up until 5 years after the end of he initial vesting period. In 2017, 0.3m options were exchanged against ordinary blocked shares. In 2016, no unvested options were exchanged gainst ordinary blocked shares. The shares that result from the exercise of the options must in principle remain locked-up until 31 December 2023. urthermore, certain options granted have been modified whereby the dividend protected feature of these options have been cancelled and ompensated by the issuance of new additional options. In 2017, no new options were issued. In 2016, 0.2m new options were issued, representing he economic value of the dividend protection feature. he weighted average fair value of the options and assumptions used in applying the AB InBev option pricing model for the 2017 grants of awards escribed above are as follows: mounts in US dollar unless otherwise indicated1 2017 2016 2015 air value of options granted 19.94 17.40 21.78 hare price 117.77 103.77 125.29 xercise price 117.77 103.77 125.29 xpected volatility 23% 24% 24% xpected dividends 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% isk-free interest rate 0.72% 0.54% 0.82% xpected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated using 3 295 days of historical data. In the determination of the expected volatility, B InBev is excluding the volatility measured during the period 15 July 2008 until 30 April 2009, in view of the extreme market conditions xperienced during that period. The binomial Hull model assumes that all employees would immediately exercise their options if the AB InBev share rice is 2.5 times above the exercise price. As a result, no single expected option life applies. he total number of outstanding AB InBev options developed as follows: illion options 2017 2016 2015 Options outstanding at 1 January 64.9 47.6 45.6 Options issued during the year 35.0 20.4 9.7 Options exercised during the year (3.0) (2.2) (6.6) Options forfeited during the year (3.9) (0.9) (1.1) Options outstanding at the end of December 93.0 64.9 47.6 he range of exercise prices of the outstanding options is between 10.32 euro (12.38 US dollar)1 and 121.95 euro (146.25 US dollar) while the eighted average remaining contractual life is 7.32 years. Of the 93.0m outstanding options 9.8m are vested at 31 December 2017. he weighted average exercise price of the AB InBev options is as follows: mounts in US dollar1 2017 2016 2015 Options outstanding at 1 January 76.25 64.50 51.35 Granted during the year 117.24 104.71 126.67 xercised during the year 38.94 32.45 32.47 orfeited during the year 108.26 88.68 54.88 Outstanding at the end of December 98.32 76.25 64.50 xercisable at the end of December 59.66 40.62 37.15 or share options exercised during 2017, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 102.60 euro (123.04 US dollar). he total number of outstanding AB InBev restricted stock units developed as follows: illion restricted stock units 2017 2016 2015 estricted stock units outstanding at 1 January 5.8 5.6 5.8 estricted stock units issued during the year 0.7 1.4 1.0 estricted stock units exercised during the year (0.7) (1.1) (1.0) estricted stock units forfeited during the year (0.4) (0.1) (0.2) estricted stock units outstanding at the end of December 5.4 5.8 5.6 Amounts have been converted to US dollar at the closing rate of the respective period. 114 Ambev share-based compensation programs Since 2005, Ambev has had a plan which is substantially similar to the Share-based compensation plan under which bonuses granted to company employees and management are partially settled in shares. Under the Share-based compensation plan, Ambev issued 0.8 m restricted stock units in 2017 with an estimated fair value of 5m US dollar. As from 2010, senior employees are eligible for an annual long-term incentive to be paid out in Ambev LTI stock options (or, in future, similar share-based instruments), depending on management’s assessment of the employee’s performance and future potential. In 2017, Ambev granted 20.4m LTI stock options with an estimated fair value of 42m US dollar (2016: 24.8m LTI stock options with an estimated fair value of 44m US dollar). The weighted fair value of the options and assumptions used in applying a binomial option pricing model for the 2017 Ambev grants are as follows: Amounts in US dollar unless otherwise indicated1 2017 2016 2015 Fair value of options granted 1.97 1.90 2.01 Share price 5.99 5.27 4.72 Exercise price 5.99 5.27 4.72 Expected volatility 27% 27% 27% Expected dividends 0.00% 5.00% 0.00% 5.00% 0.00% 5.00% Risk-free interest rate 10.10% 12.40% 15.90% The total number of outstanding Ambev options developed as follows: Million options 2017 2016 2015 Options outstanding at 1 January 131.3 121.7 126.1 Options issued during the year 20.4 24.8 16.6 Options exercised during the year (13.5) (11.6) (20.0) Options forfeited during the year (2.9) (3.7) (1.0) Options outstanding at the end of December 135.2 131.3 121.7 The range of exercise prices of the outstanding options is between 0.01 Brazilian real (0.00 US dollar) and 26.09 Brazilian real (7.89 US dollar) while the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.40 years. Of the 135.2m outstanding options 40.2m options are vested at 31 December 2017. The weighted average exercise price of the Ambev options is as follows: Amounts in US dollar1 2017 2016 2015 Options outstanding at 1 January 4.19 3.17 3.79 Granted during the year 5.99 5.27 4.72 Exercised during the year 1.76 0.77 1.29 Forfeited during the year 5.41 3.94 5.21 Outstanding at the end of December 4.92 4.26 3.17 Exercisable at the end of December 1.14 1.12 0.84 For share options exercised during 2017, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 18.87 Brazilian real (5.71 US dollar). The total number of outstanding Ambev restricted stock units developed as follows: Million restricted stock units 2017 2016 2015 Restricted stock units outstanding at 1 January 19.3 19.1 17.5 Restricted stock units issued during the year 0.8 7.3 2.7 Restricted stock units exercised during the year (2.9) (6.1) (0.8) Restricted stock units forfeited during the year (0.9) (1.0) (0.3) Restricted stock units outstanding at the end of December 16.3 19.3 19.1 Additionally, as a means of creating a long term incentive (wealth incentive) for certain senior employees and members of management considered as having “high potential,” share appreciation rights in the form of phantom stocks have been granted to those employees, pursuant to which the beneficiary shall receive two separate lots – Lot A and Lot B – subject to lockup periods of five and ten years, respectively. 1 Amounts have been converted to US dollar at the closing rate of the respective period. 115 uring 2017, a limited number of Ambev shareholders who are part of the senior management of AB InBev were given the opportunity to exchange mbev shares against a total of 0.1m AB InBev shares (0.3m AB InBev shares in 2016) at a discount of 16.7% provided that they stay in service or another five years. The fair value of this transaction amounts to approximately 2m US dollar (5m US dollar in 2016) and is expensed over the ive years’ service period. The fair values of the Ambev and AB InBev shares were determined based on the market price. 7. Provisions illion US dollar Restructuring Disputes Other Total alance at 1 January 2017 as reported 232 1 592 454 2 278 djustments – (126) 394 268 alance at 1 January 2017 as adjusted 232 1 466 848 2 546 ffect of changes in foreign exchange rates 15 20 38 73 cquisitions through business combinations – – – – rovisions made 88 185 35 308 rovisions used (186) (135) (99) (419) rovisions reversed (2) (160) 2 (160) Other movements 6 7 39 52 alance at 31 December 2017 153 1 383 864 2 400 he restructuring provisions are primarily explained by the organizational alignments see also Note 8 Non-recurring items. Provisions for disputes mainly relate to various disputed direct and indirect taxes and to claims from former employees. he provisions are expected to be settled within the following time windows: illion US dollar Total < 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years > 5 years Restructuring 153 69 22 60 2 Disputes ncome and indirect taxes 701 138 464 57 42 abor 135 37 7 85 6 ommercial 44 16 19 6 3 xcise duties 59 – 6 53 – Other disputes 444 30 296 117 1 1 383 221 792 318 52 Other provisions 864 595 6 263 – otal provisions 2 400 885 820 641 54 B InBev is subject to the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme in force in the European Union and a similar scheme in Korea. cquired emission allowances are recognized at cost as intangible assets. To the extent that it is expected that the number of allowances needed o settle the CO2 emissions exceeds the number of emission allowances owned, a provision is recognized. Such provision is measured at the stimated amount of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. At 31 December 2017, the emission allowances owned fully covered the xpected CO2 emissions. As such no provision needed to be recognized. 8. Trade and other payables Non-current trade and other payables 2016 2016 illion US dollar 2017 Adjusted Reported ndirect taxes payable 157 159 159 rade payables 380 465 465 eferred consideration on acquisitions 699 379 379 Other payables 226 313 325 1 462 1 316 1 328 116 Current trade and other payables Million US dollar 2017 2016 Trade payables and accrued expenses 15 240 14 071 Payroll and social security payables 1 284 1 027 Indirect taxes payable 2 862 2 750 Interest payable 1 790 1 797 Consigned packaging 1 111 974 Dividends payable 479 447 Deferred income 30 52 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 1 723 1 640 Other payables 243 327 24 762 23 086 Deferred consideration on acquisitions is mainly comprised of 1.6 billion US dollar for the put option included in the 2012 shareholders’ agreement between Ambev and E. León Jimenes S.A. (“ELJ”) as amended in 2017 to allow for a partial exercise of the option, which may result in Ambev acquiring additional Class B shares of Cervecería Nacional Dominicana S.A. (“CND”). The put option granted to ELJ is exercisable since 2013. The valuation of this option is based on the EBITDA of the consolidated operations in Dominican Republic. On 1 December 2017, Ambev announced that ELJ partially exercised its option to sell approximately 30% of the shares of CND for an amount of 0.9 billion US dollar. The transaction closed in January 2018 resulting in Ambev’s participation in CND increasing from 55% to 85%. 29. Risks arising from financial instruments AB InBev’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest risk, commodity risk and equity risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The company analyses each of these risks individually as well as on an interconnected basis, and defines strategies to manage the economic impact on the company’s performance in line with its financial risk management policy. Some of the company’s risk management strategies include the usage of derivatives. The main derivative instruments used are foreign currency rate agreements, exchange traded foreign currency futures and options, interest rate swaps and forwards, cross currency interest rate swaps (“CCIRS”), exchange traded interest rate futures, commodity swaps, exchange traded commodity futures and equity swaps. AB InBev’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives in the context of speculative trading. The following table provides an overview of the derivative financial instruments outstanding at year-end by maturity bucket. The amounts included in this table are the notional amounts. 2017 2016 <1 1-2 2-3 3-5 >5 <1 1-2 2-3 3-5 >5 Million US dollar year years years years years year years years years years Foreign currency Forward exchange contracts 11 637 233 – – – 22 396 96 – – – Foreign currency futures 655 – – – – 610 – – – – Interest rate Interest rate swaps 1 075 2 250 750 1 883 88 1 292 1 075 2 250 784 3 630 Cross currency interest rate swaps 711 1 797 – 5 900 1 176 1 553 785 1 796 460 1 134 Interest rate futures – – 5 – – – – 46 77 – Other interest rate derivatives – – – – 565 – – – – 565 Commodities Aluminum swaps 1 412 21 – – – 1 211 31 – – – Other commodity derivatives 1 214 144 – – – 1 124 189 – – – Equity Equity derivatives 11 799 – – – – 10 087 235 – – – A. Foreign currency risk AB InBev incurs foreign currency risk on borrowings, investments, (forecasted) sales, (forecasted) purchases, royalties, dividends, licenses, management fees and interest expense/income whenever they are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. The main derivative financial instruments used to manage foreign currency risk are foreign currency rate agreements, exchange traded foreign currency futures and cross currency interest rate swaps. 117 oreign exchange risk on the combination with SAB uring 2015 and 2016, AB InBev entered into derivative foreign exchange forward contracts, as well as other non-derivative items also documented n a hedge accounting relationship, in order to economically hedge against exposure to changes in the US dollar exchange rate for the cash omponent of the SAB purchase consideration in pound sterling and South African rand. Although these derivatives and non-derivative items ere considered to be economic hedges, only a portion of such derivatives could qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS rules. Since inception of he derivative contracts in 2015 and upon the completion of the combination with SAB, 12.3 billion US dollar negative mark-to-market adjustment elated to such hedging were recognized cumulatively over 2015 and 2016, of which 7.4 billion US dollar qualified for hedge accounting and was, ccordingly, allocated as part of the consideration paid. he portion that did not qualify for hedge accounting was reported as an exceptional finance cost in the profit and loss account in 2016 see Note 11 inance cost and income. Furthermore, the settlement of the derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting was classified as cash flow from inancing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement. oreign exchange risk on operating activities s far as foreign currency risk on firm commitments and forecasted transactions is concerned, AB InBev’s policy is to hedge operational ransactions which are reasonably expected to occur (e.g. cost of goods sold and selling, general & administrative expenses) within the forecast eriod determined in the financial risk management policy. Operational transactions that are certain are hedged without any limitation in time. on-operational transactions (such as acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries) are hedged as soon as they are certain. he table below provides an indication of the company’s main net foreign currency positions as regards firm commitments and forecasted ransactions for the most important currency pairs. The open positions are the result of the application of AB InBev’s risk management policy. ositive amounts indicate that the company is long (net future cash inflows) in the first currency of the currency pair while negative amounts indicate hat the company is short (net future cash outflows) in the first currency of the currency pair. The second currency of the currency pairs listed is the unctional currency of the related subsidiary. 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Total Total Open Total Total Open illion US dollar exposure hedges position exposure hedges position uro/Canadian dollar (32) 32 – (52) 52 – uro/Mexican peso (275) 246 (29) (159) 197 38 uro/Pound sterling (82) 110 28 (33) 146 113 uro/Russian ruble (58) 68 10 (64) 93 29 uro/South African rand (84) 84 – (64) 64 – uro/South Korean won (53) 44 (9) (63) 55 (8) uro/Ukrainian hryvnia (58) – (58) (60) – (60) uro/US dollar (271) 425 154 (924) 483 (441) ound sterling/Euro (87) 128 41 (69) 71 2 ound sterling/US dollar (40) 40 – (492) 162 (330) S dollar/Argentinean peso (678) 678 – (219) 219 – S dollar/Australian dollar (469) 192 (277) (171) 73 (98) S dollar/Bolivian boliviano (20) 20 – (59) 59 – S dollar/Brazilian real (1 184) 1 184 – (1 102) 1 102 – S dollar/Canadian dollar (306) 306 – (347) 347 – S dollar/Chilean peso (324) 324 – (255) 255 – S dollar/Chinese yuan (303) 134 (169) (248) 228 (20) S dollar/Colombian peso (319) 195 (124) (202) 187 (15) S dollar/Euro (157) 145 (12) (115) 68 (47) S dollar/Honduran lempira – – – (172) – (172) S dollar/Mexican peso (1 143) 873 (270) (952) 1 065 113 S dollar/Nigerian naira (172) – (172) (87) – (87) S dollar/Paraguayan guarani (108) 108 – (136) 136 – S dollar/Peruvian nuevo sol (255) 154 (101) (196) 123 (73) S dollar/Russian ruble (45) 30 (15) (71) 91 20 S dollar/South African rand (72) 66 (6) (95) 95 – S dollar/South Korean won (20) 60 40 (48) 112 64 S dollar/Tanzanian shilling (2) – (2) (85) 14 (71) S dollar/Ukrainian hryvnia (18) – (18) (22) – (22) S dollar/Uruguayan peso (57) 57 – (44) 44 – S dollar/Zambian kwacha (4) – (4) (89) – (89) Others (118) 104 (14) (390) 71 (319) urther analysis on the impact of open currency exposures is performed in the Currency Sensitivity Analysis below. 118 In conformity with IAS 39 hedge accounting rules, these hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currency are designated as cash flow hedges. Foreign exchange risk on net investments in foreign operations AB InBev enters into hedging activities to mitigate exposures related to its investments in foreign operations. These strategies are designated as net investment hedges and include both derivative and non-derivative financial instruments. As of 31 December 2017, designated derivative and non-derivative financial instruments in a net investment hedge relationship amount to 7 424m US dollar equivalent (15 583m US dollar in 2016) in Holding companies and approximately 1 669m US dollar equivalent (1 497m US dollar in 2016) at Ambev level. Those derivatives and non-derivatives are used to hedge foreign operations with functional currencies mainly denominated in Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Dominican peso, euro, Mexican peso, pound sterling, South Korean won and US dollar. Foreign exchange risk on foreign currency denominated debt It is AB InBev’s policy to have the debt in the subsidiaries as much as possible linked to the functional currency of the subsidiary. To the extent this is not the case, hedging is put in place unless the cost to hedge outweighs the benefits. Interest rate decisions and currency mix of debt and cash are decided on a global basis and take into consideration the holistic risk management approach. A description of the foreign currency risk hedging related to the debt instruments issued in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary is further detailed in the Interest Rate Risk section below. Currency sensitivity analysis Currency transactional risk Most of AB InBev’s non-derivative monetary financial instruments are either denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or are converted into the functional currency through the use of derivatives. However, the company can have open positions in certain countries for which hedging can be limited as the illiquidity of the local foreign exchange market prevents the company from hedging at a reasonable cost. The transactional foreign currency risk mainly arises from open positions in Australian dollar, Chinese yuan, Colombian peso, Mexican peso, Nigerian naira, Peruvian nuevo sol, pound sterling, Russian ruble, South African rand, South Korean won, Tanzanian shilling, Ukrainian hryvnia and Zambian kwacha against the US dollar and the euro. AB InBev estimated the reasonably possible change of exchange rate, on the basis of the average volatility on the open currency pairs, as follows: 2017 Closing rate Possible Volatility 31 December 2017 closing rate1 of rates in % Euro/Mexican peso 23.67 20.81 – 26.53 12.07% Euro/Pound sterling 0.89 0.82 – 0.96 7.94% Euro/Russian ruble 69.12 60.86 – 77.38 11.95% Euro/South Korean won 1 280.41 1 181.37 – 1 379.44 7.73% Euro/Ukrainian hryvnia 33.66 30.39 – 36.93 9.72% Euro/US dollar 1.20 1.11 – 1.28 7.12% Pound sterling/US dollar 1.35 1.16 – 1.54 13.99% US dollar/Australian dollar 1.28 1.18 – 1.38 7.50% US dollar/Chinese yuan 6.51 6.15 – 6.86 5.45% US dollar/Colombian peso 2 988.60 2 732.94 – 3 244.26 8.55% US dollar/Euro 0.83 0.77 – 0.89 7.12% US dollar/Mexican peso 19.74 17.45 – 22.02 11.59% US dollar/Nigerian naira 360.03 284.18 – 435.87 21.07% US dollar/Peruvian nuevo sol 3.24 3.11 – 3.38 4.19% US dollar/Russian ruble 57.63 51.43 – 63.83 10.76% US dollar/South African rand 12.35 10.44 – 14.25 15.39% US dollar/South Korean won 1 067.63 921.4 – 1 213.86 13.70% US dollar/Tanzanian shilling 2 235.44 2 176.76 – 2 294.12 2.63% US dollar/Ukrainian hryvnia 28.07 26.86 – 29.27 4.30% US dollar/Zambian kwacha 9.98 8.91 – 11.05 10.72% 1 Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2017. 119 2016 Closing rate Possible Volatility 31 December 2016 closing rate1 of rates in % uro/Mexican peso 21.78 18.12 – 25.45 16.83% uro/Pound sterling 0.86 0.76 – 0.96 11.63% uro/Russian ruble 63.94 51.45 – 76.43 19.53% uro/Ukrainian hryvnia 28.66 24.85 – 32.47 13.30% uro/US dollar 1.05 0.97 – 1.14 8.09% ound sterling/US dollar 1.23 1.06 – 1.40 13.99% S dollar/Australian dollar 1.38 1.23 – 1.54 11.22% S dollar/Chinese yuan 6.94 6.57 – 7.32 5.45% S dollar/Colombian peso 3 002.14 2 449.43 – 3 554.86 18.41% S dollar/Euro 0.95 0.87 – 1.03 8.09% S dollar/Honduran lempira 23.49 23.36 – 23.63 0.57% S dollar/Mexican peso 20.66 17.20 – 24.13 16.76% S dollar/Nigerian naira 315.28 192.49 – 438.07 38.95% S dollar/Peruvian nuevo sol 3.35 3.11 – 3.60 7.29% S dollar/Russian ruble 60.66 48.77 – 72.55 19.60% S dollar/South Korean won 1 203.90 1 039.01 – 1 368.80 13.70% S dollar/Tanzanian shilling 2 180.87 2 151.10 – 2 210.64 1.37% S dollar/Ukrainian hryvnia 27.19 24.27 – 30.11 10.74% S dollar/Zambian kwacha 9.94 8.06 – 11.82 18.91% ad the Australian dollar, Chinese yuan, Colombian peso, Mexican peso, Nigerian naira, Peruvian nuevo sol, pound sterling, Russian ruble, South frican rand, South Korean won, Tanzanian shilling, Ukrainian hryvnia and Zambian kwacha weakened/strengthened during 2017 by the above stimated changes against the euro or the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, the 2017 impact on consolidated profit before taxes ould have been approximately 142m US dollar (112m US dollar in 2016) higher/lower. dditionally, the AB InBev sensitivity analysis1 to the foreign exchange rates on its total derivatives positions as of 31 December 2017, shows a ositive/negative pre-tax impact on equity reserves of 639m US dollar (774m US dollar in 2016). Net foreign exchange results oreign exchange results recognized on unhedged and hedged exposures and from the related hedging derivative instruments can be summarized er type of hedging relationship as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 ash flow hedges hedged items (2) 98 ash flow hedges hedging instruments (reclassified from equity) (11) (151) conomic hedges hedged items not part of a hedge accounting relationship 406 9 conomic hedges hedging instruments not part of a hedge accounting relationship (455) (45) Other results not hedged (242) 68 (304) (21) B. Interest rate risk he company applies a dynamic interest rate hedging approach whereby the target mix between fixed and floating rate debt is reviewed periodically. he purpose of AB InBev’s policy is to achieve an optimal balance between cost of funding and volatility of financial results, while taking into account market conditions as well as AB InBev’s overall business strategy. air value hedge S dollar fixed rate bond hedges (interest rate risk on borrowings in US dollar) The company entered into several US dollar fixed/floating nterest rate swaps to manage and reduce the impact of changes in the US dollar interest rates on the fair value of certain fixed rate bonds with an ggregate principal amount of 3.0 billion US dollar. hese derivative instruments have been designated in a fair value hedge accounting relationship. Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2016. 120 Cash flow hedge Canadian dollar bond hedges (foreign currency risk + interest rate risk on borrowings in Canadian dollar) In January 2013, the company issued a series of notes in an aggregated principal amount of 1.2 billion Canadian dollar. These bonds bear interest at 2.375% with maturity in January 2018 and 3.375% with maturity in January 2023. The company entered into several Canadian dollar fixed/US dollar fixed cross currency interest rate swaps to manage and reduce the impact of changes in the Canadian dollar exchange rate and interest rate on these bonds. These derivative instruments have been designated in a cash flow hedge accounting relationship. Pound sterling bond hedges (foreign currency risk + interest rate risk on borrowings in pound sterling) In September 2013, the company issued a pound sterling bond for an equivalent of 500m pound sterling. This bond bears interest at 4.00% per year with maturity in September 2025. The company entered into several pound sterling fixed/euro fixed cross currency interest rate swaps to manage and reduce the impact of changes in the pound sterling exchange rate and interest rate on this bond. These derivative instruments have been designated in a cash flow hedge accounting relationship. Economic hedge Marketable debt security hedges (interest rate risk on Brazilian real) During 2017 and 2016, Ambev invested in highly liquid Brazilian real denominated government debt securities. The company also entered into interest rate future contacts in order to offset the Brazilian real interest rate exposure of such government bonds. Since both instruments are measured at fair value with changes recorded into profit or loss, no hedge accounting designation was done. Interest rate sensitivity analysis In respect of interest-bearing financial liabilities, the table below indicates their effective interest rates at balance sheet date as well as the split per currency in which the debt is denominated. 31 December 2017 Before hedging After hedging Interest-bearing financial liabilities Effective Effective Million US dollar interest rate Amount interest rate Amount Floating rate Australian dollar 2.68% 234 2.68% 234 Brazilian real 9.22% 122 7.61% 199 Canadian dollar 2.09% 207 2.45% 224 Euro 0.35% 3 398 0.35% 3 415 South Africa rand 8.00% 666 8.00% 666 US dollar 1.48% 1 285 1.43% 2 521 Other 16.68% 450 16.68% 450 6 362 7 709 Fixed rate Australian dollar 3.70% 1 838 3.70% 1 838 Brazilian real 6.43% 206 5.86% 112 Canadian dollar 3.08% 2 543 3.19% 2 176 Euro 1.88% 26 386 1.70% 34 251 Peruvian nuevo sol 6.87% 33 6.87% 33 Pound sterling 3.83% 4 403 3.80% 3 734 South Korean won – – 2.50% 1 000 US dollar 4.18% 74 476 4.51% 65 394 Other 3.36% 252 2.36% 252 110 137 108 790 121 1 December 2016 Before hedging After hedging nterest-bearing financial liabilities Effective Effective illion US dollar interest rate Amount interest rate Amount loating rate razilian real 9.76% 205 12.62% 729 anadian dollar 1.55% 386 1.55% 386 uro 0.20% 3 037 0.12% 4 046 outh African rand 8.30% 446 8.30% 446 S dollar 1.82% 10 187 2.33% 18 002 Other 18.75% 352 18.75% 352 14 613 23 961 ixed rate ustralian dollar 3.85% 520 3.85% 520 razilian real 6.67% 375 6.20% 258 anadian dollar 2.93% 886 2.89% 554 uro 0.26% 23 991 1.86% 26 396 eruvian nuevo sol 5.88% 119 5.88% 119 ound sterling 6.80% 2 212 9.75% 594 outh Korean won – – 2.50% 1 000 S dollar 4.06% 79 615 4.15% 68 928 Other 11.41% 412 11.41% 412 108 130 98 782 t 31 December 2017, the total carrying amount of the floating and fixed rate interest-bearing financial liabilities before hedging listed above ncludes bank overdrafts of 117m US dollar. s disclosed in the above table, 7 709m US dollar or 6.62% of the company’s interest bearing financial liabilities bear a variable interest rate. The ompany estimated that the reasonably possible change of the market interest rates applicable to its floating rate debt after hedging is as follows: 2017 Interest rate Possible Volatility 31 December 20171 interest rate2 of rates in % razilian real 6.90% 5.29% 8.50% 23.27% anadian dollar 1.54% 1.38% 1.71% 10.72% uro – – 3.50% outh African rand 7.16% 6.88% 7.43% 3.84% S dollar 1.69% 1.59% 1.80% 6.00% 2016 Interest rate Possible Volatility 31 December 20161 interest rate2 of rates in % razilian real 13.20% 12.88% 13.53% 2.46% anadian dollar 0.95% 0.87% 1.02% 7.83% uro – – 11.84% outh African rand 7.36% 6.95% 7.77% 5.55% S dollar 1.00% 0.89% 1.11% 11.08% When AB InBev applies the reasonably possible increase/decrease in the market interest rates mentioned above on its floating rate debt at 1 December 2017, with all other variables held constant, 2017 interest expense would have been 12m US dollar higher/lower (2016: 23m US dollar). his effect would be more than offset by -81m US dollar higher/lower interest income on AB InBev’s interest-bearing financial assets 2016: 53m US dollar). Applicable 3-month InterBank Offered Rates as of 31 December 2017 and as of 31 December 2016. Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2017 and at December 2016. For the Brazilian real floating rate debt, the estimated market interest rate is composed of the InterBank Deposit Certificate (‘CDI’) and the Long-Term Interest Rate (‘TJLP’). With regard to other market nterest rates, the company’s analysis is based on the 3-month InterBank Offered Rates applicable for the currencies concerned (e.g. EURIBOR 3M, LIBOR 3M). 122 Interest expense Interest expense recognized on unhedged and hedged financial liabilities and the net interest expense from the related hedging derivative instruments can be summarized per type of hedging relationship as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost – not hedged (4 375) (4 119) Fair value hedges – hedged items. (34) (73) Fair value hedges – hedging instruments 23 42 Cash flow hedges – hedged items (25) (24) Cash flow hedges – hedging instruments (reclassified from equity) 26 16 Net investment hedges hedging instruments (interest component) 77 34 Economic hedges hedged items not part of a hedge accounting relationship – 8 Economic hedges hedging instruments not part of a hedge accounting relationship (6) 24 (4 314) (4 092) C. Commodity price risk The commodity markets have experienced and are expected to continue to experience price fluctuations. AB InBev therefore uses both fixed price purchasing contracts and commodity derivatives to minimize exposure to commodity price volatility. The company has important exposures to the following commodities: aluminum, barley, coal, corn grits, corn syrup, corrugated board, diesel, fuel oil, glass, hops, labels, malt, natural gas, orange juice, plastics, rice, steel and wheat. As of 31 December 2017, the company has the following commodity derivatives outstanding (in notional amounts): aluminum swaps for 1 412m US dollar (2016: 1 242m US dollar), natural gas and energy derivatives for 211m US dollar (2016: 189m US dollar), exchange traded sugar futures for 87m US dollar (2016: 93m US dollar), corn swaps for 223m US dollar (2016: 179m US dollar), exchange traded wheat futures for 509m US dollar (2016: 557m US dollar), rice swaps for 221m US dollar (2016: 190m US dollar) and plastic derivatives for 91m US dollar (2016: 105m US dollar). These hedges are designated in a cash flow hedge accounting relationship. Commodity price sensitivity analysis The impact of changes in the commodity prices for AB InBev’s derivative exposures would have caused an immaterial impact on 2017 profits as most of the company’s commodity derivatives are designated in a hedge accounting relationship. The table below shows the estimated impact that changes in the price of the commodities, for which AB InBev held material derivative exposures at 31 December 2017, would have on the equity reserves. 2017 Pre-tax impact on equity Million US dollar Volatility of prices in %1 Prices increase Prices decrease Aluminum 14.83% 212 (212) Sugar 29.38% 26 (26) Wheat 30.99% 158 (158) Energy 20.37% 43 (43) Rice 20.20% 45 (45) Corn 24.81% 45 (45) Plastic 17.50% 15 (15) 2016 Pre-tax impact on equity Million US dollar Volatility of prices in %2 Prices increase Prices decrease Aluminum 15.80% 196 (196) Sugar 32.63% 30 (30) Wheat 26.43% 147 (147) Energy 28.60% 54 (54) Rice 26.38% 50 (50) Corn 24.30% 44 (44) Plastic 18.62% 20 (20) 1 Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2017. 2 Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2016. 123 D. Equity price risk B InBev entered into a series of derivative contracts to hedge the risk arising from the different share-based payment programs. The purpose of hese derivatives is mainly to effectively hedge the risk that a price increase in the AB InBev shares will negatively impact future cash flows related o the share-based payments. Furthermore, AB InBev entered into a series of derivative contracts to hedge the deferred share instrument related to he Modelo combination (see also Note 11 Finance cost and income and Note 23 Changes in equity and earnings per share) and some share-based ayments in connection with the combination with SAB. Most of these derivative instruments could not qualify for hedge accounting therefore they ave not been designated in any hedging relationships. s of 31 December 2017, an exposure for an equivalent of 92.4m of AB InBev shares was hedged, resulting in a total loss of 579m US dollar ecognized in the profit or loss account for the period, of which 291m US dollar related to the company’s share-based payment programs, 46m US dollar and 142m US dollar related to the Modelo and SAB transactions, respectively. etween 2012 and 2016, AB InBev reset with counterparties certain derivative contracts to market price. This resulted in a cash inflow of 3.2 billion S dollar between 2012 and 2016 and a cash outflow of 0.3 billion US dollar in 2017 and, accordingly, a decrease of counterparty risk. quity price sensitivity analysis he sensitivity analysis on the share-based payments hedging program, calculated based on a 15.68% (2016: 22.84%) reasonable possible olatility1 of the AB InBev share price and with all the other variables held constant, would show 1 422m US dollar positive/negative impact on the 017 profit before tax (2016: 2 236m US dollar). E. Credit risk redit risk encompasses all forms of counterparty exposure, i.e. where counterparties may default on their obligations to AB InBev in relation to ending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities. The company has a credit policy in place and the exposure to counterparty credit risk s monitored. B InBev mitigates its exposure to counterparty credit risk through minimum counterparty credit guidelines, diversification of counterparties, orking within agreed counterparty limits and through setting limits on the maturity of financial assets. The company has furthermore master etting agreements with all of the financial institutions that are counterparties to the over the counter (OTC) derivative financial instruments. These greements allow for the net settlement of assets and liabilities arising from different transactions with the same counterparty. Based on these actors, AB InBev considers the risk of counterparty default per 31 December 2017 to be limited. B InBev has established minimum counterparty credit ratings and enters into transactions only with financial institutions of investment grade. The ompany monitors counterparty credit exposures closely and reviews any downgrade in credit rating immediately. To mitigate pre-settlement risk, minimum counterparty credit standards become more stringent as the duration of the derivative financial instruments increases. To minimize the oncentration of counterparty credit risk, the company enters into derivative transactions with different financial institutions. xposure to credit risk he carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure of the company. The carrying amount is presented net of the mpairment losses recognized. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2017 2016 Net carrying Net carrying illion US dollar Gross Impairment amount Gross Impairment amount ebt securities held for trading 1 304 – 1 304 5 659 – 5 659 vailable for sale 83 (7) 76 65 (7) 58 eld to maturity 24 – 24 24 – 24 rade receivables 4 917 (194) 4 723 4 399 (202) 4 197 ash deposits for guarantees 209 – 209 200 – 200 oans to customers 179 – 179 100 – 100 Other receivables 2 326 (117) 2 209 2 818 (109) 2 709 erivatives 483 – 483 1 117 – 1 117 ash and cash equivalents 10 472 – 10 472 8 579 – 8 579 19 997 (318) 19 679 22 961 (318) 22 643 here was no significant concentration of credit risks with any single counterparty per 31 December 2017 and no single customer represented more han 10% of the total revenue of the group in 2017. Sensitivity analysis is assessed based on the yearly volatility using daily observable market data during 250 days at 31 December 2017. 124 Impairment losses The allowance for impairment recognized during the period per classes of financial assets was as follows: 2017 Available for Trade Loans to Other Million US dollar sale receivables customers receivables Total Balance at 1 January (7) (202) – (109) (318) Impairment losses – (55) – (4) (59) Derecognition – 53 – 1 54 Currency translation and other – 10 – (5) 5 Balance at 31 December (7) (194) – (117) (318) 2016 Available for Trade Loans to Other Million US dollar sale receivables customers receivables Total Balance at 1 January (9) (230) – (99) (338) Impairment losses – (43) – – (43) Derecognition – 69 – 2 71 Currency translation and other 2 2 – (12) (8) Balance at 31 December (7) (202) – (109) (318) F. Liquidity risk AB InBev’s primary sources of cash flow have historically been cash flows from operating activities, the issuance of debt, bank borrowings and the issuance of equity securities. AB InBev’s material cash requirements have included the following: • Debt service; • Capital expenditures; • Investments in companies; • Increases in ownership of AB InBev’s subsidiaries or companies in which it holds equity investments; • Share buyback programs; and • Payments of dividends and interest on shareholders’ equity. The company believes that cash flows from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalent and short term investments, along with the derivative instruments and access to borrowing facilities, will be sufficient to fund capital expenditures, financial instrument liabilities and dividend payments going forward. It is the intention of the company to continue to reduce its financial indebtedness through a combination of strong operating cash flow generation and continued refinancing. The following are the nominal contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities including interest payments and derivative financial assets and liabilities: 2017 Carrying Contractual Less than More than Million US dollar amount1 cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured bank loans (502) (590) (318) (137) (23) (42) (70) Commercial papers (1 870) (1 871) (1 871) – – – – Unsecured bank loans (892) (927) (761) (129) (37) – – Unsecured bond issues (112 837) (167 056) (8 951) (13 951) (12 908) (24 655) (106 591) Unsecured other loans (68) (114) (17) (23) (13) (7) (54) Finance lease liabilities (213) (301) (42) (42) (32) (40) (145) Bank overdraft (117) (117) (117) – – – – Trade and other payables (26 167) (26 628) (24 756) (476) (207) (289) (900) (142 666) (197 604) (36 833) (14 758) (13 220) (25 033) (107 760) Derivative financial assets/(liabilities) Interest rate derivatives (96) (101) (9) (21) (14) 16 (73) Foreign exchange derivatives (61) (52) (59) 7 – – – Cross currency interest rate swaps (897) (1 043) 65 (128) 114 (904) (190) Commodity derivatives 179 143 139 4 – – – Equity derivatives (1 036) (1 134) (1 134) – – – – (1 911) (2 187) (998) (138) 100 (888) (263) Of which: directly related to cash flow hedges (20) (29) 64 5 2 4 (104) 1 “Carrying amount” refers to net book value as recognized in the balance sheet at each reporting date. 125 2016 Carrying Contractual Less than More than illion US dollar amount1 cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years on-derivative financial liabilities ecured bank loans (862) (937) (676) (116) (33) (32) (80) ommercial papers (2 053) (2 054) (2 054) – – – – nsecured bank loans (9 662) (11 057) (1 618) (535) (365) (8 535) (4) nsecured bond issues (109 627) (162 300) (7 284) (10 262) (13 713) (25 383) (105 658) nsecured other loans (122) (279) (27) (41) (33) (41) (137) inance lease liabilities (234) (346) (44) (42) (44) (70) (146) ank overdraft (184) (184) (184) – – – – rade and other payables (24 879) (25 398) (23 717) (449) (209) (331) (692) (147 623) (202 555) (35 604) (11 445) (14 397) (34 392) (106 717) erivative financial ssets/(liabilities) nterest rate derivatives (267) (269) 5 3 (13) (35) (229) oreign exchange derivatives 47 42 44 (2) – – – ross currency interest rate swaps (32) (58) 22 (97) – 55 (38) ommodity derivatives 125 117 107 10 – – – quity derivatives (490) (499) (499) – – – – (617) (667) (321) (86) (13) 20 (267) Of which: directly related o cash flow hedges 28 6 176 (112) (2) – (56) G. Capital management B InBev is continuously optimizing its capital structure targeting to maximize shareholder value while keeping the desired financial flexibility to xecute the strategic projects. AB InBev’s capital structure policy and framework aims to optimize shareholder value through cash flow distribution o the company from its subsidiaries, while maintaining an investment-grade rating and minimizing investments with returns below AB InBev’s eighted average cost of capital. Besides the statutory minimum equity funding requirements that apply to the company’s subsidiaries in the ifferent countries, AB InBev is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. When analyzing AB InBev’s capital structure the ompany uses the same debt/equity classifications as applied in the company’s IFRS reporting. H. Fair value air value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In conformity with IAS 39 all derivatives are recognized at fair value in the balance sheet. he fair value of derivative financial instruments is either the quoted market price or is calculated using pricing models taking into account current market rates. he fair value of these instruments generally reflects the estimated amount that AB InBev would receive on the settlement of favorable contracts or e required to pay to terminate unfavorable contracts at the balance sheet date, and thereby takes into account any unrealized gains or losses on pen contracts. “Carrying amount” refers to net book value as recognized in the balance sheet at each reporting date. 126 The following table summarizes for each type of derivative the fair values recognized as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet: Assets Liabilities Net Million US dollar 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Foreign currency Forward exchange contracts 151 492 (211) (441) (60) 51 Foreign currency futures 1 3 (2) (7) (1) (4) Interest rate Interest rate swaps 14 26 (37) (216) (23) (190) Cross currency interest rate swaps 9 182 (906) (214) (897) (32) Other interest rate derivatives – – (73) (77) (73) (77) Commodities Aluminum swaps 178 69 (5) (8) 173 61 Sugar futures 24 22 (20) (5) 4 17 Wheat futures 34 52 (22) (30) 12 22 Other commodity derivatives 10 46 (20) (21) (10) 25 Equity Equity derivatives 62 225 (1 098) (715) (1 036) (490) 483 1 117 (2 394) (1 734) (1 911) (617) Of which: Non-current 25 146 (937) (471) (912) (325) Current 458 971 (1 457) (1 263) (999) (292) The following table summarizes the carrying amounts of the fixed rate interest-bearing financial liabilities as recognized in the balance sheet and the fair value of these liabilities. The fair value was assessed using common discounted cash-flow method based on market conditions existing at the balance sheet date. Therefore, the fair value of the fixed interest-bearing liabilities is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as set forth by IFRS 13 – Fair value measurement. Floating rate interest-bearing financial liabilities and all trade and other receivables and payables, including derivatives financial instruments, have been excluded from the analysis as their carrying amounts as recognized in the balance sheet are a reasonable approximation of their fair values: Interest-bearing financial liabilities 2017 2017 2016 2016 Million US dollar Carrying amount1 Fair value Carrying amount1 Fair value Fixed rate Australian dollar (1 838) (1 896) (520) (518) Brazilian real (206) (206) (375) (375) Canadian dollar (2 543) (2 574) (886) (954) Euro (26 386) (26 942) (23 991) (26 684) Peruvian nuevo sol (33) (33) (119) (118) Pound sterling (4 403) (4 902) (2 212) (2 847) US dollar (74 476) (83 482) (79 615) (85 397) Other (252) (252) (412) (411) (110 137) (120 287) (108 130) (117 305) As required by IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, the following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable. • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. •  evel 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset L or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques for which the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. 1 “Carrying amount” refers to net book value as recognized in the balance sheet at each reporting date. 127 air value hierarchy 2017 Quoted (unadjusted) Observable market Unobservable market illion US dollar prices level 1 inputs level 2 inputs level 3 inancial Assets eld for trading (non-derivatives) 1 304 5 – erivatives at fair value through profit and loss – 89 – erivatives in a cash flow hedge relationship 9 340 – erivatives in a fair value hedge relationship – 36 – erivatives in a net investment hedge relationship – 9 – 1 313 479 – inancial Liabilities eferred consideration on acquisitions at fair value – – 2 210 erivatives at fair value through profit and loss 1 1 210 – erivatives in a cash flow hedge relationship 28 341 – erivatives in a fair value hedge relationship – 129 – erivatives in a net investment hedge relationship – 685 – 29 2 365 2 210 air value hierarchy 2016 Quoted (unadjusted) Observable market Unobservable market illion US dollar prices level 1 inputs level 2 inputs level 3 inancial Assets eld for trading (non-derivatives) 5 659 – – erivatives at fair value through profit and loss 1 338 – erivatives in a cash flow hedge relationship 30 549 – erivatives in a fair value hedge relationship – 54 – erivatives in a net investment hedge relationship – 145 – 5 690 1 086 – inancial Liabilities on-derivatives recognized at fair value – 1 485 – eferred consideration on acquisitions at fair value – – 1 826 erivatives at fair value through profit and loss 3 818 – erivatives in a cash flow hedge relationship 27 524 – erivatives in a fair value hedge relationship – 354 – erivatives in a net investment hedge relationship – 8 – 30 3 189 1 826 Derivative instruments he fair value of exchange traded derivatives (e.g. exchange traded foreign currency futures) is determined by reference to the official prices ublished by the respective exchanges (e.g. the New York Board of Trade). The fair value of over-the-counter derivatives is determined by ommonly used valuation techniques. These are based on market inputs from reliable financial information providers. Non-derivative financial liabilities s part of the 2012 shareholders agreement between Ambev and E. León Jimenes S.A. (“ELJ”), following the acquisition of Cervecería Nacional ominicana S.A. (“CND”), a put and call option is in place which may result in Ambev acquiring additional shares in CND. As of 31 December 017, the put option was valued 1 669m US dollar (2016: 1 497m US dollar) and recognized as a deferred consideration on acquisitions at fair alue in “level 3” category above. The variance is mainly explained by accretion expenses and currency translation. No value was allocated to the all option. The fair value of such deferred consideration is calculated based on commonly-used valuation techniques (i.e. net present value of uture principal and interest cash flows discounted at market rate). These are based on market inputs from reliable financial information providers. On 1 December 2017, Ambev announced that ELJ partially exercised its option to sell approximately 30% of the shares of CND for an amount of .9 billion US dollar. The transaction closed in January 2018 resulting in Ambev’s participation in CND increasing from 55% to 85%. air values determined by reference to prices provided by reliable financial information providers are periodically checked for consistency against ther pricing sources. 128 I. Offsetting financial assets & financial liabilities The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements: 2017 Net amount recognized in the Gross statement of Other offsetting Million US dollar amount financial position1 agreements2 Total net amount Derivative assets 483 483 (466) 17 Derivative liabilities (2 394) (2 394) 466 (1 928) 2016 Net amount recognized in the statement of Other offsetting Million US dollar Gross amount financial position1 agreements2 Total net amount Derivative assets 1 117 1 117 (1 054) 63 Derivative liabilities (1 734) (1 734) 1 261 (473) 30. Operating leases Non-cancelable operating leases are payable and receivable as follows: 2017 Pub leases Other operational leases Net lease Million US dollar Lessee Sublease Lessee Sublease Lessor obligations Within one year (131) 80 (179) 47 2 (181) Between one and five years (486) 294 (523) 131 7 (577) After five years (573) 197 (208) 14 4 (566) (1 190) 571 (910) 192 13 (1 324) 2016 Pub leases Other operational leases Net lease Million US dollar Lessee Sublease Lessee Sublease Lessor obligations Within one year (95) 69 (153) 30 2 (147) Between one and five years (350) 246 (339) 66 5 (372) After five years (538) 156 (183) 15 2 (548) (983) 471 (675) 111 9 (1 067) Following the sale of Dutch and Belgian pub real estate to Cofinimmo in October 2007, AB InBev entered into lease agreements of 27 years. These operating leases maturing in November 2034 represent an undiscounted obligation of 1 190m US dollar. The pubs leased from Cofinimmo are subleased for an average outstanding period of 6 to 8 years and represent an undiscounted right to receive 571m US dollar. These leases are subject to renewal after their expiration date. The impact of such renewal is not reported in the table above. Furthermore, the company leases a number of warehouses, factory facilities and other commercial buildings under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial period of five to ten years, with an option to renew the lease after that date. This represents an undiscounted obligation of 910m US dollar. Lease payments are increased annually to reflect market rentals. None of the leases include contingent rentals. Also in this category AB InBev has sublet some of the leased properties, representing an undiscounted right of 192m US dollar. At 31 December 2017, 307m US dollar was recognized as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases as lessee (2016: 272m US dollar), while 128m US dollar was recognized as income in the income statement in respect of subleases (2016: 117m US dollar). The company also leases out part of its own property under operating leases. At 31 December 2017, 10m US dollar was recognized as income in the income statement in respect of operating leases as lessor (2016: 10m US dollar). 1 Net amount recognized in the statement of financial position after taking into account offsetting agreements that meet the offsetting criteria as per IFRS rules. 2 Other offsetting agreements include collateral and other guarantee instruments, as well as offsetting agreements that do not meet the offsetting criteria as per IFRS rules. 129 1. Collateral and contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, oans to customers and other illion US dollar 2017 2016 ollateral given for own liabilities 426 490 ollateral and financial guarantees received for own receivables and loans to customers 326 228 ontractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment 550 817 ontractual commitments to acquire loans to customers 16 11 Other commitments 1 834 1 768 he collateral given for own liabilities of 426m US dollar at 31 December 2017 contains 209m US dollar cash guarantees. Such cash deposits are a ustomary feature associated with litigations in Brazil: in accordance with Brazilian laws and regulations a company may or must (depending on the ircumstances) place a deposit with a bank designated by the court or provide other security such as collateral on property, plant and equipment. With regard to judicial cases, AB InBev has made the appropriate provisions in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and ontingent Assets – see also Note 27 Provisions. In the company’s balance sheet the cash guarantees are presented as part of other receivables – ee Note 20 Trade and other receivables. The remaining part of collateral given for own liabilities (217m US dollar) contains collateral on AB InBev’s roperty in favor of the excise tax authorities, the amount of which is determined by the level of the monthly excise taxes due, inventory levels and ransportation risk, and collateral on its property, plant and equipment with regard to outstanding loans. To the extent that AB InBev would not espect its obligations under the related outstanding contracts or would lose the pending judicial cases, the collateralized assets would be used to ettle AB InBev’s obligations. o keep AB InBev’s credit risk with regard to receivables and loans to customers as low as possible collateral and other credit enhancements ere obtained for a total amount of 326m US dollar at 31 December 2017. Collateral is held on both real estate and debt securities while financial uarantees are obtained from banks and other third parties. B InBev has entered into commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment for an amount of 550m US dollar at 31 December 2017. n a limited number of countries AB InBev has committed itself to acquire loans to customers from banks at their notional amount if the customers do ot respect their reimbursement commitments towards the banks. The total outstanding amount of such loans is 16m US dollar at 31 December 2017. s at 31 December 2017, the following M&A related commitments existed: In a transaction related to the combination of AB InBev and Grupo Modelo select Grupo Modelo shareholders committed, upon tender of their Grupo Modelo shares, to acquire 23 076 922 AB InBev shares to be delivered within 5 years for consideration of approximately 1.5 billion US dollar. The consideration was paid on 5 June 2013. Pending the delivery of the AB InBev shares, AB InBev will pay a coupon on each undelivered AB InBev share, so that the Deferred Share Instrument holders are compensated on an after tax basis, for dividends they would have received had the AB InBev shares been delivered to them prior to the record date for such dividend. As part of the 2012 shareholders agreement between Ambev and E. León Jimenes S.A.(“ELJ”), following the acquisition of Cervecería Nacional Dominicana S.A. (“CND”), a put and call option is in place which may result in Ambev acquiring additional shares in CND. On 1 December 2017, Ambev announced that ELJ partially exercised its option to sell approximately 30% of the shares of CND for an amount of 0.9 billion US dollar. The transaction closed in January 2018 resulting in Ambev’s participation in CND increasing from 55% to 85%. As of 31 December 2017, the put option was valued 1 669m US dollar (2016: 1 497m US dollar). The corresponding liability is presented as a current liability and recognized as a deferred consideration on acquisitions at fair value in “level 3” category above. See also Note 29 Risks arising from financial instruments. On 11 October 2016, AB InBev was notified by The Coca-Cola Company of its intention to transition AB InBev’s stake in Coca-Cola Beverages Africa (“CCBA”). On 21 December 2016, The Coca-Cola Company and the company have reached an agreement regarding the transition of AB InBev’s 54.5% equity stake in CCBA for 3.15 billion US dollar, after customary adjustments. CCBA includes the Coca-Cola bottling operations in South Africa, Namibia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Ghana, Mayotte and Comoros. This transaction was completed on 4 October 2017. In addition, the companies have reached an agreement in principle for The Coca-Cola Company to acquire the companies’s interest in bottling operations in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, El Salvador and Honduras for an undisclosed amount. These transactions are subject to the relevant regulatory and minority approvals in different jurisdictions. In September 2017, AB InBev entered into a transaction with Compañia Cervecerías Unidas S.A. (“CCU”) whereby AB InBev will recover the distribution rights for Budweiser in Argentina for a consideration of approximately 300m US dollar. As part of the transaction, AB InBev will transfer the brands Isenbeck and Diosa to CCU. Concurrently, AB InBev and Quilmes, a subsidiary of Ambev, entered into an agreement whereby AB InBev will grant a perpetual license to Quilmes in Argentina for Budweiser and other North American brands upon the recovery of the distribution rights by AB InBev from CCU. The agreement also foresees the transfer of the brewery of Cerveceria Argentina Sociedad Anonima Isenbeck by AB InBev to Quilmes and the transfer of some Argentinean brands (Norte, Iguana and Baltica) along with 50m US dollar by Quilmes to CCU. The closing of these transactions is subject to the approval of the Argentinean antitrust authority. On 11 October 2016, AB InBev completed the disposal of SAB’s interest in MillerCoors LLC and all trademarks, contracts and other assets primarily related to the “Miller International Business” to Molson Coors Brewing Company. The disposal was completed for 12 billion US dollar in cash, subject to a downward purchase price adjustment. AB InBev set up a provision of 330m US dollar as part of the opening balance sheet related to the purchase price adjustment. The parties entered into a settlement agreement on 21 January 2018 for 330m US dollar of which 328m US dollar constitutes the purchase price adjustment amount. Other commitments amount to 1 834m US dollar at 31 December 2017 and mainly cover guarantees given to pension funds, rental and other uarantees. 130 In order to fulfil AB InBev’s commitments under various outstanding stock option plans, AB InBev entered into stock lending arrangements for up to 19 million of its own ordinary shares. AB InBev shall pay any dividend equivalent, after tax in respect of the loaned securities. This payment will be reported through equity as dividend. As of 31 December 2017, 17 million loaned securities were used to fulfil stock option plan commitments. 32. Contingencies1 The company has contingencies for which, in the opinion of management and its legal counsel, the risk of loss is possible but not probable and therefore no provisions have been recorded. Due to their nature, such legal proceedings and tax matters involve inherent uncertainties including, but not limited to, court rulings, negotiations between affected parties and governmental actions, and as a consequence AB InBev management cannot at this stage estimate the likely timing of resolution of these matters. The most significant contingencies are discussed below. Ambev tax matters As of 31 December 2017, AB InBev’s material tax proceedings related to Ambev and its subsidiaries. Estimates of amounts of possible loss are as follows: Million US dollar 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Income tax and social contribution 9 600 8 878 Value-added and excise taxes 5 987 4 924 Other taxes 1 390 605 16 977 14 407 The most significant tax proceedings of Ambev are discussed below. Income tax and social contribution During 2005, certain subsidiaries of Ambev received a number of assessments from Brazilian federal tax authorities relating to profits of its foreign subsidiaries. In December 2008, the Administrative Court decided on one of the tax assessments relating to earnings of Ambev’s foreign subsidiaries. This decision was partially favorable to Ambev, and in connection with the remaining part, Ambev filed an appeal to the Upper House of the Administrative Court, which was denied in full in March 2017. In September 2017, Ambev filed a judicial proceeding for this tax assessment with a motion of injunction, which was granted to Ambev. With respect to another tax assessment relating to foreign profits, the Administrative Court rendered a decision favorable to Ambev in September 2011. In 2013, 2016 and 2017, Ambev received other tax assessments related to profits of its foreign subsidiaries. As of 31 December 2017, Ambev management estimates the exposure of approximately 6.1 billion Brazilian real (1.8 billion US dollar) as a possible risk, and accordingly has not recorded a provision for such amount, and approximately 44m Brazilian real (13m US dollar) as a probable loss. In December 2011, Ambev received a tax assessment related to the goodwill amortization resulting from the InBev Holding Brasil S.A. merger with Ambev. In November 2014 the Lower Administrative Court concluded the judgment. The decision was partly favorable, Ambev was notified in August 2015 and presented a motion to clarify the decision to the Administrative Court. This motion was admitted in September 2016 and Ambev was notified of the clarified decision in January 2018. The Administrative Court’s decision was partly favorable to Ambev. Therefore Ambev will file a judicial proceeding to discuss the unfavorable part of the decision. The remaining part, which was favorable to Ambev, will be reexamined by the Administrative Upper Court. In June 2016, Ambev received a new tax assessment charging the remaining value of the goodwill amortization and filed a defense. In March 2017, Ambev was notified of a partially favorable first level administrative decision on this tax assessment and filed an appeal to the Lower Administrative Court. Ambev has not recorded any provisions for this matter, and management estimates possible losses in relation to this assessment to be approximately 8.3 billion Brazilian real (2.5 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. In the event Ambev is required to pay these amounts, AB InBev will reimburse the amount proportional to the benefit received by AB InBev pursuant to the merger protocol, as well as the related costs. In October 2013, Ambev also received a tax assessment related to the goodwill amortization resulting from the merger of Beverage Associates Holding Limited (“BAH”) into Ambev. Ambev filed a defense in November 2013. In December 2014, Ambev filed an appeal against the unfavorable first level administrative decision published in November 2014. In March 2017, the Lower Administrative Court remanded the case back to the first level administrative judgment due to processual matters. In July 2017, Ambev was notified of the new first level decision and filed a new appeal to the Lower Administrative Court. Ambev management estimates the amount of possible losses in relation to this assessment to be approximately 1.6 billion Brazilian real (0.5 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. In November 2017, Ambev received a tax assessment related to the goodwill amortization resulting from the merger of CND Holdings into Ambev. Ambev filed a response in December 2017 and is awaiting the first level administrative decision. Ambev management estimates the amount of possible losses in relation to this assessment to be approximately 1.1 billion Brazilian real (0.3 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. Ambev and certain of its subsidiaries received a number of assessments from Brazilian federal tax authorities relating to the offset of tax loss carry forward arising in the context of business combinations. In February 2016, the Upper House of the Administrative Tax Court concluded the judgment of two tax assessments on this matter. In both cases the decision was unfavorable. Ambev filed a judicial proceeding. In September 2016, Ambev received a favorable first level decision in one of the judicial claims. In March 2017, Ambev received an unfavorable first level decision 1 Amounts have been converted to US dollar at the closing rate of the respective period. 131 n the other judicial case and filed an appeal to the court. Ambev management estimates the total exposures of possible loss in relation to these ssessments to be approximately 0.5 billion Brazilian real (0.2 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. n December 2014, Ambev received a tax assessment from the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities related to the disallowance of alleged noneductible expenses and the deduction of certain losses mainly associated to financial investments and loans. In July 2016, Ambev was notified of he unfavorable first level administrative decision and filed an appeal to the Upper Administrative Court at the legal term. In August 2017, the Lower dministrative Court ruled in favor of Ambev’s appeal and in December 2017, Ambev was notified of that decision. The Brazilian tax authorities orfeited their right to appeal that decision. In December 2015, Ambev also received a new tax assessment related to the same matter. Ambev resented a defense and awaits the first level administrative decision. In December 2016, Ambev received a new tax assessment related to the ame matter, regarding the period of 2011, 2012 and 2013. Ambev presented a defense and awaits the first level administrative decision. Ambev management estimates the amount of possible loss in relation to those assessments to be approximately 4.4 billion Brazilian real (1.3 billion US ollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection with this assessment. ince 2014, Ambev has been receiving tax assessments from the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities related to the disallowance of deductions ssociated with alleged unproven taxes paid abroad, for which the decision from the Upper House of the Administrative Court is still pending. In eptember 2017, Ambev decided to include part of those tax assessments in the Brazilian Federal Tax Regularization Program of the Provisional Measure nº 783. As of 31 December 2017, Ambev management estimates the exposure of approximately 7.2 billion Brazilian real (2.2 billion US ollar) as a possible risk, and accordingly has not recorded a provision for such amount. n April 2016, Arosuco (a subsidiary of Ambev) received a tax assessment regarding the use of “presumed profit” method for the calculation of ncome tax and the social contribution on net profit instead of the “real profit” method. In September 2017, Arosuco received the unfavorable first evel administrative decision and filed an appeal to the Lower Administrative Court. Arosuco management estimates the amount of possible losses n relation to this assessment to be approximately 0.6 billion Brazilian real (0.2 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Arosuco has not recorded ny provision in connection therewith. n December 2016, CRBS (a subsidiary of Ambev) received a tax assessment regarding the use of “presumed profit” method for the calculation of ncome tax and the social contribution on net profit instead of the “real profit” method. In July 2017, CRBS was notified of an unfavorable first level dministrative decision and filed an appeal to the Administrative Court. In September 2017, CRBS decided to include this tax assessment in the razilian Federal Tax Regularization Program of the Provisional Measure nº 783. CMS value added tax, IPI excise tax and taxes on net sales n Brazil, goods manufactured within the Manaus Free Trade Zone intended for remittance elsewhere in Brazil are exempt from IPI excise tax. here is discussion on whether the acquisition of such benefited goods gives rise to the right of IPI excise tax credits by the relevant acquirers. mbev’s subsidiaries have been registering IPI excise tax presumed credits upon the acquisition of exempted goods manufactured therein and iscussing the matter at Courts. Since 2009, Ambev has been receiving a number of tax assessments from the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities elating to the disallowance of such presumed IPI excise tax credits and other IPI excise tax credits, which are under discussion before the Brazilian upreme Court. Ambev management estimates the possible loss related to these assessments to be approximately 3.2 billion Brazilian real 1.0 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. Over the years, Ambev has also received tax assessments from the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities charging federal taxes allegedly unduly offset ith the disallowed presumed IPI excise tax credits which are under discussion in the above mentioned proceedings. Ambev is challenging these harges before Courts. Ambev management estimates the possible loss related to these assessments to be approximately 0.9 billion Brazilian real 0.3 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. n 2014 and 2015, Ambev received tax assessments from the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities to charge the IPI excise tax, supposedly due over emittances of manufactured goods to related factories, for which a decision from the Upper House of the Administrative Tax Court is still pending. mbev management estimates the possible loss related to these assessments to be approximately 1.5 billion Brazilian real (0.5 billion US dollar) as f 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. mbev is currently challenging tax assessments issued by the States of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and other States questioning the egality of ICMS tax credits arising from transactions with companies that has tax incentives. Ambev management estimates the possible losses elated to these assessments to be approximately 1.9 billion Brazilian real (0.6 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded ny provision in connection therewith. mbev was assessed by the State of Rio de Janeiro to charge the ICMS supposedly due with respect to unconditional discounts granted by Ambev rom January 1996 to February 1998. In October, 2015 and January, 2016, Ambev paid the amounts under discussion in an incentive tax program nder which discounts were granted, in the total amount of approximately 0.3 billion Brazilian real (0.1 billion US dollar). In 2013, 2014 and 2015, mbev received similar tax assessments issued by the States of Pará and Piauí relating to the same issue, which are currently under discussion. fter the above mentioned payments, Ambev management estimates the possible loss involved in these proceedings to be approximately 0.6 billion razilian real (0.2 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. Over the years, Ambev has received tax assessments to charge supposed ICMS differences considered due when the price of the products sold y the company is above the fixed price table basis established by the relevant States, cases in which the State tax authorities understand that the alculation basis should be based on a value-added percentage over the actual prices and not the fixed table price. Ambev is currently challenging hose charges before Courts. Among other similar cases, the company received three assessments issued by the State of Minas Gerais in the original mount of 1.4 billion Brazilian real (0.4 billion US dollar). In the second quarter of 2017, the Administrative Tax Court of the State of Minas Gerais 132 ruled unfavorably to Ambev on three relevant cases. Ambev presented a defense against such decisions to the Upper House of the Administrative Tax Court of the State of Minas Gerais and currently awaits a judgement. In 2017, Ambev received ten relevant assessments from the State of Rio de Janeiro which amounts to 0.9 billion Brazilian real (0.3 billion US dollar). Ambev presented defenses against such tax assessments and now awaits the decision by the Administrative Courts. Ambev management estimates the total possible loss related to this issue to be approximately 5.8 billion Brazilian real (1.8 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. Ambev has recorded provisions in the total amount of 7m Brazilian real (2m US dollar) in relation to certain proceedings for which it considers the chances of loss to be probable due to specific procedural issues. Social contributions Ambev received some tax assessments issued by the Brazilian Federal Tax Authorities relating to amounts allegedly due under Integration Program / Social Security Financing Levy (PIS/COFINS) over bonus products granted to its customers. The cases are now being discussed at Courts. Ambev management estimates the possible loss related to these assessments to be approximately 3.1 billion Brazilian real (0.9 billion US dollar) as of 31 December 2017. No related provision has been made. Other tax matters During 2014, Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. received a net proposed tax assessment from the United States federal tax authorities (IRS) of 0.3 billion US dollar predominantly involving certain inter-company transactions, related to tax returns for the years 2008 and 2009. In November 2015, the IRS issued an additional proposed tax assessment of 0.1 billion US dollar for tax years 2010 and 2011. Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. has filed protests with the IRS for the 2008 to 2011 tax years and intends to vigorously defend its position. In February 2015, the European Commission opened an in-depth state aid investigation into the Belgian excess profit ruling system. On 11 January 2016, the European Commission adopted a negative decision finding that the Belgian excess profit ruling system constitutes an aid scheme incompatible with the internal market and ordering Belgium to recover the incompatible aid from a number of aid beneficiaries. The Belgian authorities have contacted the companies that have benefitted from the system and have advised each company of the amount of incompatible aid that is potentially subject to recovery. The European Commission decision was appealed to the European Union’s General Court by Belgium on 22 March 2016 and by AB InBev on 12 July 2016. The appeals do not suspend the recovery process, and AB InBev cannot at this stage estimate the outcome of such legal proceedings. Based on the estimated exposure related to the excess profit ruling applicable to AB InBev, the different elements referred to above, as well as the possibility that taxes paid abroad and non-recognized tax loss carryforwards could eventually partly or fully offset amounts subject to recovery, if any, AB InBev has not recorded any provisions in connection therewith as of 31 December 2017. In addition, the Belgian tax authorities have also questioned the validity and the actual application of the excess profit ruling that was issued in favor of AB InBev and have refused the actual tax exemption which it confers. Against such decision AB InBev has filed a court claim before the Brussels court of first instance. Also in respect of this aspect of the EPR matter, considering the company’s and its counsel assessment in respect of the merits of the case, AB InBev has not recorded any provisions as of 31 December 2017. Warrants Certain holders of warrants issued by Ambev in 1996 for exercise in 2003 proposed lawsuits to subscribe correspondent shares for an amount lower than Ambev considers as established upon the warrant issuance. In case Ambev loses the totality of these lawsuits, the issuance of 172,831,574 shares would be necessary. Ambev would receive in consideration funds that are materially lower than the current market value. This could result in a dilution of about 1% to all Ambev shareholders. Furthermore, the holders of these warrants are claiming that they should receive the dividends relative to these shares since 2003, approximately 847m Brazilian real (256m US dollar) in addition to legal fees. Ambev disputes these claims and intends to continue to vigorously defend its case. Five of the six lawsuits were ruled favorable to Ambev by the Superior Court of Justice (STJ). Two of them during the year of 2017. All of these five cases are pending final judgment by STJ’s Special Court. In November, 2017 the Federal Public Prosecutor filled a motion favorable to Ambev’s position in one of the cases. Considering all of these facts, the company and our external counsels strongly believe that the chance of loss of these cases are remote. Antitrust matters On 12 December 2014, a lawsuit was commenced in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, Brewers Retail Inc. (known as The Beer Store or “TBS”) and the owners of Brewers Retail Inc. (Molson Coors Canada, Sleeman Breweries Ltd. and Labatt Breweries of Canada LP). The lawsuit was brought in Canada pursuant to the Ontario Class Proceedings Act, and sought, among other things: (i) to obtain a declaration that the defendants conspired with each other to allocate markets for the supply of beer sold in Ontario since 1 June 2000; (ii) to obtain a declaration that Brewers Retail Inc. and the owners of Brewers Retail Inc. conspired to fix, increase and/or maintain prices charged to Ontario licensees (on-trade) for beer and the fees charged by TBS to other competitive brewers who wished to sell their products through TBS and (iii) damages for unjust enrichment. As part of this third allegation, the plaintiffs allege illegal trade practices by the owners of Brewers Retail Inc. They are seeking damages not exceeding 1.4 billion Canadian dollar (1.1 billion US dollar), as well as, punitive, exemplary and aggravated damages of 5 million Canadian dollar (4 million US dollar) and changes/repeals of the affected legislation. Ambev has not recorded any provision in connection therewith. In 2016, the European Commission announced an investigation into alleged abuse of a dominant position by AB InBev through certain practices aimed at restricting trade from other European Union member states to Belgium. On 30 November 2017, the European Commission informed AB InBev of its preliminary view in a Statement of Objections that these practices are an infringement and invited AB InBev to respond, which it shall do. The fact that a Statement of Objections has been issued does not mean that the European Commission has concluded that there is an infringement. It is not possible to indicate how long the investigation will take or what the outcome will be and no provision has been made in connection therewith. There is no connection between this investigation and the combination with former SAB. 2009 dispositions pension litigation On 1 December 2009, AB InBev and several of its related companies were sued in Federal Court in the Eastern District of Missouri in a lawsuit styled Richard F. Angevine v. AB InBev, et al. The plaintiff sought to represent a class of certain employees of Busch Entertainment Corporation, 133 hich was divested on 1 December 2009, and the four Metal Container Corporation plants which were divested on 1 October 2009. He also ought to represent certain employees of any other subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. (ABC) which were divested on 1 October 009. The lawsuit contained claims that the class was entitled to enhanced retirement benefits under sections 4.3 and 19.11(f) of the Anheuserusch Companies’ Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan (the “Plan”). Specifically, plaintiff alleged that the divestitures resulted in his “involuntary ermination” from “ABC and its operating division and subsidiaries” within three years after the 18 November 2008 ABC/InBev merger, which llegedly triggered the enhanced benefits under the Plan. The lawsuit claimed that by failing to provide the class members with these enhanced enefits, AB InBev, et al. breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA. The complaint sought punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. On 16 July 010, the Court ruled that the claims for breach of fiduciary duty and punitive damages were not proper. The Court also found that Angevine did not xhaust his administrative remedies, which was required before filing a lawsuit. Angevine filed an appeal of this ruling with the Eighth Circuit Court f Appeals. On 22 July 2011, the Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the lower court. No further appeals were filed. On 15 September 2010, AB InBev and several of its related companies were sued in Federal Court for the Southern District of Ohio in a lawsuit ntitled Rusby Adams et al. v. AB InBev et al. This lawsuit was filed by four employees of Metal Container Corporation’s facilities (“MCC”) in olumbus, Ohio, Gainesville, Florida, and Ft. Atkinson, Wisconsin that were divested on 1 October 2009. Similar to the Angevine lawsuit, these laintiffs sought to represent a class of participants of the Anheuser-Busch Companies’ Inc. Salaried Employees’ Pension Plan (the “Plan”) who ad been employed by subsidiaries of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. that had been divested during the period of 18 November 2008 and 7 November 2011. The plaintiffs also alleged claims similar to the Angevine lawsuit: (1) that they were entitled to benefits under section 19.11(f) f the Plan; and (2) that the denial of benefits was a breach of fiduciary duty. AB InBev believed that it had defenses to these claims, and filed a motion to dismiss. On 25 April 2011, the Court dismissed the breach of fiduciary duty claims, and the only remaining claim was for benefits under ection 19.11(f). On 28 March 2012, the Court certified that the case could proceed as a class action comprised of former employees of the divested MCC operations. On 9 January 2013, the Court granted AB InBev’s motion for Judgment on the Administrative Record. The plaintiffs appealed this ecision on 5 February 2013. On 11 July 2014, the Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit reversed the lower court and remanded the case for judgment gainst AB InBev. On 16 September 2014, AB InBev’s Motion for Rehearing En Banc was denied. A Final Order and Judgment was then entered by he District Court on 24 December 2014, which ordered the Plan to provide the enhanced pension benefit under Section 19.11(f) to members of the ertified class. The company believes that the total amount of the enhanced pension benefit is approximately 8m US dollar. Plaintiffs’ counsel has eceived approximately 1m US dollar in legal fees. On 10 January 2012, a class action complaint asserting claims very similar to those asserted in the Angevine lawsuit was filed in Federal Court or the Eastern District of Missouri, styled Nancy Anderson et al. v. Anheuser-Busch Companies Pension Plan et al. Unlike the Angevine case, owever, the plaintiff in this matter alleges complete exhaustion of all administrative remedies. The company filed a motion to dismiss on 9 October 012. This was still pending when the Court allowed the complaint to be amended on 19 November 2012 to name four new plaintiffs. AB InBev filed motion to dismiss on 17 December 2012. While this motion was pending, on 11 March 2013 the Court consolidated the case with the Knowlton ase (see below) which had been transferred from California to Missouri. On 10 October 2012, another class action complaint was filed against Anheuser-Busch Companies, LLC, Anheuser-Busch Companies Pension lan, Anheuser-Busch Companies Pension Plan Appeals Committee and the Anheuser-Busch Companies Pension Plans Administrative ommittee by Brian Knowlton, an employee of the divested Busch Entertainment Corporation (“BEC”). This complaint, filed in Federal Court in he Southern District of California, was amended on 12 October 2012. Like the other lawsuits, it claims that the employees of any divested assets ere entitled to enhanced retirement benefits under section 19.11(f) of the Plan. However, it specifically excludes the divested Metal Container orporation facilities that have been included in the Adams class action. On 6 November 2012, the plaintiffs filed a motion asking the court to move he Anderson case to California to join it with the Knowlton case for discovery. The company filed a motion to dismiss/motion to transfer the case o Missouri on 12 November 2012, which was granted on 30 January 2013. As outlined above, on 11 March 2013, the Knowlton case was then onsolidated in Missouri with the Anderson case. On 19 April 2013 a consolidated complaint was filed, and a Motion to Dismiss was filed by the ompany on 10 May 2013. On 30 October 2013, the court dismissed the breach of fiduciary claims, and an answer was filed on 13 November 2013. On 19 November 2013, plaintiffs amended one count of the consolidated complaint. On 16 May 2014, the Court granted class certification. The lass consists of divested BEC employees. On 10 November 2014, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings based on the decision by he Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in the Adams case. On 8 July 2015, the Court issued an order of partial judgment on the pleadings, holding that he employees of BEC were entitled to enhanced retirement benefits under the Plan. The 8 July 2015 order, however, was not a final, appealable rder. On 21 August 2015, the company filed a motion seeking entry of a final, appealable order, as well as a stay pending appeal, both of which ere granted on 9 October 2015. The company subsequently appealed. On 22 February 2017, the 8 th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the lower ourt’s ruling, and awarded the enhanced pension benefit to the BEC Class. In addition, the Appeals Court remanded the case back to the lower ourt in order to determine whether the precise amount of the enhanced pension can be calculated. The company and counsel for the plaintiffs are urrently working to resolve issues surrounding the amount of potential benefits owed to the BEC Class. The Company is also awaiting for plaintiffs’ ounsel to file their fee application. The company believes the total amount of the enhanced pension liability to be approximately 68m US dollar. 3. Non-controlling interests s of 31 December 2017 and 2016, material non-controlling interests relate to Ambev, a Brazilian listed subsidiary in which AB InBev has 62% wnership. The tables below provide summarized information of Ambev’s audited consolidated financial statements as of as of 31 December 2017 nd 2016, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 134 Summarized financial information of Ambev, in which the company has material non-controlling interests, is as follows: Million US dollar 2017 2016 Summarized balance sheet information Current assets 7 472 7 329 Non-current assets 18 783 18 396 Current liabilities 8 672 8 829 Non-current liabilities 3 078 2 582 Equity attributable to equity holders 13 908 13 754 Non-controlling interests 597 560 Summarized income statement and comprehensive income information Revenue 14 961 13 123 Net income 2 452 3 765 Attributable to: Equity holders 2 290 3 611 Non-controlling interests 162 155 Net income 2 452 3 765 Other comprehensive income 809 (1 534) Total comprehensive income 3 261 2 231 Attributable to: Equity holders 3 090 2 190 Non-controlling interests 171 41 Summarized cash flow information Cash flow from operating activities 5 583 3 552 Cash flow from investing activities (960) (1 697) Cash flow from financing activities (4 018) (3 351) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 605 (1 496) Dividends paid by Ambev to non-controlling interests (i.e. to entities outside the AB InBev Group) amounted to 1.1 billion US dollar and 1.2 billion US dollar for 2017 and 2016, respectively. Other non-controlling interests not deemed individually material by the company mainly related to the company’s operations in Africa in association with the Castel Group (e.g., Botswana, Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia), as well as non-controlling interests recognized in respect of the company’s subsidiaries in Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. In 2017 non-controlling interests reduced by 2.4 billion US dollar as a result of purchase and sale of non-controlling interests mainly related to the transition of AB InBev equity stake in CCBA. See also Note 22 – Assets classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. 34. Related parties Transactions with directors and executive board management members (key management personnel) In addition to short-term employee benefits (primarily salaries) AB InBev’s executive board management members are entitled to post-employment benefits. In particular, members of the executive board of management participate in the pension plan of their respective country – see also Note 25 Employee Benefits. Finally, key management personnel are eligible for the company’s share option; restricted stock and/or share swap program (refer Note 26 Share-based Payments). Total directors and executive board management compensation included in the income statement can be detailed as follows: 2017 2016 Executive board Executive board Million US dollar Directors management Directors management Short-term employee benefits 2 28 2 18 Post-employment benefits – 1 – – Other long-term employee benefits – – – – Share-based payments 3 68 3 64 5 97 5 82 Directors’ compensation consists mainly of directors’ fees. 135 uring 2017, AB InBev entered into the following transactions: The acquisition, through Grupo Modelo and its subsidiaries, of information technology and infrastructure services for a consideration of approximately 0.8m US dollar from a company in which one of the company’s Board Member had significant influence as of 31 December 2017. The acquisition, mainly through its subsidiary Bavaria S.A., of transportation services, lease agreements and advertising services for an aggregated consideration of 5.4m US dollar from companies in which one of the company’s Board Member had a significant influence as of 31 December 2017. The outstanding balance of these transactions as of 31 December 2017 amounts to 1.1m US dollar. With the exception of the abovementioned transactions, key management personnel were not engaged in any transactions with AB InBev and did ot have any significant outstanding balances with the company. ointly controlled entities ignificant interests in joint ventures include three entities in Brazil, one in Mexico and two in Canada. None of these joint ventures are material to he company. Aggregate amounts of AB InBev’s interest are as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 on-current assets 12 11 urrent assets 5 5 on-current liabilities 11 9 urrent liabilities 6 6 esult from operations (3) (6) rofit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev (3) (7) ransactions with associates ignificant interests in associates are shown in Note 16 Investments in associates. AB InBev’s transactions with associates were as follows: illion US dollar 2017 2016 Gross profit 91 (47) urrent assets 73 (8) urrent liabilities 20 20 ransactions with pension plans B InBev’s transactions with pension plans mainly comprise 12m US dollar other income from pension plans in US. 5. Events after the balance sheet date Bond issuance On 23 January 2018, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV issued 4.25 billion euro aggregate principal amount of bonds. The bonds comprise the ollowing series: 1.5 billion euro aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 15 April 2024 bearing interest at annual rate of 30 basis oint above three-month EURIBOR; 2.0 billion euro aggregate principal amount of fixed rate Notes due 22 January 2027 bearing interest at an nnual rate of 1.150% and 0.75 billion euro aggregate principal amount of fixed rate Notes due 23 January 2035 bearing interest at an annual rate f 2.000%. he proceeds of the Notes will be used for general corporate purposes. The Notes were issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV under its Euro Medium Term Note programme base prospectus published on 20 December 2017. arly redemption of notes On 15 February 2018, AB InBev announced that it is exercising its option to redeem in full the entire outstanding principal amount of the 7.75% otes due in 2019 on 19 March 2018. The total principal amount of the notes that will be retired is approximately 2.5 billion US dollar and the edemption of the notes will be financed with cash. Deferred share instrument On 1 March 2018, AB InBev announced that it will deliver 23 076 922 Ordinary Shares on 21 May 2018, that are due under deferred share nstruments. he deferred share entitlements had been issued by AB InBev in connection with the closing of the Grupo Modelo acquisition in June 2013. Under such ntitlements, selected former Grupo Modelo shareholders committed upon tendering of their shares in Grupo Modelo, to invest 1.5 billion US dollar f their proceeds from the tender offer into ordinary shares of AB InBev, and acquired an aggregate of 23 076 922 ordinary shares, to be delivered ithin five years. The consideration for the acquisition of such ordinary shares was paid by such former Grupo Modelo shareholders to AB InBev on June 2013. he deferred share entitlements provided for the delivery of these ordinary shares no later than 5 June 2018. Such delivery obligation will be met hrough the use of part of AB InBev’s outstanding treasury shares. 136 36. AB InBev companies Listed below are the most important AB InBev companies. A complete list of the company’s investments is available at AB InBev NV, Brouwerijplein 1, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. List of most important fully consolidated companies % OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AS AT Name and registered office of fully consolidated companies 31 DECEMBER 2017 Argentina CERVECERIA Y MALTERIA QUILMES SAICA y G Charcas 5160 C1425BOF Buenos Aires 61.92 Australia FOSTER’S GROUP PTY LTD – Southbank Boulevard 77 3006 Southbank – Victoria 100.00 CUB PTY LTD Southbank Boulevard 77 3006 Southbank – Victoria 100.00 FBG FINANCE PTY LTD Southbank Boulevard 77 3006 Southbank – Victoria 100.00 FBG TREASURY (AUST) PTY LTD Southbank Boulevard 77 3006 Southbank Victoria 100.00 Belgium AB INBEV N.V. – Grand Place 1 1000 – Brussel Consolidating Company BRASSERIE DE L’ABBAYE DE LEFFE S.A. Place de l’Abbaye 1 5500 Dinant 98.54 BROUWERIJ VAN HOEGAARDEN N.V. Stoopkensstraat 46 3320 Hoegaarden 100.00 COBREW N.V. Brouwerijplein 1 3000 – Leuven 100.00 INBEV BELGIUM S.P.R.L. Industrielaan 21 1070 – Brussel 100.00 Botswana KGALAGADI BREWERIES (PTY) LTD Plot 20768, Broadhurst industrial estate Gaborone1 31.00 Bolivia CERVECERIA BOLIVIANA NACIONAL S.A. Av. Montes 400 and Chuquisaca No. 121, Zona Challapampa La Paz 61.92 Brazil AMBEV S.A. Rua Dr Renato Paes de Barros, 1017, 3° andar, Itaim Bibi CEP 04530-001 São Paulo 61.92 Canada LABATT BREWING COMPANY LIMITED 207 Queen’s Quay West, Suite 299 M5J 1A7 Toronto 61.92 Chile CERVECERIA CHILE S.A. Av. Presidente Eduardo Frei Montalva 9600 8700000 Quilicura 61.92 China ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (CHINA) SALES CO LTD. Shangshou, Qin Duan Kou, Hanyang Area 430051 Wuhan City, Hubei Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (WUHAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. Shangshou, Qin Duan Kou, Hanyang Area 430051 Wuhan City, Hubei Province 97.06 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (FOSHAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. 1 Budweiser Avenue, Southwest St., Sanshui District 528132 Foshan City, Guangdong 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV HARBIN BREWERY CO. LTD. 9 HaPi Road Pingfang District 150066 Harbin City, Heilongijang Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (TANGSHAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. 18, Yingbin Road 063300 Tangshan City, Hebei Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV SEDRIN BREWERY CO. LTD. 660 Gong Ye Road, Hanjiang District 351111 Putian City, Fujian Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV SEDRIN (ZHANGZHOU) BREWERY CO. LTD. Lantian Economic District 363005 Zhangzhou City, Fujian Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (TAIZHOU) BREWERY CO. LTD. 159 Qi Xia East Road, Chengguan Town, Tiantai County 317200 Taizhou Cithy, Zhejiang Province 100.00 NANCHANG ASIA BREWERY CO. LTD. 183 West Sandian Road, Qing Yun Pu District Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province 100.00 SIPING GINSBER DRAFT BEER CO. LTD. Xianmaquan, Tiedong Area Siping City, Jilin Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV BIG BOSS (JIANGSU) BREWERY CO. LTD. 666 Zhaoxia Road Nantong City, Jiangsu Province 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (SICHUAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. No. 1, AB InBev Avenue, Cheng Nan Industry Park, Economic Development Area 641300 Ziyang City, Sichuan Province 100.00 1 The group’s shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights. 137 % OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AS AT ame and registered office of fully consolidated companies 31 DECEMBER 2017 NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (HENAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. No. 1 Budweiser Avenue, Industry Park, angzhuang Town 453100 Weihui City, Henan Province 100.00 NBEV JINLONGQUAN (HUBEI) BREWERY CO. LTD. 89 Jin Long Quan Avenue Jingmen City, Hubei Province 60.00 NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV (SUQIAN) BREWERY CO. LTD. No 1 Qujiang Road, Suyu Industry Park uqian City, Jiangsu Province 100.00 olombia OGOTA BEER COMPANY BBC S.A.S. Carrera 53 A, No 127 35 110221 Bogota 97.22 AVARIA S.A. S.A. Carrera 53 A, No 127 35 110221 – Bogota 99.14 MBEV COLOMBIA S.A.S. Carrera 53 A, No 127 35 110221 Bogota 97.22 zech Republic IVOVAR SAMSON A.S. V parku 2326/18, Chodov, 148 00 Praha 4 100.00 ominican Republic ERVECERIA NACIONAL DOMINICANA S.A. Autopista 30 de Mayo Km 61/2, Distrito Nacional A.P. 1086 anto Domingo1 34.06 cuador OMPAÑIA CERVECERA AMBEV ECUADOR S.A. Km 14.5 Via a Daule S/N y Av. Las Iguanas, Guayaquil 97.22 ERVECERÍA NACIONAL (CN) SA Via a daule km 16,5 y calle cobre s/n – Guayaquil, Guayas 95.58 l Salvador NDUSTRIAS LA CONSTANCIA, SA DE CV 526 Av. Independencia, San Salvador 100.00 rance B INBEV FRANCE S.A.S. Immeuble Crystal, 38, Place Vauban C.P. 59110 La Madeleine 100.00 Germany RAUEREI BECK GmbH & CO. KG Am Deich 18/19 28199 Bremen 100.00 RAUEREI DIEBELS GmbH & CO.KG Brauerei-Diebels-Strasse 1 47661 Issum 100.00 AAKE-BECK AG Am Deich 18/19 28199 – Bremen 99.96 ASSERÖDER BRAUEREI GmbH Auerhahnring 1 38855 Wernigerode 100.00 NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV GERMANY HOLDING GmbH Am Deich 18/19 28199 Bremen 100.00 PATEN FRANZISKANER BRÄU GmbH Marsstrasse 46 + 48 80335 München 100.00 NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV Deutschland GmbH & Co KG Am Deich 18/19 28199 Bremen 100.00 OEWENBRAEU AG Nymphenburger Str. 7 80335 – München 100.00 Ghana CCRA BREWERY LTD Farra Avenue 20 1st Floor, Pkf Building, P.O. Box Gp1219 Accra 60.00 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg RASSERIE DE LUXEMBOURG MOUSEL DIEKIRCH 1, Rue de la Brasserie L-9214 Diekirch 95.82 onduras ERVECERÍA HONDUREÑA, SA DE CV Blvd. Del Norte, Carretera Salida a Puerto Cortes San Pedro Sula, Cortes 99.00 ndia ROWN BEERS INDIA LIMITED #8-2-684/A, Road No. 12 Banjara Hills, Hyderabad 500034 Andhra Pradesh 100.00 ABMILLER INDIA LIMITED LTD. Unit No.301-302, Dynasty Business Park, 3rd Floor Andheri Kurla Road, ndheri (East) 400059 Mumbai, Maharashtra 99.60 taly NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV ITALIA SPA Piazza Buffoni 3, 21013 Gallarate 100.00 Mexico ERVECERIA MODELO DE MEXICO S. DE R.L. DE C.V Javier Barros Sierra 555 Piso 3 Zedec Ed Plaza anta Fe 01210 Mexico City 100.00 Mozambique ERVEJAS DE MOÇAMBIQUE SA Rua do Jardim 1329 Maputo2 49.00 55% owned by Ambev S.A The company is consolidated due to the group’s majority shareholdings and ability to control the operations. 138 % OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AS AT Name and registered office of fully consolidated companies 31 DECEMBER 2017 The Netherlands INBEV NEDERLAND N.V. Ceresstraat 1 4811 CA – Breda 100.00 INTERBREW INTERNATIONAL B.V. Ceresstraat 1 4811 CA Breda 100.00 AB InBev Africa B.V.Ceresstraat 1, 4811 CA – Breda 62.00 AB InBev Botswana B.V.Ceresstraat 1, 4811 CA – Breda 62.00 Nigeria BEVERAGE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS LIMITED LTD. 58 Akanbi Onitiri Close, Off Eric Moore Road, Surelere Lagos 50.00 INTERNATIONAL BREWERIES PLC Lawrence Omole Way, Omi Osoro Road, Imo Ilesha, Osun State1 37.50 Panama CERVECERÍA NACIONAL HOLDING SA Costa del Este Business Park, torre Oeste Piso 2 Ciudad de Panama 60.00 Paraguay CERVECERIA PARAGUAYA S.A. Ruta Villeta km 30 N 3045 2660 Ypané 61.92 Peru COMPANIA CERVECERA AMBEV PERU S.A.C. Av. Los Laureles Mza. A Lt. 4 del Centro Poblado Menor Santa Maria de Huachipa Lurigancho (Chosica) Lima 15 97.22 UNIÓN DE CERVECERÍAS PERUANAS BACKUS Y JOHNSTON SAA 3986 Av. Nicolas Ayllon, Ate, Lima 3 93.65 Russia SUN INBEV 28 Moscovskaya Street, Moscow region 141607 Klin 99.95 South Africa SABSA HOLDINGS LTD PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY 65 Park Lane, Sandown 2001 Johannesburg 100.00 THE SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES (PTY) LTD LIMITED BY SHARES 65 Park Lane, Sandown 2146 – Johannesburg 91.55 South Korea ORIENTAL BREWERY CO., LTD 151, Hyeondogongdan-ro, Seowon-gu Cheongju-si, Chungcheongbuk-do 100.00 Switzerland ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV PROCUREMENT GMBH GESELLSCHAFT MIT BESCHRÄNKTER HAFTUNG (GMBH) Turmstrasse 26 6300 – Zug 100.00 Tanzania KIBO BREWERIES LTD PRIVATE COMPANY Uhuru Street, Plot No 79, Block AA, Mchikichini, Ilala District Dar es Salaam1 36.00 Uganda NILE BREWERIES LTD Plot M90 Yusuf Lule Roa, Njeru, Jinja Eastern Uganda 61.76 Ukraine SUN INBEV UKRAINE PJSC 30-V Fizkultury Str., BC “Faringeit” 4th floor 3068 Kiev 98.34 United Kingdom AB INBEV UK LTD Porter Tun House, 500 Capability Green LU1 3LS Luton 100.00 PIONEER BREWING COMPANY LTD Porter Tun House, 500 Capability Green LU1 3LS Luton 100.00 AB INBEV HOLDINGS LIMITED AB INBEV HOUSE, CHURCH STREET WEST GU21 6HT WOKING, SURREY 100.00 AB INBEV INTERNATIONAL BRANDS LIMITEDAB InBev House, Church Street West, Woking, Surrey, GU21 6HT 100.00 United States ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES, LLC. One Busch Place St. Louis, MO 63118 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH INTERNATIONAL, INC. One Busch Place St. Louis, MO 63118 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH PACKAGING GROUP, INC. One Busch Place St. Louis, MO 63118 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH, LLC – One Busch Place, St. Louis, MO. 63118 100.00 METAL CONTAINER CORPORATION, INC. – One Busch Place, St. Louis, MO. 63118 100.00 ANHEUSER-BUSCH NORTH AMERICAN HOLDING CORPORATION C/O THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY INC. 1209 Orange Street DE 19801 Wilmington 100.00 1 The company is consolidated due to the group’s majority shareholdings and ability to control the operations. 139 % OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AS AT ame and registered office of fully consolidated companies 31 DECEMBER 2017 ruguay ERVECERIA Y MALTERIA PAYSANDU S.A. Cesar Cortinas, 2037 C.P. 11500 Montevideo 61.92 ietnam NHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV VIETNAM BREWERY COMPANY LIMITED/No.2 SIP II-A, Street no. 28, Vietnam ingapore II-A Industrial Park, Tan Uyen District, Binh Duong Province 100.00 ambia AMBIAN BREWERIES PLC Mungwi Road, Plot Number 6438, Lusaka 54.00 140 List of most important associates and joint ventures % OF ECONOMIC INTEREST AS AT NAME AND REGISTERED OFFICE OF ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES 31 DECEMBER 2017 France SOCIÉTÉ DES BRASSERIES ET GLACIÈRES INTERNATIONALES SA 30 AV George V, 75008, Paris 20.00 Gibraltar BIH BRASSERIES INTERNATIONALES HOLDING LTD CC Building, 10th Floor, Main Street 20.00 BIH BRASSERIES INTERNATIONALES HOLDING (ANGOLA) LTD Suite 10/3, International Commercial Centre, 2A Main Street 27.00 Turkey ANADOLU EFES BIRACILIK VE MALT SANAYII AS Bahçelievler Mahallesi, Sehit Ibrahim Koparir Caddesi No. 4, Bahçelievler Istanbul 24.00 Zimbabwe DELTA CORPORATION LTD Sable house, P.O. Box BW 343, Northridge Close, Borrowdale, Harare 25.00 141 Information to our shareholders Earnings, dividends, share and share price 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 ash flow from operating activities (US dollar per share) 7.83 5.89 8.62 8.66 8.53 ormalized earnings per share (US dollar per share) 4.04 2.83 5.20 5.43 4.91 ividend (euro per share) 3.60 3.60 3.60 3.00 2.05 hare price high (euro per share) 110.10 119.60 124.20 94.89 79.60 hare price low (euro per share) 92.88 92.13 87.73 69.14 63.44 ear-end share price (euro per share) 93.13 100.55 114.40 93.86 77.26 Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (million shares) 1 971 1 717 1 638 1 634 1 617 iluted weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares (million shares) 2 010 1 755 1 668 1 665 1 650 olume of shares traded (million shares) 349 445 449 397 423 142 Information on the auditors’ assignments and related fees AB InBev’s Statutory auditor is Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren BV CVBA – Réviseurs d’Entreprises SC SCRL, represented by Joel Brehmen, audit partner. Base fees for auditing the annual financial statements of AB InBev and its subsidiaries are determined by the shareholders meeting after review and approval by the company’s Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Fees1 for 2017 in relation to services provided by Deloitte Bedrijfsrevisoren BV CVBA – Réviseurs d’Entreprises SC SCRL amounted to 3 202k US dollar (2016: 5 238k US dollar), which was composed of audit services for the annual financial statements of 1 979k US dollar (2016: 1 168k US dollar), tax services of 811k US dollar (2016: 2 809k US dollar) and audit related services of 412k US dollar (2016: 1 261k US dollar). Audit related services mainly relate to services incurred in connection with rights and bonds issuance, interim dividends and reports issued in connection to the SAB combination. Tax services mainly relate to services incurred in connection with expat services, all of which have been preapproved by the company’s Audit Committee. Fees for 2017 in relation to services provided by other offices in the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu network amounted to 7 708k US dollar (2016: 10 677k US dollar), which was composed of audit services for the annual financial statements of 6 926k US dollar (2016: 6 282k US dollar), tax services of 782k US dollar (2016: 3 853k US dollar) and audit related services of 0k US dollar (2016: 541k US dollar), all of which have been preapproved by the company’s Audit Committee. Financial calendar Publication of 2017 results 01 March 2018 Annual report 2017 available on www.ab-inbev.com 01 March 2018 General shareholders meeting 25 April 2018 Dividend: ex-coupon date 30 April 2018 Publication of first quarter results 9 May 2018 Publication of half year results 26 July 2018 Publication of third quarter results 25 October 2018 Investor relations contact Media Investors Marianne Amssoms Henry Rudd Tel: +1-212-573-9281 Tel: +1-212-503-1892 E-mail: marianne.amssoms@ab-inbev.com E-mail: Henry.Rudd@ab-inbev.com Aimee Baxter Lauren Abbott Tel: +1-718-650-4003 Tel: +1-212-573-9287 E-mail: aimee.baxter@ab-inbev.com E-mail: lauren.abbott@ab-inbev.com Peter Dercon Mariusz Jamka Tel: +32-16-27-68-23 Tel: +32-16-27-68-88 E-mail: peter.dercon@ab-inbev.com E-mail: mariusz.jamka@ab-inbev.com 1 Fees do not include audit and other fees of SAB companies which are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 143 Excerpt from the AB InBev NV separate non-consolidated) financial statements prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP On 11 November 2015, the boards of the former Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (the “former AB InBev”) and SABMiller plc announced that they had eached an agreement on the terms of the proposed business combination between SABMiller plc and AB InBev (the “Combination”). he Combination was implemented through a series of steps and completed on the 10th of October 2016. Pursuant to the final step of the ombination, the former AB InBev has merged into Newbelco SA/NV (“Newbelco”), with Newbelco being the surviving company. As a result of he merger, Newbelco has become the holding company for the combined former AB InBev and SABMiller groups and the former AB InBev was issolved. All assets and liabilities of the former AB InBev have been transferred to Newbelco, and Newbelco has automatically been substituted or the former AB InBev in all its rights and obligations by operation of Belgian law. Immediately following the merger, Newbelco has been renamed nheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (hereinafter “AB InBev NV”). he following information is extracted from the separate Belgian GAAP financial statements of AB InBev NV per 31 December 2017. he 2016 comparative figures of these Belgian GAAP financials are extracted from the the separate Belgian GAAP financial statements of AB InBev V, the new holding company and surviving entity following the merger on 10 October 2016. AB InBev NV, previously named Newbelco NV/SA, as incorporated on 3 March 2016. The 2016 Belgian GAAP financials of AB InBev NV cover the period from 3 March 2016 to 31 December 2016. he 2016 comparative figures are also extracted from the separate Belgian GAAP financials of the former AB InBev that merged into Newbelco and hat was dissolved upon completion of the merger on 10 October 2016. The 2016 Belgian GAAP financials of former AB InBev cover the period from January 2016 to 10 October 2016. hese separate financial statements, together with the management report of the Board of Directors to the general assembly of shareholders as ell as the auditor’s report, will be filed with the National Bank of Belgium within the legally foreseen time limits. These documents are also available n request from: AB InBev NV, Brouwerijplein 1, 3000 Leuven. t should be noted that only the consolidated financial statements as set forth above present a true and fair view of the financial position and erformance of the AB InBev group. ince AB InBev NV (and before that former AB InBev) is essentially a holding company, which recognizes its investments at cost in its nononsolidated financial statements, these separate financial statements present no more than a limited view of the financial position of AB InBev V. For this reason, the Board of Directors deemed it appropriate to publish only an abbreviated version of the non-consolidated balance sheet and ncome statement prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP as at and for the year ended 31 December 2017. he statutory auditor has confirmed that his audit procedures are substantially complete and that the abbreviated non-consolidated balance sheet nd income statement of AB InBev NV prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP for the year ended 31 December 2017 are consistent, in all material respects, with the accounts from which they have been derived. 144 Abbreviated non-consolidated balance sheet AB InBev NV (previously Former AB InBev NV Newbelco) AB InBev Million euro 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 10/10/2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 561 688 700 Property, plant and equipment 37 50 89 Financial assets 104 008 120 492 129 631 104 606 121 230 130 420 Current assets 67 977 71 757 77 884 Total assets 172 583 192 987 208 304 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Issued capital 1 239 1 239 1 239 Share premium 13 186 13 186 13 186 Legal reserve 124 124 124 Reserves not available for distribution 8 283 8 275 – Reserves available for distribution 33 009 33 009 – Profit carried forward 8 588 15 417 23 389 64 429 71 250 37 938 Provisions and deferred taxes 106 121 135 Non-current liabilities 85 587 83 653 84 375 Current liabilities 22 461 37 963 85 856 Total equity and liabilities 172 583 192 987 208 304 Abbreviated non-consolidated income statement Million euro 2017 31/12/2016 10/10/2016 Operating income 2 169 420 1 126 Operating expenses (1 308) (509) (862) Operating result 861 (89) 264 Financial result (734) (691) 6 510 Result for the year available for appropriation 127 (779) 6 774 145 Glossary Aggregated weighted nominal tax rate Net debt he aggregated weighted nominal tax rate is based on the statutory Non-current and current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and orporate income tax rates applicable in the various countries. bank overdrafts, minus debt securities and cash and cash equivalents. Copec Non-recurring items olombia, Peru and Ecuador. Items of income or expense which do not occur regularly as part of the normal activities of the company. Diluted EPS rofit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev divided by the fully Normalized iluted weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares. The term “normalized” refers to performance measures (EBITDA, EBIT, Profit, EPS, effective tax rate) before non-recurring items and profit from discontinued operations. Non-recurring items are items of income Diluted weighted average number of ordinary or expense which do not occur regularly as part of the normal activities nd restricted shares of the company and which warrant separate disclosure because Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares, adjusted they are important for the understanding of the underlying results of y the effect of dilutive share options and restricted stock units. the company due to their size or nature. AB InBev believes that the communication and explanation of normalized measures is essential for readers of its financial statements to understand fully the sustainable BIT performance of the company. Normalized measures are additional rofit from operations. measures used by management and should not replace the measures determined in accordance with IFRS as an indicator of the company’s performance. BITDA rofit from operations plus depreciation, amortization and impairment. Normalized diluted EPS Diluted EPS adjusted for non-recurring items and profit from discontinued operations. MEA urope and Africa. Normalized EBIT PS Profit from operations adjusted for non-recurring items. rofit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev divided by the weighted verage number of ordinary and restricted shares. Normalized EBITDA Profit from operations adjusted for non-recurring items, plus depreciation, TE’S amortization and impairment. ull-time employees on a permanent or temporary basis, excluding utsourced personnel. Normalized effective tax rate Effective tax rate adjusted for non-recurring items. nvested capital ncludes property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, nvestments in associates and equity securities, working capital, Normalized EPS rovisions, employee benefits and deferred taxes. EPS adjusted for non-recurring items and profit from discontinued operations. Marketing expenses nclude all costs relating to the support and promotion of the brands. Normalized profit hey include among others operating costs (payroll, office costs, etc.) Profit adjusted for non-recurring items and profit from discontinued f the marketing department, advertising costs (agency costs, media operations. osts, etc.), sponsoring and events, and surveys and market research. Normalized profit from operations Net capex Profit from operations adjusted for non-recurring items. cquisitions of property, plant and equipment and of intangible assets, minus proceeds from sale. 146 Pay out ratio Scope Gross dividend per share multiplied by the estimated number of Financials are analyzed eliminating the impact of changes in currencies ordinary shares outstanding at the dividend record date, divided by on translation of foreign operations, and scopes. A scope represents normalized profit attributable to equity holders of AB InBev. the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, the start-up or termination of activities or the transfer of activities between segments, curtailment gains and losses and year-over-year changes in accounting estimates Re-measurements of post-employee benefits and other assumptions that management does not consider as part of Comprised of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling the underlying performance of the business. (excluding net interest) and the return on plan assets (excluding net interest). Weighted average number of ordinary and restricted shares Revenue Number of shares outstanding at the beginning of the period, adjusted Gross revenue less excise taxes and discounts. by the number of shares cancelled, repurchased or issued during the period multiplied by a time-weighing factor. Sales expenses Include all costs relating to the selling of the products. They include Working capital among others the operating costs (payroll, office costs, etc.) of the sales Includes inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other department and the sales force. payables, both current and non-current. SG&A and selling, general & administrative expenses Sales, marketing, distribution and administrative expenses 147 [This page is left blank intentionally] Corporate governance statement Contents 150 Introduction 152 The Board of directors 157 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Board of Management 160 Internal control and risk management systems 161 Shareholders structure 163 Items to be disclosed pursuant to article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007 168 Remuneration report 149 1. Introduction .1. The 2009 Belgian Code on Corporate Governance he corporate governance practices of Anheuser-Busch InBev are reflected in its Corporate Governance Charter, which is available on ww.ab-inbev.com/investors/corporate-governance.html. The Charter is regularly updated. nheuser-Busch InBev is a company incorporated under Belgian law with a primary listing on Euronext Brussels (Euronext: ABI) and with econdary listings on the Mexico Stock Exchange (MEXBOL: ANB) and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE: ANH) (ISIN: BE0974293251) nd with American Depositary Shares (“ADS’s”) listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a Belgian company with primary listing on Euronext russels, Anheuser-Busch InBev adheres to the principles and provisions of the Belgian Corporate Governance Code, published in March 2009 www.corporategovernancecommittee.be), taking into account its specific status as a multinational group with secondary listings in Mexico and ohannesburg and with ADS’s listed in New York. n order to reflect AB InBev’s specific shareholding structure and the global nature of its operations, the Board of directors has adopted certain rules hich depart from the Belgian Corporate Governance Code. In summary, these rules are the following: rinciple 5.3./1 (Appendix D) of the Code: “the Board should set up a nomination committee composed of a majority of independent on-executive directors”: The Board of directors appoints the chairman and members of the Nomination Committee from among the directors, ncluding at least one member from among the independent directors. As the committee is composed exclusively of non-executive directors who re independent of management and free from any business relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent udgment, the Board considers that the composition of this committee achieves the Code’s aim. rinciple 7.7. of the Code: “Non-executive directors should not be entitled to performance-related remuneration such as bonuses, tock-related, long-term incentive schemes, fringe benefits or pension benefits”: The remuneration of the Board members is composed of a ixed fee and a fixed number of stock-options, which makes it simple, transparent and easy for shareholders to understand. he company’s long-term incentive option plan deviates from the Belgian Code on Corporate Governance as it provides for share-based payments o non-executive directors. The successful strategy and sustainable development of the company over the past 10 years demonstrates that the ompensation of directors, which includes a fixed number of stock-options, does ensure that the independence of the Board members in their ole of guidance and control of the company is preserved, and that the directors’ interests remain fully aligned with the long-term interests of he shareholders. In particular, the vesting period of 5 years should foster a sustainable and long-term commitment to pursue the company’s est interests. t should also be noted that options may only be granted upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. Any such recommendation must be subsequently approved by the Board and then by the shareholders in a general meeting. n addition, the company deviated from the following principle in 2017: rinciple 7.13 of the Code: “Schemes under which executive managers are remunerated in shares, share options or any other right o acquire shares should be subject to prior shareholder approval by way of a resolution at the general shareholders’ meeting. The pproval should relate to the scheme itself and not to the grant of share-based benefits under the scheme to individuals”: On 1 December 017, stock options were granted to a select group of approximately 50 senior managers of the company, including a number of members of our xecutive Board of Management (EBM), under a new “Long-Run Stock Options Incentive Plan”. This new plan is designed to incentivize and retain enior employees who are considered to be instrumental in achieving the Company’s ambitious long-term agenda over the next 10 years. he Board of Directors believes that it was justified and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to already implement the grant on December 2017 before the upcoming Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for a number of reasons. Firstly, it was important to align the grant date for all articipants, i.e. of both those who are and who are not a member of our EBM, ensuring full equal treatment of all participants under the new plan. econdly, by implementing the special grant on 1 December 2017, it coincided with the regular annual long-term incentive stock-options grant of December 2017 for those executives who are not a member of our EBM leading to an alignment of the strike prices applicable under both incentive lans, ensuring equality among participants. Furthermore, it was considered key for the plan to be effective at the start of financial year 2018, especially ince the new plan is subject to performance conditions consisting of an annual growth rate target which is measured on a financial year basis. t should also be noted that the new plan was implemented upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. Both the Board and the emuneration Committee are exclusively composed of non-executive directors offering the necessary safeguards to ensure an independent ecision-making process in relation to the grant. eference is made to section 7.2.3.c of this Corporate Governance Statement for a description of the key features of the new plan. .2. New York Stock Exchange Listing urther to the New York Stock Exchange listing of American depositary shares (“ADS’s”) representing ordinary shares of AB InBev, the New York tock Exchange Corporate Governance rules for Foreign Private Issuers are applicable to the company. AB InBev has also registered under the US ecurities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As a result, it is also subject to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and to certain US Securities aws and regulations relating to corporate governance. 150 1.3. Specific Corporate Governance initiatives 1.3.1. Fostering ethical conduct The Board of directors of AB InBev encourages management to promote, adhere to and maintain the highest standards of ethical behavior and transparency. Therefore, ethical rules have been established and are reinforced by internal codes and policies. This fosters responsible business conduct by all employees. AB InBev’s Code of Business Conduct sets out the ethical standards to which all employees are expected to adhere. It requires employees to comply with all laws, to disclose any relevant conflicts of interests, to act at all times in the best interests of the company and to conduct all their dealings in an honest and ethical manner. The Code of Business Conduct also covers the confidentiality of information, limits on the acceptance of gifts or entertainment, and the appropriate use of the company’s property. The Code of Business Conduct is supplemented by the Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which defines employees’ responsibilities and expected behavior. It states clearly that AB InBev’s employees are strictly prohibited from, either directly or indirectly, offering, promising, authorizing or giving anything of value to any individual with the aim of obtaining or retaining business or influencing business or governmental decision-making in connection with AB InBev’s commercial activities. In line with this commitment to integrity, AB InBev has implemented a whistle-blowing system by means of a Compliance Helpline that provides employees with simple and secure ways to confidentially and, if so desired, anonymously, report activities that violate the Code of Business Conduct based on a clear policy and applicable legislation. 1.3.2. Demonstrating commitment to shareholder communication AB InBev is committed to creating value for its shareholders. The company encourages its shareholders to take an active interest in the company. In support of this objective, it provides quality information, in a timely fashion, through a variety of communication tools. These include annual reports, half-yearly reports, quarterly statements, Better World reporting, financial results announcements, briefings, and a section that is dedicated to investors on the AB InBev website. AB InBev recognizes that a commitment to disclosure builds trust and confidence with shareholders and the public in general. The company adopted a Disclosure Manual to demonstrate its commitment to best practices in transparency. This manual is designed to ensure that there is full, consistent and timely disclosure of company activities. 1.3.3. Upholding shareholder rights Prior to the annual shareholders’ meeting, shareholders are invited to submit any questions they have for the Chairman or the CEO for discussion during the meeting. The agenda for the shareholders’ meeting and all related documents are also posted on the AB InBev website at least 30 days in advance of any shareholders’ meeting. Shareholders have the right to vote on various resolutions related to company matters. If they are unable to attend a meeting, they can submit their votes by mail or appoint a proxy. Minutes of the meetings and results of the votes are posted on the AB InBev website shortly after the meeting. 1.3.4. Preventing the abuse of inside information The company’s Code of Dealing is applicable to all members of the Board of directors and to all employees. The Code of Dealing aims to prevent the abuse of inside information, especially in periods leading up to an announcement of financial results or leading up to price-sensitive events or decisions. The Code of Dealing prohibits dealing in the company’s securities during a closed period, i.e., a period of 30 days preceding any results announcement of the company. In addition, before dealing in any securities of the company, the members of the Board of directors and the EBM must obtain clearance from a Clearance Committee. Compliance with the Code of Dealing is reinforced and monitored through the company’s Compliance Program. In accordance with EU Regulation 596/2014 on market abuse (MAR), the company establishes lists of insiders when required. In addition, pursuant to the same regulation, members of the EBM and of the Board of directors notify their trades (above a 5,000 Euro yearly threshold) to the company and to the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), which publishes these notifications on its website. 1.3.5. Corporate Social Responsibility AB InBev’s Dream is bringing people together for a better world. Sustainability is central to the company’s culture and embedded in the way it does business. We are building a company to last, brewing beer and building brands that will continue to bring people together for the next 100 years and beyond. In accordance with the Belgian law of 3 September 2017 implementing Directive 2014/95/EU of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups, AB InBev has included in this Annual Report a non-financial statement reporting on corporate social responsibility matters. 1.3.6. Diversity The company strives to make AB InBev a community where everyone is included and respected, bringing people together for a better world. It believes that a diverse team improves the quality of decision-making, and ultimately improves overall performance. AB InBev does not have a formal global diversity policy; instead the company opted for Diversity and Inclusion Task Forces in each of the Zones. These task forces have taken actions to foster diversity and inclusion most relevant to their regions, including the setup of communities and local commitments to the empowerment of women and LGBT rights. Senior leaders are trained to recognize potential unconscious bias before holding performance review meetings, and all of those leaders are evaluated on Diversity and Inclusion in their annual 360-degree feedback. 151 B InBev is proud to have approximately 100 nationalities across the business, with 30 nationalities represented on the Executive Board of Management (EBM) and the senior management level immediate below. Currently, no women are represented on the EBM. AB InBev continues orking on further improving all aspects of diversity of its senior management team, with a focus on building a diverse talent pipeline, considering he respective skills, education, experience and background. Reference is made to section 2.1 of this Corporate Governance Statement for a short iography of each of the members of the EBM, including their qualifications and background. he process for nominating and selecting candidates for the Board of Directors is described in the Corporate Governance Charter of nheuser-Busch InBev. The company aims to have a balanced and diverse Board primarily considering, among other things, the respective skills, ducation, experience and background. Currently, two out of 15 Board members are women. Reference is made to section 3 of this Corporate Governance Statement for a short biography of each of the members of the Board of Directors, including their qualifications and background, s well as for further information on the applicable Belgian legal gender diversity requirements. 2. The Board of directors .1. Structure and composition he Board of directors currently consists of 15 members, all of whom are non-executives. The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its omposition, structure and organization are described in detail in Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Corporate Governance Charter. This Corporate Governance Charter includes the criteria that directors must satisfy to qualify as independent directors. nless the shareholders’ meeting decides on a shorter term, directors are appointed for a maximum term of four years, which is renewable. he appointment and renewal of directors (i) is based on a recommendation of the Nomination Committee, taking into account the rules regarding he composition of the Board that are set out in the Articles of Association (e.g., rules regarding number of independent directors and directors ppointed upon proposal of the AB InBev Reference Shareholder and the Restricted Shareholders), and (ii) is subject to approval by the hareholders’ meeting. ursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board is composed as follows: three directors shall be independent directors appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Board; and so long as the Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev (the “Reference Shareholder”) and/or any of its Affiliates, any of their respective Successors or Successors’ Affiliates own, in aggregate, more than 30% of shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, nine directors shall be appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Reference Shareholder and/or any of its Affiliates, any of their respective Successors or Successors’ Affiliates; and so long as the holders of Restricted Shares (the “Restricted Shareholders”) (together with their Affiliates, any of their respective Successors and/or Successors’ Affiliates) own in aggregate: ❍ more than 13.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, three directors will be appointed by the shareholders’ meeting upon proposal by the Restricted Shareholders (each such director a “Restricted Share Director”); ❍ more than 9% but not more than 13.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, two Restricted Share Directors will be appointed; ❍ more than 4.5% but not more than 9% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, one Restricted Share Director will be appointed; and ❍ 4.5% or less than 4.5% of the Shares with voting rights in the share capital of the company, they will no longer have the right to propose any candidate for appointment as a member of the Board and no Restricted Share Directors will be appointed. he Articles of Association set out detailed rules regarding the calculation of the company’s share capital owned by the Reference Shareholder and he Restricted Shareholders for the purpose of determining directors’ nomination rights. Affiliates and Successors have the meaning set out in the rticles of Association. he composition of the Board will be balanced primarily considering the respective skills, education, experience and background of each of the oard members. ccording to the Belgian Companies Code, as amended by the Law of 28 July 2011 on gender diversity on the Board, at least one third of the irectors will have to be women. As a newly listed company having securities admitted to trade on Euronext Brussels on 11 October 2016, B InBev will need to comply with the gender diversity requirement as from 1 January 2022. Currently, two out of 15 of our Board members are omen. AB InBev will continue its efforts towards fostering gender diversity on its Board in the coming years by identifying women candidates aving the appropriate profile to become members of the Board. In this respect, the Board has decided to propose at the upcoming annual hareholders’ meeting to renew the mandates of the directors whose term of office comes to an end at such shareholders’ meeting (other than he Restricted Share Directors) for a two-year term only, rather than the normal four year term. As a result, the terms of office of all members f the Board of Directors will come to an end at the annual shareholders’ meeting in April 2020, offering additional flexibility to meet the gender iversity requirement ahead of the 1 January 2022 deadline. t the annual shareholders’ meeting held on 26 April 2017, the mandates of all three Restricted Share Directors, i.e. Messrs. Martin J. Barrington, William F. Gifford and Alejandro Santo Domingo, ended. In accordance with article 19.4 (b) of our bylaws, their mandates were renewed for a one ear term ending at the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 25 April 2018. 152 In addition to the mandates of the aforementioned Restricted Share Directors, the mandates of the following directors will come to an end at the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 25 April 2018: Ms Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala, Mr Alexandre Behring, Mr Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart, Mr Stéfan Descheemaeker, Mr Grégoire de Spoelberch, Mr Paulo Lemann, Mr Carlos Alberto Sicupira, Mr Marcel Herrmann Telles and Mr Alexandre Van Damme. The composition of Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Board of directors at the end of the reporting period is as follows: Name Date of birth Function Term started Term expires Nationality Independent Directors Olivier Goudet °1964, Non-Executive Independent director 2016 2020 French Michele Burns °1958, Non-Executive Independent director 2016 2020 American Elio Leoni Sceti °1966, Non-Executive Independent director 2016 2020 Italian Directors upon proposal of the AB InBev Reference Shareholder Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala °1963, Non-Executive, Non-Independent director 2016 2018 Mexican Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart °1968, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Stéfan Descheemaeker °1960, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Grégoire de Spoelberch °1966, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Alexandre Van Damme °1962, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Belgian class A Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Alexandre Behring °1967, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Paulo Lemann °1968, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira °1948, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Marcel Herrmann Telles °1950, Non-Executive director, nominated by the holders of 2016 2018 Brazilian class B Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev certificates Directors upon proposal of the Restricted Shareholders (Restricted Share Directors) Martin J. Barrington °1953, Non-Executive director, nominated by Altria 2017 2018 American William F. Gifford °1970, Non-Executive director, nominated by Altria 2017 2018 American Alejandro Santo Domingo °1977, Non-Executive director, nominated by Bevco 2017 2018 Colombian Ms. Aramburuzabala is a non-executive member of the Board. Born in 1963, she is a citizen of Mexico and holds a degree in Accounting from ITAM (Instituto Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico). She has served as CEO of Tresalia Capital since 1996. She is currently chairman of the Boards of Directors of Tresalia Capital, KIO Networks, Abilia and Red Universalia. She is also a member of the Advisory Board of Grupo Modelo and was formerly a member of the Grupo Modelo Board of Directors, and is currently on the Boards of Consejo Mexicano de Negocios and El Universal, Compania Periodistica Nacional and is an Advisory Board member of ITAM School of Business. Mr. Barrington is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in 1953, he is an American citizen and graduated from The College of Saint Rose with a Bachelor’s Degree in History, and from Albany Law School of Union University with a Juris Doctorate Degree. He is Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Altria Group. During his more than 20 years at Altria Group, he has served in numerous executive roles – business and legal, domestic and international – for virtually all the companies in the Altria family. These include Vice Chairman of Altria Group; Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Altria Group; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris International (a separate public company spun-off from Altria Group in 2008); and Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Philip Morris USA. Before joining Altria, Mr Barrington practiced law in both the government and private sectors. Mr. Behring is a representative of the AB InBev main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in 1967, he is a Brazilian citizen and received a BS in Electrical Engineering from Pontificia Universidade Catolica in Rio de Janeiro and an MBA from Harvard Business School, having graduated as a Baker Scholar and Loeb Scholar. He is a co-founder and the Managing Partner of 3G Capital, a global investment firm with offices in New York and Rio de Janeiro, since 2004. Mr. Behring has served as Chairman of Restaurant Brands International since 3G Capital’s acquisition of Burger King in October 2010 and following Burger King’s subsequent acquisition of Tim Hortons in December 2014. Mr. Behring also serves as Chairman of the Kraft Heinz Company following the acquisition of H.J. Heinz Company by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital in June 2013 and subsequent combination with Kraft Foods Group in July 2015. Additionally, Mr. Behring formerly served as a Director of CSX Corporation, a leading U.S. rail-based transportation company, from 2008 to 2011. Previously, Mr. Behring spent approximately ten years at GP Investments, one of Latin America’s premier private-equity firms, including eight years as a partner and 153 member of the firm’s Investment Committee. He served for seven years, from 1998 through 2004, as a Director and CEO of one of Latin America’s argest railroads, ALL (America Latina Logistica). Ms. Burns is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1958, she is an American citizen and graduated Summa Cum Laude from the niversity of Georgia with a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration and a Master’s Degree in Accountancy. Ms. Burns was the Chairman nd Chief Executive Officer of Mercer LLC from 2006 until 2012. She currently serves on the Boards of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, here she chairs the Risk Committee, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Cisco Systems, Etsy and Circle Online Financial, a private company. From 2003 ntil 2013, she served as a director of Wal-Mart Stores, where she chaired the Compensation and Nominating Committee and the Strategic lanning and Finance Committee. She also serves as the Center Fellow and Strategic Advisor to the Stanford Center on Longevity at Stanford niversity. Ms. Burns is on the Executive Board of the Elton John Aids Foundation, where she serves as Treasurer. Ms. Burns began her career n 1981 at Arthur Andersen, where she became a partner in 1991. In 1999, she joined Delta Air Lines, assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer rom 2000 to 2004. From 2004 to 2006, Ms. Burns served as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer of Mirant Corporation, n independent power producer. From March 2006 until September 2006, Ms. Burns served as the Chief Financial Officer of Marsh and McLennan Companies. Mr. Cornet de Ways Ruart is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A tichting certificates). Born in 1968, he is a Belgian citizen and holds a Master’s Degree as a Commercial Engineer from the Catholic University f Louvain and an MBA from the University of Chicago. He has attended the Master Brewer program at the Catholic University of Louvain. From 006 to 2011, he worked at Yahoo! and was in charge of Corporate Development for Europe before taking on additional responsibilities as Senior inancial Director for Audience and Chief of Staff. Prior to joining Yahoo!, Mr. Cornet was Director of Strategy for Orange UK and spent seven years ith McKinsey & Company in London and Palo Alto, California. He is also a non-executive director of Bunge Limited, EPS, Rayvax, Adrien Invest, loridienne S.A. and several privately held companies. Mr. Descheemaeker is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting ertificates). Born in 1960, he is a Belgian citizen and graduated from Solvay Business School. He is the CEO of Nomad Foods, the leader of the uropean frozen food sector whose brands include Birds Eye, Findus & Iglo. He joined Interbrew in 1996 as head of Strategy & External Growth, managing its M&A activities, culminating with the combination of Interbrew and Ambev. In 2004, he transitioned to operational management, irst in charge of Interbrew’s operations in the United States and Mexico, and then as InBev’s Zone President Central and Eastern Europe and ventually, Western Europe. In 2008, Mr. Descheemaeker ended his operational responsibilities at AB InBev and joined the AB InBev Board as a on-executive Director. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Delhaize Group in late 2008 and served as Chief Executive Officer of Delhaize urope from January 2012 until the end of 2013. He is a professor in Business Strategy at the Solvay Business School. Mr. Goudet is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1964, he is a French citizen, holds a degree in Engineering from l’Ecole Centrale de aris and graduated from the ESSEC Business School in Paris with a major in Finance. Mr. Goudet is Partner and CEO of JAB Holding Company, position he has held since June 2012. He started his professional career in 1990 at Mars, Inc., serving on the finance team of the French business. fter six years, he left Mars to join the VALEO Group, where he held several senior executive positions, including Group Finance Director. In 1998 e returned to Mars, where he became Chief Financial Officer in 2004. In 2008, his role was broadened to become the Executive Vice President as ell as CFO. Between June 2012 and November 2015 he served as an Advisor to the Board of Mars. Mr. Goudet is also a Board member of Jacobs ouwe Egberts, the world’s leading pure play FMCG coffee and tea company; a Board member of Keurig Green Mountain, a leader in single-serve offee and beverage technologies; Chairman of Peet’s Coffee & Tea, a premier specialty coffee and tea company; a board member of Caribou instein, a premium coffee and bagel restaurant chain; Chairman of Krispy Kreme, an iconic branded retailer of premium quality sweet treats; Board member of Panera Bread Company, the leading fast casual restaurant company in the US, and Espresso House, the largest branded offee shop chain in Scandinavia; and a Board member of Coty Inc., a global leader in beauty. Mr. Gifford is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in the United States in 1970, he is an American citizen and graduated from irginia Commonwealth University with a Bachelor’s Degree in Accountancy. He serves as Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group. In this role, e is responsible for the Accounting, Tax, Treasury, Audit, Investor Relations, Finance Decision Support and Strategy & Business Development rganizations. He also oversees the financial services business of Philip Morris Capital Corporation. Prior to his current position, Mr Gifford was enior Vice President, Strategy & Business Development. Since joining Philip Morris USA in 1994, he has served in numerous leadership roles n Finance, Marketing Information & Consumer Research and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris USA. Prior to that, he was ice President and Treasurer for Altria where he led various functions including Risk Management, Treasury Management, Benefits Investments, orporate Finance and Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis. Prior to joining Philip Morris USA, Mr Gifford worked at the public accounting firm f Coopers & Lybrand, which currently is known as PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Lemann is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born n Brazil in 1968, he is a Brazilian citizen and graduated from Faculdade Candido Mendes in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with a B.A. in Economics. Mr. Lemann interned at PriceWaterhouse in 1989 and was employed as an Analyst at Andersen Consulting from 1990 to 1991. Mr. Lemann also erformed equity analysis while at Banco Marka and Dynamo Asset Management (both in Rio de Janeiro). From 1997 to 2004, he developed the edge fund investment group at Tinicum Inc., a New York-based investment office that advised the Synergy Fund of Funds, where he served as ortfolio Manager. In May 2005, Mr. Lemann founded Pollux Capital and is currently the Portfolio Manager there. Mr. Lemann is a board member of ojas Americanas, the Lemann Foundation and Lone Pine. Mr. Leoni Sceti is an independent member of the Board. Born in 1966, he is an Italian citizen who lives in the UK. He graduated Magna Cum Laude n Economics from LUISS in Rome, where he passed the Dottore Commercialista post-graduate bar exam. Mr. Leoni Sceti has over 25 years’ xperience in the fast-moving consumer goods and media sectors. He was CEO of Iglo Group, a European food business whose brands are Birds 154 Eye, Findus & Iglo. Iglo group was sold in May 2015 to Nomad Foods. He previously served as CEO of EMI Music from 2008 to 2010. Prior to EMI, Mr. Leoni Sceti had an international career in marketing and held senior leadership roles at Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser, where he later was CMO, global head of Innovation and then head of the European operations. Mr. Leoni Sceti is Chairman of London based LSG holdings and an early investor in Media & Tech, with over 25 companies in portfolio. He is an independent member of the Board at Barry Callebaut, and of US start-ups Meural and Swipecast. Elio’s roles in non-profit include being a Trustee and Counsellor at One Young World, (young leaders from over 190 countries), and an advisor UK board member at Room to Read (promoting literacy and gender equality in education in developing world). Mr. Santo Domingo Dávila is a representative of the Restricted Shareholders. Born in 1977, he is a Colombian citizen and obtained a BA in History from Harvard College. He is a Senior Managing Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. in New York City. He was a member of the Board of Directors of SABMiller plc. He was also Vice-Chairman of SABMiller plc for Latin America. Mr. Santo Domingo is Chairman of the Board of Bavaria S.A. in Colombia and Chairman of the Board of Valorem, a company which manages a diverse portfolio of industrial & media assets in Latin America. Mr. Santo Domingo is also a Director of Contour Global plc, Millicom, JDE (Jacobs Douwe Egberts), Keurig Green Mountain, Florida Crystals, the world’s largest sugar refiner, Caracol TV, Colombia’s leading broadcaster, El Espectador, a leading Colombian Daily, and Cine Colombia, Colombia’s leading film distribution and movie theatre company. In the non-profit sector, he is Vice Chairman of the Wildlife Conservation Society, a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Educational Broadcasting Corporation (WNET Channel Thirteen). Mr. Santo Domingo is also a Member of the Board of DKMS Americas; a foundation dedicated to finding donors for leukaemia patients. He is a Member of the Board of Fundacion Pies Descalzos. Mr. Sicupira is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in 1948, he is a Brazilian citizen and received a Bachelor of Business Administration from Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and attended the Owners/Presidents Management Program at Harvard Business School. He has been Chairman of Lojas Americanas since 1981, where he also served as Chief Executive Officer until 1992. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Restaurant Brands International Inc. and the Harvard Business School’s Board of Dean’s Advisors and a co-founder and Board member of Fundação Estudar, a non-profit organisation that provides scholarships for Brazilians. Mr. de Spoelberch is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1966, he is a Belgian citizen and holds an MBA from INSEAD. Mr. de Spoelberch is an active private equity shareholder and his recent activities include shared Chief Executive Officer responsibilities for Lunch Garden, the leading Belgian self-service restaurant chain. He is a member of the board of several family-owned companies, such as Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., Verlinvest and Cobehold (Cobepa). He is also an administrator of the Baillet-Latour Fund, a foundation that encourages social, cultural, artistic, technical, sporting, educational and philanthropic achievements. Mr. Telles is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by BRC S.à.R.L., the holder of the class B Stichting certificates). Born in 1950, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a degree in Economics from Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and attended the Owners/ Presidents Management Program at Harvard Business School. He was Chief Executive Officer of Brahma and Ambev and was a member of the Board of Directors of Ambev. He served as member of the Board of Directors of H.J. Heinz Company and now serves as member of the Board of Directors of the Kraft Heinz Company and of the Board of associates of Insper. He is co-founder and Board member of Fundação Estudar, a non-profit organisation that provides scholarships for Brazilians and a founder and Chairman of Ismart, a non-profit organisation that provides scholarships to low-income students. He is also an ambassador for Endeavor, an international non-profit organisation that supports entrepreneurs in developing markets. Mr. Van Damme is a representative of the main shareholders (nominated by Eugénie Patri Sébastien S.A., the holder of the Class A Stichting certificates). Born in 1962, he is a Belgian citizen and graduated from Solvay Business School, Brussels. Mr. Van Damme joined the beer industry early in his career and held various operational positions within Interbrew until 1991, including Head of Corporate Planning and Strategy. He has managed several private venture holding companies and is currently a director of Patri S.A. (Luxembourg), Restaurant Brands International (formerly Burger King Worldwide Holdings) Jacobs Douwe Egberts (JDE) and Keurig Green Mountain (KGM). He is also an administrator of the Baillet-Latour Fund, a foundation that encourages social, cultural, artistic, technical, sporting, educational and philanthropic achievements, as well as a director of the charitable, non-profit organisation DKMS, the largest bone marrow donor centre in the world. 2.2. Functioning In 2017, the Board of Anheuser-Busch InBev held nine regular meetings. Several of the meetings were held in the geographical Zones in which the company has operations. On these occasions, the Board was provided with a comprehensive briefing of the relevant geographical Zone and market. These briefings included an overview of performance, key challenges facing the market and the steps being taken to address the challenges. Several of these visits also provided the Board members with the opportunity to meet with employees, trainees, customers and other stakeholders. Major Board agenda items included the long-range plan; achievement of targets; sales figures and brand health; reporting and budget; consolidated results; strategic direction; culture and people, including management succession planning; new and ongoing investment; capital market transactions; external growth and acquisitions; corporate social responsibility and sustainability as well as discussions on governance and Board succession planning. The average attendance rate at Board meetings in 2017 was 95.5%. In 2017, the Board has been assisted by four Committees: the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. 155 s per the date of this report, the composition of the Committees is as follows: Audit Nomination Finance Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala Martin J. Barrington Member lex Behring Member(1) Michele Burns Chair Member aul Cornet de Ways Ruart téfan Descheemaeker Member Grégoire de Spoelberch Member William F. Gifford Member Olivier Goudet Member Member Member aulo Lemann Member lejandro Santo Domingo lio Leoni Sceti Member Member arlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira Member(2) Marcel Herrmann Telles Chair Chair lexandre Van Damme Member Chair otes: ) Mr Carlos Alberto Sicupira was member of the Nomination Committee until 31 December 2017. Effective 1 January 2018, Mr Alexandre Behring replaced Mr Carlos Alberto Sicupira as member of the Nomination Committee. ) Mr Alexandre Behring was member of the Finance Committee until 31 December 2017. Effective 1 January 2018, Mr Carlos Alberto Sicupira replaced Mr Alexandre Behring as member of the Finance Committee. Audit Committee n accordance with the requirements of the Belgian Companies Code, the Audit Committee is composed exclusively of non-executive Board members and at least one of its members, i.e. Mr. Olivier Goudet, qualifies as an independent director within the meaning of article 526ter of the elgian Companies Code. Mr. Goudet holds a degree in engineering from l’Ecole Centrale de Paris and graduated from the ESSEC Business chool in Paris with a major in finance. He has extensive experience in accounting and audit which he has obtained, among others, as Executive ice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mars, Incorporated. majority of the voting members of the Audit Committee are independent directors as defined in the Corporate Governance Charter and all of them re independent as defined in Rule 10A-3(b)(1)(ii) under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. n 2017, the Audit Committee met nine times. During its meetings, the Committee reviewed the financial statements of the company, the nnual report, half-yearly and quarterly statements, as well as related results announcements. The Committee also considered issues rising from internal audits conducted by the Internal Audit department and the implementation of the company’s Compliance Program. Obligations under Sarbanes Oxley, the review of the independence and appointment of the external auditor and a quarterly status of ignificant litigation were some of the other important topics on the agenda of the Committee. The members of the Committee attended ll meetings. Finance Committee he Finance Committee met four times in 2017. Committee discussions included treasury updates and overall risk management strategy including ut not limited to risks related to commodities, interest rates, currencies and liquidity, hedging policies, the debt profile and capital structure of the roup, pensions, dividends and the disclosure policy of the company. The members of the Committee attended all meetings except for Mr. Behring, ho was absent at one meeting. Nomination Committee he Nomination Committee’s principal role is to guide the Board succession process. The Committee identifies persons qualified to become Board members and recommends director candidates for nomination by the Board and appointment by the shareholders’ meeting. he Nomination Committee met five times in 2017. Discussions included the nomination of directors for appointment or renewal, management argets, the evaluation of the Board and its committees, the global management trainee program and succession planning for key executive unctions. The members of the Committee attended all meetings. 156 Remuneration Committee In accordance with the requirements of the Belgian Companies Code, the Remuneration Committee is composed exclusively of non-executive Board members and a majority of its members, i.e. Mr Olivier Goudet and Mr Elio Leoni Sceti, qualify as independent directors within the meaning of article 526ter of the Belgian Companies Code. The Remuneration Committee’s principal role is to guide the Board on decisions relating to the remuneration policies for the Board, the CEO and the Executive Board of Management (EBM) and on individual remuneration packages of directors, the CEO and members of the EBM. The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2017. Discussions included achievement of targets, Executive and Board compensation, Executive shares and options schemes, Long Term Incentive grants to directors, new compensation models and special incentives. The members of the Committee attended all meetings. 2.3. Evaluation of the Board and its committees For each financial year, the Board performs an evaluation of its performance at the initiative of the Chairman. The evaluation constitutes a separate agenda item for a physical meeting of the Board. Discussions take place in executive session in the absence of management. A third party may act as facilitator. During such meeting, each director is requested to comment on and evaluate the following topics: • effectiveness of Board and committee operations (e.g. checking that important issues are suitably prepared and discussed, time available for discussion of important policy matters, checking availability and adequacy of pre-read, etc.); • the qualifications and responsibilities of individual directors (e.g. actual contribution of each director, the director’s presence at the meetings and his/her involvement in discussions, impact of changes to the director’s other relevant commitments outside the company). • effectiveness of oversight of management and interaction with management; • composition and size of the Board and committees. Evaluation will at least take into account the following criteria: ❍  director independence: an affirmative determination as to the independence will be made in accordance with the independence criteria published in the Corporate Governance Charter. ❍  other commitments of directors: the outside Board commitments of each director enhance experience and perspective of directors, but will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to ensure that each director can devote proper attention to the fulfillment of his oversight responsibilities. ❍  disqualifying circumstances: certain circumstances may constitute a disqualification for membership on the Board (e.g. Board membership of a major supplier, customer or competitor of the company, membership of a federal or regional government). Circumstances will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to ensure that directors are not conflicted. ❍  skills and previous contributions: the company expects that all directors prepare for, attend and participate actively and constructively in all meetings; exercise their business judgment in good faith; focus their efforts on ensuring that the company’s business is conducted so as to further the interests of the shareholders; and become and remain well informed about the company, relevant business and economic trends and about the principles and practices of sound Corporate Governance. Following review and discussion of the responses, the Chairman of the Board may table proposals to enhance the performance or effectiveness of the functioning of the Board. Advice can be requested from a third-party expert. The evaluation of the Audit Committee is a re-occurring agenda item for the Committee and is performed about once a year. This evaluation is discussed at a Committee meeting and includes assessment of its planning going forward, the appropriateness of the time allocated to its various areas of responsibility, its composition and any areas for improvement. Any major action points resulting therefrom are reported to the Board. 2.4. Certain transactions and other contractual relationships There are no transactions or other contractual relationships to be reported between the company and its Board members that gave rise to conflicting interests as defined in the Belgian Companies code. The company is prohibited from making loans to directors, whether for the purpose of exercising options or for any other purpose. 3. Chief Executive Officer and Executive Board of Management The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is entrusted by the Board with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the company. The CEO has direct operational responsibility for the entire company. The CEO leads an Executive Board of Management (EBM) which comprises global functional heads (or “Chiefs”) and Zone presidents including the Chief Executive Officer of Ambev (Bernardo Pinto Paiva), who reports to the Board of directors of Ambev. 157 s per 1 January 2018, our Executive Board of Management consisted of the following members: arlos Brito – CEO unctional heads (Chiefs) Zone presidents avid Almeida Chief People Officer; and Chief Sales Officer Jan Craps Asia Pacific South ad interim (effective 1 January 2018)(1) ohn Blood General Counsel and Company Secretary Michel Doukeris North America (effective (effective 1 August 2017)(3) 1 January 2018)(2) elipe Dutra Chief Financial & Technology Officer Jean Jereissati Asia Pacific North edro Earp Chief Disruptive Growth Officer Mauricio Leyva Middle Americas avid Kamenetzky Chief Strategy & External Affairs Officer Carlos Lisboa Latin America South eter Kraemer Chief Supply Officer Stuart MacFarlane Europe ony Milikin Chief Procurement & Sustainability Officer Ricardo Tadeu Africa Miguel Patricio Chief Marketing Officer Ricardo Moreira Latin America COPEC laudio Braz Ferro Chief Supply Integration Officer Bernardo Pinto Paiva Latin America North (until 31 January 2018) otes: ) Claudio Garcia was Chief People Officer until 31 December 2017. David Almeida, formerly Chief Integration Officer, replaced Claudio Garcia as Chief People Officer as of 1 January 2018. In addition, David Almeida has assumed the role of Chief Sales Officer ad interim, replacing Michel Doukeris. ) João Castro Neves was Zone President North America until 31 December 2017. Michel Doukeris, formerly Chief Sales Officer, replaced João Castro Neves as Zone President North America as of 1 January 2018. ) Sabine Chalmers was Chief Legal Officer until 31 July 2017. arlos Brito is AB InBev’s CEO. Born in 1960, he is a Brazilian citizen and received a Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Universidade ederal do Rio de Janeiro and an MBA from Stanford University Graduate School of Business. Mr. Brito joined Ambev in 1989 where he held roles n Finance, Operations, and Sales, before being appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2004. He was appointed Zone President North merica at InBev in January 2005 and Chief Executive Officer in December 2005. He is a member of the board of directors of Ambev and of the dvisory Board of Grupo Modelo. He is also an Advisory Council Member of the Stanford Graduate School of Business and serves on the Advisory oard of the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management. avid Almeida is AB InBev’s Chief People Officer and Chief Sales Officer ad interim. Born in 1976, Mr Almeida is a dual citizen of the U.S. and razil and holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania. Most recently, he served as Chief Integration Officer having reviously held the positions of Vice President, U.S. Sales and of Vice President, Finance for the North American organisation. Prior to that, he served s InBev’s head of mergers and acquisitions, where he led the combination with Anheuser-Busch in 2008 and subsequent integration activities in the .S. Before joining InBev in 1998, he worked at Salomon Brothers in New York as a financial analyst in the Investment Banking division. ohn Blood is AB InBev’s General Counsel and Company Secretary. Born in 1967, Mr. Blood is a U.S. citizen and holds a bachelor’s degree rom Amherst College and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. Mr. Blood joined AB InBev in 2009 as Vice President Legal, ommercial and M&A where he focused on global Mergers & Acquisitions, Compliance and Corporate law. Most recently Mr. Blood was Zone ice President Legal & Corporate Affairs in North America where he has led the legal and corporate affairs agenda for the United States and anada. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Blood led the corporate and litigation teams in Diageo’s North American business where he had been rimary counsel to its U.S. hard liquor, wine and beer divisions over his tenure. an Craps is AB InBev’s Zone President Asia Pacific South. Born in 1977, Mr Craps is a Belgian citizen and obtained a Degree in Business ngineering from KU Brussels and a Master’s Degree in Business Engineering from KU Leuven, Belgium. He has also completed ost-graduate programs in Marketing and Strategy from INSEAD in France, and the Kellogg School of Management and Wharton Business School n the United States. Mr Craps was an associate consultant with McKinsey & Company before joining AB InBev in 2002. He acquired a range of nternational experiences in a number of senior marketing, sales and logistics executive positions in France and Belgium. In 2011, he relocated to anada where he was appointed Head of Sales for Canada followed by his appointment as President and CEO of Labatt Breweries of Canada in 2014. Michel Doukeris is AB InBev’s Zone President North America since 1 January 2018. Born in 1973, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Degree n Chemical Engineering from Federal University of Santa Catarina in Brazil and a Master’s Degree in Marketing from Fundação Getulio Vargas, lso in Brazil. He has also completed post-graduate programs in Marketing and Marketing Strategy from the Kellogg School of Management and Wharton Business School in the United States. Mr. Doukeris joined AB InBev in 1996 and held sales positions of increasing responsibility before ecoming Vice President, Soft Drinks for AB InBev’s Latin America North Zone in 2008. He was appointed President, AB InBev China in January 010 and Zone President, Asia Pacific in January 2013. In January 2017, Mr Doukeris became Chief Sales Officer. elipe Dutra is AB InBev’s Chief Financial and Technology Officer. Born in 1965, Mr. Dutra is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Degree in Economics rom Candido Mendes and an MBA in Controlling from Universidade de Sao Paulo. He joined Ambev in 1990 from Aracruz Celulose, a major razilian manufacturer of pulp and paper. At Ambev, he held various positions in Treasury and Finance before being appointed General Manager f one of AB InBev’s subsidiaries. Mr. Dutra was appointed Ambev’s Chief Financial Officer in 1999 and Chief Financial Officer in January 2005. n 2014, Mr. Dutra became AB InBev’s Chief Financial and Technology Officer. He is also a member of the board of directors of Ambev and of the dvisory board of Grupo Modelo and was formerly a member of the Grupo Modelo board of directors. edro Earp is AB InBev’s Chief Disruptive Growth Officer. Born in 1977, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in inancial Economics from the London School of Economics. Mr. Earp joined AB InBev in 2000 as a Global Management Trainee in AB InBev’s 158 Latin America North Zone. In 2002, he became responsible for the Zone’s M&A team and in 2005 he moved to AB InBev’s global headquarters in Leuven, Belgium to become Global Director, M&A. Later, he was appointed Vice President, Strategic Planning in Canada in 2006, Global Vice President, Insights and Innovation in 2007, Global Vice President, M&A in 2009 and Vice President, Marketing for the Latin America North Zone in 2013. He was appointed Chief Disruptive Growth Officer of AB InBev in February 2015. Jean Jereissati is AB InBev’s Zone President Asia Pacific North. Born in 1974, Mr. Jereissati is a Brazilian citizen and earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from Fundação Getúlio Vargas in Brazil. Mr. Jereissati joined Ambev in 1998 in the commercial area. Prior to his appointment as AB InBev’s Business Unit President China in 2013, he served as Business Unit President Hispanic Latin America, and CEO of Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana. David Kamenetzky is AB InBev’s Chief Strategy and External Affairs Officer. Born in 1969, he is a Swiss citizen and graduated from the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland, with a lic. oec. (diploma) in finance, accounting and controlling, and from Georgetown University, Washington DC, with a master of science in foreign service. Until September 2016, Mr. Kamenetzky served on the management team of Mars, Incorporated, one of the largest privately held companies and among the top food manufacturers, with responsibilities for corporate strategy, corporate affairs and enterprise wide strategic initiatives. He left Mars after a ten-year tenure and successfully set up his own growth capital fund for disruptive food and beverage companies. Prior to joining Mars, Mr. Kamenetzky worked for Goldman Sachs & Co. in London and Frankfurt. Before going into the private sector, he worked for many years in the not-for-profit world. Peter Kraemer is AB InBev’s Chief Supply Officer. Born in 1965, he is a U.S. Citizen. A fifth-generation Brewmaster and native of St. Louis, Mr Kraemer holds a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from Purdue University and a Master’s degree in Business Administration from St. Louis University. He joined AB InBev 29 years ago and has held various brewing positions over the years, including Group Director of Brewing and Resident Brewmaster of the St. Louis brewery. In 2008, Mr Kraemer became Vice President, Supply, for AB InBev’s North America Zone, leading all brewery operations, quality assurance, raw materials and product innovation responsibilities. He was appointed Chief Supply Officer of AB InBev in March 2016. Mauricio Leyva is AB InBev’s Zone President Middle Americas. Born in 1970, Mr Leyva is a Colombian citizen and received a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from Universidad de Los Andes in Colombia and an International Management Diploma from ICN Postgraduate Business School, University de Nancy in France. Mr Leyva joined SABMiller Colombia in January 2005 as Commercial Vice President. His background includes senior roles in Sales and Marketing. In 2009, he was appointed President of SABMiller Honduras and later moved to Peru as the President and CEO. In 2013 he was named Chairman and Managing Director for South Africa. Carlos Lisboa is AB InBev’s Zone President Latin America South. Born in 1969, Mr Lisboa is a Brazilian citizen and received a Degree in Business Administration from the Catholic University of Pernambuco and a Marketing specialization from FESP, both in Brazil. Mr Lisboa joined Ambev in 1993 and has built his career in Marketing and Sales. He was responsible for building the Skol brand in Brazil in 2001 and after that became Marketing Vice President for AB InBev’s Latin American North Zone. Mr Lisboa then led the International Business Unit in AB InBev’s Latin America South Zone for two years prior to becoming Business Unit President for Canada. In 2015, he was appointed Marketing Vice President for AB InBev’s Global Brands. Stuart MacFarlane is AB InBev’s Zone President Europe. Born in 1967, he is a citizen of the UK and received a Degree in Business Studies from Sheffield University in the UK. He is also a qualified Chartered Management Accountant. He joined AB InBev in 1992 and since then has held senior roles in Finance, Marketing and Sales and was Managing Director for AB InBev’s business in Ireland. Mr. MacFarlane was appointed President of AB InBev UK & Ireland in January 2008, and, in January 2012, became AB InBev’s Zone President, Central & Eastern Europe. In January 2014, he was appointed as Zone President, Europe to lead AB InBev’s new single European zone. Tony Milikin is AB InBev’s Chief Procurement & Sustainability Officer. Tony is responsible for all Procurement, Sustainability and Vertical Operations globally. AB InBev’s vertical operations consists of 75+ facilities and 10,000 employees and a strategic partner of our raw material supplies. Born in 1961, he is a U.S. citizen and holds an undergraduate Finance Degree from the University of Florida and an MBA in Marketing from Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, Texas. Tony joined AB InBev in May 2009 from MeadWestvaco, where he was Vice President, Supply Chain and Chief Purchasing Officer, based in Richmond, Virginia. Prior to joining MeadWestvaco, he held various purchasing and supply chain positions with increasing responsibilities at Monsanto and Alcon Laboratories. Ricardo Moreira is AB InBev’s Zone President Latin America COPEC. Born in 1971, he is a Portuguese citizen and received a Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Rio de Janeiro Federal University in Brazil and a specialisation in Management from University of Chicago in the U.S. Mr Moreira joined Ambev in 1995 and held various positions in the Sales and Finance organisations prior to becoming Regional Sales Director in 2001. He subsequently held positions as Vice President Logistics & Procurement for Latin America North, Business Unit President for Hispanic Latin America (HILA) and Vice President Soft Drinks Latin America North. In 2013, Mr. Moreira moved to Mexico to head AB InBev’s Sales, Marketing and Distribution organisations and lead the commercial integration of Grupo Modelo. Miguel Patricio is AB InBev’s Chief Marketing Officer. Born in 1966, he is a Portuguese citizen and holds a Degree in Business Administration from Fundação Getulio Vargas in São Paulo. Prior to joining Ambev in 1998, Mr. Patricio held several senior positions across the Americas at Philip Morris, The Coca-Cola Company and Johnson & Johnson. At Ambev, he was Vice President, Marketing before being appointed Vice President, Marketing of InBev’s North American zone based in Toronto in January 2005. In January 2006, he was promoted to Zone President, North America, and in January 2008 he moved to Shanghai to take on the role of Zone President, Asia Pacific. He became AB InBev’s Chief Marketing Officer in July 2012. Bernardo Pinto Paiva is AB InBev’s Zone President, Latin America North. Born in 1968, he is a Brazilian citizen and holds a Degree in Engineering from Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and an Executive MBA from Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro. Mr. Pinto Paiva joined Ambev in 1991 as a management trainee and during his career at AB InBev has held leadership positions in Sales, Supply, Distribution and Finance. He was appointed Zone President, North America in January 2008 and Zone President, Latin America South in January 2009 before becoming Chief Sales Officer in January 2012. Effective 1 January 2015, he became Zone President, Latin America North and CEO of Ambev. 159 icardo Tadeu is AB InBev’s Zone President Africa. Born in 1976, he is a Brazilian citizen, and received a law degree from the Universidade ândido Mendes in Brazil and a Master of Law from Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He is also Six Sigma Black Belt certified. e joined AB InBev in 1995 and has held various roles across the Commercial area. He was appointed Business Unit President for AB InBev’s perations in Hispanic Latin America in 2005, and served as Business Unit President, Brazil from 2008 to 2012. He served as Zone President, Mexico from 2013 until his appointment as Zone President Africa upon completion of the Combination. He is also a member of the board of directors f SABSA Holdings Ltd, Tanzania Breweries Ltd and Delta Corporation Ltd. 4. Internal control and risk management systems he Board of directors and the EBM are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls and risk management systems. nternal control is the process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding achievement of objectives related to effectiveness and fficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Risk management is the process esigned to identify potential events that may affect the company and to manage risks to be within its risk appetite. Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Board as a whole, the Audit Committee oversees financial and business risk management and iscusses the process by which management assesses and manages the company’s exposure to those risks and the steps taken to monitor and ontrol such exposure. he company’s major risk factors and uncertainties are described in the Risks and Uncertainties section of the Management report in AB InBev’s nnual report. he company has established and operates its internal control and risk management systems based on guidelines issued by the Committee of ponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). The internal control system is based upon COSO’s Internal Control– Integrated ramework of 2013 and its risk management system is based on COSO’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework of 2004. Financial reporting he EBM is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The company’s internal control over inancial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of inancial statements for external purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Internal controls over financial eporting include those written policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of company assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS; provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. nternal control over financial reporting includes the assessment of the relevant risks, the identification and monitoring of key controls and actions aken to correct deficiencies as identified. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate ecause of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. he EBM assessed the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2017. As indicated above, management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control — Integrated ramework” issued by COSO in May 2013. The assessment included an evaluation of the design of the company’s internal control over financial eporting and testing of its operational effectiveness. Based on this assessment, the EBM determined that, as of 31 December 2017, the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. he Board of directors and the Audit Committee reviewed the EBM’s assessment. The review related among other things to ensuring that there are o significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely o adversely affect the company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, and to the existence of any fraud, whether r not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting. n addition, as a result of the listing of Anheuser-Busch InBev on the New York Stock Exchange, the company must adhere to Section 404 of the S Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a consequence, the company is required to provide on a yearly basis a management report on the effectiveness f the company’s internal control over financial reporting, as described in the Section and the rules implementing such act. Management’s report nd the Statutory Auditor’s related opinion regarding the relevant financial year, will be included in the company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for uch year, which is required to be filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. nternal Audit he company has a professional and independent internal audit department. The appointment of the Head of internal audit is reviewed by the Audit ommittee. The Audit Committee reviews internal audit’s risk assessment and annual audit plan and regularly receives internal audit reports for eview and discussion. 160 Internal control deficiencies identified by internal audit are communicated in a timely manner to management and periodic follow-up is performed to ensure corrective action has been taken. Effective 1 January 2018, the Internal Audit function has been renamed to Risk Management. Compliance AB InBev has a Compliance Program which fosters a culture of ethics, integrity and lawful behavior. This program includes a Code of Business Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Policy, which are available on the company’s website and intranet. The Compliance Program further ensures compliance with applicable laws and regulations and the completion of an annual certification by management of compliance with the Code of Business Conduct. A set of internal controls has been implemented and is periodically assessed at the Global and Local Compliance Committees, the Audit Committee and within the framework of internal audit. The Global Compliance Committee, chaired by the General Counsel, assesses regulatory and ethical compliance risks for the company from a global perspective and provides strategic direction for the activities of the compliance function. On a quarterly basis, the Global Compliance Committee reviews the operation of the Compliance Program and follows-up on the reports submitted through the company’s Compliance Helpline (whistle-blowing platform). In addition to the Global Compliance Committee, each Zone has its own Local Compliance Committee, which addresses local compliance matters. The Audit Committee reviews the operation of the Compliance Program and the results of any compliance reviews or reports submitted through the company’s global Compliance Helpline. On a regular basis, the Audit Committee also reviews the significant legal, compliance and regulatory matters that may have a material effect on the financial statements or the company’s business, including material notices to or inquiries received from governmental agencies. 5. Shareholders structure 5.1. Shareholders’ structure The following table shows the shareholders’ structure of Anheuser-Busch InBev based on the most recent notifications received by AB InBev and the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA) by the shareholders listed below in accordance with article 6 of the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the notification of significant shareholdings. Major shareholders Number of Shares % of voting rights(1) Holders of Ordinary Shares 1. S  tichting Anheuser-Busch InBev, a stichting incorporated under Dutch law (the “Reference Shareholder”) 663,074,832 34.29% 2. E  PS Participations Sàrl, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to EPS, its parent company 130,257,459 6.74% 3. E  PS SA, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to the Reference Shareholder that it jointly controls with BRC 99,999 0.01% 4. B  RC Sàrl, a company incorporated under Luxembourg law, affiliated to the Reference Shareholder that it jointly controls with EPS 37,598,236 1.94% 5. R  ayvax Société d’Investissements SA, a company incorporated under Belgian law 484,794 0.03% 6. S  ébastien Holding SA, a company incorporated under Belgian law, affiliated to Rayvax, its parent company 10 0.00% 7. F  onds Verhelst SPRL, a company with a social purpose incorporated under Belgian law 0 0.00% 8. F  onds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL, a company with a social purpose incorporated under Belgian law, affiliated to Fonds Verhelst SPRL with social purpose, that controls it 6,997,665 0.36% 9. S  tichting Fonds InBev-Baillet Latour, a stichting incorporated under Dutch law 0 0.00% 10. F  onds Baillet Latour SPRL, a company with a social purpose incorporated under Belgian law, affiliated to Stichting Fonds InBev-Baillet Latour under Dutch law, that controls it 5,485,415 0.28% 11. MHT Benefit Holding Company Ltd, a company incorporated under the law of the Bahamas, acting in concert with Marcel Herrmann Telles within the meaning of Article 3, §2 of the Takeover Law 3,645,605 0.19% 12.LTS Trading Company LLC, a company incorporated under Delaware law, acting in concert with Marcel Herrmann Telles, Jorge Paulo Lemann and Carlos Alberto Sicupira within the meaning of Article 3, §2 of the Takeover Law 4,468 0.00% Holders of Restricted Shares 1. Altria Group Inc.(2) 185,115,417 9.57% 2. Bevco Lux Sàrl(3) 96,862,718 5.01% Notes : (1) Holding percentages are calculated on the basis of the total number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares (1,933,700,188). As at 31 December 2017, there were 2,019,241,973 shares in issue including 85,541,785 ordinary shares held in treasury by AB InBev and certain of its subsidiaries. (2) In addition to the Restricted Shares listed above, Altria Group Inc. announced in its Schedule 13D beneficial ownership report on 11 October 2016 that, following completion of the business combination with SAB, it purchased 11,941,937 Ordinary Shares in the company. Finally, Altria further increased its position of Ordinary Shares in the company to 12,341,937, as disclosed in the Schedule 13 D beneficial ownership report filed by Stichting dated 1 November 2016, implying an aggregate ownership of 10.2% based on the number of shares with voting rights as at 31 December 2017. (3) In addition to the Restricted Shares listed above, Bevco Lux Sàrl announced in a notification made on 17 January 2017 in accordance with the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the notification of significant shareholdings, that it purchased 4,215,794 Ordinary Shares in the company, thereby increasing its aggregate ownership to 5.23% based on the number of shares with voting rights as at 31 December 2017. 161 he first twelve entities mentioned in the table act in concert (it being understood that (i) the first ten entities act in concert within the meaning of rticle 3, §1, 13º of the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on the disclosure of significant shareholdings in issuers whose securities are admitted to trading n a regulated market and containing various provisions, implementing into Belgian law Directive 2004/109/CE, and (ii) the eleventh and twelfth ntities act in concert with the first ten entities within the meaning of article 3, §2 of the Belgian law of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids) and old, as per the most recent notifications received by AB InBev and the FSMA in accordance with article 6 of the Belgian law of 2 May 2007 on he notification of significant shareholdings, in aggregate, 847,648,483 Ordinary Shares, representing 43.84% of the voting rights attached to the hares outstanding as of 31 December 2017 excluding treasury shares. .2. Shareholders’ arrangements tichting Anheuser-Busch InBev (the “Reference Shareholder”) has entered into shareholders’ agreements with (a) BRC, EPS, EPS Participations, ayvax Société d’Investissements SA (Rayvax), (b) Fonds Baillet Latour SPRL with a social purpose and Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL with social purpose, and (c) the largest holders of restricted shares in the company (the Restricted Shareholders). ) Reference Shareholder’s agreement n connection with the combination of Interbrew with Ambev in 2004, BRC, EPS, Rayvax and the Reference Shareholder entered into shareholders’ agreement on 2 March 2004 which provided for BRC and EPS to hold their interests in the old Anheuser-Busch InBev through the eference Shareholder (except for approximately 130 million shares held directly or indirectly by EPS and approximately 37 million shares held irectly by BRC). The shareholders’ agreement was amended and restated on 9 September 2009. On 18 December 2013, EPS contributed to EPS articipations its certificates in the Reference Shareholder and the shares it held in the old Anheuser-Busch InBev except for 100,000 shares. mmediately thereafter, EPS Participations joined the concert constituted by BRC, EPS, Rayvax and the Reference Shareholder and adhered o the shareholders’ agreement. On 18 December 2014, the Reference Shareholder, EPS, EPS Participations, BRC and Rayvax entered into new shareholders’ agreement that replaced the previous shareholders’ agreement of 2009. On 11 April 2016, the parties thereto entered into an mended and restated new shareholders’ agreement (the “2016 Shareholders’ Agreement”). he 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement addresses, among other things, certain matters relating to the governance and management of both AB InBev nd the Reference Shareholder, as well as (i) the transfer of the Reference Shareholder certificates, and (ii) the de-certification and re-certification rocess for the company’s shares (the “Shares”) and the circumstances in which the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder may be de-certified nd/or pledged at the request of BRC, EPS and EPS Participations. he 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement provides for restrictions on the ability of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations to transfer their Reference hareholder certificates. ursuant to the terms of the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, BRC and EPS/EPS Participations jointly and equally exercise control over the eference Shareholder and the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder. The Reference Shareholder is managed by an eight-member board f directors and each of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations have the right to appoint four directors to the Reference Shareholder board of directors. ubject to certain exceptions, at least seven of the eight Reference Shareholder directors must be present or represented in order to constitute a uorum of the Reference Shareholder board, and any action to be taken by the Reference Shareholder board of directors will, subject to certain ualified majority conditions, require the approval of a majority of the directors present or represented, including at least two directors appointed y BRC and two directors appointed by EPS/EPS Participations. Subject to certain exceptions, all decisions of the Reference Shareholder with espect to the Shares it holds, including how such Shares will be voted at shareholders’ meetings of AB InBev (Shareholders’ Meetings), will be made by the Reference Shareholder board of directors. he 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement requires the Reference Shareholder board of directors to meet prior to each shareholders’ meeting to etermine how the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder are to be voted. he 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement requires EPS, EPS Participations, BRC and Rayvax, as well as any other holder of certificates issued by the eference Shareholder, to vote their Shares in the same manner as the Shares held by the Reference Shareholder. The parties agree to effect any ree transfers of their Shares in an orderly manner of disposal that does not disrupt the market for the Shares and in accordance with any conditions stablished by the company to ensure such orderly disposal. In addition, under the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, EPS, EPS Participations and RC agree not to acquire any shares of Ambev’s capital stock, subject to limited exceptions. ursuant to the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement, the Reference Shareholder board of directors will propose to the shareholders’ meeting nine andidates for appointment to the Board, among which each of BRC and EPS/EPS Participations will have the right to nominate four candidates, nd one candidate will be nominated by the Reference Shareholder board of directors. he 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement will remain in effect for an initial term until 27 August 2034. It will be automatically renewed for successive erms of ten years each unless, not later than two years prior to the expiration of the initial or any successive ten-year term, either party to the 2016 hareholders’ Agreement notifies the other of its intention to terminate the 2016 Shareholders’ Agreement. ) Voting agreement between the Reference Shareholder and the foundations n addition, the Reference Shareholder has entered into a voting agreement with Fonds Baillet Latour SPRL with a social purpose and Fonds oorzitter Verhelst SPRL with a social purpose. This agreement provides for consultations between the three bodies before any shareholders’ 162 meetings to decide how they will exercise the voting rights attached to their Shares. Consensus is required for all items that are submitted to the approval of any shareholders’ meetings. If the parties fail to reach a consensus, Fonds Baillet Latour SPRL with a social purpose and Fonds Voorzitter Verhelst SPRL with a social purpose will vote their Shares in the same manner as the Reference Shareholder. The voting agreement is valid until 1 November 2034. c) Voting agreement between the Reference Shareholder and Restricted Shareholders On 8 October 2016, the Reference Shareholder and each holder of restricted shares (such holders being the Restricted Shareholders) holding more than 1% of the company’s total share capital, being Altria Group Inc. and Bevco LTD, have entered into a voting agreement, to which the company is also a party, under which notably: • the Reference Shareholder is required to exercise the voting rights attached to its Ordinary Shares to give effect to the directors’ appointment principles set out in articles 19 and 20 of the Articles of Association of the company; • each Restricted Shareholder is required to exercise the voting rights attached to its Ordinary Shares and Restricted Shares, as applicable, to give effect to the directors’ appointment principles set out in articles 19 and 20 of the Articles of Association; and • each Restricted Shareholder is required not to exercise the voting rights attached to their Ordinary Shares and Restricted Shares, as applicable, in favor of any resolutions which would be proposed to modify the rights attached to Restricted Shares, unless such resolution has been approved by a qualified majority of the holders of at least 75% of the Restricted Shareholder Voting Shares (as defined in the Articles of Association). 6. I tems to be disclosed pursuant to article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007 According to article 34 of the Belgian Royal Decree of 14 November 2007, Anheuser-Busch InBev hereby discloses the following items: 6.1. Capital structure and authorizations granted to the Board The company’s share capital is divided in two categories of shares: all shares are ordinary shares (the “Ordinary Shares”), except for 325,999,817 restricted shares (the “Restricted Shares”). Ordinary shares and Restricted Shares have the same rights except as set out in the Articles of Association. Restricted Shares shall always be in registered form and shall not be listed or admitted to trading on any stock market. Anheuser-Busch InBev may increase or decrease its share capital with the specific approval of a shareholders’ meeting. The shareholders may also authorize the Board of directors to increase the share capital. Such authorization must be limited in time and amount. In either case, the shareholders’ approval or authorization must satisfy the quorum and majority requirements applicable to amendments to the Articles of Association. At the annual shareholders’ meeting of 26 April 2017, the shareholders authorized the Board of directors to increase the share capital of AB InBev to an amount not to exceed 3% of the total number of shares issued and outstanding on 26 April 2017 (i.e. 2,019,241,973). This authorization has been granted for five years. It can be used for several purposes, including when the sound management of the company’s business or the need to react to appropriate business opportunities calls for a restructuring, an acquisition (whether private or public) of securities or assets in one or more companies or, generally, any other appropriate increase of the company’s capital. AB InBev’s Board of directors has been authorized by the shareholders’ meeting to acquire, on or outside the stock exchange, AB InBev shares up to maximum 20% of the issued shares for a unitary price which will not be lower than 1 Euro and not higher than 20% above the highest closing price in the last 20 trading days preceding the transaction. This authorization is valid for 5 years from 28 September 2016. 6.2. Voting rights and transferability of shares and shareholders’ arrangements Voting rights, quorum and majority requirements Each share entitles the holder to one vote. Generally, there is no quorum requirement for a shareholders’ meeting and decisions will be taken by a simple majority vote of shares present or represented. However, certain matters will require a larger majority and/or a quorum. These include the following: (i) any amendment to the Articles of Association (except the amendments to the corporate purpose or the transformation of the legal form of the company), including inter alia, reductions or increases of the share capital of the company (except for capital increases decided by the Board pursuant to the authorised capital) or any resolution relating to a merger or demerger of the company require the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the issued share capital, and the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting; (ii) any modification of the purpose or corporate form of the company or authorisation to repurchase shares of the company requires a quorum of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the share capital and approval by a qualified majority of at least 80% of the votes cast at the meeting; 163 iii) resolutions relating to the modification of the rights attached to a particular class of shares will require the presence in person or by proxy of shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 50% of the issued share capital in each class of shares and the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting in each class of shares, (in each of the cases (i), (ii) and (iii), if a quorum is not present, a second meeting must be convened. At the second meeting, the quorum requirement does not apply. However, the qualified majority requirement of 75% or 80%, as the case may be, continues to apply); and iv) any acquisition or disposal of tangible assets by the company for an amount higher than the value of one third of the company’s consolidated total assets as reported in its most recent audited consolidated financial statements requires the approval of a qualified majority of at least 75% of the votes cast at the meeting (but there is no minimum quorum requirement). s an additional rule, in the event of (i) a contribution in kind to the company with assets owned by any person or entity which is required to file a ransparency declaration pursuant to applicable Belgian law or a subsidiary (within the meaning of article 6 of the Companies Code) of such person r entity, or (ii) a merger of the company with such a person or entity or a subsidiary of such person or entity, then such person or entity and its ubsidiaries shall not be entitled to vote on the resolution submitted to the shareholders’ meeting to approve such contribution in kind or merger. ransferability of shares Ordinary Shares are freely transferable. s far as Restricted Shares are concerned, no Restricted Shareholder is able, in each case directly or indirectly, to transfer, sell, contribute, offer, rant any option on, otherwise dispose of, pledge, charge, assign, mortgage, grant any lien or any security interest on, enter into any certification r depository arrangement or enter into any form of hedging arrangement with respect to, any of its Restricted Shares or any interests therein or ny rights relating thereto, or enter into any contract or other agreement to do any of the foregoing, for a period of five years from 10 October 2016, xcept in the specific instances set out in the Articles of Association in connection with transactions with Affiliates and Successors or in relation with ledges. Each of the terms Affiliates, Successors and Pledge is defined in the Articles of Association. onversion oluntary conversion ach Restricted Shareholder will have the right to convert all or part of its holding of Restricted Shares into Ordinary Shares at its election (i) at any ime after 10 October 2021, and (ii) in some limited other instances, including immediately prior to, but then solely for the purpose of facilitating, or at ny time after entering into an agreement or arrangement to effect any permitted transfer, as set out in article 7.3.b (ii) of the Articles of Association f the company. utomatic conversion he Restricted Shares shall automatically convert into Ordinary Shares in the situations set out in article 7.6. of the Articles of Association, i.e.: i) upon any transfer, sale, contribution or other disposal, except as set out in article 7.6 (a) of the Articles of Association in connection with transactions with Affiliates and Successors or in relation with Pledges; ii) immediately prior to the closing of a successful public takeover bid for all shares of the company or the completion of a merger of Anheuser-Busch InBev as acquiring or disappearing company, in circumstances where the shareholders directly or indirectly, controlling or exercising directly or indirectly joint control over AB InBev immediately prior to such takeover bid or merger will not directly or indirectly control, or exercise joint control over, AB InBev or the surviving entity following such takeover bid or merger; or iii) upon the announcement of a squeeze-out bid for the outstanding shares of the company, in accordance with article 513 of the Companies Code. hareholders arrangements lease refer to section 5 above. .3. Significant agreements or securities of Anheuser-Busch InBev that may be impacted by a change of control on the company .  USD 9,000,000,000 (originally USD 13,000,000,000) Senior Facilities Agreement. In accordance with Article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (the “Company”) approved on 27 April 2010, (i) Clause 17 (Mandatory Prepayment) of the USD 13,000,000,000 Senior Facilities Agreement dated 26 February 2010 entered into by, amongst others, the Company and Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. as original borrowers, the original guarantors and original lenders listed therein, Bank of America Securities Limited, Banco Santander, S.A., Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, Fortis Bank SA/NV, ING Bank NV, Intesa Sanpaolo S.P.A., J.P. Morgan PLC, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Société Générale Corporate and Investment Banking, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD. as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and Fortis Bank SA/NV as agent and issuing bank (as amended and/or amended and restated from time to time) (the “2010 Senior Facilities Agreement”) and (ii) any other provision of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement granting rights to third parties which could affect the Company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the Company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the Company or on a “Change of Control” (as defined in the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement). Pursuant to the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting InBev or any person or group of persons acting in concert with any such persons) gaining Control of the Company, (b) “acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether 164 formal or informal), actively co-operate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the Company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the Company” and (c) “Control” means, in respect of the Company, the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the Company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the Company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise” . Clause 17 of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement grants, in essence, to any lender under the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement, upon a Change of Control over the Company, the right (i) not to fund any loan or letter of credit (other than a rollover loan meeting certain conditions) and (ii) (by not less than 30 days written notice) to cancel its undrawn commitments and require repayment of its participations in the loans or letters of credit, together with accrued interest thereon, and all other amounts owed to such lender under the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement (and certain related documents). The 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement was amended on 25 July 2011 and extended on 20 August 2013. It has been amended and restated on 28 August 2015 (the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement as amended and restated being the “Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement”) so as to increase the total commitments from USD 8,000,000,000 to USD 9,000,000,000 and to extend its term with 5 years from the date of its restatement with the possibility to extend the term by a further two years at the option of the Company. As a result of the amendment and restatement of the 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement, the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev of 27 April 2016 has approved, in accordance with Article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, (i) Clause 17 (Mandatory Prepayment) of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement and (ii) any other provision of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the Company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the company or on a “Change of Control”. The definition of the terms “Change of Control”, “acting in concert” and “Control” remained unchanged in the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement. The Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement has been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. On 3 October 2017, the maturity date of the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement was extended to August 2022. As of 31 December 2017, the company had not made any drawdowns under the Amended and Restated 2010 Senior Facilities Agreement. 2.  USD 75,000,000,000 Senior Facilities Agreement. In accordance with Article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev approved on 27 April 2016 (i) Clause 8.1 (Change of control) of the USD 75,000,000,000 Senior Facilities Agreement dated 28 October 2015 entered into by, among others, the Company as original borrower, the original guarantors and original lenders listed therein, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas Fortis SA/NV, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, HSBC Bank Plc, ING Bank N.V., Intesa Sanpaolo Banking Group (represented by Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A & Banca IMI S.p.A), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Coöperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A. “Rabobank Nederland”, New York Branch, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Banco Santander, S.A., Société Générale, London Branch, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Unicredit Bank AG and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and BNP Paribas Fortis SA/NV as agent (as amended and/or amended and restated from time to time) (the “2015 Senior Facilities Agreement”) and (ii) any other provision of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement granting rights to third parties which could affect the Company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the Company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the Company or on a “Change of Control” (as defined in the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement). Pursuant to the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting InBev or any person or group of persons acting in concert with any such persons) gaining Control of the Company, (b) “acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively co-operate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the Company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the Company” and (c) “Control” means, in respect of the Company, the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the Company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the Company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise”. Clause 8.1 of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement grants, in essence, to any lender under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement, upon a Change of Control over the Company, the right (i) not to fund any loan and (ii) (by not less than 30 days written notice) to cancel its undrawn commitments and require repayment of its participations in any loans, together with accrued interest thereon, and all other amounts owed to such lender under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement (and certain related documents). On 27 January 2016, USD 42.5 billion of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement was cancelled following bond issuances that took place in January 2016. On 4 April 2016, a further USD 12.5 billion of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement was cancelled and on 6 October 2016, USD 12 billion of the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement was cancelled. The 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement has been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. 165 As of 31 December 2016, the company (and its predecessor, the old Anheuser-Busch InBev) had made drawdowns under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement for a total amount of USD 8 billion. On 10 April 2017, USD 6 billion was repaid under the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement and the remaining USD 2 billion was repaid on 12 June 2017. Consequently, the 2015 Senior Facilities Agreement has been fully repaid and is no longer available to the company. . EMTN Program. In accordance with article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev approved on 24 April 2013 (i) Condition 7.5. of the Terms & Conditions (Redemption at the Option of the Noteholders (Change of Control Put)) of the 15,000,000,000 Euro updated Euro Medium Term Note Program dated 16 May 2012 of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV and Brandbrew SA (the “Issuers”) and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, acting as Arranger, which may be applicable in the case of Notes issued under the Program (the “EMTN Program”), (ii) any other provision in the EMTN Program granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the occurrence of a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Terms & Conditions of the EMTN Program). Pursuant to the EMTN Program, (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev) gaining Control of the company provided that a change of control shall not be deemed to have occurred if all or substantially all of the shareholders of the relevant person or group of persons are, or immediately prior to the event which would otherwise have constituted a change of control were, the shareholders of the company with the same (or substantially the same) pro rata interests in the share capital of the relevant person or group of persons as such shareholders have, or as the case may be, had, in the share capital of the company”, (b) “acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively cooperate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the company”, and (c) “Control” means the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise”. If a Change of Control Put is specified in the applicable Final Terms of the concerned notes, Condition 7.5. of the Terms & Conditions of the EMTN Programme grants, to any holder of such notes, in essence, the right to request the redemption of his notes at the redemption amount specified in the Final Terms of the notes, together, if appropriate, with interest accrued, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and a related downgrade of the notes to sub-investment grade. The change of control provision above is included in the Final Terms of: • the 750,000,000 Euro 7.375% Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 30 January 2013), the 600,000,000 Euro 8.625% Notes due 2017 (Redeemed on 9 December 2016) and the 550,000,000 GBP 9.75% Notes due 2024, each issued by the company in January 2009; • the 750,000,000 Euro 6.57% Notes due 2014, issued by the company in February 2009 (Redeemed on 27 February 2014); • the 50,000,000 Euro FRN Notes that bear an interest at a floating rate of 3 month EURIBOR plus 3.90%, issued by the company in April 2009 (Redeemed on 9 April 2014); • the 600,000,000 CHF 4.50% Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 11 June 2014), issued by Brandbrew SA in June 2009 (with a guarantee by the company); • the 250,000,000 Euro 5.75% Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 22 June 2015) and the 750,000,000 GBP 6.50% Notes due 2017 (Redeemed in June 2017), each issued by the company in June 2009; and • the 750,000,000 Euro 4% Notes due 2018, issued by the company in April 2010. The series of Notes referred to in the above paragraph were issued pursuant to the 10,000,000,000 Euro initial Euro Medium Term Note Programme dated 16 January 2009 or the 15,000,000,000 Euro updated Euro Medium Term Note Programme dated 24 February 2010 (as applicable). The relevant change of control provisions contained in the Final Terms of such series of Notes were submitted to, and approved by, the shareholders meetings of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev held on 28 April 2009 and 27 April 2010, respectively. There is no change of control clause included in the Final Terms of any series of Notes issued pursuant to the EMTN Programme by the company and/or Brandbrew SA after April 2010. As a result of the update of the EMTN Programme on 22 August 2013 the Terms & Conditions of the updated EMTN Programme no longer provide for a Redemption at the option of the Noteholders (Change of Control Put). In May 2016, the old Anheuser-Busch InBev invited Noteholders of certain outstanding series of Notes issued under the EMTN Programme prior to 2016 (the Notes ) to consider certain amendments to the terms and conditions applicable to those Notes (the Participation Solicitation ). The Participation Solicitation was undertaken to avoid any suggestion that the combination with SAB could be interpreted as a cessation of business (or a threat to do so), winding up or dissolution of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. Meetings of the Noteholders of each series of the Notes were held on 1 June 2016 at which Noteholders voted in favour of the Participation Solicitation for each of the relevant series of Notes. Amended and restated final terms for each series of the Notes reflecting the amended terms and conditions, were signed by the old Anheuser-Busch InBev and the subsidiary guarantors named therein on 1 June 2016. The EMTN Program has been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. . US Dollar Notes. In accordance with article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code, the shareholders meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev approved on 26 April 2011 (i) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 3,250,000,000 Notes issued on 29 and 26 March 2010, consisting of USD 1,000,000,000 2.50% Notes due 2013 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 166 and redeemed on 26 March 2013), USD 750,000,000 3.625% Notes due 2015 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 and redeemed on 15 April 2015), USD 1,000,000,000 5.00% Notes due 2020 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010) and USD 500,000,000 Floating Rate Notes due 2013 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 2 September 2010 and redeemed on 26 March 2013) (the “Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010”), (ii) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 3,250,000,000 Registered Notes issued in September 2010, consisting of USD 1,000,000,000 2.50% Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 26 March 2013), USD 750,000,000 3.625% Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 15 April 2015), USD 1,000,000,000 5.00% Notes due 2020 and USD 500,000,000 Floating Rate Notes due 2013 (Redeemed on 26 March 2013) and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the U.S. on 5 August 2010 and expired on 2 September 2010 (the “Registered Notes issued in September 2010”), (iii) the Change of Control Clause of the USD 8,000,000,000 Registered Notes issued in March 2011, consisting of USD 1,250,000,000 7.20% Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 20 June 2011), USD 2,500,000,000 7.75% Notes due 2019 and USD 1,250,000,000 8.20% Notes due 2039, USD 1,550,000,000 5.375% Notes due 2014 (Redeemed on 15 November 2014), USD 1,000,000,000 6.875% Notes due 2019 and USD 450,000,000 8.00% Notes due 2039 and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in January 2009 and of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in May 2009, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the U.S. on 11 February 2011 and expired on 14 March 2011 (the “Registered Notes issued in March 2011”), whereby each of the Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, the Registered Notes issued in September 2010 and the Registered Notes issued in March 2011 were issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev, and (iv) any other provision applicable to the Unregistered Notes issued in March 2010, the Registered Notes issued in September 2010 and the Registered Notes issued in March 2011 granting rights to third parties which could affect the company’s assets or could impose an obligation on the company where in each case the exercise of those rights is dependent on the launch of a public take-over bid over the shares of the company or on a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Offering Memorandum with respect to the Unregistered Notes, as the case may be, and in the Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Notes). Pursuant to the Offering Memorandum and Registration Statement (a) “Change of Control” means “any person or group of persons acting in concert (in each case other than Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev or any existing direct or indirect certificate holder or certificate holders of Stichting Anheuser-Busch InBev) gaining Control of the company provided that a change of control shall not be deemed to have occurred if all or substantially all of the shareholders of the relevant person or group of persons are, or immediately prior to the event which would otherwise have constituted a change of control were, the shareholders of the company with the same (or substantially the same) pro rata interests in the share capital of the relevant person or group of persons as such shareholders have, or as the case may be, had, in the share capital of the company”, (b) “Acting in concert” means “a group of persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal), actively cooperate, through the acquisition directly or indirectly of shares in the company by any of them, either directly or indirectly, to obtain Control of the company”, and (c) “Control” means the “direct or indirect ownership of more than 50 per cent of the share capital or similar rights of ownership of the company or the power to direct the management and the policies of the company whether through the ownership of share capital, contract or otherwise”. The Change of Control clause grants to any Noteholder, in essence, the right to request the redemption of his Notes at a repurchase price in cash of 101% of their principal amount (plus interest accrued) upon the occurrence of a Change of Control and a related downgrade in the Notes to sub-investment grade. A similar change of control provision was approved by the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev on 28 April 2009 with respect to: • the USD 5,000,000,000 Notes, consisting of USD 1,250,000,000 7.20% Notes due 2014 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011 and redeemed on 20 June 2011), USD 2,500,000,000 7.75% Notes due 2019 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011) and USD 1,250,000,000 8.20% Notes due 2039 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011), each issued in January 2009 by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (the “Unregistered Notes issued in January 2009”). A similar change of control provision was approved by the shareholders’ meeting of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev on 27 April 2010 with respect to: • the USD 3,000,000,000 Notes issued in May 2009, consisting of USD 1,550,000,000 5.375% Notes due 2014 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 14 March 2011 and redeemed on 15 November 2014), USD 1,000,000,000 6.875% Notes due 2019 and USD 450,000,000 8.00% Notes due 2039 (the “Unregistered Notes issued in May 2009”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. • the USD 5,500,000,000 Notes issued in October 2009, consisting of USD 1,500,000,000 3.00% Notes due 2012 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 05 February 2010 and redeemed on 15 October 2012), USD 1,250,000,000 4.125% Notes due 2015 (Exchanged for Registered Notes in an exchange offer that closed on 5 February 2010 and redeemed on 15 January 2015), USD 2,250,000,000 5.375% Notes due 2020 and USD 500,000,000 6.375% Notes due 2040 (the “Unregistered Notes issued in October 2009”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. • the USD 5,500,000,000 Registered Notes issued in February 2010, consisting of USD 1,500,000,000 3% Notes due 2012 (Redeemed on 15 October 2012), USD 1,250,000,000 4.125% Notes due 2015 (Redeemed on 15 January 2015), USD 2,250,000,000 5.375% Notes due 2020 and USD 500,000,000 6.375% Notes due 2040 and offered in exchange for corresponding amounts of the corresponding Unregistered Notes issued in October 2009, in accordance with a US Form F-4 Registration Statement pursuant to an exchange offer launched by AnheuserBusch InBev Worldwide Inc. in the US on 8 January 2010 and expired on 5 February 2010 (the “Registered Notes issued in February 2010”) each issued by Anheuser-Busch InBev Worldwide Inc. with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from the old Anheuser-Busch InBev. 167 The US Dollar Notes have been transferred to the company as a result of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, which took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB. . Notes issued under Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Shelf Registration Statement filed on Form F-3. For the sake of completeness, there is no Change of Control Clause applicable to outstanding Notes issued under Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Shelf Registration Statement filed on Form F-3 (with an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee as to payment of principal and interest from Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV). 7. Remuneration report his report was approved by the Remuneration Committee on 22 February 2018. .1. Remuneration of directors .1.1. Approval Procedure The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of remuneration for directors, including the Chairman of the Board. hese recommendations are subject to approval by the Board and, subsequently, by the shareholders at the annual general meeting. he Remuneration Committee benchmarks directors’ compensation against peer companies. In addition, the Board sets and revises, from time to ime, the rules and level of compensation for directors carrying out a special mandate or sitting on one or more of the Board committees and the ules for reimbursement of directors’ business-related out-of-pocket expenses. he Remuneration Committee consists of three members appointed by the Board, all of whom are non-executive directors. Currently, the Chairman f the Committee is a representative of the controlling shareholders and the two other members meet the requirements of independence as stablished in our Corporate Governance Charter and by the Belgian Companies Code. The CEO and the Chief People Officer are invited to the meetings of the Committee. he Remuneration Committee’s principal role is to guide the Board with respect to all its decisions relating to the remuneration policies for the oard, the CEO and the Executive Board of Management and on their individual remuneration packages. The Committee ensures that the CEO nd members of the EBM are incentivized to achieve, and are compensated for, exceptional performance. The Committee also ensures the maintenance and continuous improvement of the company’s compensation policy which is based on meritocracy and a sense of ownership with a iew to aligning the interests of its employees with the interests of all shareholders. he Committee meets four times a year and more often if required and is convoked by its Chairman or at the request of at least 2 of its members. he composition, functioning and specific responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set forth in the terms of reference of the Committee, hich are part of our Corporate Governance Charter. .1.2. Remuneration policy applied in 2017 . Cash remuneration Remuneration is linked to the time committed to the Board and its various committees. The base annual fee amounted to 5,000 Euro in 2017. The fee is supplemented with an amount of 1,500 Euro for each physical committee meeting and for each additional physical oard meeting after ten meetings. For 2017, the Chairman’s fee was double that of other directors. For the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the ixed annual fee is 70% higher than the fixed annual fee of the other directors. In practice, this means that the fixed annual cash fee of the Chairman f the Audit Committee equals 127,500 Euro. proposal will be submitted to the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 25 April 2018 to increase the Chairman’s fee by 25% i.e. from 150,000 euro to 187,500 euro) to an amount which is 2.5 times the fixed annual fee of the other directors (other than the Chairman of he Audit Committee). The proposal follows a benchmarking exercise covering over 20 global peer companies, conducted by an independent onsulting firm at the request of the Remuneration Committee. The last time that the Chairman’s fixed remuneration was revised was by the annual hareholders’ meeting held in April 2013. The remuneration of all other Board members will remain unchanged. . Share based remuneration Before 2014, the Board members of the old Anheuser-Busch InBev (i.e. the company’s predecessor prior to the losing of the business combination with SAB) were granted a limited, pre-determined number of warrants under the company’s 1999 long-term ncentive warrant plan (“LTI Warrant Plan”). The number of warrants granted annually amounted to 15,000 since 2009. Each LTI warrant gave its older the right to subscribe for one newly issued share. Shares subscribed for upon the exercise of LTI warrants were ordinary shares of the old B InBev. Holders of such shares had the same rights as any other shareholder. The exercise price of LTI warrants was equal to the average price f our shares on Euronext Brussels during the 30 days preceding their issue date. LTI warrants granted in the years prior to 2007 (except for 2003) ad a duration of 10 years. From 2007 onwards (and in 2003) LTI warrants have a duration of 5 years. LTI warrants are subject to a vesting period anging from one to three years. Forfeiture of a warrant occurs in certain circumstances when the mandate of the holder is terminated. t the annual shareholders’ meeting of the old AB InBev of 30 April 2014, all outstanding LTI warrants have been converted into LTI stock options, e. the right to purchase existing shares instead of the right to subscribe to newly issued shares. All other terms and conditions of the outstanding TI warrants remain unchanged. 168 The shareholders’ meeting of the old AB InBev of 30 April 2014 has also decided to replace the LTI Warrant Plan by a long-term incentive stock option plan for directors and confirmed that all LTI grants to directors will be in the form of stock options on existing shares with the following features: • an exercise price that is set equal to the market price of the share at the time of granting; • a maximum lifetime of 10 years and an exercise period that starts after 5 years; and • the LTI stock options cliff vest after 5 years. Unvested options are subject to specific forfeiture provisions in the event that the directorship is not renewed upon the expiry of its term or is terminated in the course of its term, both due to a breach of duty by the director. In line with this decision, the shareholders’ meeting of AB InBev of 26 April 2017 granted each Board member 15,000 LTI stock options. The Chairman of the Board was granted 30,000 LTI stock options and the Chairman of the Audit Committee was granted 25,500 LTI stock options. The LTI stock options have an exercise price of 104.50 Euro per share which is the closing price of the Anheuser-Busch InBev share on the day preceding the grant date, i.e. on 25 April 2017. The LTI stock options have a lifetime of 10 years and cliff vest after 5 years, i.e. on 26 April 2022. In line with the proposed revision of the Chairman’s remuneration package (see section 7.1.2.a), a proposal will be submitted to the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on 25 April 2018 to approve the grant of 37,500 LTI stock options to the Chairman. The share based remuneration of all other Board members will remain unchanged. Following the completion of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB, all rights and obligations attached to the outstanding long-term incentive stock options of the old AB InBev, have been automatically transferred to the new AB InBev (the absorbing company), each outstanding stock option giving right to one share of the new AB InBev (the absorbing company) instead of one share of the old AB InBev (the absorbed company). The company’s long-term incentive plan deviates from the Belgian Code on Corporate Governance as it provides for share-based payments to non-executive directors. The Board believes that the successful strategy and sustainable development of the company over the past 10 years demonstrates that the compensation of directors, which includes a fixed number of stock options, does ensure that the independence of the Board members in their role of guidance and control of the company is preserved, and that the directors’ interests remain fully aligned with the long-term interests of the shareholders. In particular, the vesting period of the options of 5 years should foster a sustainable and long-term commitment to shareholder value creation. In accordance with article 554 of the Belgian Companies Code, any grant made under the company’s long-term incentive plan is submitted to the shareholders’ meeting for prior approval. The company is prohibited from making loans to directors and members of the EBM, whether for the purpose of exercising options or for any other purpose (except for routine advances for business related expenses in accordance with the company’s rules for reimbursement of expenses). The company does not provide pensions, medical benefits or other benefit programs to directors. At the time of publication of the report, no changes to the remuneration policy of directors are planned other than the proposed revision of the Chairman’s remuneration package. 7.1.3. Remuneration in 2017 Individual director remuneration is presented in the table below. All amounts presented are gross amounts expressed in Euro before deduction of withholding tax. Number of Annual fee Fees for Number of LTI Board meetings for Board Committee stock options attended meetings meetings Total fee granted(1) Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 9 75,000 0 75,000 15,000 Martin J. Barrington(2) 8 0 0 0 0 Alexandre Behring 7 75,000 4,500 79,500 15,000 Michele Burns 8 127,500 33,000 160,500 25,500 Paul Cornet de Ways Ruart 9 75,000 0 75,000 15,000 Stéfan Descheemaeker 9 75,000 6,000 81,000 15,000 Grégoire de Spoelberch 8 75,000 7,500 82,500 15,000 William F. Gifford(2) 8 0 0 0 0 Olivier Goudet 9 150,000 28,500 178,500 30,000 Paulo Lemann 9 75,000 6,000 81,000 15,000 Alejandro Santo Domingo 9 75,000 0 75,000 15,000 Elio Leoni Sceti 9 75,000 21,000 96,000 15,000 Carlos Alberto da Veiga Sicupira 9 75,000 7,500 82,500 15,000 Marcel Herrmann Telles 9 75,000 30,000 105,000 15,000 Alexandre Van Damme 9 75,000 19,500 94,500 15,000 All directors as a group 1,102,500 163,500 1,266,000 220,500 (1) LTI stock options were granted on 26 April 2017. They have an exercise price of 104.50 Euro per share, have a term of 10 years and cliff vest after 5 years. (2) Mr Barrington and Mr Gifford have waived their entitlement to any type of remuneration, including long term incentive stock options, relating to the exercise of their mandate in 2017. 169 .1.4. Options owned by directors The table below sets forth, for each of our current directors, the number of LTI stock options they owned as of 1 December 2017(1) (2): LTI 25 LTI 24 LTI 23 LTI 22 LTI 21 LTI 20 26 April 27 April 29 April 30 April 24 April 25 April rant date 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 25 April 26 April 28 April 29 April 23 April 24 April xpiry date 2027 2026 2025 2024 2018 2017 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 0 45,000 Martin J. Barrington(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 lex Behring 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 0 45,000 Michele Burns 25,500 25,500 0 0 0 0 51,000 aul Cornet de Ways Ruart 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 75,000 téfan Descheemaeker 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 60,000 Grégoire de Spoelberch 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 60,000 William F. Gifford(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Olivier Goudet 30,000 30,000 25,500 20,000 20,000 0 125,500 aulo Lemann 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 0 45,000 lejandro Santo Domingo 15,000 0 0 0 0 0 15,000 lio Leoni Sceti 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 0 45,000 arlos Sicupira 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 75,000 Marcel Telles 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 75,000 lexandre Van Damme 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 0 0 60,000 trike price (Euro) 104.50 113.25 113.10 80.83 76.20 54.71 )  t the annual shareholders’ meeting of 30 April 2014, all outstanding LTI warrants were converted into LTI stock options, i.e. the right to purchase existing ordinary A shares instead of the right to subscribe to newly issued shares. All other terms and conditions of the outstanding LTI warrants remained unchanged. ) In March 2017, Olivier Goudet, Paul Cornet and Stéfan Descheemaeker each exercised 15,000 options of the LTI 20 Series that expired in April 2017. In March 2017, Stéfan Descheemaeker exercised 15,000 options of the LTI 21 Series. In April 2017, Carlos Sicupira and Marcel Telles each exercised 15,000 options of the LTI 20 Series that expired in April 2017. In May 2017, Grégoire de Spoelberch exercised 15,000 options of the LTI 21 Series. In December 2017, Alexandre Van Damme exercised 15,000 options of the LTI 21 Series. ) Mr Barrington and Mr Gifford have waived their entitlement to any type of remuneration, including long term incentive stock options, relating to the exercise of their mandate in 2017. .2. Remuneration of Executive Board of Management xcept as provided otherwise, the information in this section relates to the Executive Board of Management (EBM) as at 1 January 2018. .2.1. Procedure for developing the remuneration policy and determining the individual remuneration The compensation and reward programs or the EBM are overseen by the Remuneration Committee which is exclusively composed of non-executive directors. It submits to the Board for pproval recommendations on the compensation of the CEO and, upon recommendation of the CEO, of the EBM. he Nomination Committee approves the company and individual annual targets and the Remuneration Committee approves the target chievement and corresponding annual and long-term incentives of members of the EBM. he remuneration policy and hence any schemes falling within its scope which grant shares or rights to acquire shares, are submitted to the hareholders’ meeting for approval. he composition, functioning and specific responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and of the Nomination Committee are set forth in the erms of reference of the respective Committee, which are part of our Corporate Governance Charter. .2.2. Remuneration policy Our compensation system is designed to support our high-performance culture and the creation of long-term ustainable value for our shareholders. The goal of the system is to reward executives with market-leading compensation, which is conditional upon oth the overall success of the company and individual performance. It ensures alignment with shareholders’ interests by strongly encouraging xecutive ownership of shares in the company and enables to attract and retain the best talent at global levels. ase salaries are aligned to mid-market levels. Additional shortand long-term incentives are linked to challenging shortand long-term erformance targets and the investment of part or all of any variable compensation earned in company shares is encouraged. he Board may revise the level of remuneration and approve a revised remuneration policy upon recommendation of the Remuneration Committee. t the time of publication of this report, no changes to the remuneration policies for executives are planned. .2.3. Components of executive remuneration Executive remuneration generally consists of (a) a fixed base salary, (b) variable performanceelated compensation, (c) long-term incentive stock options, (d) retirement plan contributions and (e) other components. All amounts shown below re gross amounts before deduction of withholding taxes and social security. 170 a. Base Salary In order to ensure alignment with market practice, executives’ base salaries are reviewed overall against benchmarks. These benchmarks are collected by internationally recognized compensation consultants, in relevant industries and geographies. For benchmarking, a custom sample of Fast Moving Consumer Goods peer companies (Peer Group) is used when available. The Peer Group includes Apple, Coca-Cola Company, Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo and Unilever. If Peer Group data are not available for a given role, Fortune 100 companies’ data are used. Executives’ base salaries are intended to be aligned to mid-market levels for the appropriate market. Mid-market means that for a similar job in the market, 50% of companies in that market pay more and 50% of companies pay less. Executives’ total compensation is intended to be 10% above the 3rd quartile. In 2017, based on his employment contract, the CEO earned a fixed annual salary of 1.45 million Euro (USD 1.64 million), while the other members of the EBM earned an aggregate annual base salary of 10.64 million Euro (USD 12.02 million). b. Variable performance-related compensation – Share-based compensation plan Variable performance-related compensation is key to the company’s compensation system and is aimed at rewarding executives’ shortand long-term performance. The target variable compensation is expressed as a percentage of the Market Reference Salary applicable to the executive. The on-target bonus percentage theoretically amounts to maximum 200% of the Market Reference Salary for members of the EBM and 340% for the CEO. An additional incentive of 20% on the bonus amount may be awarded by the Remuneration Committee in case of overachievement or other exceptional circumstances. The effective pay-out of variable compensation is directly correlated with performance, i.e. linked to the achievement of total company, business unit and individual targets, all of which are based on performance metrics. Company and business unit targets focus to achieve a balance of top line growth and cash flow generation. Below a hurdle of achievement for total company and business unit targets, no variable compensation is earned irrespective of personal target achievement. In addition, the final individual bonus pay-out percentage also depends on each executive’s personal achievement of their individual performance targets. Individual performance targets of the CEO and the EBM may consist of financial and non-financial targets such as sustainability and other elements of corporate social responsibility as well as compliance/ethics related targets. Typical performance measures in this area can relate to employee engagement, talent pipeline, better world goals, compliance dashboards etc. that are also important for the sustainability of the financial performance. Targets achievement is assessed by the Remuneration Committee on the basis of accounting and financial data. For 2017, based on the company’s target achievement during the year 2017 and the executives’ individual target achievement, the total variable compensation for the EBM, including the CEO, effectively amounted to approximately 201% of their 2017 base salary. Executives receive their variable compensation in cash but are encouraged to invest some or all of its value in company shares to be held for a 5-year period (the “Voluntary Shares”). Such voluntary investment leads to a 10% discount and a company shares match of 3 matching shares for each share voluntarily invested (the “Matching Shares”) up to a limited total percentage of each executive’s variable compensation. The percentage of the variable compensation that can be invested in voluntary shares is 60% for the CEO and for members of the EBM. Voluntary Shares are: • existing ordinary shares; • entitled to dividends paid as from the date of grant; • subject to a lock-up period of five years; and • granted at market price. The discount is at discretion of the Board. Currently, the discount is 10% which is delivered as restricted stock units, subject to specific restrictions or forfeiture provisions in case of termination of service. Both the Matching Shares and the discounted shares are delivered in the form of restricted stock units (RSU) and vest after five years. In case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. No performance conditions apply to the vesting of the restricted stock units. However, restricted stock units will only be granted under the double condition that the executive: • has earned a variable compensation, which is subject to the successful achievement of total company, business unit and individual performance targets (performance condition); and • has agreed to reinvest all or part of his/her variable compensation in company shares that are locked for a 5-year period (ownership condition). The variable compensation is usually paid annually in arrears after the publication of the company’s full year results. Exceptionally, the variable compensation may be paid out semi-annually at the discretion of the Board based on the achievement of semi-annual targets. In such case, the first half of the variable compensation is paid immediately after publication of the half year results and the second half of the variable compensation is paid after publication of the full year results. The variable compensation for 2017 will be paid in or around March 2018. 171 n accordance with the authorization granted in the company’s bylaws, as amended by the shareholders’ meeting of 26 April 2011, the variable ompensation system partly deviates from article 520ter of the Belgian Companies Code, as it allows: . for the variable remuneration to be paid out based on the achievement of annual targets without staggering its grant or payment over a 3-year period. However, executives are encouraged to invest some or all of their variable compensation in company shares which are blocked for 5 years (the “Voluntary Shares”). Such voluntary investment also leads to a grant of Matching Shares in the form of restricted stock units which only vest after 5 years, ensuring sustainable long-term performance. . for the Voluntary Shares granted under the share based compensation plan to vest at their grant, instead of applying a vesting period of minimum 3 years. Nonetheless, as indicated above, the Voluntary Shares remain blocked for 5 years. On the other hand, any Matching Shares that are granted, will only vest after 5 years. ariable compensation for performance in 2016 – Paid in March 2017 or the year 2016, the CEO earned no variable compensation. The other members of the EBM earned aggregate variable compensation of .3 million Euro (USD 2.5 million). he amount of variable compensation is based on the company’s performance during the year 2016 and the executives’ individual target chievement. Because performance targets for 2016 were not met, the CEO and most of his management team received zero variable ompensation. Any variable compensation was paid in March 2017. he following table sets forth information regarding the number of our shares voluntarily acquired and Matching Shares granted in March 2017 variable compensation awarded for performance in 2016) to our CEO and the other members of our EBM as at 1 January 2017 under he Share-based compensation plan. The Matching Shares were granted in the form of restricted stock units and vest after five years, n 3 March 2022. ame Voluntary Shares acquired Matching Shares granted arlos Brito – CEO 0 0 avid Almeida 0 0 laudio Braz Ferro 0 0 abine Chalmers 0 0 an Craps 113 817 elipe Dutra 0 0 Michel Doukeris 0 0 edro Earp 2,627 12,137 laudio Garcia 0 0 ean Jereissati 0 0 avid Kamenetzky 0 0 eter Kraemer 443 1,661 Mauricio Leyva 0 0 arlos Lisboa(1) 0 0 tuart MacFarlane 4,922 21,814 ony Milikin 0 0 icardo Moreira 101 730 oão Castro Neves 0 0 Miguel Patricio 0 0 ernardo Pinto Paiva(1) 0 0 icardo Tadeu 559 4,044 ) B  ernardo Pinto Paiva, Zone President Latin America North, reported to the Board of Directors of Ambev. He and Carlos Lisboa, Zone President Latin America South, participated in 2016 in the incentive plans of Ambev S.A. that are disclosed separately by Ambev. ariable compensation for performance in 2017 or the year 2017, the CEO earned variable compensation of 5.10 million Euro (USD 5.77 million). The other members of the EBM earned aggregate ariable compensation of 19.24 million Euro (USD 21.74 million). he amount of variable compensation is based on the company’s performance during the year 2017 and the executives’ individual target chievement. The variable compensation will be paid in or around March 2018. . Long-term incentive stock options nnual long-term incentive stock options Members of our senior management may be eligible for an annual long-term incentive paid out in stock options (or similar share related instrument), epending on management’s assessment of the beneficiary’s performance and future potential. 172 Long-term incentive stock options have the following features: • an exercise price that is set equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant; • a maximum lifetime of 10 years and an exercise period that starts after 5 years; • upon exercise, each option entitles the option holder to purchase one share; • the options cliff vest after 5 years. In the case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules will apply. The following table sets forth information regarding the number of options granted to the CEO and the other members of the EBM on 20 January 2017 (having an exercise price of 98.85 Euro) and on 22 January 2018 (having an exercise price of 94.36 Euro). Long Term Incentive stock options granted Long Term Incentive stock options granted Name on 20 January 2017 on 22 January 2018 Carlos Brito – CEO 396,266 359,606 David Almeida 29,137 55,527 John Blood (as from 1 August 2017) n/a 21,153 Sabine Chalmers (until 31 July 2017) 0 n/a Jan Craps(1) 0 39,662 Michel Doukeris 46,619 69,806 Felipe Dutra 125,873 158,650 Pedro Earp(4) 0 0 Claudio Braz Ferro (until 31 January 2018) 0 n/a Claudio Garcia (until 31 December 2017) 0 n/a Jean Jereissati 17,323(2) 26,441 David Kamenetzky 0 52,883 Peter Kraemer 29,137 37,018 Mauricio Leyva 280,909(3) 26,441 Carlos Lisboa(1) 0 0 Stuart MacFarlane 41,957 63,460 Tony Milikin 43,705 55,527 Ricardo Moreira 17,323(2) 31,730 João Castro Neves (until 31 December 2017) 125,873 n/a Miguel Patricio 69,929 0 Bernardo Pinto Paiva(1) 0 0 Ricardo Tadeu 34,964 79,325 (1) B  ernardo Pinto Paiva, Zone President Latin America North, reported to the Board of Directors of Ambev. He participated in 2016 and 2017 in the incentive plans of Ambev S.A. that are disclosed separately by Ambev. Similarly, Jan Craps participated in 2016 in the incentive plans of Ambev S.A. since he was an executive of Labatt, which is a subsidiary of Ambev S.A. Likewise, Carlos Lisboa, Zone President Latin America South, participated in 2017 in the incentive plans of Ambev S.A. (2) The options were granted on 1 December 2016, have an exercise price of 98.04 Euro and become exercisable after five years. (3) Out of these, 19,203 options were granted on 20 January 2017 (having an exercise price of 98.85 Euro) and 261,706 options were granted on 5 May 2017 (having an exercise price of 109.10 Euro). (4) Pedro Earp, Chief Disruptive Growth Officer, participates in the Performance related incentive plan for Disruptive Growth Function (see section 7.2.3. g. below). Exceptional long-term incentive stock options a) 2020 Incentive Plan: on 22 December 2015, 4.7 million options were granted to a select group of approximately 65 members of the senior management of the company, who are considered to be instrumental to help the company to achieve its ambitious growth target. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing share. The exercise price of the options is 113.00 Euro which corresponds to the closing share price on the day preceding the grant date. The options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vest after 5 years. The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by AB InBev. This performance test is based on a net revenue amount which must be achieved by 2022 at the latest. No stock options were granted to members of the EBM at the time of grant. b) Integration Incentive Plan: on 15 December 2016, 13.17 million options were granted to a select group of approximately 300 members of the senior management of the company considering the significant contribution that these employees can make to the success of the company and the achievement of integration benefits. Each option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The exercise price of the options granted on 15 December 2016 is 97.99 Euro which corresponds to the closing share price on the day preceding the grant date. The options have a duration of 10 years from grant and vest on 1 January 2022 and only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by Anheuser-Busch InBev. This performance test is based on an EBITDA compounded annual growth rate target and may be complemented by additional country or Zone specific or function specific targets. 100% of the options will become exercisable if the performance test is achieved by 31 December 2019, 90% of the options will become exercisable if the performance test is achieved by 31 December 2020 and 80% of the 173 ptions will become exercisable if the performance test is achieved by 31 December 2021. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the ompany before the performance test achievement or vesting date. o stock options were granted to members of the EBM at the time of the grant on 15 December 2016. hroughout 2017, 6.47 million additional options were granted under the Integration Incentive Plan, having an exercise price corresponding to the losing share price on the day preceding the relevant grant date. Out of these 6.47 million options, 1,701,090 options were granted on 5 May 2017 o the following members of the EBM, having an exercise price of 109.10 Euro (corresponding to the closing share price on the day preceding he grant date): ame Integration Incentive stock options granted avid Almeida 261,706 an Craps 261,706 laudio Braz Ferro 130,853 ony Milikin 261,706 icardo Moreira 261,706 icardo Tadeu 523,413 ) Incentive Plan for SAB employees: on 15 December 2016, 1.43 million options were granted to employees of former SAB. The grant results from he commitment that AB InBev has made under the terms of the combination with SAB, that it would, for at least one year, preserve the terms and onditions for employment of all employees that remain with the Group. ach option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing AB InBev share. The exercise price of the options is 97.99 Euro which corresponds o the closing share price on the day preceding the grant date. he options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and vest after 3 years. Specific forfeiture rules apply if the employee leaves the company efore the vesting date. hroughout 2017, 0.77 million additional options were granted under the Incentive Plan for SAB employees, having an exercise price corresponding o the closing share price on the day preceding the relevant grant date. o stock options were granted to members of the EBM under this plan. ) Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan: on 1 December 2017, 18.02 million stock options were granted to a select group of approximately 0 members of our senior management, including a number of members of our EBM, under a new long term special incentive Plan to incentivize nd retain senior leaders who are considered to be instrumental in achieving our ambitious long-term growth agenda over the next 10 years. ach option gives the grantee the right to purchase one existing share. The exercise price of the options is 96.70 Euro which corresponds to he closing share price on the day preceding the grant date. The options have a duration of 15 years as from granting and vest after 10 years on 1 January 2028). The options only become exercisable provided a performance test is met by Anheuser-Busch InBev. This performance test is ased on an organic EBITDA compounded annual growth rate target which must be achieved by 31 December 2024 at the latest. Specific forfeiture ules apply if the employee leaves the company before the performance test achievement or vesting date. he following table lists the members of the EBM to whom options have been granted under the Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan. ame Long Run Stock Options Incentive granted avid Almeida 500,626 ohn Blood 500,626 an Craps 500,626 Michel Doukeris 1,001,252 elipe Dutra 1,001,252 edro Earp 500,626 ean Jereissati 500,626 arlos Lisboa 500,626 ernardo Pinto Paiva 1,001,252 icardo Tadeu 1,001,252 . Long-term restricted stock unit programs Anheuser-Busch InBev has in place three specific long-term restricted stock unit programs: . A program allowing for the offer of restricted stock units to certain members of our senior management in certain specific circumstances. Such hardship grants are made at the discretion of the CEO, e.g. to compensate for assignments of expatriates in certain limited countries. The characteristics of the restricted stock units are identical to the characteristics of the Matching Shares that are granted as part of the Sharebased compensation plan (see 7.2.3.b). The restricted stock units vest after five years and in case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. 174 During the reporting period in 2017, 0.08 million restricted stock units were granted under the program to our senior management. No restricted stock units were granted under the program to members of the EBM. 2. A program allowing for the exceptional offer of restricted stock units to certain members of senior management at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a long-term retention incentive for key managers of the company. Members of senior management eligible to receive a grant under the program receive 2 series of restricted stock units. The first half of the restricted stock units vest after five years. The second half of the restricted stock units vest after 10 years. In case of termination of service before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. As of 2017, instead of restricted stock units, stock options may be granted under the program with similar vesting and forfeiture rules. During the reporting period in 2017, 751,406 stock options were granted under the program to David Kamenetzky, a member of the EBM. 3. A program allowing certain employees to purchase company shares at a discount aimed as a long-term retention incentive for (i) high-potential employees of the company, who are at a mid-manager level (“People bet share purchase program”) or (ii) for newly hired employees. The voluntary investment in company shares leads to the grant of 3 matching shares for each share invested. The discount and matching shares are granted in the form of restricted stock units which vest after 5 years. In case of termination before the vesting date, special forfeiture rules apply. Beginning in 2016, instead of restricted stock units, stock options may also be granted under this program with similar vesting and forfeiture rules. During the reporting period in 2017, our employees purchased 0.05 million shares under the program. Out of these, 41,941 shares were acquired by David Kamenetzky, a member of the EBM. e. Exchange of share-ownership program From time to time certain members of Ambev’s senior management are transferred to Anheuser-Busch InBev and vice-versa. In order to encourage management mobility and ensure that the interests of these managers are fully aligned with AB InBev’s interests, the Board has approved a program that aims at facilitating the exchange by these managers of their Ambev shares into AB InBev shares. Under the program, the Ambev shares can be exchanged into Anheuser-Busch InBev shares based on the average share price of both the Ambev and the AB InBev shares on the date the exchange is requested. A discount of 16.66% is granted in exchange for a 5-year lock-up period for the shares and provided that the manager remains in service during this period. The discounted shares are forfeited in case of termination of service before the end of the 5-year lock-up period. Under the program, members of our senior management have exchanged 0.95 million Ambev shares for a total of 0.06 million AB InBev shares in 2017. f. Programs for maintaining consistency of benefits granted and for encouraging global mobility of executives Two programs which are aimed at maintaining consistency of benefits granted to executives and at encouraging the international mobility of executives while complying with all legal and tax obligations are in place: 1. The Exchange program: under this program the vesting and transferability restrictions of the Series A options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant and of the options granted under the April 2009 Exceptional Option Grant, could be released e.g. for executives who moved to the United States. These executives were then offered the possibility to exchange their options for ordinary Anheuser-Busch InBev shares that remain locked-up until 31 December 2018 (5 years longer than the original lock-up period). Since the Series A options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant and the options granted under the April 2009 Exceptional Option Grant have vested on 1 January 2014, the Exchange program is no longer relevant for these options. Instead, the Exchange program has now become applicable to the Series B options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant. Under the extended program, executives who are relocated e.g. to the United States, can be offered the possibility to exchange their Series B options for ordinary Anheuser-Busch shares that, in principle, remain locked-up until 31 December 2023 (5 years longer than the original lock-up period). In 2017, no exchanges were executed under this program. As a variant to this program, the Board also approved the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to allow the early release of the vesting conditions of the Series B options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant for executives who are relocated, e.g. to the United States. The shares that result from the exercise of the options must, in principle, remain blocked until 31 December 2023. Under this variant to the program, members of the senior management have exercised 295,370 options under this variant to the program. No members of the EBM have participated to this program. 2. The Dividend waiver program: where applicable, the dividend protection feature of the outstanding options owned by executives who move to the US is being cancelled. In order to compensate for the economic loss which results from this cancellation, a number of new options is granted to these executives with a value equal to this economic loss. The new options have a strike price equal to the share price on the day preceding the grant date of the options. All other terms and conditions, in particular with respect to vesting, exercise limitations and forfeiture rules of the new options are identical to the outstanding options for which the dividend protection feature is cancelled. As a consequence, the grant of these new options does not result in the grant of any additional economic benefit to the executives concerned. In 2017, no options were granted under this program. 175 he Board has also approved the early release of vesting conditions of unvested stock options or restricted stock units which are vesting within months of the executives’ relocation. The shares that result from the early exercise of the options or the early vesting of the restricted stock nits must remain blocked until the end of the initial vesting period. In 2017, the vesting of 0.01 million stock options and restricted stock units was ccelerated under this program for other members of the senior management. No members of the EBM have participated to this program. . Performance related incentive plan for Disruptive Growth Function The company has implemented a performance related incentive plan hich substitutes the long-term incentive stock option plan for executives of the Disruptive Growth Function, called ZX Ventures. This function was reated to accelerate new business development opportunities, focusing on initiatives in e-commerce, mobile, craft and branded experiences such s brew pubs and is headed by Pedro Earp, Chief Disruptive Growth Officer. he incentive plan, which is inspired from compensation models in technology and start-up businesses, aims at specifically linking the ompensation to the value creation and success of the disruptive growth business within the company. xecutives are granted performance units whose value will depend on the internal rate of return (IRR) of their business area. The units vest after years provided a performance test is met, based on a minimal growth rate of the IRR. At vesting, the performance units may be settled in cash or n ordinary shares of the company. Specific forfeiture rules apply in case the executive leaves the company. uring the reporting period in 2017, 1.96 million performance units were granted to senior management under this program. Out of these, 82,071 performance units were granted to Pedro Earp, member of the EBM. . Pension schemes Our executives participate in Anheuser-Busch InBev’s pension schemes in either the US, Belgium or their home country. These chemes are in line with predominant market practices in the respective countries. They may be defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans. he CEO participates in a defined contribution plan. The annual contribution that is paid to his plan amounted to approximately USD 0.23 million in 017. The contributions for the other members of the EBM amounted to approximately USD 0.59 million in 2017. . Other benefits Executives are also entitled to life and medical insurance and perquisites and other benefits that are competitive with market practices. .2.4. Main contractual terms and conditions of employment of members of the Executive Board of Management (EBM) The terms and conditions f employment of the members of the EBM are included in individual employment agreements. Executives are also required to comply with the ompany’s policies and codes such as the Code of Business Conduct and Code of Dealing and are subject to exclusivity, confidentiality and nonompete obligations. he agreement typically provides that the executive’s eligibility for payment of variable compensation is determined exclusively on the basis of the chievement of company and individual targets set by the company. The specific conditions and modalities of the variable compensation are fixed eparately by the company and approved by the Remuneration Committee. ermination arrangements are in line with legal requirements and/or jurisprudential practice. The termination arrangements for the EBM provide or a termination indemnity of 12 months of remuneration including variable compensation in case of termination without cause. The variable ompensation for purposes of the termination indemnity shall be calculated as the average of the variable compensation paid to the executive for he last two years of employment prior to the year of termination. In addition, if the company decides to impose upon the executive a non-compete estriction of 12 months, the executive shall be entitled to receive an additional indemnity of six months. n 2017, Luiz Fernando Edmond (former Chief Sales Officer), Marcio Froes (former Zone President Latin America South) and Sabine Chalmers former Chief Legal Officer), left the company. They were granted a termination indemnity that corresponds to 12 months of their base salary and an mount corresponding to the average of the variable compensation paid for the last two years. ikewise, in the first quarter of 2018, Claudio Braz Ferro (former Chief Supply Integration Officer) and Claudio Garcia (former Chief People Officer) eft the company. They were granted a termination indemnity that corresponds to 12 months of their base salary and an amount corresponding to he average of the variable compensation paid for the last two years. arlos Brito was appointed to serve as the CEO starting as of 1 March 2006. In the event of termination of his employment other than on the grounds f serious cause, the CEO is entitled to a termination indemnity of 12 months of remuneration including variable compensation as described above. here is no “claw-back” provision in case of misstated financial statements. 176 7.2.5. Options owned by members of the Executive Board of Management* The tables below set forth the number of Matching options owned by the members of our EBM as of 1 January 2018 under the Share-based compensation plan that was applicable until 2010(1). Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options 2010 2009 2009 2008 2007 2006 Grant date 05 March 2010 14 August 2009 6 March 2009 3 March 2008 2 April 2007 27 April 2006 Expiry date 04 March 2020 13 August 2019 5 March 2019 2 March 2018 1 April 2017 26 April 2016 EBM (3) 0 140,106 80,765 61,974 0 0 Strike price (Euro) 36.52 27.06 20.49 34.34 33.59 24.78 Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options Matching options 2009Dividend 2009Dividend 2008Dividend 2008Dividend 2007– Dividend 2006 – Dividend Waiver 13(2) Waiver 13(2) Waiver 13(2) Waiver 09(2) Waiver 09(2) Waiver 09(2) Grant date 15 May 2013 15 May 2013 15 May 2013 1 December 2009 1 December 2009 1 December 2009 Expiry date 13 August 2019 5 March 2019 2 March 2018 2 March 2018 1 April 2017 26 April 2016 EBM(3) 74,869 37,131 49,468 0 0 0 Strike price (Euro) 75.82 75.82 75.82 33.24 33.24 33.24 (1) Matching options have the following features: a. an exercise price that is set equal to the market price of the share at the time of grant; b. a maximum life of 10 years and an exercise period that starts after five years, subject to financial performance conditions to be met at the end of the second, third or fourth year following the grant; c. upon exercise, each option entitles the option holder to subscribe one share; d. specific restrictions or forfeiture provisions apply in case of termination of service. (2) Options granted under the Dividend waiver program (see 7.2.3.f) (3) No options were exercised in 2017 The table below sets forth the number of LTI stock options owned by the members of our EBM as of 1 January 2018 under the 2009 Long term incentive stock option plan (see 7.2.3.c). LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options Grant date 18 Dec 2009 30 Nov 2010 30 Nov 2011 30 Nov 2012 02 Dec 2013 01 Dec 2014 01 Dec 2015 Expiry date 17 Dec 2019 29 Nov 2020 29 Nov 2021 29 Nov 2022 01 Dec 2023 30 Nov 2024 30 Nov 2025 EBM (1) 358,938 583,640 628,661 921,923 759,367 591,864 65,747 Strike Price (Euro) 35.90 42.41 44.00 66.56 75.15 94.46 121.95 LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options LTI options Grant date 22 Dec 2015 01 Dec 2016 20 Jan 2017 5 May 2017 22 Jan 2018 Expiry date 21 Dec 2025 30 Nov 2025 19 Jan 2027 19 Jan 2027 21 Jan 2028 EBM (1) 938,384 75,897 962,663 261,706 1,077,229 Strike Price (Euro) 113.00 98.04 98.85 109.10 94.36 LTI options (ADR) LTI options (ADR) LTI options (ADR) LTI options (ADR) LTI options (ADR) LTI options (ADR) Grant date 30 Nov 2010 30 Nov 2011 30 Nov 2012 02 Dec 2013 01 Dec 2014 01 Dec 2015 Expiry date 29 Nov 2020 29 Nov 2021 29 Nov 2022 01 Dec 2023 30 Nov 2024 30 Nov 2025 EBM 21,880 23,257 15,685 12,893 11,473 10,521 Strike price (USD) 56.02 58.44 86.43 102.11 116.99 128.46 (1) The following options were exercised in 2017: a. In May 2017: i. Stuart MacFarlane exercised 17,293 LTI options of 30 November 2010 with a strike price of 42.41 Euro and 11,212 LTI options of 30 November 2011 with a strike price of 44.00 Euro; b. In December 2017: i. Stuart MacFarlane exercised 22,989 LTI options of 30 November 2012 with a strike price of 66.56 Euro. *Following the completion of the merger between Anheuser-Busch InBev (formerly “Newbelco”) and the old AB InBev, that took place on 10 October 2016 in the framework of the combination with SAB, all rights and obligations attached to the outstanding stock options of the old AB InBev, have been automatically transferred to Anheuser-Busch InBev (the absorbing company), each outstanding stock option giving right to one share of the new Anheuser-Busch InBev (the absorbing company) instead of one share of the old AB InBev (the absorbed company). 177 he table below sets forth the number of options granted under the November 2008 Exceptional Option Grant owned by the members of our EBM s of 1 January 2018(1). November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 November 2008 Exceptional Grant Exceptional Grant Exceptional Grant Exceptional Grant Exceptional Grant Exceptional Grant options Series A – options Series B – options Series B – options Series B – options Series A options Series B Dividend Waiver 09 Dividend Waiver 09 Dividend Waiver 11 Dividend Waiver 13 rant date 25 November 2008 25 November 2008 1 December 2009 1 December 2009 11 July 2011 31 May 2013 xpiry date 24 November 2018 24 November 2023 24 November 2018 24 November 2023 24 November 2023 24 November 2023 BM(2) 0 3,976,325 0 1,833,736 243,901 286,977 trike price (Euro) 10.32 10.32 33.24 40.35 75.82 BM 0 542,226 0 0 0 0 trike price (Euro) 10.50 10.50 )  he Series A stock options have a duration of 10 years as from granting and have vested on 1 January 2014. The Series B stock options have a duration of 15 years as from granting T and vest on 1 January 2019. The exercise of the stock options is subject, among other things, to the condition that the company meets a performance test. This performance test, which was met, required the net debt/EBITDA, as defined (adjusted for exceptional items) ratio to fall below 2.5 before 31 December 2013. Specific forfeiture rules apply in the case of termination of employment. ) No options were exercised in 2017. he table below sets forth the number of options granted under the 2020 Incentive Plan owned by the members of our EBM as of 1 January 2018 see 7.2.3.c). 2020 Incentive Stock Options Grant date 22 December 2015 Expiry date 22 December 2025 EBM 334,765 Strike price (Euro) 113.00 he table below sets forth the number of options granted under the Integration Incentive Plan owned by the members of our EBM as of 1 January 2018 see 7.2.3.c). Integration Incentive Stock Options Grant date 5 May 2017 Expiry date 31 December 2026 EBM 1,701,090 Strike price (Euro) 109.10 he table below sets forth the number of options granted under the Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan owned by the members of our EBM as f 1 January 2018 (see 7.2.3.c). Long Run Stock Options Incentive Plan Grant date 1 December 2017 Expiry date 1 December 2032 EBM 7,008,764 Strike price (Euro) 96.70 178 Contacts Registered office Europe Anheuser-Busch InBev InBev Belgium Grand-Place 1 Brouwerijplein 1 1000 Brussels 3000 Leuven Belgium Belgium Global Headquarters Belgium Latin America COPEC Anheuser-Busch InBev Bavaria Brouwerijplein 1 Cra. 53A No. 127-35 3000 Leuven Bogotá Belgium Colombia Functional Management Office Latin America North Anheuser-Busch InBev Ambev 250 Park Avenue Corporate Park Floor 2 Rua Dr. Renato Paes de Barros 1017 New York, NY 10177 4th Floor United States 04530-001, Sao Paulo Brazil Africa Latin America South The South African Breweries 56 Grosvenor Road Cerveceria y Malteria Quilmes S.A.I.C.A y G. Bryanston, Sandton Av. Rafael Obligado 1221 1er piso South Africa Capital Federal Argentina Asia Pacific North Middle Americas Anheuser-Busch InBev China 26 F Raffles City Grupo Modelo Shanghai Office Tower Cerrada de Palomas No. 22, Piso 6 268 Middle Xizang Road Colonia Reforma Social CP 11650 Shanghai, 200001 Delegación Miguel Hidalgo PRC Ciudad de Mexico Mexico Asia Pacific South North America Carlton & United Breweries 77 Southbank Boulevard Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc. Southbank One Busch Place Victoria 3006 St. Louis, MO 63118 Australia United States 179 Registered trademarks he following brands are registered trademarks of Responsible Editor nheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV or one of its affiliated companies: Marianne Amssoms Global brands: Project Lead udweiser, Stella Artois and Corona Aimee Baxter nternational brands: Translation Supervision astle, Beck’s, Leffe and Hoegaarden Peter Dercon ocal brands: Special thanks to our proofreaders and all 0 Barrel, 100% renewable electricity, 4 Pines, Aguila, Aleston, our Anheuser-Busch InBev colleagues who lexander Keith’s, Alta Palla, Andes, Antarctica, Archibald, Bagbier, have made this annual report a reality. arrilito, Bass, BBC, Beck’s Blue, Becker, Belle-Vue, Belgian Beer Café, est Damn, Birra del Borgo, Blue Point, Boddingtons, Bohemia, Original English version written by orn the Hard Way, Boxing Cat, Brahma, Brahma 0,0%, Bud Light, Jeff Fraga ud Light Lime ‘Ritas’ family, Bud Light Radler, Budweiser 1933 epeal Reserve Amber Lager, Budweiser Magnum, Budweiser Design and Production rohibition Brew, Budweiser Supreme, Busch, Busch Light, Cafri, Addison amden Town, Camden Hells, Canvas, Carlton Draught, Cass, astle Lite, Chernigivske, Club Colombia, Cola & Pola, Colorado, Print orona Cero, Corona Extra, Corona Light, Corona SunSets, Kirkwood Printing orona This Is Living, Coronita, Cristal, Cubanisto, Cusqueña, Deus, evils Backbone, Diebels, Diekirch, Dilly Dilly, Double Deer, agle Lager, Elysian, Estrella, Estrella Jalisco, Flying Fish Chill, ranziskaner, Ginette, Ginsber, Golden Road, Goose Island, Great Northern, Guaraná Antarctica, Haake-Beck, Harbin, arbin Ice, Hasseröder, Hertog Jan, HiBall, Hoegaarden Radler, inling, Jinlongquan, Julius, Jupiler, Jupiler 0.0, Kaiba, Karbach, The coated pages of the Annual Report are ing of Beers, KK, Klinskoye, Kokanee, Kombrewcha, Kwak, printed on 10% postconsumer recycled paper. abatt, Lakeport, Land Shark Lager, La Virgen, Leffe Royale, Leon, The uncoated pages of the Annual Report iberty, Löwenbräu, Lucky, Mackeson, Mexicali, Michelob Ultra, are printed on 100% postconsumer recycled Mike’s Hard Lemonade, Mill Street, MixxTail, Modelo, Modelo paper. All paper is both FSC and SFI certified. special, Montejo, Mountain Series, Natty Daddy, Natural Light, egra Modelo, Norte, O’Doul’s, OB, Oland, Old Blue Last, U kan dit rapport in het Nederlands Original, Paceña, Pacifico, Patagonia, Patricia, Pilsen, Pirate Life, raadplegen op onze website: ony Malta Plus, Presidente, Pure Blonde, Pure Blonde Cider, www.ab-inbev.com Quilmes, Quilmes Clásica, Redd’s Apple, Rogan, Sedrin, Shiliang, hock Top, Sibirskaya Korona, Skol, SmartBarley, Spaten, Vous pouvez consulter ce rapport en français pikedSeltzer, Stanley Park, Stella Artois Buy A Lady A Drink, sur notre site web: www.ab-inbev.com tella Artois Cidre, Stella Artois Le Savoir, Sunbru, T, Tijuana, olstiak, Tripel Karemeliet, Tropical, Vieux Temps, Victoria, Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA ictoria Bitter, Wäls, Whitbread, Wicked Weed, Yantar, ZX Ventures. Brouwerijplein 1 B-3000 Leuven he following brand is a registered trademark: Belgium PerfectDraft: co-owned with Koninklijke Philips N.V. Tel: +32 16 276 111 Clean Waves: co-owned with Parley LLC Fax: +32 16 506 111 he following brands are registered brands Register of Companies nder license: 0417.497.106  epsi, H2oh! and Triple Kola are registered trademarks P of PepsiCo, Inc. 7UP is a registered trademark licensed by Seven Up International. 180 Design by Addison.com www.addison.com Our Manifesto We are a company of owners. We believe that you get out what you put in. We strive to be the best. Pursuing our Dream, Committed to improving lives for more people in more communities. For centuries, we’ve been bringing people together, Through sports, through music and through culture. Creating moments both everyday and extraordinary. Seizing every occasion to serve up more of what people thirst for. For this reason, we pour ourselves into our work. From farm to brewery to market, Taking pride and ownership in every step. Crafting great beer from the best natural ingredients. Paving the road for a better tomorrow that we’re proud to be a part of. And celebrating the great times that bring us together. We are Anheuser-Busch InBev Bringing people together for a better world. AB-InBev.com AnnualReport.AB-InBev.com
