Communication on Progress June 2018 Contents Statement of continued support .................................................................................................. 2 Organizational Profile...................................................................................................................... 4 Contact information..................................................................................................................... 4 Policy commitment ........................................................................................................................... 4 Focus on communication ............................................................................................................... 4 Due diligence process .................................................................................................................. 5 People in the centre .......................................................................................................................... 7 Demography and work/life balance ....................................................................................... 7 Employee well-being .................................................................................................................... 7 Locals at our destinations .......................................................................................................... 8 Guest experience and satisfaction ........................................................................................... 9 Environment and climate ............................................................................................................. 10 Office environmental awareness ........................................................................................... 10 Nature conservation .................................................................................................................. 11 Albatros Travel’s cruise ships .................................................................................................. 12 Animal welfare ............................................................................................................................. 12 Business ethics and anti-corruption .......................................................................................... 12 Anti-corruption training ............................................................................................................ 13 Albatros Travel projects ................................................................................................................ 14 Supporting orphaned children in Delhi ................................................................................ 15 Supporting a local community in South Africa .................................................................. 16 1 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Albatros Travel continues to support and implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to all areas of concern. This COP documents how we integrate the ten principles in our strategies, policies and daily practices. Albatros Travel will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I have been Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Albatros Travel since the fall of 2014. My husband founded Albatros Travel 32 years ago, as a small tent safari company, and I have worked beside him for many years. Social responsibility has always been a big priority for us. Our company slogan, translated from the Danish, ‘Travel with heart, head and mind’, reminds us of that on a daily basis. We take our responsibility very seriously and have a CSR manager who is in charge of our CSR strategy and implementation. The CSR manager is part of our family – she is our daughter, and therefore part of the “Albatros DNA”. She is involved in all the big decisions of our company. She has been absent over the last 1,5 years due to complications in her pregnancy and maternity leave. We chose not to have a maternity cover, as it would be difficult to step in the role. But as it states in our COP’s, our CSR strategy has been focusing on communication, including public communication and demonstration of concrete actions. This has been a bit on hold, but as she is slowly coming back to the company, we can already see the difference and look forward to constant improvements and better communication. At the compliance level, we have a due diligence process, which enables us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the core principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Another Albatros Travel strategy is to buy locally whenever possible, to support local economy, and to educate and share knowledge. Albatros Travel arranges package tours with tour leaders, so we have an opportunity to disseminate knowledge and awareness about cultural differences and the environment to our guests. We already have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we plan to strengthen our sustainability performance further by providing more training. The focus on education reaches beyond our own organization and also directs any philanthropic projects, such as the establishment of sustainable guest donation projects. We have identified our greatest environmental adverse impact to be the carbon footprint of our products. We cannot produce travel products without a significant carbon footprint with the technology available, but we strive to reduce our carbon footprint wherever possible. We have included demands for this in our Code of Conduct, which will be included in all contracts. With this Code of Conduct, we will integrate CSR in our entire organization and to our substantial supply chains. But, even though eco-tourism has been known and practiced for many years, working strategically and holistically with sustainability on all three bottom lines is new to the 2 travel industry and we will be faced with a challenge in encouraging suppliers to work with a focus on sustainability. The COP mainly covers our Copenhagen headquarters. We are still in the initial phase of formalizing our work with sustainability and still need to integrate our country offices in the process. The Copenhagen headquarters produce almost all of our products and thus the greater part of our organization is covered in this report. Berit Willumsgaard CEO and owner, Albatros Travel 3 Organizational Profile Albatros Travel A/S was established in 1986 by Søren Rasmussen, now chairman of the board. We provide travel packages for private guests primarily traveling out of the Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish markets, and newly also from Poland. The guests travel mainly in groups of 20-50 persons and are accompanied by a tour leader. All Scandinavian operations are conducted from the company’s headquarters in Copenhagen. In addition, small subsidiaries have been established in China, Greenland, Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa to handle local operations and destination management services, and we own several safari camps and small cruise ships, and a shop in Warsaw. The company is headed by the Board of Directors, including the main shareholder of the company. The management team reports to the Board of Directors. Our head office is divided into departments, each of which functions in relation to the types of tours and locations. Within the different work areas, there is a person with in-depth knowledge on the specific area. This ensures that our guests are being served with the best expertise available in the field. We currently employ 146 persons in our office in Copenhagen. In addition, we employ approximately 800 freelance tour leaders with Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish and Polish backgrounds, who work with the local tour operators at the travel destinations. On an annual basis we handle approximately 1,000 tours, serving more than 40,000 travellers, with net sales of approximately 815 million Danish Kroner (DKK). Contact information Questions regarding the content of this COP report should be addressed to: Cæcilie H. Willumsgaard, CSR Manager Albatros Travel, cw@albatros.dk Policy commitment Our CSR policy is publically available on our websites. The policy commitment stipulates our human rights expectations of our personnel and business relations. The policy is formulated as a general CSR policy and includes environmental and anti-corruption commitments. Our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct), which includes human rights, environmental and anti-corruption requirements are still in the process of being incorporated in all business contracts. Focus on communication Since 2014, our CSR strategy was an increased focus on communication. We focussed on familiarizing all employees with our CSR policy and projects. 4 Our CSR manger has been absent due to pregnancy complications and maternity leave and unfortunately this has had a considerable negative impact on the employees CSR awareness. The company is facing a very interesting stage of economic growth and expansion, and there have been many new employees hired during this time. All new employees have a one-week rotation programme, where they get lessons on the workflow of the different departments and teams. In this programme they also learn about Albatros’ company history, and now, also the importance of our CSR strategy and projects. CSR is a fixed agenda point in our monthly morning meetings for all staff at our head office. To further involve and educate all employees in our CSR activities, our CSR manager will, upon request from the different team managers, provide training sessions at team meetings. She has been to Poland to give a CSR introduction to our new Polish team there. We have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but will further strengthen our performance by continuing to educate them in our CSR policy. Our tour leader coordination team hosts regular seminars in Copenhagen in which tour leaders from Denmark, Sweden and Norway participate. In these seminars, CSR is part of the agenda. As we are a travel agency, it is difficult to gather all our tour leaders from around the world at these seminars so we also update them on our CSR initiatives through newsletters. The communication focus also includes external communication with our suppliers and our guests. As mentioned above, we have finalized our CSR policy and our Ethical Requirements for our partners. Our CSR policy is available on our website, together with our CSR manifest and descriptions of some of the projects we support. Since 2014, we have communicated CSR externally through Facebook, travel fairs and by distributing small pamphlets with information on our CSR activities. This external communication focus continues. Due diligence process In the absence of the CSR manager, we have learned the necessity of one coordinator. Now we are back to the basic setup where all employees contact the CSR manager in case of any possible negative impact (see the figure on next page). The information flow of adverse impacts, identified by guests or tour leaders, currently flows through both the quality department and tour leader coordination, who because of their basic due diligence training now redirect it to the CSR manager. We are in the process of implementing the direct flow from the tour leaders to the CSR manager, who then contacts the product manager to take action through the supply chain. We believe we will get the best results from letting the product managers who have the daily contact with the suppliers be the key implementing agents of mitigation throughout the supply chain. Internally, the human resources department takes care of the function of collecting and reporting all accidents and staff grievances, identifying trends and initiating mitigating actions. 5 Accidents occurring while travelling are a possible adverse impact on the health of our guests. Traveling always involves the risk of accidents, especially in less developed countries with poor infrastructure and lack of traffic regulations. Albatros Travel demands high safety standards from suppliers, which is also included in our Ethical Requirements document. In case of an accident involving clients of Albatros Travel, the company has an emergency contingency plan in place. The contingency plan delegates responsibilities between staff for dealing with the emergency situation in the best way. Tour leaders can always contact the Copenhagen office through a 24-hour emergency phone service, where our experienced staff provides support. 6 People in the centre At Albatros Travel, we are aware that our operations have an impact on many people’s lives and therefore our impact on people is at the heart of our concern. We recognize the right of everyone to work in an environment where individual dignity is respected, and will not condone any form of discrimination or harassment. Albatros has had a positive growth in the last years. This has had a positive influence on the company as a workplace. All employees have been recognized and been given some extra bonuses. We had a workplace assessment of our head office in Copenhagen in the fall of 2017. We asked about job satisfaction, “About your job in general: How satisfied are you with your job as a whole with everything in consideration?” 94,5% answered that they were very satisfied or satisfied (48,6% and 45,9%). Demography and work/life balance Albatros Travel seeks a diversity of people and equal rights for men and women. A head count on January 1, 2018 showed that we had 146 employees at our head office in Copenhagen. The average age of the staff is 40 and there are more female employees then male, which has been the case for many years. Presently the CEO is a woman and the gender distribution in the management team is 33% women. Demographic Employees Average age Gender distribution all employees 2014 162 39 63% women 2015 145 40 64% women 2016 160 40 65% Women 2017 131 42 60% women 2018 146 40 62% Women Not all employees are employed on a full-time basis, as we do offer part-time jobs for those who need less working hours to juggle family life and work life. We also have some colleagues who have flexible job arrangements due to illnesses. We try to help the struggling job market by taking in students from business programs wherever suitable, for instance when we need new sales employees. Our salaries are in line with the industry average and all employees have the right to negotiate their salaries once a year. Employee well-being Albatros Travel strives to be an attractive workplace, were we focus on employee health and overall wellbeing. We have an intranet forum were all employees have a profile and access to an employees’ handbook. In this handbook all our employee policies are available, including a noise policy, a stress policy and focus on bullying/chicanery. We also have our own vaccination doctor at our head office twice a week, where our employees are welcome to seek counselling and get a general health check. All our employees have a health insurance, which gives them the 7 opportunity to get treatment at a private hospital and bypass the public waiting list. We just switched to a new insurance where the children of our employees are also insured, and in situations of critical sickness our employees are guaranteed 80% of their salaries. Right now, we are very focused on the ergonomic workspace and we are initiating a project where all employees have the opportunity to contact an ergonomist to evaluate their individual workspace. We offer our employees a warm lunch at the in-house canteen where the company pays 2/3 of the price. We get fresh organic fruit every day, special teas and all of the coffee we provide is fair-trade and organic. We have several extra staff offers at the head office, including a certified masseuse twice a week. We give economic supplement for the massages, including free during workhours. We also have yoga classes, a choir with a professional singer and table tennis. We believe that a good social environment is very important to employee wellbeing, so we encourage all employees to get together at social events. These includes several Friday bar events, a summer party, a big Christmas party and now also an Easter party. In 2017 the whole company went on a business trip to Malaga for three days. We visited different hotels, which we sell in our tour packages, and did several team building events, including our 2017 Christmas party. Our tour leaders have their own Christmas gathering. As we are a travel agency, we live for traveling and where it is relevant we send employees on study trips to expand their knowledge. All employees have the opportunity to buy trips at good prices for themselves and their families and we regularly send out special in-house offers when we have some last minute cancelations. Locals at our destinations When we talk about the ethical dimensions of travel, a priority is treating people with equality and respect. This applies to both the people we work with in other parts of the world (as well as in Denmark) and the people whose country, neighbourhood and homes we are visiting. Albatros Travel wishes to be precautionary and we have included our standpoint on child labour in our Ethical Requirements. We demand that suppliers not only assure us that they respect our views against child labour but also the respective country’s labour laws with special emphasis on minimum wages, working hours and union participation. One of our important CSR strategies is to generate local cash flow. We want to contribute to the local economy, make sure that the right people benefit from our presence and create job opportunities for locals. To achieve this we collaborate with small local businesses wherever it is possible. We work with local agents, small hotel, local restaurants and use local guides. At our own safari camps we employ local staff. To further strengthen these strategies for locals we initiated a collaborating with the Fairtrade brand in 2016. Fairtrade is an internationally recognised brand and is “about better prices, decent working conditions, and fair terms of trade for farmers 8 and workers”. We are trying to incorporate visits on Fairtrade plantations on some of our tours. In this way we support those places that have good working conditions for their workers and we can tell our guests their story. On those tours where we already visit plantations we try to push the farmers to become certified by Fairtrade, and in this way help the community get higher standards. Facilitation of our guests’ access to knowledge about other people’s cultural life is an important part of our business. All our tours are conducted with experienced tour leaders who generally speak the local languages and have a special insight into local conditions. In this way we can ensure good working conditions locally and we are able to make sure that all cultural encounters are done in the right spirit so that there is no negative impact on local societies. Furthermore we always seek counselling and consent from locals before visiting their communities and we continue to have a dialogue on the form and frequency of visits. In this way responsible tourism creates the opportunity for indigenous people to continue their traditional lifestyles in relatively remote areas with only little adaptation to modern economy and culture. Guest experience and satisfaction Albatros Travel’s main customer group is mature couples (60+), often retired and well-travelled. The group is as a whole more interested in experiencing culture and nature than relaxation. We have designed our online and offline experience to suit our main customers, by having a website that is simple, easy to navigate and search. We have always strived for high customer satisfaction and a high percentage of returning customers. We have an experienced quality assurance team that takes care of all customer feedback and customer complaints. Since 2014, Albatros Travel has initiated a new customer experience strategy. We have had focus on satisfaction, transparency and ease of use. It started by analysing our customer experience and creating detailed customer journey maps. Based on this, we implemented an automated customer communication flow that ensures that the customer gets relevant information at the relevant time and has knowledge of what is going to happen next through the flow of this process. In 2015, we implemented a new review system that allows us to publish authentic customer reviews directly on our website. We have partnered with Bazaarvoice and have fulfilled the requirements of the Bazaarvoice authentic reviews trustmark (http://www.bazaarvoice.com/trustmark/). Trusted online reviews give our customers unprecedented transparency and internally, we use the reviews actively to follow up on customer complaints and to improve and develop our products. We have also improved our loyalty program “Royal Albatros” with perks and discounts for our loyal customers (+2 trips with Albatros) and expanded the programme to Sweden, Norway, Finland and Poland. We now have approx. 12,000 members of Royal Albatros in the five countries combined. Furthermore we are initiating programs to improve and develop our customer service team, and creating 9 a personalised “My Albatros” aiming to make everything even easier for the customers. In 2017, we implemented a state of the art IP-telephony system, with improved sound quality and customer recognition, and in 2018 we are implementing a new and improved FAQ that will help our customers help themselves and greatly reduce waiting time for our customers. We have initiated new ways of information flow and are in the process of meeting the new EU law General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Environment and climate As a service provider, Albatros Travel only has a small, direct environmental impact, but a more significant indirect footprint from our supply chains. Our most significant environmental impacts are those from the use of flights and cruise ships. These are impacts we cause through our suppliers mainly. We have little opportunity to affect the environmental performance of these suppliers, but have included several environmental demands in our Ethical Requirements. We have also just started to sell bus tours, which in some cases may give out less pollution than travels by flights. What is easier to affect is the environmental performance of our offices and how our clients behave while traveling with us. In this way, our environmental efforts have been focusing on improving environmental performance in offices and raising awareness with our customers to follow the towel saving guidance in hotels, using less plastic while traveling and leaving nothing but footprints in fragile environments. Plastic is a growing problem in the world and a big concern to us. We have initiated several initiatives to reduce our plastic waste. From the fall of 2018, we will stop using plastic bottles for water on our camps in South Africa. Our guests will instead be given reusable metal bottles to fill with fresh water every day. In Vietnam, we have also started giving the guests reusable bottles, but because guests there are very concerned about hygiene, this is still on a trial base. We hope that our guests will accept this so we can continue implementing this and use the same strategy in other places. Office environmental awareness In our Copenhagen office we strive to lower our energy consumption. Albatros Travel is a Climate Partner with DONG Energy, a Danish energy company. This partnership means that we buy all our electricity with RECS (Renewable Energy Certificate System) certification from Dong Energy’s wind turbines. Furthermore, DONG Energy has helped us with mapping our potential for saving energy in our Copenhagen office. We have replaced conventional light bulbs with energy saving and LED ones and put a timer on our ventilation system to ensure that it only runs during office hours. We have a company car, which is an electric car. It is used for daily trips to embassies to collect visas for our guests and similar short errands in the city area. In this way we eliminate particle pollution in the city from these daily errands. 10 In our Copenhagen office, we have reduced our paper use significantly by printing on both sides. This is done automatically by all computers in the office. We have also reduced paper usage by continuing to upgrade our IT system so that we now send a lot of our letters by email. We only use recycled paper for all purposes. We sort paper, cardboard, glass and aluminium from the conventional waste. This level of sorting is what the Copenhagen municipality waste infrastructure allows for at present. We buy organic fair-trade coffee for office consumption from a supplier in Germany and we get organic fruit every day. Our tour leader uniforms are made from organic cotton and under good conditions in factories certified by Fairtrade. Nature conservation Nature conservation is of big importance to us, as the company was built on the foundation of nature experiences on tented safari tours in Kenya. Over the years, we have been involved in several nature conservation projects, especially in Africa. One of these was a big elephant research project in Kenya, conducted in collaboration with a renowned scientist and Copenhagen University. Now most of our conservation efforts are initiated in South Africa, where we own several camps. The Entabeni game reserve, where one of our camp is situated, lies in an area of high density of cattle and crop farms, where most wild animals aren’t welcome. For instance, leopards that have been shot by farmers for many years, because they hunt the cattle. Entabeni game reserve and its tourists – give the animals a safe place and is important for wildlife conservation. The goal of the reserve is to become a nature park, with the capacity to house a self-sustainable animal population. This is done by expanding the park area and regulating the animals until the balance is restored. The reserve mainly focuses on endangered animals species. In a special enclosure they have some breeding programs for rare antelopes and a successful breeding program for tuberculosis-free buffalos, which is highly needed in South Africa where tuberculosis is a threat to a lot of animals. Some of these animals are released in the reserve and some are sold to other nature reserves. Entabeni also has a special rhino protection programme. Rhinos have a fragile status due to poachers, but the Entabeni game reserve has now reached a healthy population of white rhinos. They achieved this by rearming their security system with a helicopter and extra guards. Furthermore, they take care of injured and orphan rhinos. Other Albatros camps are Khoka Moya and Mantobeni on the edge of Kruger National Park. In the future we hope these can be a sustainability project as we made in Kenya in 2006 with the Karen Blixen Camp. We have initiated several environmental actions at Khoka Moya and Mantobeni, including cost/benefit analysis on solar panels. The camps are active in the fight against poachers by supporting patrols in the park and giving the rangers extra rifle training. We have also in 2017 paid for a ranger to get a pilot certificate so he can patrol in flight to search for pouchers. The camps have made some boreholes for the animals to find alternative water resources, because of some extremely dry winters. 11 The camp also has a community project with a small village called Welverdiend (see more under Albatros Travel’s projects). We help organize field trips for children from the village, where children learn about the nature and how important it is to protect it. Albatros Travel’s cruise ships As mentioned above, most of our flights and cruises are provided by suppliers, but we also charter and own a few ships ourselves. On these ships we plan the sailing routes and we do that with a big focus on fuel consumption. Fuel is a growing financial burden, meaning that any reduction in its consumption leads to an improvement in both the environmental and financial bottom lines. Albatros Travel is a fully paying member of the Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators (AECO). The association was founded in 2003 and has since become an important organization representing the concerns and views of arctic expedition cruise operators. AECO is dedicated to managing responsible, environmentally friendly and safe tourism. Apart from the membership fee, Albatros pays AECO a certain amount for every guest we send to the Arctic. All funds from membership fees and from fundraising, are used by AECO to achieve our mutual goal of setting the highest possible operating standards in the Arctic. We are also full members of IAATO – the counterpart to AECO, with operation in Antarctic. Animal welfare Back in 2015 we partnered with the organization World Animal Protection, to get help with evaluating the living conditions of animals in places where our guests are in close contact with them. This resulted in some changes in our trips, especially in Thailand where we visited some elephant camps that didn’t live up to the standards that these big and highly social animals require. Albatros Travel does not offer trips where wild animals are used for commercial entertainment, including elephant rides. We believe that all wild animals should be viewed in nature. Unfortunately that is not always possible, but we don’t want to contribute to an industry that captures wild animals for commercial use and we don’t want animals in captivity to be forced to perform for tourists. We will continue to support the locals whose livelihood depends on the tourist industry and who treat the animals well. In Asia we send our guests to those places where elephants are kept in their natural environment in the nature and where they have the opportunity to be social with other elephants. Business ethics and anti-corruption Albatros Travel has identified no major adverse impacts on anti-corruption. However, as a travel agent that provides services all over the world, we operate in countries where there are significant risks of unregistered workers, kickbacks, local ticket sharks and corrupt border police. Much of these relate to informal practices that are hard to change and require a long-term industry initiative to do so. 12 We are able to show data on income and expenditure for the last six years on request and maintain accurate books and records, available for inspection. These properly and fairly document all financial transactions. We do not maintain off-the-books accounts, and any contribution to bribery and corruption is unacceptable. Internal controls are in place in order to prevent this. Albatros Travel has chosen to register their main organization in Denmark, where most of the operations work is done from the head office. This means that we pay most of our taxes in Denmark, in line with Danish law. We collaborate with Danish tax authorities when we hire new suppliers for our head office, to ensure that we don’t support any illegal work or moonlighting. Anti-corruption training The implementation of our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct) will be followed up by training of relevant employees. The primary target groups for this training are the product managers, who handle the supply chains and our tour leaders, who may come up against corrupt institutions in the countries in which they operate. We don’t include tips in our prices, because we want the guest to have influence on the gratuity amount. In the written itinerary we provide recommended amounts and on most of our tours the tour leaders are expected to handle gratuities. To minimize the risk of the tour leader ending in an uncomfortable situation where some guests might assume that he/she didn’t pass on the money to the rightful receiver, we have made a tip history sheet. On the sheet, the tour leader writes the collected amounts from all guests and then writes all receivers and amounts. The tip sheet is then sent to our tour leader coordination team in the Copenhagen head office where it is checked and saved. 13 Albatros Travel projects We have been aware of our responsibility since day one, and we will continue in this way. We focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference, and we have chosen some projects that make sense for us to support. We give our guests the chance to make financial contributions to some of our local projects, which we have assessed to make sure that any donated money has the intended effect. All work Albatros Travel does in this area will always be funded by the company and never by external sources. We are in the process of structuring the work with donations to provide 100% transparency. From time to time we do different collections of clothes and toys and send them around the world. Mostly by our employees, but sometimes we engage our guests as well. We try to help where we think the need is big and where we think our small scale contributions can be of help. We are not philanthropists but we help to make a small difference. In this sense, we donated toys for a kindergarten in Cape town run by the organization Philani. Both Albatros and employees contributed to this small Christmas project. We also built a new staircase for a school in a rural area in Colombia. Albatros employees from our Cape Town office with the new toys (on the left) and two boys at the Philani kindergarten wearing the new police costumes. Pictures from the project in Colombia; The muddy slope down to the school with no staircase (the left) and the new cemented staircase with sheltering roof (the right). 14 Supporting orphaned children in Delhi Albatros Travel supports the organization Karm Marg, which operates an orphanage in Faridabad outside Delhi. We purchase from them handmade fabric bags as a gift for all our guests in India. For some years the guest numbers in India went down, and we had to find other ways to support the organization. But over the last couple of years we had a serious increase in guests, which means a big purchase and renewed support to Karm Marg. Our guests do not visit the orphanage, but they are informed about the organization and have the opportunity to support it by donating their remaining rupees after the tour. Karm Marg was established in 1997 and started by teaching children at the local train station how to sell bags they made from used newspapers that they found in the trains. Today Karm Marg’s Orphanage shelters 60 children from the age of 4 to 18. The orphanage provides food, medical care, education, recreation and counselling. Karm Marg means the way of action, and in line with this name, the organization places great emphasis on the children becoming self-reliant. The organization finances about half of its expenses by producing and selling environmentally friendly Jugaad products mainly made from recycled materials like newspapers. The production is done by around 100 women from the neighbourhood, who come in and teach the oldest children how to sew. We also support the orphanage in other ways. The last couple of years we have given the children Christmas gifts and a Christmas party. But in 2017 their Christmas wish was a repair of their monsoon wall, so that was our gift. We also acquire other products from them to give as Christmas presents for partners and other business purposes. Two women helping with the production of Jugaad products (to the left) and work on the new monsoon wall (to the right). 15 Supporting a local community in South Africa Welverdiend is a small village in the Kruger area of South Africa with about 12,000 inhabitants. It is located close to Albatros Travel’s two safari camps, Khoka Moya and Mantobeni. To support the community, we hire workforce from the village and train them in the hospitality business. 90 per cent of Albatros Travel staff at our safari camps comes from Welverdiend. We support Welverdiend by paying for our guests to visit every week. Unfortunately, there has been some riots in the area, and for the safety and wellbeing of our guests we have chosen the cancel the weekly tours in some periods. We hope the conflicts will be over soon, so we can continue our good relationship with the village. Albatros Travel has frequently donated money to the village – primary to the schools. The village has a kindergarten and five schools, three from 1st to 7th grade, a high school from 8th to 12th grade, and a school for the mentally disabled. Albatros Travel has been a major sponsor of the schools. One school purchased new books for the library and bought a new television and a DVD machine for teaching from our donations. At another school we have built a new school building with two rooms; one for a library and one for a computer science room. For each Albatros guest that stays at Khoka Moya or Mantobeni, we put aside 85 rand for community projects. 16
