EBARA Group CSR Report 2017 Message from the President Contributing to society through business and connecting that to growth Toichi Maeda President, Representative Executive Officer EBARA CORPORATION A look-back at E-Plan 2016, our setbacks in investment decisions, sluggish demedium-term management plan mand due to a slowdown in Chinese economic growth and a prolonged deflationary economThe 2016 fiscal year (FY) was the final year of ic trend in Japan. For more detail regarding E-Plan 2016. E-Plan 2016 was positioned as E-Plan 2016 results and the new medium-term a clear turning point from the stage of reinforcmanagement, E-Plan 2019, please view our ing the management foundation of the EBARA 2017 Integrated Report. Group, to a stage of growth, and we focused on measures for swiftly achieving change Results regarding priority CSR and accelerating growth. As a result, the Enissues and future endeavors vironmental Plants Business and Precision Machinery Business continued to show robust The CSR Committee, which determines CSR results in both net sales and operating income. activity policies for the EBARA Group, formulatHowever, the Fluid Systems and Machinery ed the CSR Action Plan for Executive Officers Business was unable to achieve its planned to outline priority action issues for FY 2016. targets in part due to internal factors such as This report provides information regarding the delays in the progress of measures indicated in actions taken and outcomes achieved in FY E-Plan 2016, as well as external factors, includ2016 based on that plan. The entire EBARA ing postponement of orders from customers, Group has made steady progress in enhancing 1 EBARA Group CSR Report CONTENTS Message from the President ････････････････････････････････ 1-2 Contents and About This Report ････････････････････････････ 2 EBARA Group s CSR Initiatives･････････････････････････ 3-4 CSR Implementation Structures and internal reporting systems with the objectives Priority Topics ･･･････････････････････････････････････････････････ 5-6 of permeating corporate ethics and preventing corruption. Future challenges for the Group inDevelopment of Workplaces and clude reducing overall working hours through Human Resources that Support Group Growth work-style innovation, setting environmental tar･････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････ 7-12 gets that include overseas Group companies, Environmental Initiatives ････････････････････････････････ 13-16 and promoting environmental management. Moreover, we will continue to contribute to Becoming a Company Trusted by Society ････ 17-19 society and the environment through our prodEBARA Group and its Stakeholders ･･･････････････････ 20 ucts and services. We have also included communicating our vision and targets for continual CSR Committee Advisor Comments ･･･････････････････ 21 growth and their results to stakeholders in an easy-to-understand manner as a key issue Company Profile / Summary of Business Results ･･･････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････････ 22 from FY 2017 onwards. Aiming to contribute to society and the environment as well as About This Report foster corporate growth Purpose of issuing the CSR Report: The EBARA Group states in our CSR Policy, We develop E-Plan 2019 was adopted for fiscal years 2017 mutual understanding with stakeholders through transparent to 2019. To achieve our goal of being a manand fair disclosure. This report covers the activities and ufacturer of industrial machinery that grows results undertaken through the CSR Action Plan for Execuand develops its business on a global basis tive Officers, indicating our priority CSR action topics for FY at an early stage, E-Plan 2019 sets a target of 2016, in the following areas: development of workplaces and dramatically improving profitability in all busihuman resources that support group growth, environmental initiatives, and becoming a company trusted by society. nesses and positions this period as a time for Readers can gain a deeper understanding of the EBARA unlimited challenge toward growth. We beGroup by reading this CSR Report in conjunction with the lieve we will achieve the targets within this plan Integrated Report, the EBARA website, and other materials by proactively making contributions to society published by the company. and the environment. In FY 2017, we will esPrepared by the Corporate Strategy Planning Section, tablish structures to integrate the formulation EBARA Corporation of our CSR activities, basic management poliIssue date: September 29, 2017 cies, and business plans to foster contributions Period: April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 to society and the environment as well as our growth as a company. Scope: EBARA Group The EBARA Group continues to support Previous issue date: November 1, 2016 the United Nations Global Compact. I hope Next planned issue date: May 2018 to advance activities related to achieving the Company name designations: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as EBARA signifies EBARA CORPORATION only. an important element of management. It is EBARA Group signifies EBARA, its subsidiaries, and its the objective of the EBARA Group to fulfill our affiliated companies. stakeholders expectations while firmly looking Related Information: towards the future. We will continue striving to ▼EBARA Group Integrated Report provide products and solutions that can adhttp://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/library/annual-report/index.html dress social and environmental issues. ▼EBARA Group CSR Information http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/index.html ▼EBARA Group CSR Data http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ethics/report/index.html ▼Privacy Policy http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/site/privacy-policy/index.htm ▼Comments and Inquiries https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/contact/csr/report/index.php EBARA Group CSR Report 2 EBARA Groupʼs CSR Initiatives EBARA s Unchanging Spirit of Passion and Dedication Passion and dedication was the motto of EBARA founder Issey Hatakeyama and is the starting point of our vision for the EBARA Group. In EBARAʼs early days, this spirit also served as a driving force behind the bold challenges undertaken in unknown areas. The efforts made by each employee to perform their own work duties with passion and dedication and the provision of innovative products and services that contribute to society have supported the EBARA Group throughout its more than 100-year history. This spirit will continue to be a key element of EBARA s development over the next 100 years, contributing to the creation of a safe, secure, and comfortable society. Inokuchi-type Pump Do not simply perform the work that has been assigned to you, but act with your own creative and innovative enthusiasm and carry out your work with passion and dedication. Genuine passion and dedication in any dealings with others will always be recognized and valued. Founder Issey Hatakeyama The EBARA Way shared throughout the Group The EBARA Group conducts continuous training so that all domestic and overseas officers and employees can understand the EBARA Way and act in accordance with the EBARA Group Code of Conduct. EBARA Way Training for CSR Training for Annual CSR Training Overseas Subsidiaries Overseas Subsidiaries Targets of training All domestic officers and employees Overseas Group Executives and Managers All overseas group employees Implementation period FY 2016 FY 2014–2016 FY 2015-2019 Participants 9,336employees* officers and 1 1,776 executives managers* 2 and 2,435 employees • The EBARA Way • EBARA Group CSR topics • The EBARA Way • The Three Elements of the Ebara Way • Workplace CSR topics • Compliance • Human rights issues in the workplace FY 2016 Contents • Workplace human rights: harassment • Anti-corruption • Anti-corruption • The significance of promoting diversity • EBARA Group Code of Conduct • Security trade control • Stress checks • Information security EBARA dispatched instructors to overseas Conducted through e-learning. For employees Programs have been developed in nine Group companies to conduct group workwho work at sites that do not have access to languages and are being rolled out in each Features shops that raise the awareness of participants PCs on a daily basis, we conducted on-site region so that all employees will have underregarding the connection between the EBARA group trainings. gone training by the end of FY 2019. Way and their own work. *1 Including seconded and other employees. *2 Cumulative total as of March 31, 2017. 3 EBARA Group CSR Report EBARA Group Business Ethics Framework In November 2012, the EBARA Group celebrated its to changing opportunities and risks and each officer 100th anniversary and established a business ethics and employee acts in accordance with company reguframework indicating our Group-wide values, mission, lations and the Group Code of Conduct, contributing to and social responsibilities (referred to collectively as the betterment of society through EBARA Group techthe EBARA Way) as a roadmap to guide us for the next nologies, products, and services. 100 years. We establish management policies tailored Corporate Philosophy We contribute to society through high EBARA Way quality technologies and services relating to water, air and the environment. CSR Policy 1. Ethics; We conduct our business with a strong sense of ethics. 2. Trust; We foster trust with our valued stakeholders. WEB Related information Full text of the CSR Policy, Management Policy and the Code of Conduct ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ethics/corporate_ethics/index.html Support for international initiatives Continued support SDGs* and the EBARA Group of the UN Global Compact We believe that the Sustainable Development Goals We signed the United Nations Global Compact and (SDGs) contain targets that can be opportunities for support the 10 principles in the following four areas: the EBARA Group, and we are investigating concrete human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. actions for achieving them. EBARA is a member of the United Nations Global Compact Network Japan, and carries out activities in collaboration with various companies and organizations for the development of a sustainable society. Four areas of the United Nations Global Compact and related pages of this report Four areas of the United Report Content Nations Global Compact Human rights Becoming a Company Trusted by Society ▶pp. 17–19 Development of Workplaces and Human Resources that Labor Support Group Growth ▶pp. 7–12 Environment Environmental Initiatives ▶pp. 13–16 Anti-corruption Becoming a Company Trusted by Society ▶pp. 17–19 * Seventeen goals and 169 targets set by the United Nations in September 2015 to address social issues. EBARA Group CSR Report 4 CSR Implementation Structures and Priority Topics CSR implementation structure The CSR Committee was established as a deliberative body to set policy on CSR measures for and to confirm the status of compliance in the EBARA Group. The committee membership is made up of the president, who serves as chairman, all executive officers, and outside attorneys, and meets four times annually. Outside directors also attend committee meetings to offer their objective opinions. In FY 2016, it was decided that we will integrate CSR initiatives with the formulation of fundamental management objectives and medium-term management plans. Respectively, CSR implementation functions were assigned to the Corporate Strategy Planning Division in FY 2017. We will increase our efforts to ensure that CSR measures carried out through the provision of products and services and CSR measures that support business, such as compliance and risk management, are implemented symbiotically. CSR training for executives of the Group has been carried out every year since FY 2005 to promote CSR management. Training topics in FY 2016 were the promotion of diversity and risk management. Figure Showing the Positioning of the CSR Committee As of June 23, 2017 Supervision General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Business execution Management Meeting President and Representative Executive Officer Meeting bodies for business execution Management Planning Committee Risk Management Panel Executive Officers CSR Committee Disclosure Committee Executive organizations Outside Director Inside Director (Non-Executive) Inside Director (Executive) Executive Officer CSR Action Plan for Executive Officers The CSR Committee sets priority action topics relating to society, the environment, and compliance each year and works to continuously improve the EBARA Groupʼs CSR measures. At the end of the year, executive officers conduct evaluations regarding the degree of achievement of those priority action topics. The results of the evaluations are reported to the Board of Directors, which provides opinions on measures for the following fiscal year. Development process of the FY 2016 CSR Action Plan The FY 2016 action plan was formulated based on the self-evaluation results of the FY 2015 CSR Action Plan for Executive Officers. When formulating the plan, the CSR Committee took into consideration the opinions of outside directors and the outside attorneys who manage the external compliance consultation hotlines as well as Basic Principles 2 and 3 of the Corporate Governance Code. WEB Related information Outline and details regarding EBARA s Corporate Governance ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/Governance/governance/index.html 5 EBARA Group CSR Report FY 2016 CSR Action Plan for Executive Officers Results Goals of CSR Activities during E-Plan 2016*1 FY 2016 CSR Action Plan for Executive Officers Performance*2 Related Pages Continuously carry out human resource development, appropriate human resource evaluations, Development of Workplaces and and assignment of the right personnel to the right Human Resources that Support Ⅰ. Build the foundations of long-term positions. Group Growth growth strategies by creating stimulat▶ Pages 7–12 Carry out policies on improving working methods ing workplaces where human rights and Becoming a Company Trusted and establish and implement specific plans in each diversity are respected above all else. by Society (Respect for Human division. Rights) Expand the scope of the career management pro▶ Page 19 gram and implement. Follow up on the status of implementation of action plans at each company with respect to the Risk Management Guidelines* 3 deployed at overseas Ⅱ. Enhance governance and internal Group companies. controls by engaging in high-quality Invite the representatives of Group companies in Becoming a Company Trusted by communications at EBARA and each Japan to participate in the CSR Committee and Society EBARA Group company and reduce risks strengthen governance. ▶ Pages 17–19 throughout the Group through the early Progressively expand the EBARA Group Integrated identification of risk events. Whistle-Blowing System. Provide guidance on internal reporting systems at newly established companies and on proper operation at companies that have already established systems. Continue education on the EBARA Way at EBARA Ⅲ. Promote the EBARA Way and comand subsidiaries in Japan through e-learning. prehensively practice the Corporate Establish e-learning programs at overseas subsidPhilosophy and CSR Policy at Group iaries. EBARA Group’s CSR Initiatives companies to respond to customer needs Conduct training in stages at companies that have ▶ Pages 3–4 with passion and dedication while raising awareness of compliance and preventing not yet conducted an EBARA Way training course. misconduct. Have each Executive Officer issue a message on the practice of CSR to subordinates in their divisions. Ⅳ. As a corporate group that supports Have each organization establish a Business Contisociety, industry, and people, build the nuity Management (BCM) annual plan and have the Becoming a Company Trusted by foundations necessary to enable the plans evaluated by the BCM Committee. Continue Society continuation of business and fulfillment the activities conducted in FY 2015 and improve ▶ Pages 17–19 of our social mission even during disasorganizations. Carry out earthquake-proofing plans ters and other crises. at plants and business sites. Take measures to achieve the FY 2020 EnvironmenⅤ. Prevent and correct environmental poltal Targets in Japan. lution arising from business activities at Investigate the status of environmental manageEnvironmental Initiatives EBARA Group offices, plants, and other ment at overseas Group companies and carry out ▶ Pages 13–16 business sites improvement plans according to risk levels to prevent pollution. Ⅵ. Proactively disclose information to stakeholders to fulfill our duties regardDisseminate information that will continuously raise Communication with stakeholders ing accountability and increase trust in corporate value to internal and external stakeholders. ▶ Page 20 the Group. Ⅶ. Minimize risks that will impede the Becoming a Company Trusted by Continue operational risk management by the Risk healthy existence and development of Society Management Panel. the corporate group. ▶ Pages 17–19 Ⅷ. Take voluntary and preventive measures Becoming a Company Trusted by Continue implementation of corruption prevention to prevent corruption throughout the Society programs. Group. ▶ Pages 17–19 *1 E-Plan 2016: *2 Performance: *3 Risk Management Guidelines: Medium-term management plan The average of evaluations by each executive See page 13. for FY 2014 to FY 2016 officer on a four-point scale. EBARA Group CSR Report 6 Development of Workplaces and Human Resources that Support Group Growth Background CSR Action Plan Measures The EBARA headquarters is located in Japan, where The EBARA Group is establishing long-term growth the population is aging and considerable attention is strategies based on respect for diversity and the crebeing focused on achieving compatibility between ation of stimulating work environments as a priority work and the provision of nursing care to family topic. This effort is being undertaken in accordance members. Securing diverse human resources and with the following human resource management topcreating work environments where each employee ics: promoting the active performance of global talent, can achieve an optimal balance between work and developing work environments where employees can life and fully exercise their individual capabilities will enhance and fully invest their work skills, promoting be essential for the EBARA Group to continue growdiversity, and introducing a compensation system being in the global market. fitting employee skills and performance. In FY 2016, With regard to personnel systems, it will be neceswe fully implemented a career management program, sary to establish a corporate culture of competition in addition to achieving results in other areas, such as and taking on challenges by establishing organizaan increase in the percentage of female managers. tions adapted to the global market. Main Measures and Results in FY 2016 Measures Results • The percentage of management positions filled by women reached 5.2% in April 2017, surpassing the target of 5.0%. Carry out human resource development, appropri• During the term of E-Plan 2016, accepted 36 seconded ate human resource evaluations, and assignment employees from overseas Group companies at domestic to the right positions Group companies and assigned 144 employees from domestic Group companies to overseas sites. • Completed the design of programs for the development of a corporate culture of competition and taking on challenge. Carry out policies for the revitalization of working • Implemented measures for revitalization of the working culture and establish and implement specific plans culture at eight sites in Japan under the initiative of female in each division employees. • Introduced various measures to reduce long working hours. Expand the scope of the career management pro• Full-scale implementation of career management program gram and implement (577 participants) 7 EBARA Group CSR Report A Look Back by the Executive Officer Responsible for Human Resources Developing a corporate culture of competition and taking on challenges to achieve business expansion in the first half of the 21st century Hisashi Iijima Executive Officer Division Executive, Human Resources, Legal & General Affairs Division As we carry out E-Plan 2019, we will maintain an awareness that Japan is a part of the global market. In FY 2016, we completed the design of a role-and-rank based personnel system that enables skilled employees in each country around the world to play important roles in the execution of business regardless of age, gender, nationality, or other personal attributes and fairly evaluates their work performance. We will begin introducing this system at EBARA and key domestic Group companies in FY 2017. In addition, we will create organizations that can swiftly carry out business operations adapted to global competition by making organizations flatter and larger. From FY 2017, the career management program will enter its third year. We plan to expand it even further so that Group companies and their human resource divisions participate proactively in employee career development and we can develop environments where employees can expand their skills. In addition, we will create work environments where human rights and diversity are respected based on the CSR Policy and all 16,300 EBARA Group employees located around the world can develop their expertise and achieve their full potential. FY 2016 DATA HIGHLIGHTS Total number of employees Total number of employees seconded from overseas to Japan assigned from Japan to overseas sites during the term of E-Plan 2016 during the term of E-Plan 2016 36 employees 144 employees Percentage of female managers Number of Career Management 5.2% program participants (EBARA Unconsolidated) FY 2015 FY 2016 577 as of April 2017 (EBARA Unconsolidated) (2020 Target: More than 7%) 85 employees employees WEB Related information Basic Policy on Respecting Human Rights ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/human_rights/1209153_3116.html EBARAʼs Vision for Human Resources and Development ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/environment/index.html Policies for Personnel Affairs and Human Resource Development ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/environment/index.html EBARA Group CSR Report 8 WEB Related information Human Resource Development Human Resource Development Programs / Related Data ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ social/environment/index.html In conjunction with global market expansion, Group companies are collaborating and cooperating across different countries and regions. It is in this environment that the EBARA Group is promoting interaction between human resources of domestic and overseas Group companies. Field work in Japan VOICE by overseas employees In the past, overseas business was typically conducted by dispatching employees from Japan to overseas Observations by an employee sites. Today, as production systems have become seconded from an overseas Group company established overseas and due to an increasing need I was seconded from Ebara Vietnam Pump Company for strong collaborative structures between Japan and (EVPC), as a technical engineer project manager to overseas sites, it is becoming more common for emacquire knowledge regarding EBARA technologies ployees to be seconded from overseas Group compaand know-how. I am currently involved in major EVPC nies to EBARA Corporation in Japan. We are working projects, and I provide support for those projects from to develop and improve various types of human reJapan while making pump system proposals. source infrastructure, including determination of workI struggled to adapt to Japanese customs and ing conditions when hiring and transferring personnel foods for the first three months, but now I am enjoying and developing work environments. my life in Japan. My work in Japan is not an extension Secondment periods range from several months of my work at EVPC, but rather, I have been assigned to around two years. These arrangements play an to a new project (with a scale of approximately 100 important role not only in personnel learning work million yen). As a result, I have been able to learn practices and techniques, but also in establishing about overall project management and gain new pipelines for strong collaboration with employees at pump design skills. I am quite satisfied with the work environment in Japan. EBARA Corporation and Group companies in Japan. When I return to EVPC, I hope to make use of the During the three years from FY 2014 to FY 2016, techniques and work skills that I gained in Japan as EBARA Corporation and Group companies in Japan a project manager. I want to contribute to EVPC ʼ s accepted 36 seconded employees from five coungrowth while being involved in the management of tries (China, South Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, major projects. and Vietnam). Number of employees seconded to Japan from overseas during the term of E-Plan 2016 Phan Tien Thanh (by country) Pump System Engineering Section (Number of employees) Application Engineering Department 18 System Business Division EBARA 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 China Korea Philippines Vietnam Thailand 9 EBARA Group CSR Report Promoting Diversity and WEB Related information Diversity Declaration / Related Data ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ Revitalizing Working Culture social/human_rights/1209152_3116.html Based on the belief that the promotion of diversity and revitalization of the working culture are both necessary to achieve our objectives, we are undertaking various measures including: the reform of awareness and culture, development of systems and environments, and the reform of business and visualization of operations. Management Training to promote diversity We conducted training for EBARA section and branch managers to gain a deeper understanding of the need VOICE for empowering women in the workplace and to share Observations by a training participant knowledge regarding diversity management. The This training taught me that what is required of mantraining included instruction on the social background agement in regards to promoting diversity is to accept against which women work in Japan and differences diverse individuals and seek to draw out the maximum in the working styles of men and women, as well as capabilities of each employee in order to achieve orgadiscussion among the participants. The participants nizational results, and that diversity is not limited to only indicated that through the training they realized allothe promotion of women, but also applies to administracating work duties based on gender makes it more tive staff, career-track personnel, veteran employees, difficult for women to work and that womenʼs attitudes and foreign employees. Based on the results of a survey regarding work are different from those of men. A regarding the awareness of female employees which post-training survey revealed that 40% of the particwas disclosed during the training, I learned that there is ipants had made efforts to improve communication a considerable gap between the ideas of supervisors with subordinates. Based on this, we believe that and the awareness of their subordinates. I realized that these efforts have resulted in an increase in awarethe first thing I needed to do was to change my own awareness. The Engineering Department is made up of ness regarding the empowerment of female employemployees with a range of employment experience and ees. we have a history of exchanging seconded employees Going forward, EBARA will address the issue of with overseas sites. I believe that this is why we have encouraging worksite management tailored to the successfully created an atmosphere where work with individual circumstances of each employee as we growth potential can be assigned and employees find seek to achieve a better balance between work and it easy to consult with supervisors. Going forward, I will the provision of childcare or elder care by employees, conduct management from the perspective of overall and to encourage diverse working styles through the optimization so that all employees can see their work introduction of telecommuting and other programs. from various perspectives and gain experience through internal job rotations and overseas work assignments. Number of Participants Hiroyuki Kubota in Diversity Training General manager, Engineering Department FY 2016 Training: Custom Pump Division 177 EBARA persons Creating flexible work formats With the aim of helping employees achieve balance between their work and the provision of childcare or elder care, we conducted a trial of telecommuting as a means of developing systems and environments in order to promote diversity and revitalize the working culture. During the trial, 15 employees worked from home one or two days per week. Employees that had previously reduced their working hours in order to provide child care or elder care were able to put in full hours on the days that they worked from home and confirmed that such a program can be expected to lead to employee growth through work while enhancing the home lives of employees. Based on these results, we decided to formally introduce a telecommuting program starting in April 2017. Diversity management training EBARA Group CSR Report 10 Creating a Corporate Culture WEB Related information Data on use of work-life balance support systems of Competition and Challenge ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/ environment/index.html#anc1206453 We are revising personnel systems (shifting to role-and-rank based systems) to larger and flatter organizations where individuals with diverse backgrounds can maximize their individual capabilities and characteristics and even employees with little experience can take on the challenges of significant roles based on their abilities and ambitions. By doing so, we will create a corporate culture of competition and challenge. Expanding the Career Management Program VOICE We implemented the Career Management Program Comments from a Career with the goal of changing the tendency of employees Management Program participant to simply perform their assigned work in their assigned division to a culture of taking on challenges in I wanted to experience work that has a direct impact order to achieve results. Under this program, employon product delivery times and production processes. To do this, under the Career Management Program, I ees indicate their career ambitions to the company shifted from standard pump parts management work and supervisors, and the company works with each to process control work. As a result of this change, I employee to achieve those career ambitions. The gained an understanding of the overall workflow, inprogram was conducted on a trial basis at the Futtsu cluding production status and production quantities District in FY 2015 and put into full-scale operation on a daily basis, and I am now able to issue producstarting in FY 2016; the program now covers 577 emtion instructions to the assembly lines. I learned how ployees of the Fluid Machinery & Systems Company. to make appropriate decisions with an awareness of One element of the program is requiring employees the timing of delivery to customers. Currently, I am foto think about their own careers, communicate with cusing on firefighting pumps and working to achieve their supervisors, and based on that implement plans 100% on-time delivery of standard pumps, a goal for employee assignment and training. for the plant as a whole. The program has not only The program was expanded to cover employees enabled me to experience new work, but was also a in corporate divisions in FY 2017 and will be further good opportunity to consider the types of work and expanded in the future to cover all employees. issues that I want to take on in the future. Flow of Career Management Program Akihiro Saito Stage 1 Production Control Section 1 Standard Pump Learn and think Through: Business Division about own career • Career design training EBARA ●Understand self • Provision of information ●Understand the work environment Stage 2 Career Communication Through: ●Think about desired career • Career interviews with HR staff ●Interview with HR staff • Preparation of a career plan ●Specify in a concrete career plan Stage 3 Carry out career plan Through: • Determining a career policy ●Coordinate with company needs • Formulating a ●Specify concrete paths and goals development plan ●Work toward personal growth • Providing feedback to employee • Putting it into practice A career interview with HR staff during Stage 2 11 EBARA Group CSR Report Creating Safe and Secure WEB Related information EBARA Group Safety and Health Policy / Health and Safety Data Workplaces ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ social/environment/index.html In FY 2016, we established a company-wide administration to undertake occupational safety measures and began establishing a Group-wide occupational safety management system and formulating uniform safety standards and regulations. Starting in FY 2017, we will identify potential risks while incorporating third-party knowledge including analysis of the circumstances of occurrence of past occupational accidents, take measures to prevent reoccurrence of similar accidents, and conduct group-wide safety training with the aim of completely eliminating occupational accidents. With regard to employee health, we will make use of organizational analyses based on stress checks and take measures to maintain and improve health such as conducting physical fitness tests and diet checks so that each employee can perform their work with vitality. Formulation of Group-wide EBARA recognized for excellence in Occupational Safety Policy Health and Safety Management Practices Based on our commitment to sustain safe workplaces EBARA was selected as a company with excellent and strive for stimulating work environments as spechealth and safety management practices under the ified in the EBARA Group CSR Policy, a Health and Certified Health & Productivity Management OrgaSafety Policy was established effective October 1, nization Recognition Program conducted by the 2016. The policy declares to employees that GroupMinistry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon wide measures will be undertaken to prioritize health Kenko Kaigi. The program recognizes large enterand safety, establish and operate health and safety prises with outstanding health management practicmanagement systems, raise awareness of health es and creates a list of the top 500 companies (the and safety, and comply with laws and regulations. It White 500 List). We believe that employee health is aims to create and maintain workplace environments fundamental to the company and implement policies that place the highest priority on health and safety to maintain and promote employee health such as including maintaining a good work-life balance and ensuring that 100% of employees undergo annual supporting mental health. checkups and implementing a variety of lifestyle improvement programs. These programs have been highly evaluated. We will continue to promote health management Labor-Management dialogue and by sustaining safe workplaces and striving to create conferences on Health and Safety stimulating work environments. EBARA established the Central Health and Safety Committee, made up of each district manager and EBARA labor union officers, to discuss health and safety issues and determine health and safety management policy. Previously, health and safety plans were formulated by each district, but as a part of the development of a Group-wide occupational health and safety management system, a decision was made in FY 2016 for the Central Health and Safety Committee to deliberate on and set Group-wide, uniform priority topics for application at each district. Health and safety plans are implemented by each district, and the Central Health and Safety Committee periodically checks on progress. EBARA Group CSR Report 12 Environmental Initiatives Background CSR Action Plan Measures Global climate change and loss of biodiversity are The EBARA Groupʼs FY 2020 Environmental Targets advancing, and we are losing the stable global enviwere established as mediumto long-term goals ronment that underpins our lives and economies. The covering the period up to FY 2020. In FY 2016, we EBARA Group takes ongoing measures to prevent undertook measures with emphasis on complying environmental pollution and decrease the burden with ISO 14001:2015 and integrating the EBARA that our business activities exert on the environment. environmental management systems in operation at We strive to contribute to solving social issues in the each district in Japan (i.e., multi-site certification). areas of water, air, and the environment and to the Overseas, measures focused on comprehensively development of a recycling-oriented society. We bepreventing environmental pollution caused by the lieve that continuous improvement of environmental business activities of Group companies. management at the Group is the foundation of these efforts. Main Measures and Results in FY 2016 Measures Results • Shifted to ISO 14001:2015 and unified the certification of each EBARA district (i.e., multi-site certification). Take action towards achieving the EBARA Groupʼs • Marketed three new types of pumps with the industryʼs highFY 2020 Environmental Targets in Japan est levels of efficiency and superior running costs. • Increased the efficiency and raised the quality of second-party audits of domestic districts and Group companies by conducting them at the same time as occupational safety patrols. • Integrated the environmental topics of the Risk ManagePromote environmental management and conduct ment Guidelines*1 with the Internal Control Guidelines.*2 environmental/safety compliance audits at over• Conducted environmental and safety compliance audits of seas Group companies two subsidiaries in Brazil and confirmed that waste material and wastewater are properly managed. *1 Risk Management Guidelines (RMGL): Guidelines under which overseas Group companies perform self-evaluations of their risk management levels regarding 12 areas including the environment, anti-corruption, occupational safety, and human rights and formulate development plans for the period until the end of FY 2019 with the aim of raising risk management levels across the group. *2 Internal Control Guidelines (ICGL): Guidelines for self-inspections at each EBARA Group company in order to proactively create, implement, and improve internal controls. 13 EBARA Group CSR Report A Look Back by the Executive Officer Responsible for Environmental Control Creating products that contribute to preservation of the global environment with minimal manufacturing footprint Nobuharu Noji Managing Executive Officer Chairman, Environment Control Committee Environmental pollution, including atmospheric pollution, water contamination, and soil contamination, is becoming increasingly serious in many countries and regions around the world, and numerous environmental laws and regulations are being revised, requiring more rigorous operations. The EBARA Group reliably operates environmental management systems at all of its production sites and takes comprehensive measures in strict compliance with environmental laws to prevent environmental pollution. We continuously review production processes and work to reduce our manufacturing footprint. EBARA Group products are characterized by long lifecycles and a significant environmental burden during the usage stage rather than the manufacturing stage. To address these issues, we are expanding our lineup of products that contribute to preserving the global environment including products with high energy performance and long-life products with low maintenance needs. In FY 2016, we unified the environmental management systems established in each district. This makes it possible to continuously and efficiently improve our environmental management systems. We are also working to reduce the environmental burden of our products and services by marketing pumps with the industryʼs highest levels of efficiency, extending the lives of existing facilities, and taking measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will continue to undertake business activities with consideration for the environment and contribute to solving social issues through optimal products and services in the water, air, and environmental fields. FY 2016 DATA HIGHLIGHTS (Domestic consolidated subsidiaries*1 ） Water consumption CO2 emissions 623,000 m (2020 Target: 517,000m3 ） 3 39,000 tons (2020 Target: Continue to reduce) Waste material recycling rate and landfill disposal rate Emissions of chemical substances Material Landfill Substances controlled VOC*3 recycling rate disposal rate by PRTR Law*2 (eight substances) 99% 0.9% (2020 Target: At least 95% / Less than 3%) 51 tons 48 tons (2020 Target: Continue to reduce / Less than 56.3 tons) WEB Related information EBARA Environmental Policy ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/vision/index.html Environmental Management Structure ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/management/index.html EBARA Groupʼs FY 2020 Environmental Targets and FY 2016 Results ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/targets_data/index.html Environmental performance data ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/targets_data/index.html *1 Not including E-Square Co., Ltd. which engages in the electric power supply business. *2 PRTR Law: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law. *3 VOC: Volatile Organic Compounds. EBARA Group CSR Report 14 Achieving the EBARA Groupʼs FY 2020 Environmental Targets Measures relating to environmental management efforts undertaken in FY 2016 in order to achieve the EBARA Groupʼs FY 2020 Environmental Targets included shifting to ISO 14001:2015 and unifying the certifications acquired by each district (acquisition of multi-site certification). Integration of environmental 14001:2015, we included measures for integration management systems with other systems and worked to integrate the multiWe decided to integrate our environmental manageple-site certifications into one EBARA certification. ment systems (EMSs) with business processes and Correspondingly, we standardized the environmenbusiness strategies and shifted to ISO 14001:2015 tal policies and manuals that serve as the foundaand reinforced EMSs as they relate to products, protions for business activities and established uniform duction processes, and management issues to acregulations, which are secondary documents that recomplish that. flect regulatory requirements. We also standardized Previously, each EBARA district formulated and internal audit and other methods as means of conoperated EMSs with a focus on managing the risks of firming the status of actions and took other measures environmental pollution, but due to disparities among to reinforce EBARAʼs environmental governance. In districts in management document structures and the future, the EBARA Group will undertake integratthe levels of experience of the personnel performed environmental management measures at overing environment management operations, it was not seas Group companies as well. possible to achieve uniformity of quality among the systems. While working to make the transition to ISO FY 2017 Environmental Management Structure and Scope of Application VOICE President, Representative Executive Officer Comments from an employee responsible Management Meeting for environmental matters Environment Control Committee When ISO 14001:2015 was issued, we integrated the EMSs in operation at individual districts and offices Environmental Manager Meeting (sites) into a single system covering all of EBARA, EMS Secretariat and I participated in a working group formed to carry out that integration. The group worked to oversee the Haneda Office Corporate Fluid Machinery & Systems Environmental Plant Precision Machinery Company EMS at each site and to create systems that can reFuttsu District spond to the environmental impacts at those sites. We formulated a single Group-wide environmental policy Company Sodegaura District Company Suzuka District*2 and created manuals and regulations to ensure both measures to contribute to the environment through Tochigi District *1 business activities and measures to prevent pollution 3 Nakasode Area Office* at sites. We set environmental targets such as saving Fujisawa District energy through improvements in work efficiency and Kumamoto District reducing customer environmental impact by providing environmentally-conscious products, and made it posBranches, Group companies Group sales branches, companies Sites Group companies Group companies sible to operate EMSs that take into account opportuand sales offices nities and risks. I hope to continue making improveAs of April 1, 2017 ments so that EMSs can contribute to management, 【 Scope of EBARAʼs ISO 14001 Certification 】 which is the primary objective of ISO 14001:2015. • Corporate (Haneda Office, Futtsu District, Fujisawa District, Sodegaura District, Kumamoto District, Tochigi District, Nakasode Area Office), Production Process Innovation Division, Production Engineering Department) Etsuko Takizawa • Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Environmental Management • Precision Machinery Company Promotion Section Companies and offices indicated by notes 1 to 3 are excluded from EBARAʼs ISO 14001 certification for the reasons below. Internal Control and Risk *1 The Environmental Plant Company is included in the EMS certification of Ebara EnvironmenManagement Division tal Plant Co., Ltd. EBARA *2 The Suzuka District is included in the EMS certification of Ebara Fan & Blower Co., Ltd. *3 The Nakasode Office is included in the EMS certification of Ebara Metal Co., Ltd., with the exception of the Production Process Innovation Division and the Production Engineering Division. 15 EBARA Group CSR Report Raising Environmental Awareness at Overseas Group Companies Overseas sales account for 52.7% of the EBARA Groupʼs consolidated net sales, and that percentage is rising every year. To achieve global growth, it is necessary that we conduct business activities in compliance with the environmental laws and regulations of each country and region where we do business, take measures to prevent environmental pollution, and raise the awareness of employees at each business site regarding continuous improvement of environmental management. Environmental surveys conducted VOICE at overseas sites EBARA has been dispatching experts on environmental management and safety management from its Comments from an employee responsible risk management divisions to the production sites of for the environment at an overseas site overseas Group companies and conducting an environmental survey (known as the Environmental and The Environmental and Workplace Safety Audit covSafety Compliance Audit) since FY 2014. Audits were ered EBARA INDÚSTRIAS MECÂNICAS E COMÉRCIO conducted primarily in China and Southeast Asia LTDA (EIMCO) and Thebe Bombas Hidráulicas S.A. (THEBE), a company recently acquired by EIMCO. until FY 2015. In FY 2016, surveys were conducted Members of EBARA ʼ s Environmental Management at two subsidiaries in Brazil. The survey results did Promotion Section came to Brazil in FY2016 and connot indicate any signs of environmental pollution, ducted an audit which included analyzing documents but identified minor problems such as air leaks from referring to laws in Brazil, as well as conducting an pressurized pipes and management of paint-based inspection of both facilities. waste. Instructions were issued for improvements. The Environment Department at EIMCO already folAs of the end of March 2017, nine overseas Group lows the current legislation in Brazil, and has also imcompanies had acquired ISO 14001 certification. plemented internal regulations in order to monitor and These companies are using third-party maintenance control the environmental impacts of our activities. and renewal certification screenings to understand With the visit of EBARAʼs auditors, we were able to and comply with legal requirements, obtain environanalyze some aspects of these activities with different mental performance data in line with the environvisions and perceptions, that is, we were able to bring mental aspects of business activities, and steadily a new and challenging look aligned with EBARA ʼs improve their environmental performance. purposes, remembering that through this the greatest winner will be the environment! After the visit, with a detailed vision of changes that Environmental management procedures required at should be made, we started to analyze the results overseas sites added to Internal Control Guidelines (ICGL) and implement actions, for example: monitoring compressed air emissions through documentation and In FY 2016, environmental management procedures were detailed inspections. added to the Internal Control Guidelines (ICGL), which are As the need to preserve natural resources has used as a self-inspection guide for the voluntary developbecome a global concern; no country, no society, or ment, implementation, and improvement of internal controls individual has the right to escape from their responsiby EBARA Group companies. The Group complies with envibility to the environment. We thereby reiterate our inronmental laws and regulations. volvement and commitment to the preservation of the environment in our activities in Brazil. ICGL Procedure Understand legal requirements 1 and assess compliance. Ricardo Pires Quality System and Perform internal audits of the 2 compliance assessment results. Environment Coordinator EBARA INDÚSTRIAS MECÂNICAS E COMÉRCIO LTDA. 3 Management reviews the audit results. Results are submitted to the 4 EBARA Head Office. EBARA Group CSR Report 16 Becoming a Company Trusted by Society Background CSR Action Plan Measures Global development of the EBARA Groupʼs business We took a variety of measures during FY 2016 includrequires reinforcement of Group governance and risk ing raising the levels of governance and internal conmanagement. We have revised and rigorously enforced trols at Group companies, raising awareness of comour regulations on Group administration to reinforce pliance, continuously improving BCM activities, and Group governance and established risk management implementing anti-corruption measures. We expandstructures at each company based on Group-wide ed the risk management items covered by the ICGL targets including the Risk Management Guidelines to include human rights, security trade control, the (RMGL)*1 and the Internal Control Guidelines (ICGL)*2. environment, and other areas and will take measures We apply these to Group companies to reinforce into reinforce Group internal controls even further. ternal controls at each company. By applying and exWe also administered a compliance questionnaire at panding these measures, we are continuously improvEBARA and domestic Group companies to assess eming risk management structures. ployee awareness of compliance and to identify issues. Main Measures and Results in FY 2016 Measures Results • The rate of adoption of the RMGL at overseas companies, the tarContinue follow-ups pursuant to the RMGL get for which is full adoption by FY 2019, reached 95% in FY 2016. applied to overseas Group companies • ICGL risk management items were expanded to include human in FY 2015 rights, security trade control, the environment and other areas. Sites continually conducted self-inspections and made improvements. • The compliance awareness questionnaire was outsourced and Wholly renew the content of the compliance the results were compared with external benchmarks. An analysis questionnaire to analyze and improve awareof trends and risks on the company and division levels indicated ness of compliance that EBARA s performance is positioned favorably. Extend the coverage of overseas EBARA • Hotlines via law firms were established in China, Vietnam, and Group hotlines for strict implementation of anIndonesia. ti-corruption and compliance • Emergency contact reporting line was updated to be clearer Continue managing risks and includes whole Group. through the Risk Management Panel*3 • The panel held four regular meetings and five additional meetings to deliberate on individual matters, for a total of nine meetings. Continue implementation of anti-corruption • Continuous implementation of anti-corruption programs at target programs*4 overseas subsidiaries (34 companies) was confirmed. *1 Risk Management Guidelines: Please refer to page 13. *2 Internal Control Guidelines: Please refer to page 13. *3 Risk Management Panel: All executive officers are members of the panel, which oversees EBARA Group risk management. The panel conducts comprehensive deliberations and provides guidance and support for making improvements. *4 Anti-Corruption Program: Risk management program implemented at EBARA and subsidiaries that require the formulation of (i) an anti-corruption declaration issued by company top representative, (ii) basic policies on anti-corruption, and (iii) rules on corruption prevention. 17 EBARA Group CSR Report A Look Back by the Executive Responsible for Risk Management Implementation of risk management measures that support global business Toru Nakayama Division Executive, Internal Control and Risk Management Division During the three years of E-Plan 2016, we undertook measures across the Group to raise the levels of internal controls, raise awareness of compliance, and reinforce risk management structures as priority CSR topics for the development of global business. In FY 2015, we established the Risk Management Guidelines (RMGL) on topics such as occupational safety, hazardous material control, security trade control, and environmental preservation, implemented them at 28 Group companies, confirmed the status of implementation at each company, requested the preparation of action plans for unaddressed items, and developed plans. On-site visits were made to major manufacturing subsidiaries to assess actual conditions and provide guidance on making improvements. In order to reinforce Group internal control structures, we extended the Internal Control Guidelines (ICGL) to overseas subsidiaries in FY 2014, and internal control divisions support their implementation at each Group company. We included risk management items in the ICGL in stages, and the goal is for each company to conduct ongoing self-inspections and take independent measures for improvement. We will continue working to spread and firmly establish at each Group company the risk management measures that we have implemented until now, reinforce business continuity management and information security measures, which have been lagging at overseas sites, and support the global development of each business. FY 2016 DATA HIGHLIGHTS Establishment of overseas EBARA Group Hotlines (Cumulative) FY 2016 Compliance questionnaire (Group companies in Japan) China 5 companies FY 2015 Response rate Respondents China Vietnam 1 company 95% 8,666 persons 3 companies Indonesia 1 company Risk Management Guidelines Target for FY 2019 Conducted Simulation Training 95% Adopted in preparation for emergency situations overseas WEB Related information EBARA's vision, basic policy, and structures for risk management ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/risk_management/index.html#anc1197618 The EBARA Group Anti-Corruption Program ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/index.html Procurement Policy and CSR Procurement Guidelines ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/index.html#anc1209003 Security trade control information ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/index.html#anc1209002 EBARA Group CSR Report 18 Respect for Human Rights Harassment countermeasures FY 2016 Compliance Consultation Hotline The results of the compliance questionnaire adoperational results ministered in FY 2015 confirmed that awareness Matters continued of harassment is rising. The following measures New consultations to the following year (FY 2017) 51 were taken in FY 2016: (FY 2016) 13 • Training was conducted throughout the domesMatters continued from the previous year 8 tic and overseas Group. (FY 2015*) • Compliance liaisons* participated in human * FY 2015 results: 48 rights educational programs at each workplace. Number of investigations completed (FY 2016) • Human rights educational content posted on the intranet was expanded. 46 • Employees were re-informed about consultation hotlines. 【 Compliance Consultation Hotline Policies 】 As a result of these measures, awareness and (1) Prevent incidents, (2) Discover incidents as early as posunderstanding of harassment improved, leading sible, (3) Create good working environments, (4) Enhance to an increase in the number of consultations to abilities to voluntarily and internally address problems the hotline. Of a total of 51 consultations, 32 were 【 Compliance Consultation Hotline Operations 】 regarding harassment issues. All reported matters are investigated, quarterly reports are made to the CSR Committee, and improvements are * Compliance Liaisons: Compliance liaison personnel serve as made through implementation of the Plan-Do-Check-Action on-site consultants for compliance-related issues. They also take measures to promote employees awareness of compli(PDCA) method. ance. Around 80 personnel act in these roles around Japan. Corruption Prevention Minimizing Risks that and Strict Compliance Impede Group Development Overseas EBARA Group To respond promptly to the various emergency Hotline territories expanded situations that could arise inside or outside the The scope of territories covered by EBARA Group Group including large-scale disasters, major achotlines was expanded as a part of the Groupʼs cidents, information leakage, harm from criminal efforts to reinforce anti-corruption programs at conduct such as abductions and harm from sesubsidiaries. In addition to internal whistle-blowrious improper conduct and scandals, a system ing hotlines, we are installing hotlines that conwas established so that if an emergency situation nect directly to EBARA headquarters at Group occurs, prompt reports can be made to the prescompanies that conduct business in countries ident from all Group companies via business divithat are below the mid-range in the Transparency sion and corporate risk management divisions. International Corruption Perceptions Index 2015. We established Crisis Management Rules, and In conjunction with establishment of these hoin the event of a crisis, we will make efforts to tlines, hotline briefings and anti-corruption trainminimize harm by establishing a crisis response ing were conducted in Vietnam and Indonesia, structure pursuant to a decision of the president where hotlines were installed in FY 2016, with 54 according to the type and scale of the emergency. employees participating in Vietnam and 77 in Indonesia. We intend to continuously extend the coverage of such programs even further in the future, beginning from Southeast Asia. WEB Related information Compliance system ▶ https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/Governance/governance/index.html 19 EBARA Group CSR Report EBARA Group and its Stakeholders The EBARA Group CSR Policy positions the individuals and organizations with which it has important relationships as key stakeholders. The CSR Policy provides that the EBARA Group will build trusting relationships with stakeholders and will interact with customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, and local communities with passion and dedication. We create a variety of opportunities for engagement to facilitate high-quality communications. Customers • Day-to-day communications through sales divisions • Receipt of opinions/questions and provision of responses through catalogs, websites, and so on Shareholders and Investors Employees WEB • Information disclosures and commuProduct Information • Day-to-day workplace communicanications through general sharehold▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/ tions ers meetings and result briefings products/index.html • Opportunities for dialogue with • Timely disclosure via the Integrated management through President Report, financial reports, websites, Dialogue Meetings, educational and other such means lectures, and other programs • Plant tours for shareholders • Regular communications with labor unions WEB WEB Investor Relations Work environment ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/ EBARA Group ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ about/ir/index.html csr/social/environment/index.html Suppliers Local communities • Day-to-day communications through procurement divisions • Support for education of engineers in Asia through techni• Receipt of opinions and questions and responses through cal seminars partner companies • Interaction with local residents through plant tours and • Support for training and other programs by partner comsupport for basketball clinics panies and dealers • Support for other social welfare programs • Requests for cooperation with the EBARA Group CSR WEB Procurement Guidelines Social Contribution/Social Welfare WEB ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social_contributions/ CSR Procurement Guidelines community_outreach/index.html ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/ index.html#anc1209003 IN FOCUS EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund EBARA established the EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund in 1989 to conduct free technical seminars on the technologies and experience we have acquired through Group business to support the developFY 2016 Results ment of local communities, mainly in 7seminars conducted in 4 countries Southeast Asia. Since FY 2015, the fund has also donated EBARA pump units and pump cutaway models to respond to the needs of universities 343 participants A seminar on pumps in Vietnam in developing regions. WEB Related information EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund ▶ https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social_contributions/corporate_citizenship/index.html EBARA Group CSR Report 20 CSR Committee Advisor Comments Shione Kinoshita Daiichi Fuyo Law Office Attorney Member of the Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Association. Shione Kinoshita has been a CSR Committee Advisor for EBARA Corporation since April 2013. She provides wide-ranging support to the relationships between the company, employees and labor union and engages in activities based on the belief of raising the social value of businesses. The Message from the President at the beginning of the practices in 2017 in the large company category (the EBARA Group CSR Report 2017 declares that conWhite 500 ) is a testament to the results of those eftributing to society through business leads to growth forts and further improvements at Group companies by the company and reports on a review of the E-Plan are expected. Environmental initiatives are a part of 2016 medium-term management plan, which recogthe EBARA Groupʼs core business, and I feel it is clear nizes that CSR measures are themselves business acthat the EBARA Group does not simply carry out envitivities and play an important role in driving company ronmental policies but that the conduct of business by growth. E-Plan 2019, which covers the period from FY the EBARA Group contributes to solving environmental 2017 to FY 2019, sets a target of comprehensively improblems around the world. proving the profitability of all businesses while actively The report also points out that the reinforcement of making contributions to society and the environment, global governance and risk management is essential and indicates that EBARA believes this target to be atfor ensuring the continued existence of the Group as tainable. a business enterprise. Even large firms that represent In this way, CSR measures are a key part of the EBARA Japan on the world stage have faced existential crises Groupʼs business activities, and the recognition that CSR because of gaps in their corporate governance. This measures are directly linked to raising corporate profit is something that must never be permitted to occur, and corporate value is crucial and linked to EBARAʼs and the EBARA Group is working to raise the levels of ongoing commitment. It is not enough to think of CSR internal controls, increase awareness of compliance, measures only as a means of returning corporate profit and reinforce risk management, including at overseas back to society; rather, CSR must be incorporated into companies. Particular attention is being focused on business activities. measures to share the EBARA Way throughout the As an enterprise that engages in business around Group. I believe that this will lead to a sharing of roles the world, the EBARA Group has entered into employperformed in society by each individual in the EBARA ment agreements with diverse employees and must at Group, no matter where they are located and what all times ensure safe and good labor conditions without roles they perform and will develop the fundamental disparity based on gender, nationality, or other personcapabilities that enable the EBARA Group to achieve al attributes. The fact that EBARA was selected as a significant results. company with excellent health and safety management Response to CSR Committee Advisor Comments As pointed out by Ms. Kinoshita, we strongly recognize At the same time, we will be working globally to reduce that CSR is being promoted within our business activithe environmental burden of our production processes, ties. We will continue to promote these activities in the ensure work safety, and strengthen risk management in future. For FY 2017, we are reviewing CSR activities preparation for disasters and crises. from the perspective of ESG. Specifically, we plan to formulate policies and KPIs regarding priority issues for our company based on our companyʼs history and social trends and through identifying issues material to us from the perspective of our company and stakeholders, so as to maximize our impact realizing a sustainable Osamu Eguchi society. Moving forward, we will manage our progGeneral Manager, Corporate Strategy ress in dealing with critical issues based on the KPIs Planning & Governance Enhancement formulated to contribute toward resolving social and Department environmental issues through our Groupʼs businesses. EBARA CORPORATION 21 EBARA Group CSR Report Company Profile Corporate name EBARA CORPORATION Common name EBARA Securities Code 6361 (Listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) Head office 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ota-ku, Tokyo 144-8510, Japan Telephone +81-3-3743-6111 (switchboard) Date of foundation November 1912 Date of establishment May 1920 Paid-in capital 78.7 billion yen (as of March 31, 2017) 16,317 (Consolidated, as of March 31, 2017) Number of employees 4,014 (EBARA CORPORATION only, as of March 31, 2017) ¥476.1 billion (Consolidated, as of March 31, 2017) Net sales ¥223.3 billion (EBARA CORPORATION only, as of March 31, 2017) Comprised of EBARA CORPORATION, 86 subsidiaries (56 consolidated), EBARA Group and 8 affiliate companies Fluid Machinery & Systems Company (Fluid Machinery & Systems Business) : Pumps, compressors, turbines, chillers, and fans Environmental Engineering Company (Environmental Plants Business): Main Products & Municipal solid waste incineration facilities, industrial waste incineration facilities, Services and water treatment facilities Precision Machinery Company (Precision Machinery Business): Vacuum pumps, chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) systems, plating systems, and gas abatement systems Summary of Business Results (as of March 31, 2017; numbers are consolidated and include overseas companies) Key Management Indicators of the Medium-term Management Plan E-Plan 2016 Changes in ROIC and Other Indicators Changes in Net Sales and Operating Income Ratio （%） ROE (Left Axis) ROIC (Left Axis) D/E Ratio (Right Axis) （Times） (billion yen) Net sales Operating income Operating income ratio（%） 14.0 2 600 16.0 10.5 482.6 486.2 476.1 8.0 6.9 7.2 7.0 4.8 1 300 8.0 7.2 7.8 5.6 6.3 0.51 0.50 0.36 34.5 38.0 29.9 0 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 0 0 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 0 Overview by Segment Composition of Sales by Segment (billion yen) Composition of Sales by Region (billion yen) Other business 1.6 / 0.3% Other 13.7 / 2.8% Middle East 20.1 / 4.2% Europe 32.1 / 6.8% Precision Machinery Business 24.0% North America 39.1 114.1 8.2% Net Sales Net Sales Japan 224.9 Fluid Machinery 47.3% 476.1 61.4% & Systems Business 476.1 Environmental 14.3% Engineering Business 292.2 30.7% 68.0 Asia (excluding Japan) 145.9 WEB Related information Medium-term Management Plan ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/information/management/index.html Financial Data ▶ http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/earinings/financial-highlights/index.html EBARA Group CSR Report 22 EBARA Group Business Overview Fluid Machinery & Systems Company ▶ Pumps Business This business supplies a wide range of pumps. These include pump units and standard pumps used in office buildings, condominiums Environmental and other buildings, as well as high-pressure Engineering Company pumps and largescale pumps used in indus▶ Environmental Plants Business trial facilities and social infrastructure, such as Leveraging its incineration and gasification city water and sewerage, rainwater drainage technologies, EBARA is involved in all stages and irrigation systems, power plants and oilof environmental plant operations, particularly and gas-related plants. municipal solid waste treatment facilities, from ▶ Compressors and Turbines Business design and construction to operational manCompressors compress gas for transportation, agement and maintenance. and turbines harness steam energy through Note: EBARA s water treatment business is handled rotational force. These are then used in oil reby Swing Corporation, an affiliated company established through a three-way partnership with fineries and petrochemical plants that produce Mitsubishi Corporation and JGC Corporation. ethylene, a raw material for plastics and synthetic fibers. ▶ Chillers Business Supplies chillers used for air conditioning systems in buildings and large commercial complexes, as well as cooling towers and related Precision Machinery Company systems used to extract heat from cooling water ▶ Precision Machinery Business (generated by heat-exchange facilities) and This business supplies dry vacuum pumps, discharge it into the atmosphere. which produce the clean vacuum conditions needed for manufacturing semiconductors, flat panel screens, LEDs and other items essential for the progress of todayʼs information society. The precision machinery business also provides gas abatement systems for treating harmful gases and greenhouse gases, and chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) systems, which ensure that semiconductor wafers are perfectly flat at the nano-level. All of these products contribute to making a more convenient society. 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ota-ku, Tokyo 144-8510, Japan Phone: +81-3-3743-6111 (switchboard) Fax: +81-3-5736-3105 http://www.ebara.co.jp
