COP 2017 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 COP 2017 3 Contents CEO Message 5 Human Rights 6 Labour 28 Environment 36 Anti-Corruption 52 This is a GC Active COP covering the reporting period from 01/01/2017 to 31/12/2017. It is created based on specific template and guidance provided by the United Nations Global Compact. Message from the CEO Neptune Line’s mission is to be the most trusted car carrier company in its operational markets and above all, in the conscience of all its stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we Our people, ashore and seagoing, and our carefullypresent our well-established corporate policies selected business partners remain core to realizing within those four pillars, as well as, our efforts and this vision through their hard work and engagement achievements throughout the year 2017. in our high standards of business conduct. Looking back at this year, despite challenges faced, As our company continues its journey of sustainable I feel proud seeing all that we have accomplished. development, we will continue to uphold these high standards, doing our utmost to safeguard human Through joint efforts within the ‘Neptune family’ rights, the environment and to well-serve our and broader stakeholders, our company is heading customers and surrounding communities. towards even deeper integration of the Compact’s principles into its sustainable development strategy. We remain committed to sharing our progress using our primary channels of communication, including this COP. Melina Travlos Neptune Lines’ mission is to be the most trusted car carrier company in its operational markets and President & CEO above all, in the conscience of its stakeholders; Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprise S.A. trusted, not only for its quality services, but also for the added value it strives to generate and its responsible and ethical business profile. 6 Neptune Lines COP 2017 7 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Human rights are not worthy of the protection of internationally proclaimed name if at the end of the day, they do human rights not protect the people. Neptune Lines is committed to Principle 2 safeguard human rights and secure Make sure that they are not complicit in dignity and equality for each and every human rights abuses person. 01 Commitment Being a signatory to the United Nations Global In the meantime, our sustainability team is exploring Compact, Neptune Lines has embraced its 10 Principles available management guidance tools that help clarify and therefore is committed, by return, to submitting human rights for business and map practical action. this Communication on Progress (COP) on an annual Nevertheless, our commitment in the area of Human basis. Rights is expressed through human rights-related policies and specifically in our: Starting with the first two Principles which refer to human rights, our company is committed to respecting • Non-Discrimination Policy describing Neptune’s and protecting the internationally proclaimed human commitment in providing a working environment rights as expressed in the International Bill of Human free from any form of discrimination (e.g. based on Rights and the ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards. gender, origin, religious beliefs, colour, disability etc.), harassment or bullying. Said commitment is not expressed, yet, through a freestanding Human Rights Policy, since that requires good • Health & Safety Policy developed to protect in-house knowledge, experience and capacity. the right to safe, healthy and decent working conditions on board and ashore. It is Neptune Lines’ goal to gain insight into relevant guiding principles that were recently adopted and work • Corporate Code of Conduct stipulating company’s towards forming a solid and detailed Human Rights human rights-related commitments, as well as, Policy. expectations of its employees, business partners 8 Neptune Lines COP 2017 9 • can be found in corporate sustainability reports and COPs uploaded to the UN Global Compact website (both publicly available and shared with stakeholders) • within broader public company statements used for external communication • are reflected, as necessary, in operational policies and procedures (e.g. instructions through circulars) • Periodical execution of onboard drills -including ship-to-shore exercises. • Risk assessment performed before proceeding to high-risk activities (i.e. assessing all identified Implementation of Commitment & Actions hazards and managing risks by establishing taken to protect and support Human Rights, appropriate safeguards). as well as, respond to related Concerns • Safety and security meetings on board performed twice a month, where relevant The Right tο Just and Favourable Conditions topics and instructions are discussed. of Work (i.e. safety, security, equality, fair and • Health and Safety bulletins and maritime respectful treatment, rest & leasure, wellbeing etc.) magazines of related content sent to all vessels Improving and facilitating employees’ everyday work • Crew working and rest hours monitoring. Neptune Lines’ set of corporate Policies −− Provide a working environment free from any life is a daily target for Neptune Lines. and Code of Conduct are reviewed by our form of disrespectful treatment and ensure • Internal audits performed by a dedicated audit Executive and Sustainable Development free of hate activity. team on board each vessel. We want our people to feel safe and secure working Committees and are approved by the −− Ensure that all employees (ashore and for our company and be glad and proud to be a part of President & CEO and the Board of • Promotion of a ‘no-blame’ culture and seagoing) are working in a safe, healthy and the Neptune family. Directors (i.e. highest governance body). continuously motivating staff to ensure that secure environment. they understand and embrace requirements −− Provide to all employees support mechanisms of the ship management, system as well as, Health, Safety & Security and other parties directly linked to its operations, and respect personal privacy. the importance of their own personal safety It is a basic goal of our company to identify, well in and contribution to vessel’s overall safety and products or services. −− Treat with fair, objective and transparent advance, and eliminate possible dangers which may security. In the Code of Conduct, Neptune’s human rightsmanner the professional development of all result in human injury, accidents or a situation of related commitments towards its own people, as its employees. security threat. • A zero-tolerance policy for the possession and well as society, are clearly disclosed. The company use of alcohol and drugs so as to minimize the is committed to: −− Provide employees with a decent living for We continuously work to improve our Management possibility of having an incident due to drug or themselves and their families. System with regard to health, safety and security alcohol abuse. External collection suppliers are −− Treat everyone with respect, courtesy, honesty, integrity and offer to all employees −− To address social issues in order to support and establish a preventive culture within every single contracted to conduct random tests onboard fair and equitable treatment. the society in which it operates. employee. the vessels at different locations of our operating areas. −− Ensure fair earned wages, including benefits to Health and safety, as well as security on board our all employees, that will respond to the offered Last, there is relative clause in the Code that vessels, is ensured through various processes and • On board Computer Based Training (CBT) services. No discrimination will be practiced business cooperators and providers must respect procedures. These include: including health and safety related modules. in respect of employment, dismissals, human rights in the areas of their operation. relocations, promotions, determination of • Vessels’ reporting of near-miss cases on a monthly • Manning of fleet vessels with qualified, certified, salary and working conditions or competence Finally, human rights commitments in the form of basis, as well as, incidents as occurred. and medically-fit seafarers in accordance with development. stand-alone clauses and statements: national and international rules and regulations. 10 Neptune Lines COP 2017 11 HUMAN CAPITAL is one of our core values. • Demonstration of due diligence on the security In Neptune Lines, we want to see our people happy, providers that we contract with in order to ensure motivated and empowered; it is only fair to say that Our company has achieved great accomplishments during 2017 thanks that they are qualified and trained (e.g. in the use our people truly constitute the heart of our operations. to its people, their knowledge, talent, experience and commitment. of force) to tackle potential high-risk and security situations in the most appropriate way based on Our company has achieved great accomplishments human rights. during 2017 thanks to its people, their knowledge, talent, experience and commitment. • Close monitoring of vessels’ maintenance Key-topics emerging from the survey will be further Moreover, as far as sickness leave is concerned, the by setting high standards through periodical Appreciation towards employees for their solid presented in the following ‘Measurements’ section. company does not make employees feel uncomfortable inspections from office personnel. contribution in achieving important milestones is to report sickness. Again, this can have as a result an expressed through recognition emails sent from our Pleasant & Comfortable Working Environment increased absentee rate. • The provision of adequate resources to promote Health & Safety as well as security on board fleet top-management. Employee wellbeing in a pleasant and comfortable This attention to wellbeing is indispensable for Neptune vessels (i.e. in equipment, latest technologies etc.). workplace is a key topic for Neptune Lines. We believe that saying “thank you” and letting our Lines, as there is a direct impact on the overall health • Annual review of objectives and targets through people know how much the company values their of its employees, both mental and physicalas well as established Key Performance Indicators (e.g. lost A positive working environment, where dialogue, commitment is well worth the effort. their productivity. After all, an emotionally-balanced time injury rate). cooperation and exchange of ideas is encouraged, can workforce is most probably going to be a more efficient drastically assist employees overcome difficulties, be and well performing workforce. All of the above, being provisions of various mandatory more focused, motivated and efficient. shipping conventions, regulations and codes (e.g.. SOLAS, ISM & ISPS Codes), are incorporated in our Shore-based Employees We pay attention to spacious and clean offices, modern Social Security management system which is subject to periodical and comfortable furniture, adequate lighting-access to Employee engagement survey natural daylight, temperature control and quality of air. Apart from the minimum-required social security which verification (on board and ashore) through accredited is provided, Neptune lines has insured all its shorebodies. Results of the verification process are included It is very important for us to know what our employees based employees under a group policy which provides in our Management Review Meetingwhich is circulated We believe that the working environment can directly them with various advantages, as well as, coverages want and what they value. within company and fleet vessels. impact productivity, employee morale and employee regarding: engagement. In general, all employees are encouraged during the • Life Insurance Last, considering the safety of its people a top priority, course of work to express themselves freely in order to • Permanent Total Disability Insurance Due To Neptune Lines has also obtained the Occupational seek assistance in executing their duties or to raise any Personal Attention & Support Sickness (Prior to age 60) Health & Safety (OHSAS 18:001) voluntary certification, concerns and request support. applying said standard’s additional requirements to its Neptune Lines believes that the family issues faced • Accidental Death Permanent Disability Insurance Due To Accident Management System. Specifically, in the context ‘speaking up’ and ‘being from its employees during the course of their business heard’, the company is currently elaborating on the life need to be seriously supported. • Major Medical Insurance (In And Out-Ofoutcome and feedback provided last year from our Hospital) Due To Accident Or Sickness employee engagement survey. The company cares about its employees and is being • Maternity Benefit Insurance Employee Engagement & Wellbeing supportive each and every time an employee discloses • In Hospital Indemnity Insurance Due To Accident Particularly during the last years, employee wellbeing This survey helped us get a more clear picture of our a personal issue. Or Disease emerges as a strategic priority for our company. employees’ views, wishes and opinions in order to • Surgical Benefit Insurance Due To Accident Or better carve our strategy in this important matter of We value as very important employees’ lives outside Sickness With attention to the wellbeing of both our shoreemployee engagement and wellbeing. work particularly their family lives. We demonstrate based employees as well as seafarers’, we aim to create • Preventive Insurance (Check-Up) this care with discretion, in various ways even allowing engaged, productive and cohesive teams. them time off, from work, in case they are facing a problem (i.e. a factor increasing the absentee rate). 12 Neptune Lines COP 2017 13 Before participating in the Marathon, our company has up high standards of living and working conditions on been offering training courses to its employees since board. 2015 (when wellness program was launched). This year, for the welfare of its crew, the company invested in modern gym equipment for all its fleet This activity has been established in the context of vessels. our participation in the marathon in order to train our employees during the preparatory period. In addition to existing facilities (i.e. ping-pong tables), vessels were provided with following equipment: The wellness program ensured the continuation of the treadmill, stationary bicycle, punching bag for boxing, training sessions as the participation of the employees multifunction gym station and weight lifting bench. was impressive. So, during 2017, we increased the offered training sessions from one to three weekly. Our crew members reported their content for the Moreover, in the context of this wellness program, upgraded gymnasium a place used rather frequently we established cooperation with a catering company for their fitness, leisure and relief from stress. providing healthy and balanced food, so as to provide our employees with various lunch options on a daily basis (the employees pay only a small amount since a good part of the cost is paid by the company). Believing in the ancient Greek saying “healthy mind in healthy body”, Neptune Lines underlines the importance of quality and healthiness of the food employees eat. Shipboard Employees Crew Welfare and protection of seafarers’ rights (e.g.. work and rest hours, payment of wages, recreational Wellness Program facilities, quality of food, protection from abandonment etc.) is regulated under the Maritime Labour Convention In 2017, the company continued to support its Our employees participated (MLC). initiative first introduced in 2015, bringing together its once more in the Athens employees in a voluntary participation in the Athens Compliance of our management system with the requirements of the MLC is periodically audited by Authentic Marathon, Authentic Marathon, for a good cause. accredited bodies, as well as, internally by our dedicated supporting Axion Hellas a Our employees participated once more in this major audit team. non-profit, non-governmental athletic event, supporting Axion Hellas a non-profit, Also, in an effort to make leisure time on board more non-governmental organization with the purpose to organization with the support society and especially vulnerable groups living pleasant, digital satellite TV platform was installed Food & Recreation Facilities onboard fleet vessels, providing access to over 500 purpose to support society in remote and inaccessible areas of Greek islands and Great emphasis is placed by the company in quantity TV channels many of them in the language spoken the mainland. and especially vulnerable by our crew (i.e. ukrainian, greek, phillipino). and quality of provisions and food preparation on board groups living in remote and Our company participated both in the Authentic its fleet vessels (i.e. cleanliness of provision rooms and inaccessible areas of Greek Marathon, as well as, in the Semi-marathon. galley, good hygiene during cooking, Cook’s skills and Last, in case of any complaints related to MLC demonstrated knowledge of various cuisines to satisfy (i.e. seafarers’ rights and welfare), there is specific islands and the mainland. More than thirty people from all company levels the needs of different-ethnicity crew on board); also, complaints procedure established on board for embraced once more this challenge and participated in in the cleanliness of accommodation rooms and cabins, reporting. All seafarers’ reasonable complaints are this corporate initiative. as well as, in good keeping of recreation facilities so as handled in due time and in a professional manner. to ensure the best possible conditions for our crew. In general, the company allocates resources to keep 14 Neptune Lines COP 2017 15 Training & Development Protection of Personal Data Over the next year, there will be more workshops of its Agents being our close business cooperators) organized to raise awareness within all levels of or indirect meaning entities where the company has Training plays an important part in company’s overall With attention to the basic human right of “Freedom the company and inform our employees of the new no control at all over their business (as in the case of success, as it provides insight to improve existing from Interference with Privacy, Family, Home and regulation and course of action. authorities). practices and, sometimes, reveals new ‘horizons’ that Correspondence” (as stated in the International Bill of were not previously explored. Human Rights), Neptune Lines respects the personal So far, the company manages this issue through: lives of its employees and handles their personal data Internal Reporting Process • Explicit clauses related to the respect and protection In Neptune Lines, we closely monitor training of our or reported issues with strict confidentiality. people, observing in practice that it truly advances Ownership of human rights and issues of personnel of human rights (i.e. termination of contract in case people’s capabilities and broadens their thinking. Shore-based personal data (CVs, training records, conduct, lies within our HR department, and in the of evidenced complicity in human rights abuses) contact and residence information, medical records case of seafarers, through collaboration with Crewing in Providers and Business Cooperators’ Code of Training opportunities can emerge after initiative etc.) are monitored solely by the HR department and department which by default is primarily involved. Conduct. taken, either by the company itself (through its HR Crew data, by our Crewing dept. • Reminding all company departments to be alerted department), or by employees, in the context of their The company encourages all employees to formally during everyday practices and decision-making work and due to specific requirements of that (e.g. In addition, as already mentioned, the company offers report to the Human Resources Manager, any concerns (e.g. in selecting providers) specific training to IT/IS personnel for the emerging support to employees that come forward on their own they may have with regard to their own rights as well cyber-risks). to disclose personal or family issues, in a completely as possible incidents of misconduct, assault, or other • Reporting to Executive Management through discrete manner. disrespectful behaviour. Management Meetings upon identification of Specifically during 2017, the company continued to such risks or impacts with the coordination of provide lessons in the english language to groups of This year, towards safeguarding the right to privacy, The Company is committed to protect an employee Sustainable Development committee. employees that needed, or wanted to advance their we all started to prepare for the new General Data who reports conduct from retaliation or reprisal. english. Towards the end of the year, relevant planning Protection Regulation (GDPR) coming in force on Despite these efforts, relevant assessment of potential was made for next year’s group-training to include also May 25th 2018. The new regulation initiated by the Once the matter has been reported it will be promptly negative impacts within our supply chain has space for computer-based courses (for all office personnel) in European Commission requires businesses to comply investigated and any necessary corrective action will improvement. Microsoft Excel in order to further develop their skills with new rules for collecting, sharing, and protecting be taken where appropriate. All complaints are handled in this useful business tool. personal data within the borders of the European Union in an absolute discreet and confidential manner. Neptune Lines recognizes that implementing an (EU) or when exporting information internationally. integrated human rights policy, as well as human-rights Also, throughout the year, various employees from Any human-rights related reported violation is due diligence processes and grievance mechanisms is the office attended training seminars and courses on To be prepared for the new regulation, Neptune Lines reviewed also by the Senior Management who decides part of a long-drawn and continuous process. different topics related to their work or department. decided to appoint a specialized advisory firm to on the course of action. perform a gap assessment and analysis in our company; It is within our goals, however, over the next years, to: Indicative topics that are related to human rights or Based on their knowledge and expertise, they will • Draw on external expertise to conduct a basic sustainability in general, include: provide us with guidance throughout the whole process policy gap analysis to determine which of the of implementation of the new requirements. Avoiding Complicity in Human Rights Abuses internationally recognized human rights are • Safety & Human Element already covered by company’s existing policies • Leadership Impact In November of 2017, an initial workshop was held by Assessing human rights impacts is a complex task for and code of conduct. This will serve as a starting the advisory team, at our office premises, in order to • Sustainability Reporting based on the new Global any company, especially those with global operations point to identify any priority issues -towards better understand the requirements of the regulation Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and business relationships, such as our own. carving an integrated Human Rights Policy. and the path for the implementation. The workshop • Digital Ship Cyber Security and GDPR • Upgrade accordingly our corporate Code was held with the participation of: the Chief Operating Officer (COO), our Legal Advisor-Compliance Officer Neptune Lines, being part of a rather big supply chain, of Conduct (both employees’ and Business and legal department, the HR Manager, Crewing that of logistics, faces this major challenge as well as Cooperators’) Manager, IS & Business Processes Manager and the risks arising through its many business relationships; Health Safety Quality& Environment (HSQE) Manager. whether these relationships are direct (as in the case 16 Neptune Lines COP 2017 17 Supporting human rights and improving the living conditions and lives of others Neptune Lines has proceeded in voluntary actions that seek to further support and advance human rights. Collective action to improve the life of Communities Enforcing the Right to Cultural life In order to truly make a difference in the world, and significantly contribute Culture, as a product of all human beings and a common heritage of mankind, in resolving major social problems related to human rights such as poverty enables all of us, not only to affirm that we are born equal in dignity and alleviation cooperation and collective action is needed. rights, but also to recognize that we should respect the right of all groups to their own cultural identity and the development of their distinctive cultural Neptune Lines offers its committed support to the below collective-action life. initiatives, aiming to improve the lives of vulnerable social groups: Contributing to the assurance of this human right, as well as, to the raising • SYN-ENOSIS, a Social Welfare Company established by the Union of of the general level of life-long education, our company has been supporting Greek Shipowners. various culture-related projects and institutions in Greece. • AXION HELLAS a non-profit, non-governmental organization, with the aim to support society, and especially communities in remote and inaccessible areas of Greek islands and the mainland. Supporting Youth and their Development Contributing to Child Welfare Many young people are missing out on the opportunity to learn, acquire The World Conference on Human Rights reiterates the principle of “First skills, knowledge and competencies that they could use throughout their Call for Children” and, in this respect, underlines the importance of major lives in order to participate fully in the development of a prosperous and national and international efforts for promoting the rights of the child to inclusive society. protection, development and participation. Investing in the youth is investing in the future; believing that business must take an active role in tackling this challenge, Neptune Lines supports Our company, being particularly sensitive over child welfare, supports for the dreams and endeavors of talented young people. the fourth consecutive year, the charity association ‘Friends of the Child’. In particular our company: Its goal is to support and secure all the required needs for children whose families (single-parent or nuclear families) face financial and social • Sponsors two young athletes from Greece (a girl and a boy). problems. • Provides scholarship for postgraduate studies abroad in shipping-related fields. Said scholarship is established in memory of its founder Nikolaos The association, apart from psychological support, provides to the children Travlos and is launched each academic year. It is valid for studies in daily: food, education (including special needs education), medical care, universities of the European Union (EU). creative occupation, as well as, entertainment in the form of excursions, celebrations, theatre and museum visits. It also supports in various ways children’s parents. 18 Neptune Lines COP 2017 19 Measurement of Outcomes & Performance Here below are indicative performance indicators for the year 2017 and quality data related with aforementioned In view of all the above, we have started to upgrade our Performance Management System, in order to facilitate human rights: employee advancement, not only in terms of rewards and career development, but also in terms of providing a more structured training path, tailored to the needs of each employee. • Health & Safety However, apart from areas for further development, there were noted through the survey, some areas of strength for our company: 1. Health and Safety Accidents • Neptune is perceived by its employees as being socially and environmentally responsible, ethical in its business During 2017, our seafarers experienced difficult navigation situations due to adverse weather conditions. dealings, demonstrating care & concern for its employees. On June 7th, one of our vessels faced extreme and unpredictable weather (i.e. sudden squall of wind of gale • The high levels of employee pride and loyalty. force up to 58 knots = Beaufort force 11 = “Violent Storm”), which resulted in her shifting and moving towards a nearby berth. Despite property damage, there was no any human injury during this accident. • The high levels of trust and confidence in leadership and senior management, as well as, in the future business prospects. Our goal is to further enforce safety procedures and emergency preparedness on board with regard to extreme • The quality & customer focus which is perceived as very high. weather. • The good cooperation and teamwork within work groups/departments. • The good physical working conditions and safety of work area. 2. Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIF) LTIF is an expression on the frequency of crew injuries on board. It measures the number of injury incidents Our goal is to continue investing in these areas of strength, being also highly-linked to human rights. which resulted in more than 1 day loss of work. Unfortunately, in comparison with 2016, the frequency of the onboard injuries increased, resulting in 2.09 LTIF incidents (compared to 1.01 of 2016). The increased number of incidents as well as the increased recovery period (lost work days) are the immediate causes for the increase in LTIF, however, the basic cause is the lack of attention at the execution of the assigned works which are leading 2. Office Personnel Turnover Rate and New Hires to minor incidents. ‘Employee Turnover Rate’ equals to the number of employees who have left the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death in service, divided by the average total number of employees. The number of employees leaving and the total number of employees, are measured over one calendar year and • Employee Wellbeing in our case particular, at the end of the year (i.e. December 31st 2017). The data reported have been submitted by our HR department. Office Personnel Employee Turnover Rate this year, was set at 9.45 % compared to 12.6 % figure of 2016 hence, resulting in a 1. Employee Survey Outcome 3.15 % decrease. Our goal is to further increase our shore-based turnover rate. In the previous reporting period we initiated our second Employee Effectiveness Survey; the whole process was Last, during 2017 the company welcomed 3 new hires: completed in May of 2016 and during 2017, our company started to process the outcome. The most notable • 2 male findings which are currently under consideration and further planning include: (i.e. 1 of the age group of under-30 years old and 1 of the 30-50 age group) • Performance management: was highlighted as a key area with space for improvement; a need for more • 1 female (i.e. of the 30-50 age group). clear performance targets & expectations, for the provision of clear & regular feedback and for managing underperformers, was diagnosed. • Employee enablement: a need for better use of each employee’s skills and abilities was noted. • The need for more job-related training and sufficient time allocation to take advantage of the training opportunities. 20 Neptune Lines COP 2017 21 Crew Greek Crew Retention Rate Retention Rate 120% ‘Retention Rate’ expresses the ability to retain shipboard personnel within the company, since all seafarers are 100% 95% 100% 90% 90% 88% 89% 87% 90% 88% on a fixed-term contract instead of a full-time employment. 80% 60% We monitor our crew retention rates based on rank and ethnicity. Ukrainian and Greek crew are occupying most of our onboard positions. 40% 20% As can be seen in the charts of the following page, Neptune Lines has maintained very high retention rates with 0% regard to its crew demonstrating its dedication in keeping high standards of living and working conditions on Masters Senior Officers Junior Officers board, as well as, in managing its seafarers’ requests and needs. 2015 2016 2017 In particular, it can be seen through the charts that: Retention Rate (per ethnic group) for 2017 of: Ukrainian Crew Retention Rate 102% 100% 100% 100% Masters: Junior Officers: 100% 98% Greek 95% Greek 88% 95% 95% 96% Ukrainian 100% Ukrainian 92% 94% 93% 93% 93% 92% 92% 92% Filipino 100%. Filipino 94%. 92% 90% 90% 88% Senior Officers: Ratings: 86% 84% Greek 89% Ukrainian 93% Masters Senior Officers Junior Officers Ratings Ukrainian 93% Filipino 89%. 2015 2016 2017 Filipino 92%. Filipino Crew Retention Rate 120% 100% 100% 100% 92% 94% 90% 88% 85% 86% 88% 87% 89% 80% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Masters Senior Officers Junior Officers Ratings 2015 2016 2017 22 Neptune Lines COP 2017 23 • Training and Development • Absentee Rates (the indicator applies only for Office Personnel) As explained in ‘Employee Engagement & Wellbeing’ (section ‘Personal Attention & Support’), the Company allows its employees time off from work whenever they need it due to personal and family issues; this has a direct effect on Office Employees its employees’ Absentee Rate – which during 2017 increased compared to 2016. Should be noted that in our 2016 COP there was a miscalculation in the training hours of that year due to omission Absentee Rate: measure of actual absentee days lost, expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked (i.e. we had omitted to include a large-scale training of office personnel in Media Response). by workers for the same period. Absentee: worker absent from work because of incapacity of any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury, Training hours of that course – attended by the totality of office employees – were erroneously not inserted in our disease or illness data-keeping records. As a result, the correct figure for 2016 is 15,7 and not 8,9-as indicated in our previous report. Also, the indicator was erroneously stated as Average Training Hours “per Employee” whilst it should have been: “per Note: Absentee excludes permitted leave absences such as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave, and Employee Trained”. compassionate leave. Calculation Method used: Total Number of Training Hours provided to Employees / total number of Employees Trained Absentee Rate Calculation method: Absentee Rate = Total number of absentee days / Total number of workdays (Number of Personnel x Total Days of Work) In 2017, there was no large-scale training taking place in the company as in the case of the two previous years, where various projects were running that required all employees to be trained. Based on this, as well as the aforementioned miscalculations of last year, the ‘Average Training Hours per year per Employee Trained’ have decreased since 2016. • Internal Reporting Process Crew During this year, there was one complaint issue reported, regarding the misconduct of an office employee disrespecting the rest of the team. Computer-based Training (CBT) Performance (Crew) As demonstrated in the ‘Onboard Tests Results’ chart, the training performance of our crew is very high (i.e. all ranks Human Resources took appropriate action to resolve the issue keeping the focus on behaviour and problems rather score in average more than 84% with the passing mark being set by our company at 60%. than people. Efforts resulted in a constructive meeting, where involved employees agreed to cooperate in a better manner. Onboard Tests Results (Score % ) Our Human Resources resolved the issue in the best possible way, acting with discretion and respect to all those 90 89 89 89 89 89 involved including the employee with the problematic behavior. 89 88 88 88 87 87 87 86 86 86 85 85 85 84 84 • Incidents with regard to Human Rights abuses or complicity in violation 83 82 81 There are no incidents reported or identified in Neptune Lines’ network of business cooperators/providers. Neptune Lines has zero legal offences or accusations of human rights abuse or complicity in such. 24 Neptune Lines COP 2017 25 • Investing in Society and Actions of 2017 SYN-ENOSIS AXION HELLAS Following the successful results of the social responsibility initiatives undertaken by the greek shipping community in recent years throughout In 2017, Neptune Lines joined another initiative based on collective the country, the Greek Shipowners’ Social Welfare Company SYNaction, with the aim to support society, and especially communities in ENOSIS was established in 2016 by members of the Union of Greek remote and inaccessible areas of Greek islands and the mainland. Shipowners. This initiative is established by Axion Hellas a non-profit, nonNeptune Lines continued in 2017 to support this initiative, contributing governmental organization, funded exclusively by its members, the through its membership to its multifaceted actions which happen to participants in its actions and missions, and through donations from enforce a wide range of human rights. companies and individuals. These actions are part of its established Social Welfare Program “We The work of AXION HELLAS focuses on actions of material, as well as, continue We support” and fall within the below main pillars: moral support and protection and in general on the improvement of living conditions of vulnerable groups of the population living in remote • Food Aid (providing for disadvantaged families monthly support areas. packages with basic standardized food and personal hygiene items) • Health (supporting and funding activities related to health of Its aim is: vulnerable populations groups in cooperation with medical care • to provide preventive as well as specialized medical care for patients organizations mainly in regions were access of medical services is of all ages living in remote areas of Greece with no access to these difficult or limited) services. • to improve existing infrastructure for local society. Infrastructure • Social Care (supporting organizations devoted in addressing the projects may include medical facilities, cultural centers, sports needs for vulnerable social groups through provision of special facilities, school playgrounds, school supplies, etc. equipment, covering heating needs and other selected actions) • to educate and train local communities and especially children, in • Maritime Education (contributing to the upgrade of the order to familiarize themselves with new technologies and methods infrastructure and technological equipment of the Merchant of communication; to contribute to their personal development as Marine Academies effectively supporting maritime education well as that of their local natural heritage stimulating, hence, local with the means to improve the standards of cadet training) economy. • Projects of Public Interest (focusing on projects of public benefit and thus supporting organizations of broader public interest) On March of 2017, Neptune Lines provided through AXION HELLAS, two cleaning sweepers to the municipality of the greek island ‘Meganisi’. • Scholarships (granting scholarships for one-year postgraduate This small island is located just between the island of Lefkada and the studies of a pre-doctorate level in fields related to Shipping in western mainland coasts of Greece. Universities in Greece and abroad) Then on September, the company contributed in the restoration of In order to see what specific actions were undertaken within the outpost in the greek historic island of ‘Psara’ (i.e. a small island abovementioned focus areas during 2017, one can visit SYN-ENOSIS’ northwest of Chios island) as well as, in the provision of school supplies website (www.syn-enosis.gr). in Volissos, the largest village in the northwest part of Chios. 26 Neptune Lines COP 2017 27 SUPPORTING YOUNG ATHLETES FRIENDS OF THE CHILD Magoulia, a 16-years old multi-medalist in shot put, became this year the new member of Neptune Lines family. Supporting ‘Friends of the Child’ for the third consecutive year, The talented athlete is the Greek Champion in her category and won Neptune Lines covered in 2017 their monthly needs for food and the gold medal in the most recent Balkan Games. offered equipment for their classes. Maria holds the Pan-Hellenic record in junior category (3kg) and keeps Also, during Christmas time, Neptune employees participated breaking her own personal record in the 4 kg shot. In the European voluntarily in purchasing small christmas gifts for the children, which Athletics U20 Championships, which took place in Grosseto, Ιtaly in were offered to them in person through representatives among July, Maria competed with the Greek National Team and scored 15,25 themselves. meters breaking her personal record for the 4th time in a few months. Maria originates from the island of Kalymnos. Our company is really proud for Maria and looks forward to support her in more achievements over 2018. BENAKI MUSEUM Since 2015, Neptune Lines supports the young pole vaulter Emmanuel Since 2016 we support the operation of the BENAKI Museum situated Karalis. This year, Emmanuel broke twice the panhellenic junior record in Athens. and won the silver medal in the National Indoor Atheltics Panhellenic Through its contribution Neptune Lines has ensured for its office Championship in September, 19th. personnel the following: Emmanuel jumped over the bar at the 5.61 meters and then the 5.70 • Free entrance for them and their families or friends, for all meters scoring a new panhellenic junior record and securing his place permanent and periodical exhibitions of the Museum. at the World Championship in Belgrade in March, 3rd. • Participation in the special tour program organized by the Museum for its major supporters. Neptune Lines aims to support Karalis’ efforts over the next year, as well, wishing him every success in his already impressive course. This year, the company joined the ‘Adoption’ program of the museum a sponsoring opportunity to cover the costs of a Curatorial, Managerial or other positions of the museum on an annual basis. Neptune Lines adopted the Byzantine and Post-byzantine Collection Curator, providing for the expenses of this position with a 5-year commitment. 28 Neptune Lines COP 2017 29 Labour Principle 3 02 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Respecting the rights of Labour, of employment and occupation young children and of people that are part of the Neptune family. Commitment • the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) adopted by Moving, now, to a more focused set of human rights the 94th (Maritime) Session of the International (i.e. rights concerning Labour) and specific principles Labour Conference (ILC) on February 23rd of adopted by UN Global Compact to protect and support 2006; said convention, places great emphasis them, our company is committed to comply with all on fair terms of employment, decent living and ILO Conventions and Labour Standards major of those working conditions and social protection (such being: as access to medical care, health protection and • The Declaration of Fundamental Principles and welfare). Rights at Work (1998) enshrining the right of At all times, Neptune shall comply with the current workers to organize and bargain effectively, as Labour market legislation of the country in which the well as, freedom from discrimination, elimination individual is employed. of forced or compulsory labour and the abolition of child labour; Taking each of the Labour-related principles, separately, we will demonstrate commitment within each one. 30 Neptune Lines COP 2017 31 Freedom of Association and Effective Recognition of the Abolition of Child Labour (Principle 5) Right to Collective Bargaining (Principle 3) Also mentioned in our Policies and Code of Conduct, Neptune Lines All Neptune Lines employees are covered with collective bargaining will not tolerate any form of child Labour. agreements and possess the right to be involved in trade unions and professional associations, without any limitations. Unless local law stipulates a higher age limit, no person younger than the age of completing compulsory education or younger than 18 shall be employed. Similar as in the case of forced and compulsory labour, all Neptune Lines’ contractors, providers and business cooperators must ensure that: Elimination of all forms of Forced and Compulsory Labour (Principle 4) • child Labour is not used in any of their operations stages of provision of products and/or services. Forced or compulsory labour is any work or service that is extracted from • the employment of young workers adheres to local regulations. any person under the menace of any penalty, and for which that person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily. Employees should be free Again, in case of proven violation, the company is committed to to leave whenever they wish in accordance with established rules. terminate business cooperation. As stated in our Corporate Policies and Code of Conduct, Neptune Elimination of Discrimination in respect of Employment Lines does not tolerate any form of forced or compulsory labour. and Occupation (Principle 6) Moreover, where adherence to forced or compulsory labour provisions Neptune Lines towards its Employees of national laws and regulations is insufficient, the company takes account of international standards. Neptune Lines is committed through its Non-Discrimination policy and Code of Conduct to: Last, all Neptune Lines’ contractors, providers and business cooperators • respect multicultural issues (beliefs, cultures, religions) and provide are required, through the Code of Conduct, to uphold the same a working environment free from any form of discrimination (i.e. standards and give workers, whether local or migrant, the right and the gender, origin, age, literacy level, family status, political affiliation, ability to leave employment when they choose. sexual orientation, individual disability etc.) • treat all employees equally and according to their competence and In case of proven violation, the company is committed to terminate qualifications business cooperation. • provide fair-earned wages, and benefits to all employees, corresponding to the offered services and respective legislation • not practice discrimination in respect of recruitment, dismissals, relocations, promotions, determination of salary and working conditions • treat with fair, objective and transparent manner the professional development of all its employees and provide equal opportunities for development of skills Expectations and Requirements from Employees Neptune Lines will not tolerate the exploitation of children, By return, the company expects from its employees to: their engagement in unacceptably hazardous work, as well as, • refrain from any form of discriminatory behaviour such as bullying, the physical punishment, abuse, or involuntary servitude of any harassment or intimidation worker in any of its operations. • treat everyone (i.e. co-workers, business cooperators, customers etc.) with respect and dignity • respect the contribution of people with whom they work with and cooperate in team-spirit 32 Neptune Lines COP 2017 33 Implementation of Commitment & Actions taken to protect and support Labour Rights, In Neptune Lines we believe that a diverse workforce is strongly as well as, respond to related Concerns linked to the strength and the success of an organization. Since labour rights are a subdivision of the broader “human rights”, many of our labour-related actions and management approaches were presented in the ‘Human Diversity and Gender Equality within our Internal Reporting on Issues or Concerns related and requirements such as certification by accredited Rights’ Section. However, with particular focusing to Company with Labour (i.e. bargaining agreements, forced or bodies etc.). the four labour principles, we add the below. compulsory labor and discrimination) However and despite these efforts, there is more Diversity to be done towards forming a more structured and Ownership of labour rights and issues of personnel, lies solid process. Neptune Lines, apart from treating all employees within our HR department as in the case of ‘Human Management System certified for compliance equally, truly values and pursues diversity in its Rights’ in generaland in the case of seafarers, through business relations. So far, the company manages this issue through: with the Maritime Labour Convention collaboration with Crewing department which by (MLC) 2006 default is primarily involved. • Explicit clauses related to the respect and Being a company that cherishes its long-term protection of labour rights (i.e. termination Our Management System is certified and periodically relationship with business partners from various The company encourages all employees to formally of contract in case of evidenced complicity in audited by accredited bodies for compliance with the places in the world and different cultures, Neptune report to the Human Resources Manager (and in the labour rights abuses) in Providers and Business Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) 2006. has gained much in terms of knowledge, experience case of seafarers to Crewing Manager), any concerns Cooperators’ Code of Conduct. and valuable insight thanks to its diversified network. they may have with regard to their labour rights. The MLC 2006 sets out, in one place, seafarers’ rights • Occasional or periodical visits to its direct to decent working conditions. It covers almost every In the same context, the company pursues the business cooperators (i.e.Agents and Manning The Company is committed to support an employee Agents) aspect of their work and life on board including: opportunity of engaging also employees that will who reports related concerns and to act with due bring diversity ‘wealth’ within the company. diligence to resolve any case or incident related to • Reminding all company departments to be • minimum age labour rights. alerted during everyday practices and decision• seafarers’ employment agreements Our company has realized that diverse personnel making (e.g. in selecting providers) • hours of work or rest plays a critical role in company’s ability to adapt, • payment of wages and paid annual leave • Reporting to Executive Management through grow and sustain a competitive advantage in the • repatriation at the end of contract Management Meetings upon identification of modern business landscape. • onboard medical care Avoiding Complicity in Labour Rights Abuses such risks or impacts with the coordination of • the use of licensed private recruitment and Sustainable Development committee. Currently the company employs ethnically diverse As stated in the ‘Human Rights’ section, performing placement services workforce both ashore and at sea. a large-scale assessment within our supply chain to • accommodation, food and catering ensure that our company does not get involved through • health and safety protection and accident In ‘Measurements’ section that follows, one can see its business relationships in labour rights abuses is prevention the different ethnic groups within our company. truly a complex task. • seafarers’ complaint handling • provisions of financial security in respect of As well as in human rights, in the case of labour rights repatriation of seafarers in case of abandonment Gender Equality (child labour, forced labour etc.), the company faces by the ship-owner In Neptune Lines we fully support the employment this major challenge as well as risks arising through its • ship-owner’s liability and provision of a system of female seafarers through our Cadet Ship Program. many business relationships; of financial security to assure compensation for contractual claims following the death or disability However, even though we are putting our efforts to achieve an increase in women figures on board, we Off course, the company has set relevant standards of a seafarer. still have space for improvement. to its existing business partners (including through the code of conduct) and is careful when it comes to Our corporate MLC 2006 Manual describes all the Presence of women in the maritime industry has selection of business cooperators, providers and subprocesses and procedures within these areas, which our demonstrated a slight increase during the last contractors (i.e. through setting relevant provisions sea-going and office personnel have to follow in order to comply with all requirements of the convention and years. However, in a such unique and differentiated our company-specific standards. industry as shipping, much progress remains to be done concerning gender diversity and inclusion. 34 Neptune Lines COP 2017 35 Measurement of Outcomes & Performance Office Personnel Gender Representation per Employee Category • Diversity Figures Senior Management Managers 1. Ethnic Groups within the Company 75% 75% 80% 82% Office Personnel The company has 62 employees among which: 25% 25% German: 1 20% 18% French: 1 Women 2016 Women 2017 Men 2016 Men 2017 Turkish: 1 Women 2016 Women 2017 Men 2016 Men 2017 The rest are Greek. The same synthesis applied for last year as well. Crew Employees 55% 53% 45% 47% Women 2016 Women 2017 Men 2016 Men 2017 2. Gender Figures • Compliance with Labour Rules & Regulations There were no any labour-related incidents (i.e. labour rights, child labor, forced or compulsory labour or diversity-related) in which the company was involved during the reporting period. During the reporting period there were zero legal offences or accusations of labour rights abuse or complicity in such activities. 36 Neptune Lines COP 2017 37 Environment Principle 7 03 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Seaborne transport accounts today Neptune Lines is firmly committed to continually Policies & Code of Conduct protect environmental resources and reduce its CO2 for almost 90% of international emissions so as to contribute to the major global goal Our commitments in environmental responsibility are disclosed in the corporate Environmental Protection and trade as measured by ton-miles. of combating climate change and its impacts. Energy Efficiency Management policies and refer to our company’s: Climate change is a real and undeniable threat to our However, it remains by far the most entire civilization. Its effects are increasingly visible and affect shipping in a direct way (i.e. extreme and • Compliance with applicable environmental rules and regulations and international and national carbon-efficient mode, accounting unpredictable weather conditions posing risks to legislation of countries in which it operates. only for approximately 2.2% of vessels’ structural integrity, cargo and seafarers’ safety). • Compliance with all applicable legal requirements annual emissions worldwide. Experiencing these effects even more this year, and related more specifically to ship energy (Source: DNV-GL) in view of challenges yet to come, our company is management. strengthening its efforts to ensure environmental compliance at all times. • Record-keeping, measuring (i.e. through established KPIs) and monitoring of its environmental impacts in order to mitigate and 38 Neptune Lines COP 2017 39 reduce the environmental footprint deriving from Adhering, also, to the amendments of MARPOL Annex Regulatory Overview IMO Data Collection System (DCS) on Fuel its operations and business activities. VI, we are committed to monitor our fleet vessels’ Consumption energy efficiency through the Energy Efficiency Design This year was very important for the shipping industry In parallel with MRV Regulation, the International • Efforts to promote initiatives and programs within Index (EEDI) the most important technical measure with regard to environmental regulatory developments. Maritime Organization (IMO) is currently working environmental focus areas adopted to promote the use of more energy efficient towards its own emissions monitoring regime, known (less polluting) equipment and engines on board vessels. Being committed to comply at all times with our • Adherence in obtaining and maintaining all as the IMO fuel consumption Data Collection System or sector’s regulatory framework, we increased our permits and approvals required for its business ‘DCS’. Last, but not least, our Management System is certified efforts to adapt on these developments and ensure and the proper handling, storage and disposal of according to ISO 14001 and 9001 standards. on-time compliance with their upcoming mandatory materials. In October of last year, at the 70th session of the IMO’s requirements. Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC 70), • Ongoing communication with stakeholders the MEPC adopted* the Regulation 22A on Collection Said developments are presented here below. regarding the development and progress of and Reporting of ship fuel oil consumption data. environmental initiatives and programs. EUROPEAN UNION (EU) MRV Regulation Under the regulation, ships of 5,000 gross tonnage • Continual assessment of all identified risks that and above will be required to collect consumption In order to reduce emissions from shipping, the may emerge within its sphere of influence or data for each type of fuel oil they use, as well as other, European Union (EU) has introduced the shipping through its business activities. additional, specified data. Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) Neptune Lines is also committed to continually Regulation designed to gather data on CO2 emissions. The data should be collected in accordance with a improve its employees’ (shorebased and seagoing) methodology which is to be included in the Ship Energy environmental awareness and responsible conduct. The regulation requires ship owners and operators Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP). calling at any EU and EFTA (Norway and Iceland) port Expectations from its employees with regard to to annually monitor, report and verify CO2 emissions Regulation 22A is expected to enter into force on demonstrating environmental sensibility and diligence, as well as provide information on energy efficiency March 1st 2018, with first data ‘calendar year’ beginning are outlined in the Code of Conduct. parameters (applicable for vessels larger than 5,000 January 1st 2019. gross tonnage). Finally, the Code also requires from company’s providers, subcontractors and business cooperators The data in aggregate will be submitted in annual Although said regulation entered into force on July 1st to abide by all legislation and regulations related to reports to the relevant ship’s Flag Administration after 2015, the reporting period is to begin on January 1st the protection of the environment and the handling of each calendar year. The data reporting must verified 2018 hence shipping companies were in a preparatory dangerous and hazardous materials. by the Flag Administration through Recognized stage throughout 2017. Organizations (ROs) before a statement of compliance is issued. Once the data is collected , they are to be verified by a Environmental Management System third-party organization and sent to a central database, Flag Administrations are, then, required to submit presumably managed by the European Maritime Safety Neptune Lines’ Environmental Management System collected data to the IMO which will aggregate all Agency (EMSA). complies with all applicable regulations and conventions data submitted and publish them in anonymized form of our sector, with major one being the International on the IMO Ship Fuel Oil Consumption Database. The aggregated ship emission and efficiency data will Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, also be published by the European Commission by June 30th known as MARPOL. In July 7th of this year, relevant guidelines were issued 2019 and then every consecutive year. by MEPC (71) for the development and management MARPOL is the main international convention covering of the IMO Ship Fuel Oil Consumption Database, as prevention of pollution of the marine environment by This transparent reporting system aims to create a new well as, for administration verification of ship fuel oil ships from operational or accidental causes (i.e. oilkind of benchmarking system in Europe. consumption data. spill pollution, pollution by noxious liquid substances, sewage, garbage, air pollution). * through amendments to MARPOL Annex VI ‘Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships’) 40 Neptune Lines COP 2017 41 Implementation of Environmental Commitments through ongoing Measures and specific Actions Environmental Management System Ballast Water Management Convention Environmental compliance and performance on board our vessels are ensured and monitored through: Ballast water contains a variety of organisms, such as marine and coastal plants and animals from different regions of the world. If taken • Existing Management System manuals and plans up in one place and released in another, some organisms may survive (i.e. Garbage Management Plan, SEEMP, Ballast Water and prosper in their new environment. These “non-native species” can Management plan etc.). have a serious ecological, economic and public health impact on the receiving environment. • Vessels’ reporting on environmental indicators (i.e. fuel consumption, chemicals consumption etc.) To combat the problem of invasive species from ballast water, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of • Conduct of periodical oil-spill related drills and shipShips’ Ballast Water and Sediments in 2004. to-shore exercises. • Seafarers’ familiarization in environmental measures On September 8th 2017, the convention entered into force stipulating and expected actions upon embarkation. two specific standards with regard to discharged ballast water: ballast water exchange and ballast water performance (or treatment) standard. • Safety meetings where relevant topics and instructions are discussed. Ships performing ballast water exchange shall do so with an efficiency of 95 % volumetric exchange of ballast water and ships using a ballast • Internal audits performed by shore auditing team to water management system (BWMS) shall meet a performance standard assess environmental awareness of crew and ensure based on agreed numbers of organisms per unit of volume. compliance through existing procedures on board. The convention requires either one or the other of the standards after • On board Computer Based Training (CBT) on ISO entry into force. In both cases, though, relevant approval must be standard 14001. obtained by the Flag Administration through the submission of a ballast water management plan. During 2017, we implemented necessary revisions in our Management System for the transition to the new ISO After a transitional period extending up to September of 2019, 14001 and 9001 standards (i.e. 14:001 and 9001:2015). vessels will be required to meet the discharge standard of ballast water treatment, regardless of their initial selection. This is most commonly Moreover, we prepared ship-specific monitoring plans met by installing an approved Ballast Water Management System as per the MRV Regulation and Ballast Water Manage(BWMS). ment Convention requirements and submitted them for Training of Shore Personnel approval. During 2017, respective personnel from the office attended the below environmentally-related training Finally, this year, we also explored the environmental courses: solution of scrubbers. ‘Scrubber’ is a an exhaust gas treatment plant: i.e. a system that is designed to wash (by the • Scrubber Ballast Water Treatment Systems use of water) the exhaust gases from main, auxiliary engines and boilers so as to remove Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) • New Developments On Main Engines which is directly harmful to human health. • Revised ISO Standards 9001 and 14001:2015 (Source: www.shippipedia.com) 42 Neptune Lines COP 2017 43 Progress On Ongoing Environmental Measures Trim Optimization and Reduction of Ballast Foul Release and Advanced Anti-Fouling (A/F) Carried / GM Control (stability indicator) Coatings to Reduce Fuel Consumption During 2017, we continued our onngoing environmental measures, progress of which, is Pure Car and Truck Carrier (PCTC) vessels, such as We continue monitoring the performance of the 8 presented here below. those within our fleet, always carry ballast, even in vessels coated with silicon anti-foulings and the 3 with fully-loaded conditions, to ensure adequate stability is advanced efficiency A/F’s of premium quality. Speed optimization/Ship efficiency (operational measure) available. The performance is very good. In 2017 we continued with the speed optimization It is very important to have appropriate tools to optimize program. We have been monitoring the results in the the use of ballast and properly trim the vessel, so as to fuel consumption in an effort to minimize said measure minimize the hull resistance and the fuel consumption. Environmental measure:SOX Emissions Reductions and consequently our CO2 emissions. Trim optimization and ballast control is now applied For the ninth year we continue to restrict the mean We have also changed our policy in the use of the to 12 vessels in the fleet (added 2 vessels). For 6 of sulphur content of the Heavy FO fuel bunkered for the constant RPM mode on our Korean fleet (6 vessels). If our vessels we use the ECO-Assistant software tool of company fleet to below 2.8% sulphur content. the speed is above or equal to 16 knots, they continue DNV-GL. The global limit has reduced as from January, 2012 to to use the constant RPM mode; and if the speed is less 3.5%. For 2017 the mean value is 2.67%. than 16 knots the combinator mode is used. The tradeSaid software is an on board and onshore software tool off is between usage of the shaft generator and saving built around a pre-calculated database of ship-specific fuel in the propeller. resistance and power-demand data providing answers in all operating conditions. Energy-Saving Devices (ESD) on Propeller The performance of the fleet in 2017 is very similar to the performance in 2016: For the other 6 vessels of the fleet, we use the Ship We now have 4 vessels with Propeller Boss Cap Fins Efficiency Monitoring (SEMT) software package from (PBCF) installed and two vessels with the Promas • The average speed is 14,24 compared to 14,26 the Hellenic Information Technologies & Engineering system installed. knots of last year Company (Helintec). Using such software, the ships are trying to minimize the ballast and optimize the trim • the total fuel consumption per nautical mile is upon departure from a port. 0,0877 versus 0,0874 of last year and, • the M/E consumption per nautical mile is 0,0753 compared to 0,0746 of last year (1% deterioration). This year we improved the coating in three vessels that performed their drydocking and repairs. 44 Neptune Lines COP 2017 45 Car Deck Lights Turning Off at Sea Installation of KWHr Meters We continued with application of this measure for the If we cannot measure we cannot control. Based on this turning off of the car deck lights on 12 of the vessels in principle we have installed Kwhr meters presently on 8 the fleet during sailing. Only the emergency lights are vessels of the fleet and we are monitoring the auxiliary left on. Savings on auxiliary engine consumption have power usage on a monthly basis. This will assist us to been reported through this measure. Instructions are measure the effects of any improvements that will be also provided for turning off lights in various spaces made to the auxiliary power usage systems onboard. Installation of Variable Speed Drives (VSD) on sea onboard the vessel when these are not used. Special water pumps and E/R fans stickers are supplied to the vessels and are installed in Led Lights Installation most spaces to remind users to turn off the lights. On total 8 vessels we have installed Variable Speed After our successful tests in 2015, this year we Drives on the sea water pumps and the E/R fans. The installed Led’s to replace fluorescents in 4 ships of the results are successful. fleet. We replaced all tubes in Engine Room (E/R) and Coriolis Flowmeters Accommodation and the emergency lights in the car decks. On 8 vessels in our fleet we have installed Coriolis Telemetry System (continuation) flowmeters for accurate measurement of the fuel oil On the two new ships we have installed a telemetry consumption for M/E and auxiliaries. On the two new system to monitor real time 24 parameters of the ship vessels we have also installed Coriolis flowmeters for from ship performance to energy consumption. All accurate measurements during bunkering. these can be monitored remotely from our office or elsewhere. 46 Neptune Lines COP 2017 47 Supporting Environmental Initiatives & Projects PARTICIPATION IN EU PROJECTS INVOLVING COLLECTIVE ACTION CARESMATIC CarEsmatic is a Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) co-financed Action. Its implementation started in March 2016 and is expected to be concluded in December 2018. It aims at increasing the use of Motorways of the Sea services for transport of cars (versus road transport which is by far the bigger emitter when talking about air pollution in cities) in the Mediterranean, by improving the infrastructure MarineLife for direct land and sea access to the ports of Koper and Barcelona. In 2017 we were given the opportunity to support a marine wildlife research CarEsmatic is supporting also the take-off of electro mobility in the European charity called MARINElife and, contribute through their actions to the Union and in particular in the Mediterranean area. Project participants are conservation of the wildlife of oceans and marine life research. willing to increase knowledge on needs of electric vehicles – in particular Researchers of said initiative conduct research from various ships departing during their distribution from the production facility to the retailer. In such from the UK watching from the bridge of the ship once a month on a return a way CarEsmatic aims also at supporting Mediterranean ports to cope with sailing, recording any Whales, Dolphin and seabirds seen. future developments in relation to the automotive industry. Since during this year, Neptune Lines started operating sailings from Portbury Neptune Lines’ participation involves the study and installation of charging to Santander and a circular route to Santander from Southampton we thought stations onboard the vessels to allow transportation of electric cars without it would be a great opportunity to support this initiativewhich is based on any problems. We will install these chargers in two of our vessels trading the efforts and the environmental sensibility and dedication of its volunteers. between Koper and Barcelona Ports i.e. the other participants of the project. In particular, through one of our fleet vessels (dedicated for these routes) we managed to provide MarineLife with two sailing/roundtrip opportunities: one in November (duration: 7 days) and one in December (8 days) – where they recorded numerous different species of seabirds and marine mammals. POSEIDON MED part II– LNG The reports from these trips can be found on MarineLife’s website: We are a participating company in the POSEIDON MED part II– LNG EUwww.marine-life.or.uk sponsored project. POSEIDON MED Part II– LNG is a program that aims at promoting the adoption of LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) as marine fuel in the Easter Mediterranean Sea, while making Greece an international marine bunkering and distribution hub for LNG in South Eastern Europe. Our company provides design information and operational data for one of its fleet vessels, which will be a candidate for conversion to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). 48 Neptune Lines COP 2017 49 Measurement of Outcomes & Energy and Environmental Performance • Waste Disposal at Sea Since 2013 we are implementing a zero tolerance policy for the waste disposal at sea. Only our Neptune Ploes have disposed processed food at sea for the first months of 2017 due to extended stay at sea. Total amount of • CO2 Emissions garbage discharged at sea for 2017 is the minimum amount 0.002 m3 / vessel / month which will be further The following graphs indicate our CO2 emissions as from 2010 till 2017, without taking into consideration the reduced to zero for 2018. volume of the transported work. For 2016 and 2017 we failed to achieve our target for 0.5% reduction due to Waste Disposal at Sea increased speed demands for the fulfillment of our contractual agreements. (except plastics -m3/vessel/month) 0,02 0,02 FO Consumption 0,01 0,01 (tons / nautical mile sailed) 0,01 0,0980 0,0960 0,01 0,0960 0,01 0,0940 0,0920 0,0905 0,0911 0,00 0,0894 0,0900 0,00 0,0877 0,0874 0,877 0,0880 0,00 0,0857 2015 2016 2017 0,0860 0,0840 Series1 0,016 0,005 0,002 0,0820 0,0800 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Sep) • Oily Water and Sludge Production Oily water increased for 2017 (0.51 m3/day) in comparison with 2016 (0.49 m3/day). Sludge generated for 2017 (0.41 CO2 emissions (tons / nautical mile sailed) m3/day/vessel) increased in comparison with 2016 (0.37 m3/day/vessel). The environmental character of our vessels do not allow drains (all engine room drains plus air condition condensed water, CO2 room drains etc) to be directed 0,3100 overboard but on the contrary to be collected in oily water tank and further processed through 15 ppm or discharged 0,2992 0,3000 at dedicated shore facilities. 0,2900 0,2841 Oily Water Generated 0,2822 (15 ppm & discharged ashore) (m3/dayfleet average) 0,2790 0,2800 0,54 0,2737 0,2727 0,2739 0,2673 0,52 0,2700 0,50 0,2600 0,48 0,46 0,2500 0,44 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0,42 0,40 Sludge Generated 2015 2016 2017 (incinerated & discharged ashore) (m3/day/vessel) To calculate our CO2 emissions, we collect our data from our monthly and daily position reports received from Series1 0,45 0,49 0,51 0,42 the vessels for distance travelled and fuel consumed. The nautical miles data used in our analysis are retrieved 0,41 from the vessels and include pilotage miles, all deviations due to weather, drifting etc. Calculation type used: 0,40 Mass (tons) of CO2 per nautical mile sailed (Fuel consumption x distance sailed x emission factor for Heavy Fuel 0,39 Oil and Gas Oil used). 0,38 CO2 emissions calculation method including volume of cargo transported have been prepared and we are in the 0,37 process of implementing the automatic calculation method through our ERP. 0,36 0,35 0,34 2015 2016 2017 Series1 0,39 0,37 0,41 50 Neptune Lines • Use of Paints The monthly consumption per vessel (liters) decreased in 2017 in comparison with 2016 from 153 liters per vessel per month to 141 liters per vessel per month. Paints are supplied to the vessel basis on the stock available onboard and actual maintenance needs. Maintenance is monitored during onboard attendances from Superintendents. • Paper Consumption Still vessels will have to increase their awareness and reduce as much as possible the paper consumption. Majority of monthly forms needed for periodical reporting are forwarded by email and are being filed electronically in the Office. However, we are in the process of implementing electronic document management on board fleet vessels. Paper consumed slightly increased in comparison with 2016 noting an increase from 4.71 packets per month per vessel to 4.83. • Spills at Sea There we no spills at sea during the reporting period. • Compliance with Environmental Laws & Regulations There were no any claims with regard to the environment during the reporting period. Neptune Lines has zero legal offences or accusations of doing harm to the environment or complicity in such activities. 52 Neptune Lines COP 2017 53 Actions taken to implement our Commitment, address Corruption Risks & respond to related Anti-Corruption Concerns of Neptune must not offer, provide, accept, Selection & Recruitment Process or promise (directly or indirectly) any undue financial or other advantage to a public and/or During the selection process of shorebased personnel, private official, person or entity for the purpose apart from competence and skills, the company places of obtaining any favorable treatment, business great emphasis on the human factor and seeks to advantage, or for personal gain. define whether candidate’s character fits its core values-including integrity. The Code also clarifies the use of gifts and hospitality, since these may constitute corruption Of course, assessing candidates’ personalities during offenses, may be used to facilitate corruption, or selection process is much harder than assessing their give the appearance of corruption. skills and results of personality assessment are not fully reliable on their own. 3. through our sustainability reporting (content of which is publicly available and shared with However, to raise possibilities of engaging the best stakeholders) where among other relative people in terms of dependability and ethical behaviour, indicators and statements the company declares our HR department uses below tools: that all its charitable donations and sponsorships −− Initial screening 04 Principle 10 are irrelevant with its main business operations −− Personal interviews (i.e. with HR Manager and and are never provided in a cash deposit form, so Businesses should work against respective superiors) as to ensure that they are not considered or used corruption in all its forms, including −− Conversation (i.e. talking some more to final as a disguised form of bribery. extortion and bribery. candidates) All employees and parties that conduct business with or on behalf of Neptune (e.g. business cooperators, corruption in all its forms, including bribery and subcontractors etc.) are expected to act in a way Internal & External Communication Processes extortion that is consistent with company’s anti-corruption Neptune Lines seeks to ensure that its corruption and • in our Fair Business Practices policy, demonstrating commitments. In the opposite case, appropriate action unethical behaviour policies, as well as, the requirements our commitment to always engage in fair trading is taken. and implications of the code of conduct are embedded and transparent business transactions (i.e. antiand understood throughout the company, through Commitment competitive behaviour, fair business practices, The company is committed to take action against any internal and external communication. detecting and preventing price fixing and market unlawful act no matter how small in degree or scale Neptune Lines is committed to conducting business allocation practices) (i.e. from the minor use of influence -as in the case Internal communication includes: with integrity and in compliance with all applicable of facilitation paymentsto institutionalized bribery, anticorruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act* fraud, money laundering or abuse etc.). • Induction and familiarization process of new 2. in the Code of Conduct which requires all Anti-Corruption Rule. employees; Every new hire (shore based and employees (ashore and seagoing), top-level All Neptune employees and business cooperators are seagoing) receives relevant familiarization management and all parties that conduct business Our company’s commitment to the 10 Principle is th encouraged to speak up and report any incident that regarding the established anti-corruption policies with or on behalf of Neptune to act lawfully, with expressed: they may become aware of which could be breaching and signs the corporate Code of Conduct. Also fairness and integrity, maintaining high standards corporate policies and the code of conduct through company material (i.e. sustainability reports/ of personal and business ethics. 1. in our Policies and specifically: established communication channel-described in the COPs/ circulars) is handed to them to review. • in its Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery policy which It is clearly stated in the Code that employees, as next section. • Coaching; Top and middle-level management is explicitly states company’s zero tolerance towards well as, representatives and business cooperators responsible to convey the ‘tone from the top’ helping their subordinates understand how to apply the code’s principles and how they should * UK BRIBERY ACT 2010 The UK Bribery Act has a global jurisdiction. Companies and individuals can be held liable in the UK for acts of corruption committed by behave when faced with corrupt demands or employees, agents or subsidiaries anywhere in the world. The UK Bribery Act does not make any exemptions for facilitation payments. situations where corruption might occur. 54 Neptune Lines COP 2017 55 • Pre-joining briefing; Prior joining our fleet vessels, Workshops held so far towards implementation of In MACN collective action projects, member companies all seafarers are briefed on latest updates and said project, were conducted with full involvement of work in partnership with stakeholders including port instructions issued. Top Management and will continue over the next year and customs authorities, NGOs, and local governments along with implementation of next steps. to undertake root cause analyses and then implement • Confidential reporting of incidents (whistlea range of realistic “recommended actions” to tackle blowing); Bribery and corruption incidents or corruption in ports and across the maritime supply concerns, are reported to our Compliance Officer Existing Controls chain. who is responsible to provide guidance on how to We closely monitor all company expenditure and handle the situation. The Compliance Officer is all invoices go through an electronic-approval flow Neptune Lines participates in MACN’s anonymous part of the Sustainable Development Committee passing through various levels of approval for better incident reporting system developed to collect data and reports to the Board of Directors. In the case verification. Cases of particular interest are always of corruption practices. This system enables maritime of vessels, seafarers report directly to the DPA investigated until justification is provided. The same year, Transparency International Greece companies to submit reports on corrupt demands they who, then, informs the Compliance Officer. Business Integrity Forum (BIF) was established with the have faced during port operation. aim of supporting leading businesses in demonstrating External communication refers to communication Collective Action their commitment to the fight against corruption. channels with Neptune Lines’ associated parties, as well as, outside the scope of their range i.e. reaching Companies are all the more challenged nowadays to work collectively and join forces to combat corruption So far, Neptune Lines has participated in 3 round tables, out to the general public. in all its aspects. where anti-corruption experts provided updates on anti-corruption, good governance and corporate The main external channels to communicate our antiThis year, Neptune Lines has made some important compliance and demonstrated best practices as well as corruption policies, measures and updates are: moves to participate more actively in collective action developments in anti-corruption legal and regulatory • our corporate sustainability report issued on a initiatives fighting against corruption and bribery. matters. Indicative themes discussed: biennial basis (uploaded to our website and shared These are demonstrated here below. −− Whistle-blowing with stakeholders) −− Public and Private Relationship • our Communication on Progress (COP) uploaded −− Transparency in dealings between the State and annually to the UN Global Compact website Enterprises TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL • our corporate material (i.e. brochures) −− Ethical issues in exercising Corporate Governance At the beginning of the year, Neptune Lines joined • for reporting of incidents or concerns, associated Transparency International (through its network parties may contact our Compliance Officer. Last, company’s membership in this voluntary initiative in Greece), an international, non-governmental has provided guidance and access to several tools Our company has provided specific instructions to organization whose purpose is to take action to and publications, such as Due Diligence Check List, fleet vessels so, in case of any demands of bribery or Compliance Management Program combat global corruption (in each and every sector) RESIST, Transparency in Corporate Reporting (TRAC), facilitation payments, vessel’s Master and crew are During this year, in an effort to upgrade our existing and prevent criminal activities arising from it. Corporate Anti-Corruption Benchmark Tool, Codes of requested to follow a specific procedure and then compliance program, we decided to externally assess Transparency International has drawn synergies with Conducts for Small and Medium Size Enterprises etc. report the incident to our office. Our DPA is responsible our system so as to ensure that it covers all risks both government and the private sector, as well as with to submit said incidents to MACN database. deriving from our operations and take necessary civil society organizations, by offering expertise in the actions to mitigate them. area of anti-corruption. At the same time, it exercises MACN Analysis of such data will assist the MACN in scoping pressure, pointing out the need for adopting measures the problem and developing further action plans to We contracted a well-established law firm in order that will increase transparency and accountability. Neptune Lines is an active member of the Maritime eliminate its extent and frequency. to review our existing basic compliance policies and Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) since 2015. processes, perform a risk assessment to identify further On December 6th 2016, a Memorandum of Finally, due to our MACN membership, we are able to risks and describe what control actions we need to take Understanding (MoU) was signed between MACN was established in 2011 as an industry-led benefit from: in order to minimize the severity of possible incidents Transparency International and United Nations collective action initiative, to stamp out corruption at a manageable level; the action plan deriving from Development Programme (UNDP), to promote antiin the maritime industry and to promote inclusive • other companies’ experiences and best practices the risk assessment, will assist in improving existing corruption through Goal 16 (peace, justice and strong trade. MACN’s members represent a significant through shared examples and case stories policies and processes so as to establish a solid institutions) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable percentage of the total global tonnage and play a key compliance program. Development, as a major development issue; role in ocean transport. • a wide range of useful material (e.g.. toolkits, risk assessment tools, methodologies etc.). 56 Neptune Lines COP 2017 57 Towards the end of this year, and due to increased pressure experienced by our seafarers at various ports to offer facilitation payments, we launched a “Say No” campaign on board our vessels, to publicly state our company’s clear stance towards bribery and its zero tolerance to such practices. Content of the campaign is briefly presented in the following frame. As a first step, the campaign will be implemented initially only to European Union and Turkish ports. “Say No” Campaign • Seafarers were instructed to not engage in any kind of facilitation payment in the form of cigarettes, cash payments etc. when such are requested from Port Authority Officials (customs, pilots, etc.) during the execution of their duties • SAY NO posters were dispatched to all vessels (as per specific template provided by MACN) and placed at pilot stations, ramps, elevator, ship’s office, captain and chief engineer’s day room, mess rooms and announcement boards. Measurement of Outcomes & Performance • Master and crew were guided in terms of conduct to always show respect to the Officials and be polite. The Master must explain that Neptune Lines is an active member of the Responsibility for monitoring company’s anti-corruption the established forthcoming members meeting and MACN and therefore he is not allowed to be engaged to any form of facilitation payment. performance lies within the Compliance Officer. This used as a tool to identify which topics we could He will point to them the available posters. business role is responsible for tracking and monitoring work on further with the guidance from MACN in alleged corruption incidents and reported concerns order to further support our onboard compliance. • When necessary, the Port Agent will explain to the Port Officials in their native language and report them to the BOD (keeping the Sustainable • The next steps of our Compliance Program upgrade that Neptune Lines is a member of MACN and any form of facilitation payment is against Development Committee informed). Vessel-related project that started this year (including gap analysis the law and cannot be facilitated. cases are also monitored from the DPA through and assessment conducted) are anticipated MACN’s database and tools. over the next year; once formalized they will be • Should the officials insist in their unlawful demands, the Master must immediately report processed and monitored with the guidance of the this to the DPA who will contact the Compliance Officer and decide on course of action. Highlights with regard to outcomes and goals set this contracted law firm. year: • Anticipating the outcome of our new ‘SAY NO’ • The Master will inform the Port Officials that said incident will be reported and escalated • Company’s DPA participated in MACN’s biannual onboard campaign to Senior Management as per established policy. members meeting held in London on October. • There were no corruption incidents recorded for • Fulfilling our duties as an active member of MACN, 2017, nor any legal actions, sanctions or fines we completed and submitted our annual self– posed against Neptune Lines. assessment for 2017 to the MACN Secretariat (BSR). Results of the assessment will be shared at 58 Neptune Lines Neptune Lines Shipping and Managing Enterprises S.A 5-9 Iasonos Street, GR 185 37, Piraeus, Greece www .neptunelines.com
