We have the opportunity of a lifetime. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Because when we solve water for our customers, we’re solving so much more. Clean water changes everything. Improving health. Increasing education. And leading to a better life for entire communities. Today, technology is providing the opportunity to transform how we solve water. Smart water networks identify water infrastructure problems earlier and more efficiently. Billions of gallons of previously wasted water can go to those who need it. Improved wastewater management means less polluted rivers, lakes and streams. There is a smarter way forward. We’re creating the technological platform to address these opportunities and more. We have a chance to bring about real change. Here’s how we’re pursuing the opportunity of a lifetime. Table of Contents Sustainability Business Water & Approach p2 Performance p 17 Infrastructure CEO Message Strategy Solutions p 29 Xylem At-A-Glance Economic Impact Opportunity Sustainability Strategy Governance & Risk Management Capabilities Goals & Progress Supply Chain Applications Stakeholder Engagement Product Efficiencies Materiality & Reporting Reporting Practices Operational Xylem People p 49 Community p 63 Impact p 38 Global Workforce Corporate Citizenship EH&S Overview Employee Engagement Watermark Partnerships Energy & Emissions Talent Development Watermark Employee Volunteerism Water Safety Essence of Life Materials & Waste Ethics Sustainability Approach OPPORTUNITY At Xylem, sustainability is at the center of who we are and what we do. We have the opportunity to embed sustainability throughout our business to not only impact our goal of solving water, but to safeguard and enhance the company’s long-term growth. CEO MESSAGE Patrick K. Decker President and Chief Executive Officer Xylem Inc. In rural schools within the Siem Reap and Preah Vihear provinces of Cambodia, children drink untreated water directly from the well, causing waterborne illnesses that impact school attendance and lead to unaffordable medical expenses. They’re part of the more than 60 percent of the world’s population who live in areas of water stress, where water supply cannot or will not be able to meet future demand. In the aftermath of last year’s devastating hurricanes, thousands of people in Puerto Rico and across the Caribbean struggle to find access to clean, safe water. In Houston, Texas, the city continues to rebound from the devastation caused by massive and deadly flooding. The human and financial toll of such storms is astounding – between 2005 and 2015 alone, damages from natural disasters around the world reached more than $1.3 trillion. And around the world, broken or outdated water infrastructure is costing communities billions of dollars and countless hours of time that could be redirected to other critical needs such as hunger, healthcare, education Water issues are and so much more. intensifying all Water issues are intensifying all around the globe – demanding new and bold solutions. around the globe – At Xylem, we believe that if you can change water, you can change demanding new everything. And we know that while the world’s water challenges are growing exponentially, so too are the opportunities to address and and bold solutions. overcome them. That’s why we’re focused every day on finding a smarter way forward to solve water by harnessing the power of cutting-edge technologies and innovation. Sustainability isn’t just an initiative at Xylem; it’s our core business strategy, and it drives our employees to come to work each day with a common purpose and passion – to redefine and advance the world’s water systems and, in doing so, to improve the lives of people around the globe. A SMARTER WAY FORWARD Advances in technology and in the generation of data are creating extraordinary, new possibilities to develop solutions to global water problems that just weren’t feasible a decade ago. Most recently, these advances led to the launch of our Flygt Concertor, the world’s first intelligent wastewater pumping system, and our Godwin NC 150S, the first in a series of smart dewatering pumps. We’re also building an innovative global platform to analyze, draw insights and fuel new approaches that will help drive transformation across the water sector – and help make water safer, more accessible and more affordable for communities worldwide. Xylem’s technological capabilities took a leap forward with the 2016 acquisition of Sensus, a leader in smart metering, network communications and advanced data analytics. By plugging our vast array of smart products into Sensus’ communication network, we will create a cloud-based, smart water network that enables customers to more easily identify and solve water waste issues through better optimization of Xylem solutions. 2 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me CEO MESSAGE (Cont’d) In 2018, we formed our Advanced Infrastructure Analytics (AIA) Hear from Patrick Decker on the platform, which delivers powerful and unprecedented insights to customers across the water cycle. This platform of capabilities opportunities ahead for Xylem. enables customers to increase their return on investment through diagnostic infrastructure assessments that identify and prioritize risks and problem areas. Pure Technologies, acquired in early 2018, serves as the foundation of AIA, providing a unique and disruptive platform of diagnostic, analytics and optimization solutions for water and wastewater networks. We further developed the AIA business through the acquisition of EmNet and Valor Water Analytics. EmNet’s network modeling and optimization solutions enable municipalities to better manage the urban water cycle to control flow and help prevent polluting of waterways or even buildings. Valor’s core technology is its Hidden Revenue Locator, an automated software designed to locate forms of revenue loss occurring on a utility’s system of meters. The addition of these businesses – each underpinned by our intelligent products – gives us the ability to better predict, analyze and solve water issues, helping to decrease enormous amounts of waste in the management of water around the world, estimated to cost at least $14 billion every year. WALKING THE WALK Beyond the technology solutions we provide to our customers, we are committed to reducing our own environmental footprint through a number of ambitious objectives. Recent progress includes: • Nearly doubling the amount of waste diverted from landfill, 41.8 percent at the end of 2017, over the past three years and well ahead of a 20 percent diversion rate goal by 2019, thanks to a robust recycling program. • R  educing GHG emissions intensity by nearly 19 percent since 2014, putting us close to our 20 percent goal by 2019. This reduction has been driven in large part by the number of Xylem sites utilizing green electricity. • Decreasing water intensity by nearly 17 percent against a 2014 baseline largely through more water collection and reuse at facilities. The decrease moves us closer to a 25 percent reduction goal by 2019. We also continued to progress our efforts to ensure a safe environment wherever we operate. We have achieved a nearly 22 percent reduction in injury frequency across the company since 2015. Furthermore, in 2017, more than 200 of our sites operated the entire year without a single recordable injury or a serious near-miss incident. Advancing thought leadership in the water solutions arena and convening conversations around water transformation are also priorities. As an example, in 2017, we signed the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative that mobilizes business leaders on water, sanitation and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. And we remain a signatory to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. 3 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me CEO MESSAGE (Cont’d) INVESTING IN TALENT As we evolve our vision to be the company that leads in smart water innovation, investments in our people are as important as investments in technology. This is why we continue to develop and provide tools, resources and training programs that are critical to helping our people grow and achieve their full potential through all phases of their careers at Xylem. Our employees are also helping solve water through their work with Xylem Watermark, our signature corporate citizenship initiative. Watermark’s roots are in community development in emerging parts of the world – often through projects with our global, nonprofit partners. In recent years, we’ve expanded Watermark to include projects in more of the locations where we work and live, ensuring a greater number of Xylem employees have the opportunity to participate and give back. In 2017, we logged 35,000plus hours of volunteer work in water-related activities, including cleaning and restoring local waterways, leading water education programs in local schools, planting vegetation to protect shorelines and building water towers in areas that lack access to clean water. This work was crucial during the catastrophic string of hurricanes that impacted communities from Texas to Florida to Puerto Rico and across the Caribbean in 2017. Flooding in South Asia also displaced millions in India, Nepal and Bangladesh. Through the Watermark program, we put boots on the ground in many of these locations, helping to rebuild communities. A SMARTER FUTURE There is so much at stake when it comes to a water secure future. That’s why we’re entering a bold new phase of growth and innovation for Xylem. We are committed to reimagining and transforming the water industry. We’re doing this to help more people and more communities get access to the water they desperately need to live and flourish. And we’re doing it because we have the vision, the technology and capacity for innovation, and the passion to lead change. While the challenges presented by the world’s water crisis are great, so too are the opportunities for our company to make a meaningful and lasting impact. On behalf of my many colleagues at Xylem, we are honored and excited to take up this charge. Thank you for your continued support and interest in our work. Patrick Decker President and Chief Executive Officer 4 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach XYLEM AT-A-GLANCE We are a leading global water technology provider $4.7 $6.86 ~16,200* helping our customers address their most challenging BILLION BILLION EMPLOYEES water and wastewater problems. Our name is derived 2017 revenues Total assets *This number is as of Dec. 31, 2017 from classical Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants. This name highlights the engineering HEADQUARTERS 19 COUNTRIES efficiency of our water-centric business by linking it with RYE BROOK, Where we manufacture the best water transportation of all — that which occurs New York, USA and assemble products in nature. 150 COUNTRIES 51* COUNTRIES Where we sell Where we operate Transport *This number is as of Oct. 31, 2017 Transport Treat We participate in each of the water industry’s core applications: Test Treat Transport Transport Transport Test Treat Use Test Treat Test TREATMENT MONITORING & Use Treat TRANSPORT OF WATER TEST DATA ANALYTICS USE Moving raw water Treating water to make Ensuring water meets Using smart metrology and Putting water to work in from natural sources it safe to use and treating requirements for use by networked communications industrial, commercial to treatment facilities wastewater to make it safe customers or discharge to optimize distribution building, residential and and moving wasteto reuse or return to the into the environment, networks for the delivery Use Use agriculture applications water from its source environment and ongoing monitoring of water, electricity and to wastewater treatment of surface water and natural gas, and provide facilities coastal environments data analytics Use Products Sales by Industry** ~5% • Pumps and accessories • Smart metrology for the water, RESIDENTIAL electric and natural gas sectors • Wastewater and water treatment ~10% solutions, including filtration, ozone, • Network communications for COMMERCIAL ultraviolet and biological systems water, electric and natural gas distribution networks • Analytical instrumentation ~50% • Monitoring and control systems • Advanced data analytics PUBLIC • Advanced infrastructure UTILITIES • Water pressure boosting systems for multiple applications diagnostics and analytics ~35% INDUSTRIAL Brands Sales by Geography** 8% • Aanderaa • Flygt • OI Analytical • Steady REST OF WORLD • AC Fire Pump • Global Water • PureHM • Tideland • Bell & Gossett • Godwin • Pure • Valor Water 20% Technologies Analytics EMERGING 46% • Bellingham • Goulds Water MARKETS UNITED + Stanley Technology • Rule • Visenti STATES • ebro • Hypack • Sanitaire • Wachs Water Services • EmNet • Jabsco • Sensus 26% • Essence of Life • Leopold • SI Analytics • Wedeco WESTERN • Flojet • Lowara • Smith-Blair • WTW EUROPE • MJK • SonTek • YSI **Based on Xylem Pro Forma 2017 Revenues 5 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our strategy to address economic, social and environmental issues starts at the top with our Board of Directors and is implemented throughout the company with all employees helping to advance our sustainability practices and impact. The Xylem Board of Directors has primary and services, and grow our business, while responsibility for overall risk and strategy at the same time contributing to the local oversight for the company, which includes and global communities in which we areas that impact Xylem’s sustainability efforts. operate. Ultimately, our growth strategies The Board has delegated responsibility for are designed to position Xylem as a leader direct oversight of the company’s sustainin the global water technology space. ability program to the Board’s Nominating The Xylem Sustainability Steering Committee and Governance Committee, except for comprises representatives from multiple our offerings-related strategies, which are geographies, businesses and functions within reviewed by the Finance, Innovation & Xylem who meet quarterly to guide and Technology Committee. The Nominating drive our sustainability efforts and monitor and Governance Committee regularly progress against our sustainability goals. receives updates on sustainability from management and provides updates to the Our leaders, frontline managers and full Board of Directors. employees are accountable for safe, ethical, environmentally responsible and forwardOur senior leadership team members, looking actions that support our sustainability under the direction of our President and goals. To support them in this mission, Xylem CEO Patrick Decker, lead businesses, sales provides training in the areas of environment teams and functional areas with the intent and safety, Code of Conduct, continuous of building an enduring and successful improvement — which includes Lean and company. Increasingly, these areas are better Six Sigma curriculum — and career and integrating sustainability into their strategies leadership development. to accelerate innovation, sell our products 6 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY (Cont’d) Xylem’s Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) team includes more than 250 full and part-time employees working at the site level to enact sustainability practices and provide employee training — primarily in the areas of environmental protection and workplace safety. In the “These challenges are too complex for any past year, Xylem also added roles in supply chain and one entity to solve. We firmly believe that product development with a specific focus on driving there is a role for governments at all levels, sustainable practices. private industry, academia and individual CLIMATE CHANGE IMPACT innovators to play in creating the practical Climate change both positively and negatively impacts solutions and innovative technologies that portions of our business in several ways. will be needed to help communities across the globe both mitigate the impacts of According to research by the Intergovernmental Panel on climate change and adapt to its resulting Climate Change (IPCC), climate change will intensify risks effects, such as prolonged drought and associated with water availability and quality. Moreover, the increased flooding. “ transport, treatment and use of both clean water and wastewater are significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions. – Xylem President & CEO Patrick Decker Xylem’s Climate Change Policy outlines our commitment to developing mitigation and adaptation solutions to the water-related challenges associated with climate change through our products, operations, corporate citizenship and social investment, and stakeholder engagement. 2017 Recognition External recognition provides useful progress markers on our sustainability journey. In the past year, Xylem’s commitment to sustainability and progress-to-date was recognized in a number of areas. • Xylem was ranked number 10 on Barron’s • Two Bell & Gossett products won Product of the Year 100 Most Sustainable Companies Awards from Consulting Specifying Engineer Magazine: • The fifth generation HYDROVAR earned a gold award. • Xylem was named to America’s Most JUST Companies list by Forbes and JUST Capital • The TECHNOLOGIC Intelligent Pump Controller received a silver award. •E  ngage for Good Gold Halo Award for • For the second year in a row, U.S. rural cooperative utility Watermark volunteerism efforts executives honored Xylem’s Sensus Advanced Metering • 2017 Comfort Supplier of the Year Infrastructure solution as the “Best Smart Utility Solution” during the Rural Smart Grid Summit. • MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series • Xylem’s OI Analytical-branded 1080 Combustion • The FTSE4Good Index Series Total Organic Carbon Analyzer was awarded the Gold Pittcon Today Excellence Award. • Euronext Vigeo Index: U.S. 50 • CDP Climate Change 2017 Disclosure — • The NASDAQ OMX CRD C Rating Climate Change Global Sustainability Index • CDP Water 2017 Disclosure — B Rating 7 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY (Cont’d) Furthermore, in June 2017 following the and flow, provides real-time information announcement that the United States would that can act as an early warning system to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord, enable communities to prepare for emergent Xylem issued a statement reiterating our problems. In addition, our Godwin dewatercommitment to doing our part, as a citizen ing pumps are used to help remove and/or of the global community, to advance the redirect unwanted water caused by natural vital work of addressing the realities of disasters such as hurricanes or floods. climate change. Similarly, drought conditions drive higher Xylem helps mitigate the effects of climate demand for pumps used in agricultural and change by providing products that aid turf irrigation applications, such as those customers in reducing their own environprovided by our Goulds Water Technology mental footprint by reducing their energy and Lowara brands. We also provide and other resource consumption needs. treatment solutions to enable communities Our company also helps customers to to recycle wastewater for direct and indirect adapt to the effects of climate change, potable water use. This includes the world’s strengthening their communities’ resilience, first large-scale ultraviolet/chlorine process particularly with regard to the increasing to treat wastewater to drinking water number of extreme weather events, such standards at the Terminal Island Water as flooding events and drought conditions. Reclamation Plant in Los Angeles. Water reuse is a proven solution that can help For example, Xylem’s analytics products meet growing water demand, while can help communities prevent or minimize safeguarding existing water supplies. the destruction of infrastructure when extreme weather events occur. The portfolio, Ultimately, our sustainability strategies are which includes intelligent sensors, platforms designed to position Xylem as a leader in and systems that measure water quality, level the global water technology space. 8 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach GOALS & PROGRESS Goals continue to be incorporated into our business of our sustainability approach with an aim to evolve our operating planning process. Progress is evaluated strategy and establish new long-term goals. Our new through various measures, including our goal deploygoals will continue to reflect our ambition to be a leader ment process. In the spirit of continuous improvement, in sustainability, creating both economic and social value we are reviewing the best ways to track our progress as a business enterprise. They will also be aligned with against some of the harder-to-measure metrics. the global community’s advancement toward achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals and with the LOOKING AHEAD UN Global Compact Principles. We expect to announce As our progress below illustrates, we are moving closer these new goals during 2018. to achieving our current sustainability goals. In light of this progress, we have initiated a comprehensive review Below is a summary of our progress as of the end of 2017: OFFERINGS* Goal Progress Goal Progress Improve product 0.2% Increase Vitality Index 24% energy efficiency INCREASE IN AVERAGE (percentage of sales from OF SALES of specific Xylem PRODUCT EFFICIENCY products launched in the ARE FROM PRODUCTS product lines SINCE 2016; past five years) to 30% LAUNCHED IN THE 2.8% improvement by 2020 to drive product PAST FIVE YEARS since 2012 innovation and efficiency; following the acquisition of Sensus, we increased our Vitality Index 2020 goal from 25% to 30% OPERATIONS* Goal Progress Goal Progress Reduce Xylem water 16.7% Reduce greenhouse 18.7% use by 25% by 2019 REDUCTION IN gas (GHG) emissions REDUCTION IN GHG WATER USAGE intensity by 20% INTENSITY, NET OF INTENSITY by 2019 RENEWABLE ENERGY, THROUGH 2017 THROUGH 2017 Goal Progress Goal 2017 Progress Reduce waste 41.8% Reduce injury frequency 0.94 13.62 sent to landfill by REDUCTION IN rate to less than 0.5 and INJURY INJURY 20% by 2019 TOTAL WASTE injury severity rate to FREQUENCY SEVERITY TO LANDFILL less than 6.0 by 2019 THROUGH 2017** Goal Progress Achieve 100% IN 2017, XYLEM environmental compliance DID NOT RECEIVE at all manufacturing and ANY NOTICE OF service sites ENVIRONMENTAL *from 2014 baseline NON-COMPLIANCE. **Per dollar of revenue 9 201 7 S US TAINABI L ITY RE P O RT XY L EM | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach GOALS & PROGRESS (Cont’d) EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION & CULTURE Goal Progress Goal Progress Increase impact of Xylem 10% Position Xylem as a leading In 2017, Xylem became Watermark®, our corporate INCREASE IN advocate for sustainable a signatory to the citizenship program, BENEFICIARIES FROM water policy worldwide UN CEO WATER through investments to PROJECTS CONDUCTED MANDATE and issued nonprofit partners IN CONJUNCTION a public statement of its WITH OUR NONPROFIT unwavering commitment PARTNERS to the principles of the Paris Climate Accord. 16% INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS VERSUS 2016 Goal Progress Increase employee 35,800+ EMPLOYEE involvement in Xylem VOLUNTEER HOURS, Watermark by a 70% increase versus 2016 15% year-over-year The Value of Water Information At Xylem, we’re committed to solving Why do we need more water data? By collecting and local and global water problems. See sharing more data, we can help solve local and global how we can unlock innovation based water problems…and we can unlock innovation based on gathering more and better data. on what we know, creating more resilient cities and communities across the globe. Xylem published two new white papers that outlined various challenges and opportunities in managing our water resources more sustainably: Building Resilience: Creating Strong and Sustainable Cities and Communities and The Value of Water Information: Overcoming the Global Data Drought. 10 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Xylem’s tagline is an inclusive invitation: Let’s Solve Water. Addressing the many water challenges our planet faces is a huge and vital undertaking that calls for collaboration and teamwork to leverage the technology-enabled solutions that are available today and will be developed tomorrow. As the title of this report emphasizes, we At Xylem, we identify a key stakeholder believe this work represents the opportunity group as one that is critical to our business of a lifetime to have a positive, lasting impact and strategy and a core partner in our on the global and local communities in which growth and sustainability efforts. We work we operate. We utilize a variety of resources to engage our key stakeholder groups and tactics to foster two-way communications regularly, as well as considering broader with our many stakeholders. society by including stakeholders such as certification and regulatory agencies, sustainability and financial rating agencies, and associations and non-governmental Stakeholder Primary Engagement organizations. We reach out to and engage Group Channels our stakeholders in many ways, with a focus on our key stakeholders. CUSTOMERS • White papers, case studies, voice-of-customer interviews, AND END USERS customer satisfaction surveys, webinars, Making Waves For Xylem employees who work around the customer digital magazine, news releases, Mission: Water magazine globe, we regularly distribute communicaEMPLOYEES • In 2017, we conducted a global employee survey in 20 languages tions and conduct town halls and webcasts with an 85% response rate. In addition, we provide a consistent on our business strategy and results, as well supply of news about Xylem’s performance across multiple as many different issues and topics of interest. dimensions: feedback channels on our company intranet called These are translated into multiple languages Currents; Connect, Perform and Grow, our manager-employee appraisals; Xylem Integrity Line (a voluntary reporting system to help foster a “one company” culture. operated by an outside vendor that enables anonymous reports by phone or online) and Code of Conduct (available For customers and end users, we publish in 26 languages); Xylem Employee Ombudsperson program; news about our products and services and employee training and development. through a variety of media channels, SHAREHOLDERS • Annual report, quarterly earnings reports and webcast conference original research, white papers and case calls, news releases, and proactive shareholder outreach studies, a customer-focused digital magaprogram on performance, plans, corporate governance and sustainability; company filings with the U.S. SEC; in April 2017 zine, Making Waves and a quarterly magaand September 2015, we held Investor Days zine, Mission: Water, which features stories SUPPLIERS • Xylem Supplier Ombudsperson program, Supplier Code of about scientists, environmentalists and the Conduct (available in 18 languages) and Supplier Day events various challenges they work to solve. We LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Local operations outreach, Xylem Watermark field also conduct voice-of-customer interviews assessments and sponsorship of local community initiatives and customer satisfaction surveys to learn CERTIFICATION AND • ISOand OHSAS-certification audit and permit applications more about their needs and their percepREGULATORY AGENCIES tions of our company and our products. In ASSOCIATIONS • Memberships and partnerships with the UN Global Compact, AND NGOS Stockholm International Water Institute, Ceres, U.S. Water 2016, we rolled out the Net Promoter Score Alliance, Value of Water Coalition, U.S. Water Partnership, (NPS) tool as an additional means of measurBusiness Roundtable, Bipartisan Policy Center, World ing customer satisfaction, and we continue Resources Institute, Wastewater Equipment Manufacturers to employ that today. Association, WateReuse Association, Water Environment Federation, Water Environment & Reuse Foundation, Water We also collaborate with other business Systems Council, Smart Cities Council, Hydraulics Institute, American Chamber of Commerce AmCham in Australia, and industry leaders through a variety of British Pump Manufacturers Association, Smart Water forums. Xylem is a member of several Networks Forum water-industry and sustainability-related • Xylem Watermark partners: EarthEcho International, Mercy organizations, and we participate in and Corps, China Women’s Development Corporation, Planet Water Foundation, Water for People and Fundación Avina sponsor leading industry events. 11 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (Cont’d) 2017 STAKEHOLDER ACTIVITIES At the Global Water Summit 2017, Mike Throughout 2017, we engaged in a variety Otten, director of Xylem’s Systems Intelliof forums, conferences, programs and gence Center of Excellence participated in projects with our stakeholders to advance the digital strategy panel discussion. Topics our shared mission of water sustainability. included the internet of thing (IoT), scalability Here is a sampling of engagement activiand security of digital platforms, and the ties in 2017: role of water digitization in smart cities. At the Global Water Summit 2017, Xylem Xylem sponsored SMART CITIES NYC ’17, CEO Patrick Decker participated in the CEO the first conference and expo that curated Forum to discuss issues facing the global the intersection of technology and urban water sector, including the impact of life. Xylem President and CEO Patrick globalization and the digital revolution, and Decker participated in a panel discussion share perspectives on the role of advanced entitled, Does Bigger Data Mean Better technologies in advancing the water Living?, during which speakers discussed sector’s migration to smart infrastructure. the role of big data governance processes in relation to quality of life, economic development, and the city ecosystem. Charters, Principles, Initiatives and Associations Xylem voluntarily subscribes to or endorses the following economic, environmental and social charters, principles or initiatives: UN GLOBAL AMERICAN BUSINESS CDP CEO WATER COMPACT ACT ON CLIMATE PLEDGE (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) MANDATE Xylem holds positions in, participates with or provides funding beyond routine membership dues to the following industry associations and advocacy organizations: INDUSTRY WATER ADVOCACY SOCIAL/GOVERNANCE/ RESEARCH AND • American Chamber of Commerce AND NGOS ETHICS ACADEMIC AmCham (Australia) • Ceres • Corporate Executive Board • IVL Swedish Environmental • Bipartisan Policy Center Executive • China Women’s • Ethics Resource Center Research Institute Council on Infrastructure Development Foundation Ethisphere • Masdar Institute of Science • British Pump Manufacturers • EarthEcho International • HR Policy Association and Technology Association • Fundación Avina • MAPI Ethics & Compliance • Massachusetts Institute • Europump • Mercy Corps Council of Technology • Hydraulic Institute • Planet Water Foundation • National Association of • Singapore Public Utilities Board • International Water Association • U.S. Chamber of Commerce Corporate Directors • Stanford University • MAPI Sustainability Council and Foundation Corporate • Society of Corporate Environment, Safety & Health Citizenship Center Compliance and Ethics Council • Water for People • Society of Corporate Secretaries • National Association for & Governance Professionals Environmental Management • Smart Cities Council • Stockholm International Water Institute • U.S. Water Alliance • U.S. Water Partnership • Value of Water Coalition • Water Environment Federation • Water Systems Council 12 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (Cont’d) Xylem participated in the American Water infrastructure as well as the implications Works Association’s annual ACE conference of non-action, and defined the next-steps as well as the Water Environment Federation’s for collaboration. The session was led by annual WEFTEC conference. At WEFTEC, Albert Cho, who at the time was vice Xylem convened a Smart Water Leaders president of strategy and business developLuncheon for customers and industry ment for Xylem, and today, serves as vice stakeholders to discuss the role smart president and general manager of Xylem’s water will play in smart cities of the future. Advanced Infrastructure Analytics business. Working with the Smart Cities Council, Xylem co-convened a second workshop Xylem’s Sensus business provided substanat this event entitled: “Powering the Water tial in-kind donations for the five winning Renaissance: Emissions Reduction in Wastecities of the White House-sponsored Smart water Management” with the European Water Cities Council Readiness Challenge Grant. Association and IVL Swedish Environmental The company donated a fully equipped Research Institute. This session was co-led FlexNet® communications network to each by Randolf Webb, manager, strategy and of the cities and conducted customized vertical marketing for Xylem’s Europe readiness workshops in each city. Commercial Team, and Aleksandra Lazic, senior process engineer and team leader At World Water Week 2017 in Stockholm, for Xylem’s treatment business. Sweden, Xylem co-convened a forum entitled: “Data Drought: An Assessment of At World Water Week 2017, Albert Cho also Global Hydrological Monitoring Systems” participated in the “21st Century Technology: along with Duke University, the Aspen Bridging the Gap to Wastewater Reuse” Institute and the University of Oxford. workshop. The panel discussed the economic The multi-stakeholder discussion assessed and environmental benefits of water reuse the severe decline in critical global water and how readily-available technologies monitoring infrastructure, explored the can drive effective, financially successful challenges and solutions to up-scaling this reuse programs. Xylem once again served as a founding sponsor of the Stockholm Water Prize, which was awarded to Professor Stephen McCaffrey from the University of the Pacific in California, USA. For the 21st consecutive year, Xylem served as the Founding Sponsor of the Stockholm Junior Water Prize international competition. It also sponsors the country-level competition in the U.S., Sweden and China. Xylem’s Sensus business hosted its annual Sensus ReachSM Conference, which convenes thought leaders and industry experts to share best practices, learn from peers and determine how they can leverage technology to transform their infrastructure. From left, Ryan Thorpe and Rachel Chang, two students from New York, hold the 2017 Stockholm Junior Water Prize award presented by Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden. Photo courtesy of Jonas Borg, Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI). 13 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach MATERIALITY & REPORTING In creating this report, our goal is to address sustainability issues that have the most significant and material impact on our company’s business performance and are important to our stakeholders — in particular, our customers, employees, shareholders, local communities and the broader society in which we operate. While there are many important issues In order to identify those significant issues, outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative we collected and assessed data and other (GRI), we believe that providing greater input from a variety of internal and external insight and transparency about the issues sources. Our internal stakeholders included that are most relevant to Xylem’s business key senior business and functional leaders, and the impact we have on the world the Xylem Sustainability Steering Committee — through relevant stories, leadership and our Environment, Health, Safety & messages and videos — will enhance our Sustainability (EHS&S) team. We also relied stakeholders’ understanding of our busion input from a cross section of external ness, our commitments and our progress. stakeholders, including the investment community, NGOs, customers and partners, and community leaders. We then evaluated GRI’s G4 indicators through three different lenses — the collective stakeholder feedback, Xylem’s strategic priorities and our enterprise risk management factors — to determine both their relative impact on our business and importance to stakeholders. This robust analysis produced 17 material issues that we have organized into five categories: Strategic Business Model, External Engagement, Environmental Stewardship, Our People and Governance. Consistent with our commitment to continue collecting input from internal and external stakeholders about these issues, their potential impact on Xylem’s business now and in the future, and their relative importance to our business and stakeholders, we initiated a comprehensive review of our sustainability strategy in the first quarter of 2018. This comprehensive review includes outreach to multiple stakeholders to inform an updated materiality matrix and the formation of new, long-term sustainability goals that will be announced in 2018. 14 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach MATERIALITY & REPORTING (Cont’d) 2017 XYLEM MATERIALITY MATRIX IMPACT TO BUSINESS IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Xylem analysis across Xylem analysis across five key (1) Strategic Priorities stakeholder groups (2) Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) (1) Customers and End Users Priorities (2) Employees (3) Shareholders (4) Suppliers (5) Local Communities 10 16 4 3 2 5 9 13 14 17 8 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 6 1 15 7 12 11 IMPACT TO BUSINESS STRATEGIC EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL BUSINESS MODEL ENGAGEMENT STEWARDSHIP 1 Economic 5 Water Thought 7 Product Materials Value Creation Leadership 8 Energy Efficiency of 2 Innovation 6 Global & Local Our Facilities 3 Sustainable Products Citizenship 9 Climate Change & Services Mitigation 4 Community Impact 10 Water Stewardship 11 Biodiversity 12 Packaging & Waste OUR PEOPLE GOVERNANCE 13 EHS&S at Xylem 16 Integrity 14 Talent Development & Transparency 15 Global Workforce 17 Responsible Supply Chain 15 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Sustainability Approach REPORTING PRACTICES We are committed to reporting on Xylem’s sustainability strategies and performance on an annual basis. This report captures full-year sustainability SAFETY results and progress for calendar year • Injury frequency • Injury severity 2017. For the first year, our report and all (medical + lost (number of lost data disclosed includes the operations of work day cases x work days our Sensus and Visenti businesses, which 200,000/number x 200,000/worked were acquired in October 2016. Our of working hours) hours) previous report was released in June 2017, • Number of medical • Number of lost covering our results and progress for cases work day cases calendar year 2016. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The See page 72 for the assurance statement GRI Content Index outlines the indicators from ERM-CVS. included in this report and a link to their As part of our annual reporting process, location in the report. The GRI Content Index we measure and evaluate our performance also indicates which disclosures have been and communicate our progress and externally assured. challenges. We normalize a number of our While GRI does not require external Environment, Health & Safety metrics based assurance of all the data in a report, in on revenues to allow for a consistent year2018, Xylem engaged independent over-year comparison that is not impacted certification and verification providers, by acquisitions, divestitures, employee ERM-CVS, to conduct assurance of the turnover and other similar factors. Restateenvironmental and safety metrics contained ments in data are noted in the section of within our EHS metrics system. ERM-CVS the report where they appear. provided an assurance statement for the The list of all entities within our company is following: contained in the consolidated financial ENVIRONMENT statements section of the Form 10-K, which was filed on February 23, 2018. It includes the • Total direct energy • Scope 3 emissions legal names of our nearly 150 subsidiaries, use (MWh) associated with the jurisdiction of these organizations and • Total indirect business travel – air, the name under which they do business. energy use (MWh) rental cars and use This report includes results and accomplishof hotels (metric • Total Scope 1 and 2 ments from all the entities listed in the tons of CO2e) GHG emissions Xylem Form 10-K for the year ended (metric tons of • Total water December 31, 2017. CO2e) withdrawal (mega-liters) For more information about the content included in this report, contact xylem.sustainability@xyleminc.com. 16 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance OPPORTUNITY Business performance and sustainability are inextricably linked at Xylem. We have the opportunity to unlock bottom-line value for the company and our stakeholders by creating a smarter approach to solving water and acting in a socially responsible manner in all that we do. Business Performance STRATEGY Xylem is a world leader in water technology, providing equipment and services for water and wastewater applications along with a broad portfolio of products and services that addresses the full cycle of water with sustainable solutions. In addition, we provide sustainable solutions These factors combine to produce a for certain critical energy resource infrastrucgrowing need for water and critical energy ture. We expect global macro trends to fuel infrastructure solutions that are modern, demand for our solutions. Strengthening efficient and resilient. Xylem is well-positioned global environmental and water quality to fulfill these long-term needs as our regulations are increasing the need for business strategy is built around creating more efficient solutions. Population growth, technology-enabled solutions to increase urbanization and a growing middle class in water productivity, water quality and emerging markets are boosting demand resilience – ultimately creating a more for clean water while putting strains on positive handprint in the world. We are aging infrastructure. At the same time, the optimizing the potential of our business impacts of climate change are disrupting and creating a sustainable enterprise water supplies with intensifying water through the following strategies: scarcity in many parts of the world, as well • Accelerating Growth by prioritizing as flooding from a growing number of investments in key emerging markets, extreme weather events. focused innovation and technology to enable smart infrastructure, strengthening customer relationships to drive commercial leadership and disciplined M&A. We focus on investments that will generate longterm, sustainable growth for the benefit of our stakeholders. • Driving a Continuous Improvement culture and simplifying our organization to make the company more agile and generate cost savings to reinvest for growth. We are strengthening our Lean Six Sigma and global procurement 18 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance STRATEGY (Cont’d) Xylem also takes a balanced approach to capital deployment, managing leverage with investments in growth. We return capital to shareholders via dividend growth in line with earnings and opportunistic share repurchases. In 2017, we continued to focus on pushing our portfolio of solutions up the technology curve. We invested heavily in our core businesses and through acquisitions, which led to the creation of our Advanced Infrastructure Analytics (AIA) platform in early 2018. The collective capabilities of these businesses help utility customers identify problem areas across their water and critical energy resource networks, prioritize them based on condition assessments, and allocate resources to get the most return on investment and extend the life of their assets. Pure Technologies, acquired in early 2018, serves as the foundation of the AIA platform and expands Xylem’s disruptive platform of diagnostic, analytics and optimization solutions for clean and wastewater networks. Pure’s leadership position in intelligent capabilities and continue to optimize our condition assessment and leak detection cost structure through business simplificasolutions, along with previously acquired tion by eliminating structural, process and businesses such as Sensus and Visenti, product complexity. brings Xylem to the forefront of expertise in addressing the problems that come from • Developing Leadership and Talent by aging infrastructure, such as non-revenue focusing on employee development water, and eliminating inefficiencies in infraprograms at various levels throughout the structure capital and operating budgets. company. We also will continue to align individual performance to the objectives Following our acquisition of EmNet and of the company and our shareholders. Valor Water Analytics, these businesses were added to our AIA platform. EmNet • Focusing on Execution and Accountability provides network modeling and optimizaby holding our colleagues accountable and tion solutions that enable municipalities to streamlining our performance managemanage their urban water cycle, including ment and goal deployment systems. their wastewater and stormwater systems. EmNet’s open architecture platform – 19 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance STRATEGY (Cont’d) BLU-X – provides big data analytics in real the growing challenge of non-revenue time, helping solve cities’ wastewater and water and more effectively allocate their watershed challenges. EmNet’s solution constrained budgets. can indicate when to open and close valves These advanced solutions, collectively, help in the wastewater system, enabling flow to utility operators to allocate their capital be directed into pipes where capacity is resources more effectively and efficiently, available to prevent polluting of waterways which in turn enables them to better address or even buildings. the issue of water affordability. Valor’s core technology is its Hidden Given that EmNet was acquired in December Revenue Locator, an automated software 2017, and Pure Technologies and Valor designed to locate forms of revenue loss Water Analytics were acquired in early occurring on a utility’s system of meters 2018, the contents of this report do not from inaccurate meters to theft. Valor’s include results from these businesses. software-enabled solutions are another We plan to include our newly acquired example of how we are leveraging businesses in our Sustainability Report advancements in technology and data in future years. analytics to help utility customers address 20 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance ECONOMIC IMPACT A comprehensive discussion of Xylem’s 2017 financial performance can be found in our U.S. SEC 10-K filing beginning on page 29. 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (GAAP) Revenue Operating Operating Net Income Diluted $4.71 Expenses Income $331 Earnings BILLION $4.15 $556 MILLION $1.83 BILLION MILLION PER SHARE (includes cost of goods sold) 2017 KEY FINANCIAL METRICS Capital Research & Dividends Income Tax Assets Total Debt Expenditures Development Paid Expense $6.86 $2.20 $170 $180 $130 $136 BILLION BILLION MILLION MILLION MILLION MILLION 21 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT Xylem is committed to strong and effective corporate governance. We have established governance practices and controls that promote transparency and accountability of management and our Board to our shareholders. Strong governance starts with our highest health, success and financial strength of the governing body, the Xylem Board of Directors, company are being served. The core which is led by our independent Chair. We responsibility of the Board is to exercise its believe having an independent Chair, whose business judgment to act in what the Board sole job is to lead the Board, allows our CEO reasonably believes are the best interests of to focus his time and energy on the strategy Xylem and its shareholders to build longand operations of our company. As of the end term sustainable value. In considering the of 2017, our Board consisted of 10 members, best interests of Xylem and its shareholders, all of whom were independent with the the Board may also consider the effects of exception of our Chief Executive Officer. any action on Xylem’s other stakeholders, including its employees, suppliers, customers Our Board is elected annually by our and communities in which our offices or shareholders to oversee how Xylem’s other facilities are located. employees and management conduct business under the direction of the Chief In 2017, we held 10 Board meetings and Executive Officer and to assure that the 20 Committee meetings to make decisions interests of the shareholders in the long-term on key strategic issues affecting our company. Xylem Board of Directors (l to r): Jerome A. Peribere, former President & CEO of Sealed Air Corporation; Steven R. Loranger, former Chairman, President & CEO of ITT Corporation; Jeanne Beliveau-Dunn, former Vice President & General Manager of Services, Cisco; Sten E. Jakobsson, former President & CEO of ABB AB; Markos I. Tambakeras, Xylem Chairman and former Chairman, President & CEO of Kennametal, Inc.; Robert F. Friel, Chairman, President & CEO of PerkinElmer, Inc.; Patrick K. Decker, President & CEO, Xylem Inc.; Curtis J. Crawford, Ph.D., President & CEO of XCEO, Inc.​; Victoria D. Harker, Chief Financial Officer of TEGNA, Inc.; Surya N. Mohapatra, Ph.D., former Chairman, President & CEO of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 22 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT (Cont’d) Overall, Board and Committee meeting Our Board actively seeks to consider attendance was 96 percent in 2017. diverse candidates for membership on the Board, taking into account diversity in terms Highlights of Xylem’s corporate governance of viewpoints, professional experience, policies are summarized on page 1 of the education and skills as well as race, gender company’s 2018 Proxy Statement as filed and nationality. As part of its annual with the U.S. SEC. process to identify new candidates to join the Board of Directors, the Nominating and Governance Committee considers whether and to what extent a candidate’s attributes and experiences will individually and collectively complement the existing Board, recognizing that Xylem’s business and operations are diverse and global in nature. In 2017, the Board elected Jeanne BeliveauDunn to the Board, bringing the total number of directors to 10. Ms. BeliveauDunn most recently served as Vice President and General Manager of Cisco’s Technical Services, a global organization that supports Cisco’s customers. Our Board considers recommendations for BOARD MEMBER SELECTION Director candidates from many sources, AND EVALUATION including shareholders and third-party search The Board regularly reviews Board size and firms, and uses the same criteria for evaluatcomposition, including diversity and tenure, ing candidates regardless of the source of as well as Committee structure through its the recommendations. The company also Nominating and Governance Committee. provides shareholders with a proxy access This Committee, comprised entirely of right, which permits a shareholder or group independent directors, is responsible for of shareholders meeting certain ownership oversight of the company’s programs on requirements to nominate and include in our sustainability, corporate citizenship, environproxy materials a qualified Director candiment, health and safety, anti-harassment, date to be voted on by the shareholders at business continuity, cyber risk, including the annual shareholder meeting. data privacy and security, and ethics and The Xylem Board of Directors conducts compliance, including anti-corruption and an annual self-assessment to evaluate trade compliance. the effectiveness and performance of the Our Nominating and Governance Board overall and each of our Committees. Committee is responsible for identifying This includes an assessment of the Nomiand recommending qualified director nating and Governance Committee’s work candidates to the Board of Directors. The in overseeing the company’s sustainability Committee seeks candidates who possess program and related activities. In addition, the attributes and experience necessary the Nominating and Governance Committee to provide a broad range of personal also engages an independent third-party characteristics to the Board, including consultant on a periodic basis to meet with diversity, management skills, experience each Board member to assist with the in technology and innovation, global qualitative assessment of the Board. The business experience, and sustainability independent consultant presents its findings experience and commitment. to the full Board and facilitates a robust 23 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT (Cont’d) discussion focusing on opportunities Xylem shareholders and other interested for improvement. The consultant also parties can contact individual Board members provides feedback to individual directors, or the entire Board as a group by submitas applicable. ting an email to Independent.Directors@ xyleminc.com or a letter directed to our BOARD COMMUNICATIONS company’s Corporate Secretary at Xylem Inc., Xylem’s Board of Directors values 1 International Drive, Rye Brook, New York the views of our shareholders and 10573, USA, with a request to forward the believes that building positive letter to the intended recipient or recipients. relationships with our shareholders is critical to our long-term success. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST To help management and the Xylem’s Related Party Transaction Policy Board understand and consider governs the treatment of any transaction the issues that matter most to our or proposed transaction between Xylem shareholders, we regularly engage and its Directors or senior executives. with our shareholders on a range Transactions valued at more than $120,000 of topics related to strategic and involving Directors or its senior executives operational matters as well as are required to be approved by our Board’s sustainability, executive compenNominating and Governance Committee. sation and corporate governance. In 2017, In 2017, there were no related party transacwe also held an Investor and Analyst Day tions that were reportable under U.S. SEC where the company presented and discussed rules and that needed to be approved by the its long-term strategy and financial objectives. Nominating and Governance Committee. While the company’s regular governance Proposed new Board memberships and outreach and investor and analyst days relevant changes in affiliations are reviewed remain key components of the company’s by the Corporate Secretary and the Nomishareholder engagement, the Board views nating and Governance Committee for engagement as a year-round conversation potential conflicts or other concerns. with shareholders about creating long-term sustainable value. Accordingly, the Board BOARD AND EXECUTIVE seeks to build a framework for deep, frequent COMPENSATION and productive conversations with the Our non-employee Director compensation company’s shareholders. program is designed to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable directors Employees are informed of company and to provide equity-based compensation to decisions through regular print and digital align the interests of our directors with those newsletters and memos, as well as town of our shareholders. Each non-employee halls and webcasts. Shareholders and other Director is compensated in two ways: a cash external audiences can learn about Xylem retainer and an equity, stock-based retainer. through webcasts, investor conferences, In 2017, our Board adopted a policy limiting earnings calls, the Xylem website, news the total annual compensation for nonreleases and our company public filings. employee Directors to $750,000. This limit Our Corporate Governance Principles, is inclusive of the value of both the annual Committee Charters and Code of Conduct cash retainer(s) and the grant date fair value are publicly available on our website. of the annual equity award. 24 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT (Cont’d) Xylem’s senior executives are compensated assessment includes feedback gathered from through a combination of base salary, annual the risk-monitoring dashboards completed performance-based incentive compensation by the functional and business leaders, as well and long-term performance-based equity as the results of a survey of the company’s awards, including performance share units, broader top leadership group. restricted stock units and stock options. The Board has delegated responsibility for The target compensation mix for Xylem’s the oversight of certain categories of risks most highly compensated officers is heavily to designated Board Committees that report weighted toward performance-based back to the full Board: compensation. In 2017, 87 percent of • The Audit Committee monitors the CEO compensation and an average of company’s overall risk assessment and 71 percent of compensation for other named risk management program, including executive officers was in the form of annual accounting, controls and financial performance-based incentive compensation disclosures. and long-term performance-based equity awards. This does not include any one-time • The Leadership Development and at-hire awards or grants. Compensation Committee reviews and assesses compensation program risks to Xylem has developed share ownership ensure that our compensation programs guidelines designed to encourage senior balance appropriate business risk and executives and Board members to build rewards without encouraging unnecessary their ownership positions in Xylem’s common or excessive risk-taking behaviors. This stock over time. All of our non-employee Committee also exercises oversight of Directors and senior executives have met risk relating to succession planning for or are on track to meet these guidelines. executive officers, including the CEO. A successful, sustainable company is always • The Nominating and Governance looking ahead. While management has Committee is responsible for overseeing responsibility for managing risk, our Board the company’s sustainability, corporate has responsibility for risk oversight and our citizenship, anti-harassment, environmental, Audit Committee oversees our risk managehealth and safety, business continuity and ment processes and policies. Risk oversight cyber risk programs. This Committee is an ongoing process and inherent in also provides oversight of Xylem’s ethics the company’s strategic and operational and compliance programs, including decision-making. We consider a wide range anti-corruption, anti-harassment and of risk factors that could impact our business, trade compliance. from inflation to information technology interruptions. Xylem’s Board of Directors • The Finance, Innovation and Technology has primary responsibility for overall risk Committee provides oversight of Xylem’s oversight, including the company’s risk technology and innovation strategy. It profile and management controls. An also reviews the company’s capital enterprise-level risk assessment process is spending and financing strategies, and conducted by top executives and reviewed M&A opportunities. by our Board on an annual basis. This 25 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance SUPPLY CHAIN As a company focused on sustainability, we strive to ensure that our suppliers share our values of respect, responsibility, integrity and creativity. ~11,700 Suppliers aren’t simply delivering components, and local warehouse solutions — wherever SUPPLIERS raw materials and other resources; they are necessary and applicable. In 2017, Xylem’s worldwide a reflection of our organization. The major global procurement group led and supported categories for which we depend on suppliers various initiatives to localize sourcing and are motors, castings, fabrications, electronics, manufacturing. These efforts were focused $2.5 polymerics and machining. These products on sites in Calamba, Philippines; Vadodara, BILLION are composed of plastics and metals such as India; and Shenyang, China. Through spent with nickel, copper and aluminum, and we take more than 42 separate projects, we moved suppliers care to ensure that these materials come more than $7.96 million in spending to from reputable sources. local sources. Where possible, our operations rely on local The most significant environmental impacts suppliers to optimize material flow and of our supply chain are the result of goods reduce cost without losing the benefits of transportation and travel. A newly established scale. Our local spend is 71 percent of the relationship with a global travel provider total supplier spend. Non-local suppliers and preferred transportation supply base are requested to provide local supply chain provides us with a platform to optimize our solutions — such as on-site support teams spend, streamline tools and processes and greatly improve the customer experience. A newly established relationship with a global travel Beyond our localization efforts, the followprovider and preferred transportation supply base ing sourcing programs — all implemented provides us with a platform to optimize our spend, in 2017 — are helping reduce Xylem’s streamline tools and processes, and greatly improve environmental impact: the customer experience. 2017 Spending by Region 38% EUROPE 53% NORTH AMERICA 9% EMERGING MARKETS 26 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance SUPPLY CHAIN (Cont’d) • ECOVA energy management program We are also working to help our suppliers consolidates utilities billing and allows become more sustainable. Our green belt Xylem to negotiate extended terms, training program, offered at Xylem’s expense, reduce and eliminate late payments, enables suppliers to learn ways to implement fees and disconnect notifications. environmentally friendly practices alongside Xylem colleagues. The only prerequisite • Green energy goals coincide with our for joining the program is to identify one ECOVA energy management program in project that provides joint benefits to both Xylem’s goal of attaining 100 percent Xylem and the supplier. In addition, we green/renewable energy use at each of offer a water footprint calculation tool to our major facilities. In regulated environhelp critical suppliers identify ways to limit ments where the goal is not directly water consumption. achievable, Xylem is purchasing renewable energy credits to apply as offsets. SUPPLIER CONDUCT Our standard procurement Terms and • Integrated Facilities Management (IFM) Conditions require our suppliers to comply assesses best practices in outsourced with Xylem’s technical and commercial facilities management to consolidate our requirements, as well as all applicable legal supply base while improving service regulations, human and labor rights, and quality and facility maintenance programs. with our Supplier Code of Conduct. In turn, • National account agreements that we expect suppliers to hold their sub-tier increase safety and equipment familiarity suppliers to these same standards. Our and allow transfers of equipment among Supplier Code of Conduct covers expectalocations to optimize utilization across tions of suppliers in the following areas: Xylem’s material handling fleet. • General • Improper contracting ethics payments China Clear Sky Directive • Child labor • Confidential • Forced labor information Air pollution has moved near the top of the political agenda in China, • Hiring and • Supply chain with targets having now been set to reduce pollution in Beijing and transparency employment Tianjin as well as 26 other cities in the country. Detailed instructions practices • Compliance have been issued for everything from installing monitoring stations monitoring • Compensation for car emissions at heavily used junctions to boiler remediation, and working hours • Supplier diversity including the elimination of all coal-fired stoves. Xylem has been able • Health and safety • Harassment to work with its current supply base in the regions covered by the • Environment • Communication Clear Sky Directive to properly assess the necessary steps to meet • Conflict minerals • Human rights environmental, health and safety regulations. and chemical substances 27 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Business Performance SUPPLY CHAIN (Cont’d) We want our suppliers to feel comfortable Audit questionnaires focus on the speaking up when they believe we are acting following areas: in a manner inconsistent with our values. • Environment As part of our new IFM sourcing initiative, for example, we are encouraging suppliers • Health and safety practices to submit improvement opportunities for • Human rights and labor rights Xylem’s efforts to reduce energy, emissions, • Conflict minerals water or waste, and ideas for assisting us • Business continuity planning with our stated goal of solving water. • Facility security SUPPLIER AUDITS CONFLICT MINERALS We expect all suppliers to adhere to our As a manufacturer of heavy industrial global sustainability standards. As part of goods, we use tin, tungsten, tantalum and our procurement process, any new Xylem gold (3TG) in many of our products. For supplier is required to align with our business example, we produce seals that contain standards in terms of product quality, tungsten and electronics that contain tin process capabilities and sustainable and gold. We have worked diligently over actions. We have started implementing an the past three years to comply with U.S. audit process that prioritizes suppliers SEC requirements regarding the sourcing located in countries where human and of these materials. In 2017, we continued labor rights issues could be a concern, and those located in water-stressed areas. utilizing a third-party service provider to Following an in-depth initial audit with a assist us in reviewing our supply chain. new supplier, we conduct selected and We surveyed more than 3,350 in-scope targeted follow-up audits, as well as suppliers and received a 46 percent random audits. response rate. 28 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions OPPORTUNITY One of the most persistent sustainability issues of our time, solving water scarcity, is part of our mission at Xylem. We have the opportunity to develop a smarter way forward through smart water infrastructure solutions powered by cutting-edge technology. Water & Infrastructure Solutions OPPORTUNITY The world’s water challenges continue to grow in scale and intensity seemingly by the day. In 2017, one in nine people across the globe lacked access to clean, safe water. As the demand for water consumption in conjunction with our already expansive increases at a historic pace, freshwater installed base of products. This is important availability is declining due to pollution because it gives us a broader view of the growth, climate change, increased urbancritical areas our clients must address all ization, poor water infrastructure, overuse along the water cycle. With Xylem’s advanced and other factors. Recently, the Union of solutions enabled by technology and data Concerned Scientists issued an alarming analytics, our customers have greater predictenvironmental statistic: Over the past 25 ability and more precise insights to inform years, the amount of freshwater available their decisions about how to quickly and worldwide has fallen by 26 percent per more effectively manage their operations, capita. whether they oversee a utility, an industrial process, a commercial or residential building, We’re at an inflection point, and there is a or agricultural application. This is especially smarter way forward. important for utility customers, many of Xylem is defining the roadmap to a more whom work with constrained budgets while water secure future through the advancement striving to improve service to their own of intelligent, sustainable technologies used customers and protect the environment. Xylem has devoted significant resources in understanding many of the most critical water industry issues of the day and how our customers are currently managing those challenges. We’re committed to bringing together the right portfolio of solutions, leveraging advanced technologies as well as software and data analytics-enabled services to make a significant impact. NON-REVENUE WATER The process of transferring clean, treated water through a clean water network for end-users in the residential or commercial space can be problematic for utilities. One of the most common problems is leakage, which is primarily attributable to aging water infrastructure. Water leaking from aging pipes is wasteful and causes inefficiencies in a utility’s ability to provide clean water supply for communities. This is referred to as real water losses. Theft or hacking of the water supply network is another problem, as well 30 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions OPPORTUNITY (Cont’d) as inaccurate meters, which leads to inaccurate billing. These problems result in apparent losses because the treated water is consumed but not properly accounted or paid for. Our technology and software-enabled solutions can help reduce both real and apparent losses, which can have a significant impact on budget-constrained utilities around the world. MANAGING WASTEWATER AND COMBINED SEWER SYSTEMS Residential households, as well as industrial, commercial and agricultural practices, produce sewage and wastewater that can adversely impact the environment. This wastewater can become a serious issue during storms if wastewater networks do not have the capacity to handle additional stormwater, particularly when a community has a combined sewer system. A combined sewer system collects rainwater runoff, domestic sewage and industrial wastewater all in one pipe. Under normal conditions, all of the wastewater is collected and transported to a wastewater treatment plant for treatment and released to a water body. However, when the volume of this combined stream of wastewater exceeds the capacity of the combined sewer system, such as during heavy rainfall or snowmelt, utilities are often forced to “open the gates,” letting the untreated wastewater run into our rivers, streams and lakes, creating a hazardous environmental situation. Wastewater is also a significant problem in many areas of the world where the population is growing rapidly, and aging facilities operate through old networks in constrained spaces. This is a particular concern for growing cities. Xylem solutions can optimize urban wastewater networks to significantly reduce the risks of environmental damage. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT With only a finite number of watersheds in the world to hold clean drinking water, it is critical to monitor water levels to ensure availability and quality. Traditionally, watershed monitoring has been done manually by workers in boats, which can create safety risks. The process is also highly inefficient as testing can only be done at certain times. Xylem can help customers address both of these challenges through remote monitoring solutions. Combining our wide range of products with our ever-growing technological platform, Xylem is driving systemic change throughout the entire water cycle – not only to better solve for the evolving needs of our customers, but also to play a significant role in helping to solve one of the globe’s most daunting long-term issues. 31 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions CAPABILITIES: LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY TO SOLVE WATER To understand where our business is going, it helps to understand where we’ve been. Since Xylem became an independent company in 2011, our business has generally focused on providing advanced technologies and services related to the management of water and wastewater in a variety of end markets. This meant we were a localized company, on-site inspections. Through technology, for the most part, with a large base of installed we’re changing that line of sight by providproducts across the globe. This has and ing solutions that enable continuous, continues to enable us to maintain relationremote evaluation. ships with water and wastewater treatment One solution that is playing an increasingly facilities and a wide variety of water users pivotal role for utilities is our FlexNet® around the world. That local connection is communications network, which became a significant part of our foundation and a part of our portfolio with the acquisition of differentiates us moving forward. Sensus in 2016. This communications network Today, many of our customers’ monitoring provides Xylem’s customers with the ability products are only used periodically and on to monitor their water network, identify an inefficient, manual basis. Monitoring for problems remotely and quickly, and deploy a variety of parameters often requires personnel to more efficiently solve key water issues, such as leaks that might affect the clean water supply for a community. Greater insight and visibility leads to smarter work, which ultimately means less waste in the water supply. For example, Washington, Indiana, USA, is a small city that is enjoying significant growth. But with growth came the challenge of an aging utility infrastructure that struggled to support the needs of its growing community. 32 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions CAPABILITIES (Cont’d) Washington’s outdated electric and water replaced 4,500 water meters with our own infrastructure made it difficult to track meters SR II® water meters and SmartPoint® 520M or monitor for issues such as water leaks pit set modules. and power outages. City leaders knew that Working together, we were able to provide an advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) a multi-faceted solution to help alleviate solution was the right approach, particularly some very serious pain points for our one that would unify water and electric customer. In the end, our customer is now metering under a single solution while able to spend more time and resources on integrating with the current billing system. taking care of the community it serves. They chose Xylem’s Sensus FlexNet® LEADING INFRASTRUCTURE ANALYTICS communication network and Sensus Xylem augmented its capabilities in 2017 by Analytics to securely collect and transmit taking a close look at how we can disrupt the customer usage data for more accurate traditional ways of managing water infraand efficient billing. With FlexNet, staff are structure and improve the economics of monitoring usage and can report issues to managing water. We’re investing heavily customers in near real time. In addition, in building our Advanced Infrastructure Washington Municipal Utilities replaced Analytics (AIA) platform, which brings 7,500 electric meters with our iCon A™ together a portfolio of advanced techGeneration 3 residential electricity meters nologies to help customers to better and iCONAPX™ electricity meters. In understand the state of their network conjunction with these upgrades, the utility Strengthening Our Technological Approach Through Collaboration As part of Xylem’s strategic agenda to strengthen our technology and innovation capabilities, we recognize the essential nature of open innovation. In late 2016, Xylem joined as a new member of the MIT Industrial Liaison Program and as the first Research Affiliate with Abdul Latif Jameel World Water and Food Security Lab (J-WAFS), a collaborative research center promoting multi-disciplinary research at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), to solve critical challenges in food safety, urban water supply, agriculture and irrigation, and watershed protection. Xylem’s relationship with J-WAFS and the MIT research community has expanded to include three sponsored research projects: investigating new sensing technologies, data analytics and advanced transport methods. Each project includes the engagement of the MIT research community, partnering with faculty and students in the Departments of Mechanical Engineering and Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, as well as numerous subject matter experts within Xylem. These multi-year projects aim to solve critical unknowns in these water technologies, address specific needs for Xylem, and ultimately create value for our customers. Additionally, Xylem is a leading sponsor for the MIT Water Club, a student-led group that hosts events and summits throughout the year, and advances the discussions around water technologies, research and policy. Through this partnership, Xylem also provides sponsorship and mentorship for the MIT Water Innovation Prize. This annual competition invites subject matter experts from Xylem and other industrial partners to mentor startups and research labs as they develop pitches and business plans to compete for $30,000 in prize money for the advancement of research and development of their innovative water technologies. 33 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions CAPABILITIES (Cont’d) infrastructure through condition assessments, EMNET AND VALOR WATER ANALYTICS identify and prioritize problem areas early in EXPAND AIA EXPERTISE the cycle, and allocate resources accordingly Also included in our AIA platform are the to improve their return on investment acquired businesses of EmNet and Valor and extend the life of their assets. This Water Analytics. EmNet provides network technology-​enabled approach can reduce modeling and optimizations solutions that the capital burden that our customers and enable municipalities to manage their urban their communities face. water cycle, including their wastewater and stormwater systems. EmNet’s open architecPURE TECHNOLOGIES LEADING ture platform – BLU-X – provides big data THE AIA PLATFORM analytics in real time, helping solve cities’ Pure Technologies, acquired in early 2018, wastewater and watershed challenges. serves as the foundation of this AIA platform EmNet’s real-time analysis solutions can and furthers Xylem’s disruptive platform indicate when to open and close valves Watch this video of diagnostic, analytics and optimization in the wastewater system, enabling flow detailing the solutions for clean and wastewater networks, to be directed into pipes where capacity as well as critical energy resource infrastrucHomestake ture. Pure’s leadership position in intelligent is available to prevent polluting of waterWater Project, condition assessment and leak detection ways or even buildings. executed by solutions brings Xylem to the forefront of Valor’s core technology is its Hidden Revenue our Pure expertise in addressing the problem of aging Locator, an automated software designed infrastructure to decrease non-revenue to locate forms of revenue loss occurring Technologies water and improve the capital efficiency on a utility’s system of meters from inaccuteam. of our customers’ operations. rate meters to theft. Bringing Valor’s solutions to our customers is another way we are helping utility customers address nonrevenue water and more effectively use their constrained budgets. Adding additional real-time monitoring and actionable insights to Xylem’s portfolio enables us to offer end-to-end solutions to water challenges around the world. Leveraging advanced technologies and data analytics at scale, Xylem is working with customers to make a greater impact on critical water issues. 34 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions APPLICATIONS Our smart technology products and software-enabled solutions are creating a smarter way forward across the globe in the face of some of the world’s most severe water and infrastructure challenges. For example, our Sensus FlexNet communiWater Agency, a network of sensors cations network provides customers with connected to Visenti’s analytics platform real-time monitoring across their water has been installed in the water supply network to quickly diagnose problems and network system to help Singapore monitor enhance their operational efficiency. in real-time the water quality, water flow and water pressure in its water supply network. As an example, we’re working with Zhenjiang This has enabled PUB to respond faster to Waterworks Company, a large Chinese any anomalies detected and mitigate the water utility, on a pilot project to help solve potential impact to PUB’s operations and Zhenjiang’s non-revenue water challenges. water supply to its customers. The project includes a suite of Xylem’s water management technologies, including PRODUCT APPLICATIONS advanced water treatment, water monitoring, 2017 witnessed some of the most intelligent water metering and smart water devastating natural weather events on platform. The agreement also includes record, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma Xylem’s Visenti-branded smart water network and Maria, and severe flooding in India, management system and software for Nepal and Bangladesh. Natural disasters monitoring the 19-kilometer main pipeline are a severe pain point for many of Xylem’s near Jinxi Water Plant, 7-kilometer subcustomers and they exact a huge economic, pipelines in Taoyuan village of Zhenjiang social and environmental toll on individuals and evaluating the risks of a 3-kilometer and communities. pipeline at Mengxi Road. Xylem is taking a leadership role in helping In 2017, our Visenti business successfully communities prepare for water-related completed installations in Singapore, the challenges and disasters. This is the purpose Middle East, Australia and Europe. In fact, of Building Resilience: Creating Strong and Visenti’s analytics platform powers two of Sustainable Cities and Communities, a the world’s largest smart water network report published by Xylem in 2017. It deployments. For PUB, Singapore’s National outlines 35 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions APPLICATIONS (Cont’d) Read here about how we’re putting our smart water expertise to use in the wake of natural disasters. the challenges communities face as they reuse in the safest, most cost-effective anticipate, prepare for, respond to and way. In 2017, the Terminal Island Water recover from natural disasters and environReclamation Plant expansion was completed mental challenges. Through a variety of case and now purifies and recycles more than studies, the report illustrates how advanced 12 million gallons of water per day for technologies can help communities ensure beneficial use. water security, strengthen critical infraTURNKEY WASTEWATER APPLICATIONS structure, drive response and recovery, When disaster strikes, Xylem has the solutions and engage community stakeholders to to help communities recover quickly and build resilience. sustainably. For instance, following an historic Water reuse, or recycled water, can help 16 inches of rainfall in Memphis, Tennessee, meet growing water demands, particularly that eroded the soil supporting a 96-inch in the wake of droughts. Xylem’s advanced sewer main carrying wastewater, Xylem water reuse solutions produce high-quality installed a turnkey bypass solution to mainpotable water at a lower life-cycle cost than tain sewer services. The project included developing a new water supply, with valuable the construction of a 2,400-foot-long, environmental benefits. In 2015, Xylem was 40-foot-wide road through swampland to commissioned to deliver a unique water access the site. A team of nearly 200 Xylem reuse system as part of Los Angeles’ Terminal engineers, along with Memphis Public Works Island Water Reclamation Plant expansion. and contractor personnel, completed the Xylem’s Wedeco MiPRO photo Advanced bypass in just six days. Oxidation Process (AOP) was selected to Helping our utility customers bring safe, ensure that the purified water complies clean water to end-users through a variety with California’s stringent groundwater of Xylem’s treatment technologies continues recharge regulations for indirect potable to be an important priority. Xylem’s ultraviolet (UV) disinfection solutions employ leading-edge technology to help mitigate increasing contaminants in the earth’s water supply. Xylem partnered with the City of Columbus, Ohio, in 2017 to deliver our disinfection solutions for two of the city’s major drinking water plants. The energy-efficient UV technologies serve as an additional treatment barrier for Cryptosporidium – a dangerous chlorine-resistant parasite – in each facility to ensure safe, reliable, affordable drinking water for the residents of Columbus. We also partnered with the City of West Palm Beach on a similar project, installing our Wedeco-branded UV treatment technology, which will deliver safe, clean drinking water for 110,000 Floridians. 36 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Water & Infrastructure Solutions PRODUCT EFFICIENCIES Roughly 98 percent of the environmental impact of water pumps and mixers is related to energy consumption in the usage phase. More efficient products can positively impact our customers’ environmental footprint. Even small gains in efficiency over time can have a tremendous impact during a product’s lifetime. Our product development process includes a Our Vitality Index — the percentage of total step in which we evaluate new products from sales from products launched in the last five a sustainability perspective — considering years — is another key product efficiency recyclability, use of less harmful materials, indicator. We increased our Vitality Index energy efficiency and other factors. By 2020 goal from 25 percent to 30 percent considering sustainability early in the design following the acquisition of Sensus in 2016, phase, we are better positioned to create and we’re pleased with our progress toward products that are more energyand costthat goal. At the end of 2017, the Vitality efficient to manufacture and operate — Index was 24 percent, up 5 percent from something that is not always possible later 2016. Improving our Vitality Index is not in the process. only an indicator of how well we are meeting customer needs, it also means we’re In 2017, the average efficiency of product successfully selling products that are more lines was 61.4 percent, slightly up from sustainable, as new products are almost 61.2 percent in 2016. Our 2017 performance always more energy-efficient. represents a 2.8 percent improvement since 2012. We’re constantly looking to create new products that set the industry standard in efficiency. In 2017, we unveiled a new series of dewatering pumps under our Godwin brand. The Godwin S Series Dri-Prime pump reduces emissions by 90 percent and fuel consumption by 10 percent. Furthermore, in an industry first, it can be monitored and controlled from any smartphone, tablet or desktop computer, anywhere in the world. The new Godwin series also features Xylem’s unique Flygt N-Technology for more efficient wastewater transport. The pump offers self-cleaning capability and sustained hydraulic efficiency. Godwin S Series Dri-Prime Pump 37 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact OPPORTUNITY With over 350 facilities in more than 50 countries, we have the opportunity to reduce our environmental impact on the planet by doing more with less. That’s why we’ve set lofty goals in terms of operational impact, and we’re well on our way to achieving each of them. Operational Impact EH&S OVERVIEW The end use of Xylem products is to promote sustainable water management, but we’re equally committed to optimizing the efficient manufacturing of our products. To help us manage and continuously improve the sustainability of our own environmental footprint, we have set five-year goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste to landfill. We’re making good progress toward these goals with the help of a cloud-based EH&S software solution. This system assists us in tracking our progress in reducing our environmental footprint. It enables us to establish our baseline, and identify trends in consumption, costs and emissions. We utilize this system to identify conservation opportunities via our Treasure Hunts and Energy Audits, and estimate cost and resource savings. Finally, the system enables us to track progress in specific projects, including cost and savings, and to share best practices across the organization. Xylem also holds itself to the high standards required for ISO and OHSAS certification. Several of our global manufacturing sites meet ISO 14001 standards for environmental management, ISO 50001 for energy management and/or OHSAS standards for health and safety management. We are proud of this achievement as it demonstrates our commitment to transparency in our operations. Xylem investigates all significant incidents occurring at our sites and completes root cause analysis to identify and prevent recurrence of the causes of the incidents. XYLEM 2019 OPERATIONAL GOALS (2014 Baseline) 20% 25% 20% 100% REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN REDUCTION IN REGULATORY GHG EMISSIONS WATER INTENSITY WASTE TO COMPLIANCE INTENSITY LANDFILL At all manufacturing/service sites 39 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact EH&S OVERVIEW (Cont’d) In addition, we discuss incidents in a variety In 2017, Xylem had zero environmental of forums, including town halls and operanotices of non-compliance or fines. We tional reviews, and all incidents are reviewed experienced 14 minor spills at our facilities with site teams, which include plant managresulting in a collective 150.5 gallons of fluid ers, general managers, supervisors and EHS spilled, and two minor spills at customer sites globally. These reviews provide the site resulting in a collective 101.3 gallons of teams with additional prevention and fluid spilled. None of these incidents were response education. reportable to local authorities. One of our sustainability goals is to record PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE zero regulatory compliance notices of We believe that we have a responsibility to violation at manufacturing and service sites. help mitigate the effects of climate change, Achieving this goal will enable us to meet which is why we adhere to the precautionour compliance obligation, while also ary principle. This means that even in the minimizing the reputational or financial risk absence of scientific consensus, we will associated with permit violations at our sites. avoid actions or policies that we believe could cause harm to the health of people or the planet. ISO 14001-CERTIFIED SITES SALES AND DISTRIBUTION MANUFACTURING SITES SERVICE FACILITIES CENTERS Buenos Aires, Herford, Germany Shenyang, China Austria (3 sites) Emmaboda, Sweden Argentina Hoddesdon, UK Stara Tura, Slovakia Ireland (2 sites) Calamba,Philippines Laatzen, Germany Strzelin, Poland Norway (9 sites) Cegled, Hungary OFFICES Ludwigsburg, Vadodara, India Sweden (12 sites) Schaffhausen, Switzerland Chihuahua, Mexico Germany Yellow Springs, United Kingdom Sundbyberg, Sweden Emmaboda, Sweden Montecchio, Italy Ohio, USA (11 sites) Essen, Germany Nanjing, China OHSAS 18001-CERTIFIED SITES SALES AND DISTRIBUTION MANUFACTURING SITES SERVICE FACILITIES CENTERS Calamba,Philippines Hoddesdon, UK Nanjing, China Ireland Emmaboda, Sweden Emmaboda, Sweden Laatzen, Germany Shenyang, China United Kingdom Essen, Germany Ludwigsburg, Stara Tura, Slovakia Germany OFFICES Herford, Germany Vadodara, India Schaffhausen, Switzerland ISO 50001-CERTIFIED SITES MANUFACTURING SITES Laatzen, Germany Ludwigshafen, Shenyang, China Germany 40 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact ENERGY & EMISSIONS Electricity consumption is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with our operations. By inspiring our global sites to make reductions in energy use and increase investments in renewable energy, we aim to lower our GHG emissions intensity levels. We’re making significant progress, from find opportunities to reduce energy use, XYLEM GOAL identifying our highest-emitting activities to costs and greenhouse gas emissions engaging employees across our company related to energy. to adopt a more energy-efficient mindset — 20% all of which will help move us closer to Many of these opportunities are lowor REDUCTION IN no-cost improvements and relatively easy achieving our GHG intensity goal. GHG EMISSIONS to implement, such as the installation of INTENSITY Some of our most successful initiatives to more efficient lighting and mechanical BY 2019 engage employees in energy-reduction systems, ovens, motors, belts and drives, efforts have been “Energy Treasure Hunts” fans and pumps, refrigeration systems and at selected facilities. During these events, office equipment. Treasure Hunts have cross-functional teams of employees been conducted at 31 Xylem sites around identify possible day-to-day energythe world, starting with our highest efficiency improvements. The goal is to resource-consuming facilities. In 2017, we began using Eco Project Deck, a software that allows us to track all projects from Treasure Hunts, from the simple to the most complex. Through Eco Project Deck, we’ve determined that our energy Treasure Hunts have led to 128 recommended projects, 66 percent of which are underway. Through 2017, the projects are expected to avert 800 tons of CO2 emissions and save 955,000 kilowatt hours. We also estimate a reduction of 3,000 liters of liquid fuels and 2,000 cubic meters of natural gas. Xylem corporate office with LED lighting. 41 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact ENERGY & EMISSIONS (Cont’d) RENEWABLE ENERGY from using paints that contain volatile One of the simplest ways to reduce our organic compounds (VOCs) and toward overall GHG emissions is through the water-based painting systems in our purchase of renewable or “green” energy operations. Where this is not possible, credits and renewable energy. As of we are generally destroying VOCs or year-end 2017, 57 Xylem manufacturing using materials with lower VOC content. facilities and sales offices purchase renew2017 ENERGY & EMISSIONS able electricity – up from 23 in 2016. PERFORMANCE Combined, these sites purchased 15,024 Our energy and emissions reduction CO2-equivalent metric tons in renewable initiatives resulted in a 7.6 percent decrease energy, electricity and gas during 2017, a in GHG emissions intensity from 2016 to 57 percent increase over the previous year. 2017. This represents a nearly 18.7 percent In addition to purchasing renewable electricity, decrease from our 2014 baseline. A signifiour sales office in the Netherlands offsets its cant driver of our progress over the past natural gas consumption through certified couple of years has been the increase in green natural gas credits. Through the Gold renewable energy credit purchases. Standard Foundation’s Fairtrade Carbon In 2017, Xylem engaged ERM-CVS, an Credit program, companies such as Xylem independent certification and verification are able to invest in green energy; increase provider, to conduct assurance of the environthe resilience of producer groups to the mental metrics contained within our EHS negative impacts of climate change; and metrics system. ERM-CVS provided an help provide a more sustainable future for assurance statement for total direct energy communities through diversifying commuuse, total indirect energy use, total direct nity income streams, teaching new skills and GHG emissions, total indirect GHG emissions, creating local employment. and total water withdrawal. Read the We remain committed to reducing air quality assurance statement from ERM-CVS. emissions. We are working to move away 42 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact ENERGY & EMISSIONS (Cont’d) Emissions Intensity* Total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity** 2016 2017 (metric tons CO2 equivalent/annual revenues in millions USD) Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity 19.92 19.25 Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity, Net of Renewable Energy 17.36 16.04 Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline 12.0% 18.7% *Values in this table have been restated. **A normalized metric based on annual revenues to allow for a consistent year-over-year comparison that is not impacted by acquisitions, divestitures, employee turnover and the like. Direct and Indirect Emissions* Level Definition 2016 2017 Scope 1 Direct GHG Emissions; those that come from sources owned 35,105 37,325 or controlled by Xylem Scope 2 Indirect Emissions; those resulting from the offsite generation of 39,893 53,258 electricity, heating and cooling, or steam by third-party providers and purchased by Xylem Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Due to Business Travel 7,755 9,425** *Values in this table have been restated. **Increase due to 20% increase in air travel emissions and Xylem’s use of hotels now included in the calculation Scope 1 Emissions* Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions by Type 2016 2017 (metric tons CO2 equivalent) Natural Gas Used 9,774 12,539 Stationary Source Gaseous Propane 1 3 Stationary Source Liquid Propane 377 524 Stationary Source Fuel Oil 713 1,577 Cryogenic CO2 0.2 1.3 Refrigerant Use 267 519 Total Stationary GHG Emission 11,132 15,164 Mobile Source Gasoline 869 791 Mobile Source Diesel 23,043 21,321 Mobile Source Liquid Propane 61 48 Total Mobile GHG Emissions 23,973 22,161 Total Direct GHG Emissions 35,105 37,325 *Values in this table have been restated. 43 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact ENERGY & EMISSIONS (Cont’d) Scope 2 Emissions* Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions by Type 2016 2017 (metric tons CO2 equivalent) Purchased Electricity 39,116 51,635 Purchased Heat 778 1,623 Total Indirect GHG Emissions 39,893 53,258 *Values in this table have been restated. Energy Consumption* Direct Energy† by Type (Megawatt hours — MWh) 2016 2017 Renewable Electricity Generated 1 112 115 Natural Gas Used 2 53,919 69,173 Stationary Source Gaseous Propane3 7 16 Stationary Source Liquid Propane4 1,799 2,504 Stationary Source Fuel Oil 5 2,829 6,260 Total Stationary Energy Usage 58,666 78,069 Mobile Source Gasoline 3,305 3,011 Mobile Source Diesel 85,656 79,255 Mobile Source Liquid Propane 6 2 2 Total Mobile Energy Usage 88,964 82,268 Total Direct Energy Usage (Stationary + Mobile) 147,630 160,336 Indirect Energy§ by Type (Megawatt hours — MWh) Purchased Electricity 130,900 160,634 Purchased Heat 2,527 4,959 Total Indirect Energy Usage 133,427 165,593 Total Energy Consumption (Megawatt hours — MWh) Consumption (Megawatt hours — MWh) 281,056 325,929 * Values in this table have been restated. † Natural gas, diesel fuel oil, gasoline, propane gas and renewable sources used in our facilities and/or by company cars and service trucks. § Electricity and heat purchased from energy companies that use various fossil, renewable and non-fossil energy sources to produce and provide these energy products. 1 Correction of 2016 reporting errors 2 Adjustment of 2016 reporting (estimated versus actual number from invoices) 3 Correction of 2016 reporting error at one facility – incorrect conversion from kilogram to ft3 4 Correction of 2016 reporting errors with Mobile LPG 5 Correction of 2016 reporting error with Mobile Source Diesel 6 Correction of 2016 reporting errors with Stationary LPG Air Emissions 2016 2017 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions (metric tons) 90 91 44 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact WATER Managing water consumption is a top priority for Xylem. In 2017, we signed the CEO Water Mandate. This UN Global Compact initiative mobilizes business leaders on water, sanitation and the Sustainable Development Goals. Endorsers of the CEO Water Mandate • The Global Water Tool, developed by the XYLEM GOAL commit to continuous progress against six World Business Council for Sustainable core elements of water stewardship, and in Development, is used to determine which doing so, better understand and manage Xylem sites are located in water-stressed or 25% their own risks. In addition to our large-scale water-scarce areas; this tool is being used REDUCTION IN manufacturing processes, rather routine tasks at manufacturing sites, sales and service WATER INTENSITY that occur at hundreds of locations around facilities and large office-only facilities. BY 2019 the world also require the use of water. These • Tools to help decrease water use across activities include the use of water tanks to test our supply chain, including a water products after repair and at high-pressure footprint calculation tool and a pilot washing stations where we clean products sustainability audit program for suppliers coming back from customer sites. The scale in water-stressed basins. and variety of these activities means that the solutions for reducing our usage are not oneCapital investments also can make a size-fits-all. For example, at some facilities difference in water conservation techniques. we have begun to collect rainwater for use At our Montecchio Maggiore site in Italy, in test tanks and use recycled water for for example, we closed the water loop for landscaping and sanitation. process and condition cooling through a new chiller instead of using groundwater. We have a number of tools at our disposal The new chiller helped achieve a reduction to help us limit our water consumption: in water consumption of 50 percent. • The Eco Project Deck is now being used at all of our facilities to identify areas for improvement. Water Usage* 2016 2017 Total Water Withdrawal (megaliters) 365.6 414.5 Water Intensity (megaliters/annual revenues in millions USD) 0.0971 0.0881 Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline 8.1% 16.7% Water Reuse* 2016 2017 Total Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (megaliters) 19.3 15.7 Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused 5.3% 3.8% (total water recycled and reused/total water withdrawal) Wastewater Treatment* 2016 2017 Wastewater Treated and Released1 (megaliters) 52.4 90.3 * Values in this table have been restated. 1 Correction of 2016 reporting errors based on the definition of treatment. 45 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact WATER (Cont’d) MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT • Strzelin, Poland: HydroInfinity will enable WITH OUR OWN PRODUCT us to improve the quality of water we are We also are utilizing one of our own new using to test pumps. We will use rainwaproducts, HydroInfinity, at our own facilities, ter treated with the HydroInfinity for tank especially those located in water-stressed refilling, which will decrease our environareas. HydroInfinity uses patented technology mental footprint by saving approximately to treat contaminated water, chemical-free 300,000 liters of water per year, which to independently verified drinking water is about 7 percent of our total water standard. Electronic sensors and remote consumption at the site . monitoring enables continuous monitoring • Chihuahua, Mexico: HydroInfinity will be of the water quality. adapted to support water treatment in In Cape Town, South the sanitation process for pumps that Africa, where the water are supplied to a beverage company, shortage problem has reducing water usage by at least 370 cubic reached near-catastrophic meters to 455 cubic meters per year. level, we installed an 2017 WATER PERFORMANCE effluent water source point Our water-reduction initiatives resulted in a on the premises and have 9.3 percent decrease in water intensity from completed the installation 2016 to 2017. This is a 16.7 percent decrease of storage tanks, a Xylem from our 2014 baseline. Additional 2017 Lowara pump and pipewater-reduction projects include the work on site. In addition, installation of a dry cooling system at our HydroInfinity Clean Water System two 5,000-liter vertical Montecchio, Italy, plant; eliminating water tanks for rainwater harvesting have been leakage at our Slaton, Texas, plant; and the installed. As water scarcity intensified, we sale and closure of two manufacturing connected the HydroInfinity unit, which facilities. And at our global manufacturing treats water with UV and ozone technology, facility in Emmaboda, Sweden, we’ve for distribution of water for staff, and to reduced water consumption by 33,000 save purified water for possible timeframes cubic meters (m3) per year, or 30 percent, when water is cut. Water consumption at since the installation of two reversible heat the Cape Town office dropped by 2 cubic pumps connected to three hardening meters in just one month. The aim is to machines. We continue to work toward further reduce consumption by 10 cubic our goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction meters by the middle of 2018. in water intensity by 2019. An ongoing In addition, we also installed a HydroInfinity challenge is to identify tangible waterat our Hoddesdon, UK, facility. Here, the reduction initiatives that can be deployed HydroInfinity system is being used to across our many facilities where water use provide drinking water to the plant’s 140 varies greatly. employees, reducing the facility’s reliance Xylem also recognizes the risk caused by on municipal water. neglecting wastewater management. All Moving forward, we have plans to install Xylem sites meet or exceed national, local HydroInfinity systems in a variety of Xylem and our own requirements for the return facilities around the world . Here are a few of clean and safe wastewater back into examples of our future installations: public water streams. To help meet these standards, a number of our manufacturing • Montecchio, Italy: We look to harvest sites have installed onsite wastewater rainwater with the HydroInfinity system to treatment systems. In 2017, we treated pump into the plant, saving approximately and released over 90.3 megaliters back 3,000 cubic meters per year in municipal into the environment. water usage. 46 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact MATERIALS & WASTE Xylem has already met its 2019 goal for waste less to landfills and incinerators. Total waste XYLEM GOAL reduction. Even though we’ve reached our decreased 14.1 percent from 2016 to 2017 2019 goal, we are continuing to focus on and we recorded a 9.3 percent decrease reducing waste generation through Lean Six in total hazardous waste. We have reduced 20% Sigma initiatives and other practices that waste to landfill by 41.8 percent against REDUCTION IN eliminate scrap and waste from our operaour 2014 baseline. WASTE TO LANDFILL tions. When we do need to dispose of waste, BY 2019 we work with our waste contractors to direct ACHIEVED more of it toward recycling and reuse, and Waste Management* Waste by Type and Disposal Method (metric tons) 2016 2017 Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled 25,495 21,780 Non-Hazardous Waste to Non-Landfill1 2,176 1,373 Non-Hazardous Waste to Landfill 2,891 3,030 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 30,562 26,183 Hazardous Waste Recycled 293 259 Hazardous Waste to Non-Landfill2 1,004 846 Hazardous Waste to Landfill 98 160 Total Hazardous Waste 1,395 1,265 Total Waste Recycled 25,788 22,039 Total Waste to Non-Landfill 3,180 2,219 Total Waste to Landfill 2,989 3,190 Total Waste 31,957 27,448 Percentage Decrease Relative to 2014 Baseline 41.4% 41.8% *Values in this table have been restated 1 Requalification of waste to non-landfill 2 Requalification of waste to non-landfill 47 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Operational Impact MATERIALS & WASTE (Cont’d) Carbide Tools Recycling Recycling of carbide tools is both environmentally beneficial and profitable. Making new tools from recycled solid carbide requires 70 percent less energy than making them from virgin raw materials. Because these raw materials are scarce and finite, and because carbide tools are widely used in our production for metal cutting operations, Xylem’s Montecchio, Italy, manufacturing facility made carbide recycling a priority in 2017. Our approach for improvement involves several steps: • Xylem is installing collection points within the plant • Roles and responsibilities for workers in helping to facilitate the recycling process have been determined • Training of our workers across the facility is well underway To date, 17 workers have been trained for carbide recycling. We’re already seeing the benefit. In the first month of implementation, the total volume of carbide tools collected doubled. Through internal cross-functional collaboration at the plant, carbide recycling is now a standard procedure for everyone at Montecchio. 48 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People OPPORTUNITY Xylem’s 16,000+ employees are the backbone of our success, and we have the opportunity to help each member of our workforce realize his or her full potential by further developing a world-class culture. Xylem People GLOBAL WORKFORCE As we evolve to a more technology-driven values diversity, recognizes and rewards business to meet our customers’ smart talent, develops skills for tomorrow’s water needs on a global scale, collaborachallenges and fosters good health and tion among our workforce throughout the well-being. world is more important than ever before. The majority of our workforce is employed As an organization, our future success will in manufacturing, product management, not be driven by any one business, but customer service and engineering positions. rather a diverse set of technology-driven The remainder fills leadership, management, solutions, strong brands and talent that business-building and support roles in come together as one company. Even still, finance, sales and marketing, IT, human our core principles remain the same. We resources and legal. take pride in cultivating a culture that 2017 EMPLOYEE POPULATION PROFILE AGE GROUP MINORITY GROUP GENDER As a Percentage of As a Percentage of As a Percentage of U.S. Employees U.S. Employees Global Employees AfricanAsianMinority <30 30-50 >50 American Hispanic American Other Female Male Employee Categories Top Management 0.0% 1.3% 1.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.1% 0.33% 1.01% Middle Management 0.2% 6.7% 6.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.5% 0.2% 2.97% 13.53% Non-Management 9.6% 38.8% 36.0% 6.1% 7.4% 4.9% 1.0% 21.7% 60.46% Total 9.8% 46.8% 43.4% 6.6% 8.1% 5.6% 1.3% 25.0% 75.0% WORKFORCE PROFILE 16,200 350+ 17% EMPLOYEES GLOBAL U.S. EMPLOYEES LOCATIONS REPRESENTED BY UNIONS 25% 150+ 24% WOMEN AS A COUNTRIES TOP MANAGEMENT PERCENTAGE WHERE XYLEM POSITIONS HELD OF TOTAL PRODUCTS BY WOMEN WORKFORCE ARE SOLD EMPLOYEES BY REGION 38% 16% 46% AMERICAS ASIA, MIDDLE EUROPE EAST AND AFRICA 50 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT In order to achieve our strategic goals for solving water, it is essential that our employees share ideas, feel conviction and passion in their daily jobs and enable us to operate with speed and efficiency for our customers. It’s why we’re passionate about continuing to organizations. In 2017, we took the next build a Xylem culture — a “One Company” step, issuing a global employee survey approach — across our family of brands and requesting feedback on Xylem’s culture. hundreds of locations around the globe. Engagement in the survey confirmed what Engagement begins by listening to our we already knew to be true: we have a employees and surveys are a key tool. We passionate workforce. We were pleased to use both large-scale surveys and small receive an 85 percent response rate to the pulse surveys in our various business units survey. Well over 13,000 employees engaged and geographic markets. Feedback is vital in the survey, including an impressive turnto our continuous improvement as a out among the roughly 4,000 colleagues at company, building on Xylem’s strengths our manufacturing and service facilities and taking action on issues that might be who filled out paper surveys. holding us back. Following the 2016 We gleaned some key findings from the acquisition of Sensus, we conducted survey and our leadership team is listening high-level assessments with the integration closely to both what we’re doing well and leadership team on cultural similarities, opportunities for improvement. Among differences and gaps between the two the areas that our employees cited us as doing well: • Doing what’s right: Xylem employees are confident in the company’s commitment to employee safety and ethical decisions and conduct. • Building a continuous improvement culture: Xylem employees feel the company learns from our mistakes, is willing to confront and solve problems, and that we come up with new or better ways to get work done. 51 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (Cont’d) • Job satisfaction: Xylem employees are • Involving colleagues from across the confident that their work makes good use organization in designing an action plan of their skills and competencies and is that is both robust and realistic contributing to our strategic goals. They • Communicating regularly with employees also reported positive feedback regardon our approach and progress ing knowing what is expected of them each day and having freedom to use At a local level, managers are sharing survey personal judgment to get the job done. results with their teams to encourage rich dialogue at every level of the organization Our greatest area of opportunity, according on what the results mean and what resonates to employees, is acting as one company. most for particular Xylem employees. We This is why we are so focused in 2018 on expect to conduct a global employee creating a consistent and collaborative engagement survey every 18 to 24 months culture. Our future success depends heavily in order to establish a regular rhythm upon growing as a company in this key of obtaining feedback and assessing area. A significant portion of our Global our progress . Leaders Meeting, held in November 2017, was devoted to this topic. At the enterprise ATTRACTING TALENT AND level, we’ve already prioritized specific focus RECOGNIZING PERFORMANCE areas for improvement and our approach Attracting and retaining the best employees is guided by several principles: is fundamental to our success, and as we evolve into more of a technology-oriented • A commitment to focus on the highestcompany, we’re competing for talent more impact items that are affecting colleagues broadly. To support our efforts, we centralacross the company ized talent acquisition activities in 2017 into a new Talent Acquisition Center of Excellence, which brings together our North American business recruiters under one leader. Globally, we are implementing a new applicant tracking system that streamlines the process for both internal and external candidates, the hiring managers, the HR team and the talent acquisition team. Xylem takes a total rewards approach to attracting, motivating and retaining talented colleagues worldwide. Our total rewards philosophy integrates programs for compensation, benefits, recognition and work-life balance. While individual program components may differ by country, job role or level, our culture and commitment to results remain constant. We also encourage our managers to conduct Stay Interviews with their direct reports. The concept of a Stay Interview is to maintain open lines of communication related to individual employee satisfaction and engagement to provide real-time feedback. 52 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (Cont’d) DIVERSITY & INCLUSION AT XYLEM In 2017, Xylem launched its first employee Diversity in all its forms allows us to compete affinity group, the Emerging Leaders Network more effectively around the world and drive (ELN), which is an internal, self-governed exceptional customer satisfaction, innovation network designed to enable skills and and company performance. We are knowledge development, and professional committed to reflecting the diversity of networking to drive their success at Xylem. the communities where we live and work, The network offers an online platform for and the customers we serve. Among our employees to interact, rotating webinars executive ranks, 85 percent are local covering content tailored to mid-career nationals. With operations in more than professionals, internal and external volunteer 150 countries, we believe in the power of activities, and in-person events held in an environment where everyone feels conjunction with meetings and conferences. involved, respected, valued and connected… By the end of 2017, two ELN groups were an environment where everyone is free to active with more than 40 participants: one bring their authentic selves and ideas. in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, and one in the Company’s headquarters office in Rye We view diversity as key to leadership Brook, New York. The ELN continues to development. When selecting participants grow and develop in other locations and for internal development programs, we we will continue to encourage the organic ensure that groups are balanced across a formation of other affinity groups as we number of factors including gender, ethnicity, continue to cultivate an inclusive culture. tenure and function with the company, We also launched a Women of Xylem geography and more. We have also built Resource Group with active local chapters concepts such as inclusion and leveraging in several locations. of differences into our training programs for top leaders. It is our policy to ensure equal employment, advancement opportunity, incentives and discipline without distinction or discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, race, gender identity, age, religious or political beliefs, disability, sexual orientation, protected veteran status or other protected classifications. In addition, as a U.S. Government contractor, Xylem is committed to taking affirmative action to hire and advance minorities, women, qualified individuals with disabilities and covered veterans. In 2017, the ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category in the U.S. was 98 percent average for non-exempt employees and 95 percent average for exempt employees. 53 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People TALENT DEVELOPMENT Developing the skills and capabilities of our people is a key part of our strategic priority to build a world-class workforce. We offer a variety of ways to support our employees’ professional growth, and continuous training is a key part of this effort. Talent development at Xylem is grounded The purpose of these programs is to provide in frameworks of integrated talent managea platform for collaborative review and ment and our Connect, Perform, Grow (CPG) development of employee results against approach. CPG creates a platform for our goals, objectives and outcomes, advanced people to facilitate regular feedback goals as well as employee behavior and throughout the year. competencies. We strive to ensure that these goals and objectives are aligned with Xylem’s strategic and operational objectives. It’s not a one-time exercise; ongoing development guides employees through every stage of their careers at Xylem. TRAINING FOR EVERY PHASE OF THE EMPLOYEE LIFE CYCLE Employee training is offered through a segmented approach to development focused in three areas: early-in-career, managers and supervisors, and leadership. Through this approach, we ensure that training for our employees never stops during their Xylem journey. In recent years, Xylem has placed a particular emphasis on implementing a number of early-in-career programs that target young professionals. We classify these programs into two groups: entry-level programs and fellowship programs. 2017 TRAINING BY THE NUMBERS 79,000 182,000 19% 347 520 HOURS OF HOURS TOP MANAGERS EMPLOYEES IN-PERSON AND COMPLETED MANAGEMENT COMPLETED COMPLETED WEB-BASED IN LEARNING INTERNAL CAREER LEADING FOR TRAINING MANAGEMENT PROMOTION FRAMEWORKS CONTINUOUS HOURS SYSTEM RATE TRAINING IMPROVEMENT TRAINING 54 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People TALENT DEVELOPMENT (Cont’d) ENTRY-LEVEL PROGRAMS assignment with job-specific training and Our Engineering Leadership Development the opportunity to transition into new roles Program (ELDP) targets recent university at the end of the program. Approximately graduates with a passion for technology 12 participants are selected per year. and engineering to partake in a rotational FELLOWSHIP PROGRAMS program, which includes three different Our Strategy Fellows program targets eight-month assignments, including access high-potential early-in-career employees to senior mentors, skills development who have a passion for leadership and programs and an end-of-program presenstrategy to partake in a year-long program tation to senior leaders. Approximately nine with trainings in global locations, group participants are selected per year. and individual strategy projects, access to The Operations Leadership Development senior mentors, and an end-of-program Program (OLDP) targets recent university presentation to senior leaders. Approximately graduates with a passion for operations 15 participants are selected per year. and manufacturing to participate in a Additionally, our Innovation & Technology rotational program, which includes three Fellows Program targets high-potential one-year assignments in roles intended to early-in-career employees who have a stretch the participants capabilities, includpassion for engineering and technology ing the opportunity for an international to partake in a year-long program with assignment and an end-of-program presentrainings in global locations, a group tation to senior leaders. Approximately six project, access to senior mentors, and an participants are selected per year. end-of-program presentation to senior leaders. Approximately 15 participants are Finally, our Customer Solutions Center selected for this program per year. (CSC), based in Charlotte, North Carolina, targets recent university graduates with a TRAINING FOR MANAGERS passion for sales and application AND SUPERVISORS engineering to partake in a two-year Our Manager Development Program (MDP) is designed to help people managers cultivate and strengthen leadership skills and develop a network of peers across the organization. The MDP focuses on leadership and skill training in three core areas: self-development, team development and organizational development. The program consists of an in-person kickoff for groups of 25 participants, followed by a 12-month blended learning curriculum. It includes virtual online learning, webinars with senior leaders (called Leader-led Discussions), virtual teamwork activities and two consecutive Manager as Coach programs. As with all Xylem training, active learning is an important part of this program. We don’t just teach models; we provide opportunities for participants to practice the skills we are teaching. 55 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People TALENT DEVELOPMENT (Cont’d) As individuals settle into their roles at Xylem, manager development program called we continue to develop their knowledge “Eagle and Seagull” is designed to develop and talents through online learning and retain high potential managers, and to courses available via our Learning build a sustainable talent pool. Three cohorts Management System. have completed this program since 2015 with a total of 56 participants. Of these Around the world, we are providing our participants, more than 20 have moved colleagues with additional educational on to new and expanded roles with some opportunities. Across the company earning multiple role expansions. globally, our sales teams are participating in the instructor-led programs called TRAINING FOR LEADERS “The Counselor Salesperson (CSP)” and The Executive Development Program is an “Coaching the Counselor Salesperson in-depth program designed for leaders (CCSP),” both of which are facilitated by who report to our Senior Leadership Team. Wilson Learning. At the end of 2017, we Building upon Xylem’s vision to become a had more than 800 sales managers and high-performing operating company with representatives attend the CSP and more a common culture, the program focuses on than 90 attend the CCSP trainings. building enterprise leadership approaches and empowering leaders to take charge of In China, the Leadership Academy of Xylem our company’s transformation. We kicked off China Learning Institute provides various our fifth cohort of this program in January leadership training programs to enable 2018 with another 20 participants. Nearly people managers to develop and lead 50 percent of the those who completed the their teams to achieve business goals in training have been promoted or had their a changing and challenging business current roles expanded. environment. Additionally, a high potential 56 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People SAFETY Xylem’s safety philosophy is to “accept only zero” — meaning that we strive for a zero-incident workplace and one in which our employees return home at the end of each day uninjured. We have taken several proactive measures ahead, sites will be assessed, and we will XYLEM GOALS to ensure that safety is top of mind for all generate a score accordingly that demonemployees. Safety-related responsibilities strates the safety acumen of the site. are defined in employees’ job descriptions, <0.5 reinforced through site communications RECOGNIZING OUTSTANDING INJURY SAFETY RESULTS and measured regularly with recognition FREQUENCY Our CEO Safety Excellence Award recognizes for outstanding performance. In 2017, we BY 2019 one manufacturing facility and one sales made progress at both the site and enterand service team each year for outstanding <6.0 prise levels — and we are on track to achieve safety performance. Assessment of perforINJURY SEVERITY more positive results as safety becomes mance is strongly weighted toward leading BY 2019 further integrated into our culture. program attributes versus trailing indicator RISK REDUCTION INDEX performance. Scoring for 2017 entries, In 2017, we focused the Safety Scorecard like previous years, was conducted by an on risk reduction and renamed it the Risk independent third party and is based on Reduction Index (RRI). We have raised the a combination of objective (quantitative) bar on the crucial elements and have and subjective (qualitative) criteria, including removed the injury frequency and injury indicator rates and program vitality attributes. severity from the calculation. Each of our In addition, 208 Xylem sites were recognized sites now tracks safety according to the RRI. in 2017 for Zero Incidents or operating In addition, safety continues to be integrated throughout the year without recordable into every area of Xylem’s business. At the injuries or serious near-misses. The number end of 2017, environment, health and safety of sites recognized this year represents a (EHS) was included in our Continuous 10 percent increase in the number of sites Improvement maturity matrix. Looking recognized in 2016. Further, more than INJURY FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY RATES Injury Frequency Injury Severity (medical + lost work day cases x 200,000/number of hours worked) (lost work days x 200,000/number of hours worked) 1.20 0.93 0.94 18.65 18.16 13.62 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 57 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People SAFETY (Cont’d) 40 sites were recognized for improving Risk Profiling is a program that incorporates their safety performance by reducing the the standard Job Safety Analysis (JSA) process injury frequency at the site by 50 percent into a visual management tool. We utilize a or more over their performance in the common JSA tool to assess specific work cells previous year. and score them before and after improvements are implemented. The assessment MEETING HIGH STANDARDS process engages both management and As another marker of our commitment to employees working in that particular work workplace safety, 20 Xylem sites have been cell. The visual aspect of the program enables OHSAS 18001-certified. In addition to all employees to see the current status of satisfying the requirements for OHSAS that work cell regardless of the facility they 18001 certifications, these sites also provide are in. The program was deployed at all training and promote our “Accept Only Zero” manufacturing sites in one business unit philosophy. This program includes online during the pilot period. We plan to expand access to more than 80 safety education the Risk Profile program across the entire courses in multiple languages and access organization over the next year. to tools that help managers and employees easily and quickly recognize safety and Another tool for improving safety is the “Get ergonomic hazards, and take corrective Well” program, which targets sites with the actions to eliminate root causes. highest injury rates. The program includes a variety of interventions such as employee REDUCING RISKS surveys, in-depth safety data analysis, safety Despite our best efforts, incidents occasionally Kaizen events and site visits. These are used happen. When an injury does occur, we investito develop site-specific “safety visions,” a gate and determine the root causes of the safety strategy and appropriate improveincident. We also examine and identify which ment plans. These improvement plans are parts of the organization are experiencing closely tracked and monitored for impleincreased incidents and what activities are mentation by site management and Xylem’s being conducted when injuries occur. We EHS management. also provide additional support to sites with increased injury rates as needed. 2017 CEO Safety Excellence Award In 2017, more than 30 Xylem sites submitted applications The 2017 CEO Safety Excellence Award sales and service team for the CEO Safety Excellence Award, including 14 from the winner was Xylem’s Italy Commercial Team. This team of manufacturing sector and 19 from sales and service representing employees has been injury-free since 2014. The leadership 13 countries. This was more than double the number of teams here perform surprise inspections of technicians who applicants in the prior year. are working at customer locations and those technicians attend 2-hour monthly meetings to share work procedures, The 2017 CEO Safety Excellence Award manufacturing site risk assessments and preventive actions. winner was Xylem’s facility in Nanjing, China. The Nanjing team was recognized for its comprehensive approach to creating a culture of safety that includes risk control analysis of all new equipment and layouts, 100 percent employee participation in the “I am an EHS Guard Today” program to create a shared sense of responsibility, and a commitment to sharing the details of any near miss or recorded incident. The site has been consistently recognized by the municipal government as a “Top Safety Company.” 58 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People ETHICS The cornerstone of Xylem’s ethics policy is our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct requires all of our Directors, officers and employees to act ethically and honestly. We expect every interaction, every transaction our colleagues about the importance and every business opportunity to be of raising issues of concern and asking handled in a manner consistent with our questions when they see conduct that may Code of Conduct, our policies and all potentially be inconsistent with our company applicable laws. We ensure compliance values. Included in our campaign were with multiple layers of accountability and new “speaking up” posters promoting the make it easy for employees to speak up importance of colleagues saying something when they see something wrong. if they see something. In 2017, we made several enhancements In addition, we expanded Xylem’s ombudsto our ethics program, including the global person program, increasing the number of launch of our new Xylem Integrity Line (XIL), local ombudspersons around the company’s which encompasses a reporting hotline and global operations by 25 percent in 2017, web-based interface to replace the legacy and thus increasing the number of direct reporting system. The XIL facilitates easier touchpoints employees have with our ethics issue reporting by users and it enhances and compliance program throughout the our issue response and investigation organization. management capabilities. In tandem with Our Code of Conduct went into effect for our launch of the XIL, we embarked on a Pure Technologies, EmNet and Valor Water global “speaking up” campaign to remind Analytics employees on day one following our acquisition of those businesses, and we are continuing to fully roll out all ethics policies across our expanded organization. The Code of Conduct is posted publicly in 26 languages and is available to employees on our company intranet and to third parties on our public website. In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct is posted publicly in 18 languages and is incorporated into our standard contracts. 59 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People ETHICS (Cont’d) TRAINING REPORTING MECHANISMS Every other year, we conduct global Code of Xylem endeavors to create a corporate Conduct training for all employees, and we culture where employees are expected to provide training to all new employees and at report misconduct, where they have many targeted locations throughout Xylem on a ways to report concerns and where retaliacontinuous basis. Through Code of Conduct tion for reporting is not tolerated. Our training, Xylem employees gain a deep reporting concerns policy encourages understanding of our core values of respect, employees to report misconduct through: responsibility, integrity and creativity and the • The Xylem Integrity Line, a toll-free, types of behaviors, actions and decisions 24-hour-a-day confidential reporting that will enable them to support these values. helpline available to employees, suppliers Additional topics covered in the Code of or customers with language support in Conduct training are carefully selected by over 180 languages. reviewing current ethics and compliance trends within the company and analysis of • Local ombudspersons who receive and our hotline reporting and other data. impartially address employee Code of Conduct questions or ethical concerns and are required to take all reasonable and legally permissible steps to protect the identity of all those who report possible violations in good faith. • Consultation with management, Human Resources or our team of ethics and compliance professionals, including our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. We build awareness about our policy and reporting mechanisms through robust employee engagement, which includes ethics and compliance newsletters, “speaking up” posters translated into 21 languages at our locations, live training and an employee intranet portal dedicated to Xylem’s ethics Training is conducted through a combination and compliance program. of on-line and in-person video delivery to ensure all employees are aware of Xylem’s At Xylem headquarters and in each of our commitment. After training, Xylem employees regions, we have established Ethics and certify that they understand how the Code Compliance Review Boards. These boards, applies to their jobs and how to comply staffed by senior managers and compliwith its provisions. Company-wide Code of ance leaders, meet at least quarterly to Conduct training was conducted in 2016 oversee local compliance with our Code of with 96 percent completion and we will Conduct and compliance policies, manage update the training for all employees in compliance trainings, drive employee 2018. In all, Xylem conducted more than engagement, and monitor any ethics and 4,300 person-hours of live ethics and compliance investigations. The boards compliance training during 2017, up ensure that every concern that is raised 18 percent versus 2016. receives appropriate management attention and is resolved in a fair and expeditious 60 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People ETHICS (Cont’d) manner. They also facilitate learnings from In addition, designated employees around across the organization. the world in Finance, Legal, Compliance, and Sales and Marketing are provided with The number of ethics concerns raised in additional, in-depth anti-corruption training 2017 was generally in line with benchmarkeither in person or online. Xylem conducts ing for a company of Xylem’s size and an annual risk assessment of all its Growth industry. Our total number of questions Centers and regional Commercial Teams, and concerns raised decreased 10 percent which includes risks related to bribery and from 2016 to 2017. corruption. This risk assessment is moniANTI-CORRUPTION tored and updated regularly. Xylem’s Xylem trains employees on applicable internal audit department also conducts anti-corruption laws and regulations, regular audits of select sites to determine primarily through our Anti-Corruption compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Policy, Gifts, Hospitality & Travel Policy Practices Act and Xylem’s internal policies, and Anti-Corruption Manual, and our and to assess the effectiveness of our Code of Conduct. anti-corruption program. Operating as a global company, corruption and bribery also present risks to Xylem in areas where we leverage third parties rather than having a Xylem-owned office. We mitigate this risk by conducting robust due diligence of select third parties. As part of the approval process, third parties certify that they will comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. We renew our due diligence on a periodic basis and offer training for third parties to help them understand how to remain compliant. Ethics and Compliance Reporting 2016 2017 Number of Questions and Concerns Raised (through Xylem’s complaint 67 60 handling and resolution process) Percent of Substantiated Reported Complaints 36% (24) 43% (26) Percent of Unsubstantiated Reported Complaints 46% (31) 35% (21) Percent of Other* Complaints 18% (12) 22% (13) Percent of Credible Reported Complaints Investigated 100% 100% Percent of Substantiated Cases Resolved (through discipline, training, 100% 100% process enhancement, etc.) *Other Complaints refer to reports transferred to other departments for appropriate handling or where there was not enough information to conduct an investigation 61 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Xylem People ETHICS (Cont’d) ANTI-TRUST we operate and where our employees live, Xylem operates in many highly competitive demonstrating by our actions that human markets around the world where it must rights violations are both avoidable and submit competitive bids to win business. It is unacceptable. Xylem fully supports and therefore critical that our employees underadheres to the principles of both the stand and comply with the various anti-trust Universal Declaration of Human Rights and and competition laws in all of the locations the United Nations Global Compact where we do business. This is accomplished wherever we operate. The Xylem Human through a combination of policies and Rights Policy outlines our commitment to human rights, dignity and fairness. In particular, we are committed to: • Providing safe and secure conditions for those working on our company’s behalf • Safeguarding the environment • Protecting the rights of indigenous people • Following all applicable wage and hour laws, including upholding our employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining • Strictly prohibiting human trafficking and the use of child or forced labor, including prison or bonded labor • Treating each other fairly and equitably procedures, comprised of an anti-trust/ While Xylem does not conduct dedicated competition law policy, a competition law human rights training for employees, our compliance manual and our Code of Code of Conduct states that all Xylem Conduct, and a robust training program, employees and businesses will conduct consisting of a bi-annual, on-line training for business in a manner that respects and designated employees as well as targeted advances human rights “at all times and in live trainings where appropriate. In 2017, all locations, regardless of local business Xylem did not pay any non-compliance fines. customs.” To ensure that every facet of our HUMAN RIGHTS business upholds these standards, we seek With a global presence, we want to serve as business partners who share these a positive influence in the communities where commitments. 62 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community OPPORTUNITY Through our Watermark program, we have the opportunity to put our capabilities and expertise in solving water to work in order to protect safe water resources and educate in communities across the globe. Community CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP When we talk about a sustainable future, we embrace the proposition that everyone should have access to their fair share of food, shelter, healthcare and water. Across the globe, 2.1 billion people lack clean drinking water at home, and approximately 4.5 billion people lack safely managed sanitation. These conditions have serious consequences These statistics underscore the need to for community development. Women and address the sixth UN Sustainable Developchildren spend more than 200 million hours ment Goal, which calls for the availability collecting water daily, often preventing or and sustainable management of water and drastically limiting time for more producsanitation for all by 2030. A big part of the tive endeavors such as taking care of their solution is for companies like Xylem to help families or attending school. The long-term drive sustainable development. This means consequences are significant. Every year, growing our business and carrying out our 443 million school days are lost worldwide mission of helping to enable a water-secure due to water-related illnesses. future. In 2017, Xylem and our employees demonstrated continued commitment by introducing more efficient products, engaging young people in the search for innovative solutions, and embracing the importance of water on a personal level through volunteer activities and contributions to Xylem Watermark, our corporate citizenship and social investment program. The mission of Xylem Watermark is to provide and protect safe water resources for communities in need around the world and educate people about water issues. XYLEM 2017 SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENTS $1.5 100,000 400+ MILLION IN NATURAL XYLEM EMPLOYEE XYLEM WATERMARKDISASTER SUPPORT VOLUNTEER HOURS SPONSORED EVENTS RELIEF ACROSS PLEDGED FROM 2016-2018 THE GLOBE WITH MORE THAN 56,000+ COMPLETED THROUGH THE END OF 2017 64 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP (Cont’d) We do this in two main ways: We work 300 students aged 15 years or younger with nonprofit partners on sustainable from 50 different countries tested their development projects that provide and scientific knowledge and skills on the theme protect safe water resources for communiof “Water and Sustainability.” In conjunction ties in need around the world and we with this international competition, which engage our employees to volunteer their was held for the first time in the Netherlands, time and money to support water solutions Xylem launched the Xylem Water Prize, in their own communities. In 2017, Xylem which invited participating students to Watermark was honored by Engage for produce a video answering the question, Good with the Gold Halo Award in the “How do you solve water?” All submissions Employee Engagement category. were evaluated by an international judging panel. The panel awarded a group of 2017 was an especially tough year across students from India with the Xylem Water the globe due to some of the worst natural Prize. Team India, comprised of students disasters on record: Hurricanes Harvey, 15-years-old and younger, won for its video Irma and Maria and the severe flooding in outlining the students’ idea for a floating, South Asia. In addition to monetary donasolar-powered desalination plant. tions through Watermark, hundreds of Xylem employees contributed to volunteer We are also the founding sponsor of the activities in the affected areas. International Stockholm Junior Water Prize, the most prestigious student competition Beyond Watermark, Xylem finds opportunifor water-related research, and a sponsor ties to lend our support. In 2017, Xylem of the U.S. Stockholm Junior Water Prize. was a sponsor of the International Junior Science Olympiad (IJSO), where more than In 2017, Xylem launched our Xylem Water Prize competition in conjunction with the International Junior Science Olympiad. See Team India’s winning video entry. 65 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community WATERMARK PARTNERSHIPS Xylem Watermark got its start as a program focused on community development, and that legacy continues today. We work with six nonprofit partners who provide access to clean water, sanitation solutions, education and disaster relief around the world. These partnerships are an essential way we continue to solve water and, together, we accomplished much during 2017. Planet Water Foundation Fundación Avina EarthEcho International Constructs innovative aqua Builds water cisterns and Organizes the Water towers to provide clean water, as well as water towers that provide access to Monitoring Challenge™ Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) clean water to schools and communito build awareness and involvement education to schools and communities ties in Brazil’s semi-arid region and in in protecting water resources around in Southeast Asia & Latin America. Amazonian communities. the world. As the leading sponsor of the EarthEcho Water Monitoring 74 2 NEW Challenge, Xylem helps to support AQUA TOWERS CONSTRUCTED CISTERNS CONSTRUCTED the participation of 44,000 global IN SEVEN COUNTRIES participants who utilize more than 6,400 water quality testing kits. 74,000+ BENEFICIARIES • More than 250 Xylem employees used these water quality testing kits in nine countries to help nearly 600 students learn about the water quality in their own communities. MercyCorps Water for People China Women’s Protects clean water through Provides access to clean Development Foundation disaster risk reduction and water and WASH education Supplies schools throughout responding to water-related to schools and communities China with improved sanitation and emergencies around the world. in West Bengal, India. clean water sources. 89,000+ 4 8 BENEFICIARIES SCHOOLS IMPACTED WATER PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED (from earthquake, flood IN SCHOOLS ACROSS CHINA and hurricane relief) 19 SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES 3,000 IMPACTED BENEFICIARIES 1,200 STUDENTS & TEACHERS AND 2,700 COMMUNITY MEMBERS PROVIDED WITH ACCESS TO DRINKING WATER 66 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community WATERMARK PARTNERSHIPS (Cont’d) Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) curriculum, which is designed to teach healthy habits to children, has become a critical component of the programs implemented by Xylem Watermark’s nonprofit partners. WASH programs in schools significantly reduce hygiene-related disease, increase student attendance and learning achievement, and contribute to dignity and gender equality. In 2017, we sponsored Planet Water’s Project24 initiative for the third consecutive year, helping our partner install six clean water filtration systems in five communities. Our volunteers also helped to provide Xylem provides funding, as well as Xylem WASH education in those communities. experts and volunteers who help our partners Since beginning our partnership in 2010, implement their programs. We perform Xylem WASH education initiatives, water continuous evaluation of partners’ progress tower builds, and school and community and impact. With all projects, we seek water projects in partnership with Planet solutions that will benefit communities over Water have touched the lives of more than the long term. Our work with Planet Water 300,000 people in Cambodia, China, is a powerful illustration of this approach. Colombia, India, Philippines and Thailand. St. Joseph’s Home in Montana, Cape Town, South Africa 67 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community WATERMARK EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM In 2017, we made significant progress toward our 3-year pledge to log at least 100,000 employee volunteer hours for water-related activities through 2018. In 2017, we logged another 35,000+ hours to bring us to 56,000+ hours in the first two years of our pledge. The hours logged in 2017 represent a 70-percent increase over 2016. Through this effort, we’re encouraging our colleagues to roll up their sleeves and help solve water within their own communities. We’re increasing engagement by starting at the top of our DISASTER RELIEF EFFORTS organization, with each of our senior leaders leading teams The destructive forces of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, in a Watermark activity. To make it easy for employees to get as well as the severe flooding in South Asia, were some involved, we have organized activities such as Walks for Water, of worst natural weather disasters on record, impacting water source cleanups and community education programs. millions across the world and creating billions of dollars in Employees can also propose or participate in projects on damages. Through our Watermark program, Xylem was at their own. Through an online portal, MyWatermark, Xylem the ready to provide help. Our actions included monetary employees can connect with colleagues, sign up for projects contributions from the company, employee donations and track their volunteer time. matched by the company and a number of employee volunteer activities in the affected areas. Xylem volunteer “counselors” conducted lessons on the water cycle, water conservation, water pollution and water RESPONSE TO HURRICANE MARIA consumption, as well as a water sampling and analysis exercise. In the aftermath of the devastating effects of Hurricane Maria, the strongest storm seen by Puerto Rico in 85 years, access to clean water was one of the most urgent challenges faced by Puerto Ricans. Without a safe drinking water supply, families resorted to drawing water from wells polluted with untreated water or from streams contaminated with sewage. In partnership with Planet Water Foundation, Xylem sent a team of volunteers to Puerto Rico to build water-filtration towers in some of the most damaged places on the island – technology that would bring safe, clean water to communities most in need. In all, the team from Xylem built 12 water towers, each tower providing 10,000 liters of clean drinking water, enough to sustain 1,000 individuals daily. In the wake of Hurricane Maria, Xylem sent volunteers to Puerto Rico to help build water-filtration towers. See how we were able to give back in Puerto Rico’s time of need. 68 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community WATERMARK EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM (Cont’d) As the towers went up, a Puerto Rican Cross and Mercy Corps to support those 12th-grade student helped our volunteers organizations’ on-site efforts, Xylem sent understand just how important this work approximately 100 employees from other was and is to the island, telling the team: parts of the U.S. to spend a week of paid “We’ve been watching the river flow by, volunteer time in the affected areas. Our and now you have given us the gift of colleagues worked with local non-profit mother nature for free and have made it agencies on several rebuilding projects. As sustainable. You guys are angels.” Often, it’s part of these local efforts, Xylem volunteers the giving back to those who need it most built five houses through Habit for Humanity that makes the greatest impact on us at for families impacted by the hurricane. Xylem Xylem. Hurricane Maria and the resilient also developed a mentoring relationship citizens of Puerto Rico helped us remember with YesPrep, which is an open-enrollment that in 2017. public charter school system serving students in grades six through 12 in Houston’s most RESPONSE TO HURRICANES underserved communities. Xylem provided HARVEY AND IRMA a financial contribution to help the students Hurricane Harvey flooded the Greater who were directly impacted by the hurricane Houston area in the fall of 2017 and was and, with the support of our colleagues followed shortly thereafter by Hurricane located in Houston, we launched a water Irma, which caused devastation in the education program that will be used on a Caribbean islands and severe damage in the continuing basis by the science department. southeastern U.S. In addition to monetary contributions to both the American Red RESPONSE TO EXTREME FLOODING IN SOUTH ASIA A severe monsoon flooded much of South Asia, displacing or impacting millions in India, Nepal and Bangladesh. Xylem donated $100,000 and matched employee donations 2-for-1 to Mercy Corps and its local partners’ efforts to implement water, sanitation and hygiene initiatives on the ground. Xylem also provided funds to the Planet Water Foundation for the construction of two aqua towers near a disaster relief center in Maharashtra, India, where thousands sought refuge from the floods. GLOBAL MONTH OF SERVICE 2017 Our engagement efforts paid off in a big way during our Global Month of Service, held in October. Throughout the month, employees helped advance our mission of solving water through donations, service projects and grants to community organizations. 99 28 $5,000 9,500 GLOBAL EVENTS COUNTRIES IN COMMUNITY HOURS GRANTS VOLUNTEERED (bringing the 2017 total to $22,000) 69 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community WATERMARK EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM (Cont’d) MAKE YOUR MARK event included a presentation on WaterFor the second consecutive year, Xylem mark’s goals and future initiatives being launched the “Make Your Mark 30-day planned for the program. Challenge” on World Water Day, which • As part of Xylem’s Reward and Recognition continued through Earth Day. During this program, five volunteers traveled to remote time, employees helped advance our mission communities in India with our nonprofit of solving water through donations, volunpartner, Water For People, to map water teering in local projects and supporting resources, assess and monitor water and community organizations alongside our sanitation solutions, and to provide WASH nonprofit partners. Some of the volunteer education to communities in need. In efforts held around the world included: addition, five volunteers spent a week in • Planet Water Foundation’s Project24, Cambodia constructing Planet Water’s during which Xylem employees helped AquaTowers and deploying water, sanitato build 10,000-gallon aqua towers in tion and hygiene programs. Finally, five Cambodia, Colombia, India, Indonesia volunteers traveled to Miami, Florida, to and the Philippines to provide clean work with young people on educational water to schools that previously did not and water monitoring programs, and to have access to safe water and sanitation. participate in the University of Miami’s Citizen Science initiative. • At the Xylem Innovation Official Opening in Montecchio, Italy, Xylem Watermark •X  ylem Watermark volunteers from Yellow volunteers answered questions, collected Springs, Ohio, joined Little Miami River donations and raised awareness of Xylem Kleeners in the annual Fall Little Miami Watermark and water-related issues. The River Kleen Sweep. Volunteers removed 20 tires and countless bags of garbage from the river. • I n Cape Town, South Africa, a group of 60 Xylem employees, region consultants and distributors joined together to visit Saint Joseph’s School for children with special educational needs. The group educated students on the importance of clean water, and worked with the children to build self-sustainable farming systems, which provide food with a low usage of water. • Twenty Xylem volunteers partnered with Keep Brazos Beautiful (KBB), an organization in Texas that works to educate and engage citizens on the importance of keeping the community clean, green and beautiful. KBB hosted the “Texas Trash-Off,” providing volunteers with an opportunity to clean up trash near local creeks that flow into the Navasota River, which feeds into the Gulf of Mexico. 70 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me Community ESSENCE OF LIFE Xylem understands that food security and development are impossible without agriculture, and agriculture is impossible without water. This is another example of the interdependencies that exist among the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We cannot achieve food security and Essence of Life seeks to empower farmers promote sustainable agriculture without in the developing world who have been providing access to clean water. That’s underserved by existing farming innovaone of the fundamental reasons that we tions. Farmers make up one-third of the established Essence of Life, a portfolio world’s population. And 1.5 billion of those of affordable, field-serviceable irrigation farmers are “smallholders,” those who farm systems that meet the needs of farmers their own food and cultivate less than about in emerging markets. 5 acres of land. But much of this land — and therefore, farmers’ time and energy — is underutilized due to lack of water access. Through a “hybrid value chain” concept, Essence of Life is changing this. Hybrid value chains combine the strengths of private businesses and NGOs with government and business partnerships to break down barriers and create new markets. To develop new products, we conduct extensive field visits, interview hundreds of farmers and establish relationships with key citizen sector organizations in India, Africa, Latin America and Asia. With these partners, we conduct focused technology and product testing. These interactions enable us to zero in on critical consumer needs, realizing the spoken, unspoken and anticipated needs of our rural customers. 71 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI Content Index GRI Standards Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-3 Location of headquarters Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-4 Location of operations Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-5 Ownership and legal form Xylem Inc. (XYL) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 102-6 Markets served Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-7 Scale of the organization Approach – Xylem-At-A-Glance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Xylem People – Global Workforce 102-9 Supply chain Business Performance – Supply Chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Approach – Reporting Practices supply chain Business Performance – Business Strategy 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Operational Impact – EH&S Overview 102-12 External initiatives Approach – Stakeholder Engagement 102-13 Membership of associations Approach – Stakeholder Engagement Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Approach – CEO Message Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Xylem People – Ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Highlights Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach – Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2017 Xylem 10-K p.10 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach – Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Approach – Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach – Stakeholder Engagement Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Approach – Reporting Practices 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Approach – Materiality 102-47 List of material topics Approach – Materiality 72 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response 102-48 Restatements of information Approach – Reporting Practices Operational Impact 102-49 Changes in reporting Approach – Reporting Practices 102-50 Reporting period Approach – Reporting Practices 102-51 Date of most recent report Approach – Reporting Practices 102-52 Reporting cycle Approach – Reporting Practices 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Approach – Reporting Practices 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Approach – Reporting Practices 102-55 GRI content index Approach – Reporting Practices 102-56 External assurance Approach – Reporting Practices GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Business Performance – Economic Impact 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Business Performance – Business Strategy due to climate change Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Operational Impact – EH&S Overview GRI 202: Market Presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact Xylem People – Global Workforce 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact Xylem People – Global Workforce 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Performance – Business Strategy Business Performance – Economic Impact Xylem People – Global Workforce 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the Xylem People – Employee Engagement local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community 103-2 The management approach and its components Community 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Community GRI 204: Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Performance – Supply Chain 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Business Performance – Supply Chain 73 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Ethics 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Xylem People – Ethics 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Xylem People – Ethics policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Xylem People – Ethics GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Ethics 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 2017 Xylem 10-K p. 21, and monopoly practices 100 Xylem People – Ethics GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Xylem does not actively track this data. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Xylem does not actively track this data. GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Water Solutions – Product Efficiencies 74 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response 302-3 Energy intensity Energy intensity for 2017 is 69.3 megawatt hours per annual revenues in millions USD. This ratio includes direct consumption sources (renewable electricity generated, natural gas, propane, and fuel oil) and mobile sources (gasoline, diesel, and propane) in addition to indirect consumption sources (purchased heat, electricity and energy). 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Water 103-2 The management approach and its components Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Water 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Operational Impact – Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water At Xylem, we are working to ensure there are no water sources significantly affected by our withdrawal of water. The work in this area is still in the early stages, but we are moving ahead on a number of fronts. Operational Impact – Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Operational Impact – Water GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Opportunity Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Water Solutions – Product Efficiencies Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions 75 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Xylem does not use significant amounts of ozone-depleting substances, and for that reason we do not track their use. We adhere to the Montreal Protocol, administered by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), which maintains the list of ozonedepleting substances that are targeted for reductions and total phase-outs. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Operational Impact – Energy & Emissions significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Materials & Waste 103-2 The management approach and its components Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Materials & Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational Impact – EH&S Overview Operational Impact – Materials & Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Operational Impact – Water 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Operational Impact – Materials & Waste 306-3 Significant spills Operational Impact – EH&S Overview GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Performance – Supply Chain 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Business Performance – Supply Chain 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Business Performance – Supply Chain actions taken GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Xylem People – Safety days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Talent Development 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Talent Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Talent Development 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Xylem People – Talent Development 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Xylem People – Talent Development assistance programs GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Ethics 76 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Xylem People – Ethics GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community 103-2 The management approach and its components Community 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Community impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Performance – Supply Chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Performance – Supply Chain 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Business Performance – Supply Chain 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Business Performance – Supply Chain actions taken GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Capabilities: Leveraging Technology to Solve Water Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Applications Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Capabilities: Leveraging Technology to Solve Water Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Applications Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Capabilities: Leveraging Technology to Solve Water Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Applications Water & Infrastructure Solutions – Product Efficiencies 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product At Xylem, we conduct safety risk assessments and service categories on all new products and changed products where the design revisions have a possible impact on safety. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 2017 Xylem 10-K p. 21, 100 safety impacts of products and services GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Xylem People – Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Xylem People – Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Xylem People – Ethics 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 2017 Xylem 10-K p. 21, 100 and economic area 77 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent Assurance Statement to Xylem Inc. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Xylem Inc. (Xylem) to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2017 environmental and safety data presented in the Xylem 2017 Sustainability Report (the Report) as set out below. Engagement Summary Whether the corporate 2017 data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: Environmental data: • Total non-hazardous waste generated (metric • Total direct energy use (MWh) tons) • Total indirect energy use (MWh) • Total waste to landfill (metric tons) Scope of our • Total Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions Safety data: assurance (metric tons of CO2e) engagement • Injury frequency (medical + lost workday • Total Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions cases x 200,000/number of working hours) (metric tons of CO2e) • Injury severity ((number of lost workdays x • Total Scope 3 (business travel) GHG 200,000 / worked hours) emissions (metric tons of CO2e) • No. medical cases • Total water withdrawal (mega-liters) • No. lost work day cases • Total hazardous waste generated (metric tons) Reporting criteria The EHS reporting program and specific metric definitions as prepared by Xylem. Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance standard Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance level Limited assurance. Xylem is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third Respective parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. responsibilities ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Qualified conclusion Based on our activities, with the exception of the matter described in the ‘Basis for Qualified Conclusion’ below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the corporate 2017 data for the selected indicators listed under ‘scope’ above are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. Basis for Qualified Conclusion Due to inconsistencies in the tracking and reporting of waste across the organization, we were unable to reach a conclusion on the completeness and accuracy of the 2017 waste data including Total non-hazardous waste generated, Total hazardous waste generated and Total waste to landfill. Our assurance activities We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes used for collecting and reporting the selected data. • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data consolidation for the selected indicators. • A visit to a manufacturing facilities at DuBois, PA (USA) and Shenyang (China) with further visits to the sales and services operations in the UK to review the local reporting processes and check samples of underlying source data for each selected indicator. • A visit to Xylem’s corporate office (Schaffhausen, Switzerland) to review the consolidation and reporting process including checking calculations, applied emission factors and the corporate data quality and assurance processes. The limitations of our engagement The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. 78 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me ASSURANCE STATEMENT Our Observations We have provided Xylem with a separate management report. With reference to the conclusions presented above, we have the following observation: • We recommend (with particular regard to reporting of waste metrics) attention is given during 2018 to improving internal controls by incorporating senior management approval mechanisms at site and business levels into year-end EHS reporting processes to ensure accountability for the identification, investigation and explanation of significant yearon-year site level variances. 4 June 2018 Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance Services ERM Certification and Verification Services, London ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS staff that have undertaken this engagement have provided no consultancy related services to this client in any respect. 79 20 17 SUSTAINAB IL ITY RE P O RT XY L E M | T h e Op p o r t u n i t y o f a Li f e t i me XYLEM INC. 1 International Drive Rye Brook, NY 10573 United States 1-914-323-5700
