— Dear Mr. Secretary-General, DATE 20 Aug ust 2018 I respectfully write to reaffirm I.R. Consilium, LLC’s continued support of and commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations — Global Compact on Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-corTO ruption. H .E. Antóni o Guter r es Secr etary-Gener al In this annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to share some Uni ted Nati ons New Yor k, NY 10017 of the activities and initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to USA the Global Compact. We work to ensure adherence to the principles through our own internal organization as a company by embedding the principles into our Code of Conduct and discussing them in team meet— ings. Perhaps more significantly, however, the Ten Principles form FROM an integral part of the services we provide. D R . I A N R A LB Y I.R. C onsil i um, LLC 10913 Par k H ei g hts Ave. Over the last year, some of the ways in which our efforts have upheld Ow i ng s Mil ls, MD 21117 the Ten Principles include: Uni ted States of Amer i ca Embedding them into the Sierra Leone National Maritime i mr al by@ir consili um.com Strategy while working to assist Sierra Leone in securing, governing and developing its maritime domain. In particular, our engagement with civil society sought to ensure that the human rights of coastal communities and the labor needs of the local fishing supply chain are accounted for at the national level. Furthermore, sustainability of the marine environment forms a key pillar of the work. The Strategy is soon due to be signed by the President of Sierra Leone. Helping several states to develop whole-of-Government processes aimed at, among other things, increasing the transparency of Government operations in order to counter corruption. The processes have increased efficiency and effectiveness and have helped force out some individuals for failure of integrity. Working to identify concerns about human rights violations and poor labor conditions in different parts of the world, including countering human trafficking and slavery in the maritime domain. These efforts have already mobilized activities to address this growing problem. Working to identify, expose and remedy issues relating to adulteration and contamination of marine fuels that threaten the 10913 Par k H ei g hts Ave. Owi ngs Mil l s, MD 21117 Uni ted States of Amer i ca T: +1 410 935 1745 environment both through emissions and through potential catastrophic failure of engine systems. This matter is ongoing, but numerous processes have been set into motion by our efforts. Generally working to address human rights, labor, environmental and corruption concerns in our work on six continents. As proud contractors to the United Nations, we support the broader goals of the UN and the Global Compact specifically. We are honored to highlight our participation to the general public through our website and will continue to work to uphold and promote the Ten Principles. Please accept this annual report as a statement of our continued participation. We recognize and celebrate that in taking action implementing the Ten Principles and wider UN goals, we contribute to a safer, more secure, more peaceful and more prosperous world. Respectfully yours, ___________________ Dr. Ian M. Ralby CEO, I.R. Consilium, LLC 10913 Par k H ei g hts Ave. Owi ngs Mil l s, MD 21117 Uni ted States of Amer i ca T: +1 410 935 1745
