ceo message KOTRA will become a world-class trade and investment promotion agency, leading the way for SMEs to explore overseas markets and to create global jobs. In 2017, Korea made remarkable achievements of surpassing a USD 1 trillion milestone in trade once again in three years and attracting a record-high foreign investment of USD 22.9 billion. This has been possible due to the collective efforts of the public, businesses and the government. However, the current landscape does not allow us to remain complacent. Global trade barriers are rising, and we see fiercer competition not only among advanced countries but also with late starters such as China. Led by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, market paradigms are shifting with each passing day. To help domestic companies respond to these changes proactively, we, KOTRA, will reinvent ourselves to better serve our roles and become an agency worthy of its name. 2 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report First, we will support the overseas expansion of SMEs as a trusted partner. We will strengthen the growth ladder for SMEs by providing export support tailored to each company’s capabilities. By creating a platform to collaborate with related organizations and an ecosystem to support private sector exports, we will expand the cooperative business support system for SMEs. Our goal is to nurture 2,400 new exporters every year and become a reliable partner working to the full satisfaction of our customers in overseas markets. Second, we will stimulate job creation globally. Although export-led growth had been the focus in the past, the top priority now is to create job opportunities. To address this urgent national challenge, KOTRA will reorient our work structure to help spur job creation. By supporting overseas employment, company foundations abroad, foreign investment attraction and the reshoring of domestic companies overseas, we will expand projects that can increase employment opportunities. Aiming at creating 20,000 jobs yearly, we will actively utilize our trade-investment promotion functions and global networks. Third, we will diversify target markets and export items. Despite previous efforts, Korean exports still depends highly on certain markets and items. On top of the 13 flagship industries, KOTRA will also assist leading companies in other promising areas including ICT, services and consumer goods for their expansion overseas. By nurturing innovative growth companies related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and inherently global firms as well as strengthening digital marketing, we will lay a foundation on which the era of trading USD 2 trillion can be ushered in. Fourth, we will strive to expand the dimension of economic cooperation. The goal of world trade is shifting away from seeking one-sided benefits to promoting co-existence at the global level. KOTRA will upgrade package-type economic cooperation with emerging strategic partner countries possessing high growth potential and diversify the means of foreign market entry. Intensive support mutually beneficial economic cooperation agenda discovery through Korea Business Centers (KBCs) and the President & CEO of KOTRA utilization of global CSR projects, foreign investment, technological cooperation, and capital cooperation with foreign entities will be made to help companies go global and take another leap forward. Kwon, Pyung-oh Lastly, we will continue to make company-wide renovations in organizational operations, project management and internal culture to implement our core policies effectively. We will become a fieldand customer-centered organization focusing on outcome and performance. By pursuing openness, sharing and collaboration, we will grow into a globally competitive entity. In this report, we would like to share the knowledge and experience we have accumulated on the global stage over the last several years by reporting on the achievements made from our core businesses and organizational operations. As an entity that supports the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN (UN SDGs), we focus on sharing our social responsibility accomplishments based on international standards such as ISO 26000 and GRI. Last year, KOTRA was highly recognized in terms of public institution management assessment, customer satisfaction and awards received. However, we will not remain complacent and continue to support overseas expansion of domestic companies. We will listen to our customers, work in the field and newly define our roles to be a trustworthy partner to the public. Through continuous innovation, KOTRA will march ahead to become a world leading trade and investment promotion agency. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 3 2017 KOTRA Highlights Achieved S grade in customer satisfaction for four consecutive years KOTRA became the first public organization to receive an S grade– the highest rating – in the Public Service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI), issued by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, for four consecutive years. With the innovative efforts including the Achieved S grade in customer satisfaction proclamation of “KOTRA customer service innovation resolution” and the provision of on-site recall services, we scored 96.8 in the customer satisfaction ratings for 4 consecutive years Created 700 jobs in the world KOTRA is not only increasing the number of employees working abroad but also expanding decent job opportunities. With the expansion of overseas employment centers, demand-based tailored projects and closer cooperation with related organizations, KOTRA helped 700 people land a job in the foreign markets, 47% increase from the previous year. Attracted USD 20 billion foreign investments for Created 700 jobs in the world three consecutive years After reaching the milestone figure for the first time in 2015, KOTRA attracted foreign investment of more than USD 20 billion for the last three consecutive years. In 2017, the total amount recorded a new high of USD 22.9 billion, backed up by KOTRA’s flexible investment promotion activities made in response to internal and external changes. Attracted USD 200 billion foreign investments for 3 consecutive years Received the Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV in the public sector KOTRA was awarded the Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV – an award presented to companies or organizations that contribute to making and implementing CSV programs – for the public sector in the process segment, in recognition of our achievements in creating shared value through the global business platform. Entered the Social Contribution Award “Hall of Fame” Won the Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV KOTRA is contributing to solving problems found in other countries we operate in, while utilizing the global network and the unique characteristics of our work, and thus fulfilling social values. In recognition of these efforts, KOTRA received the Social Won the Social Contribution Award for Contribution Award for Best Global Contribution for five years in a 5 row and finally entered the “Hall of Fame.” consecutive years and inducted into the Hall of Fame 4 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Won “Korea’s Best Places to Work for Award” for six consecutive years KOTRA won a “Korea’s Best Places to Work for Award” conferred by GPTW Korea. Recognized for the continuous efforts made to enable practices where a smooth and candid conversation and flexible organizational structure are created, KOTRA has received Won the GWP Award for the award for six consecutive years since 2012. 6 consecutive years Rated “Great” in overall integrity for six consecutive years KOTRA was rated “great” in the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission’s report on the overall integrity of public agencies. Maintaining “great” for six years in a row suggests that the efforts to improve institutions and strengthen monitoring for preemptive Rated “Great” in overall integrity for management of human rights and ethics risks and for deeper re6 spect for human rights and ethics have been proven effective. consecutive years Received Gold Prize at LACP Spotlight Awards KOTRA was presented with a gold award in the field of Sustainability Report at LACP Spotlight Awards hosted by the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) of the US. Won Gold Prize in the sustainability report sector Rated the highest grade in the Korean Business Ethics Index – Sustainability Management (KoBEX SM) In 2017, KOTRA received the highest grade – AAA – in the Korean Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management (KoBEX SM), which Rated the is hosted by the Ministry of SMEs and Startups and implemented by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies. highest grade in KoBEX SM Enhanced the response mechanism against cyber threats KOTRA is advancing the cyber threat response mechanism. Through self-test and assessment, KOTRA has identified and ISMS corrected vulnerabilities and continuously managed cyber risks, which allowed the organization to maintain the Information Maintained Security Management System (ISMS) certification for the last two 2 consecutive years. for consecutive years 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 5 Company Role of KOTRA Introduction KOTRA was established to facilitate the development of the national economy by promoting trade, supporting cross-border investment, attracting foreign professionals from abroad, and representing the Korean government on G2G (Government to Government) contracts. Recently, we are aiming to reinforce our role as a trade-investment promotion agency by conducting businesses that are adaptive to the internal and external changes. Thus, providing direct services to handle overseas business demand will be regarded as a core function and rightly emphasized. As for the indirect service domain, we are expanding collaboration with relevant bodies for enhanced information and overseas infrastructure sharing. Major Functions and Roles Corporate Profile * As of Dec. 31st, 2017 Pioneering overseas markets for SMEs Company name Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) Promoting globalization through supporting the overseas expansion of SMEs Generating and disseminating overseas market Completely information and providing consultation services Date of June 21st, owned by Ownership establishment 1962 the Korean government Attracting foreign investments Korea Trade-Investment Basis of Promotion Agency Act Capital KRW Supporting domestic and overseas professionals’ communication and SMEs’ training establishment (Law No.1059, enacted on 300 billion on global business April 24, 1962) Conducting projects delegated from the government 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, No. of employees 930 Headquarters Seoul, Republic of Korea Organization Headquarters: 5 Divisions, 22 Depts. & 16 Centers (Offices), structure Domestic: 9 Support centers & 1 support office, Overseas: 127 KBCs in 86 countries History 1998~1999 • Newly established the 1962 Support Center for Foreign 2003 2009 2006~2008 Investment • Constructed IKP (Invest • Established the Foreign Korea Plaza) building Investment Ombudsman 1995 Office 2004 • Founded Contact Korea 2010 1962~1995 2003~2004 2009~2010 • KOTRA was established in • Introduced the CRM-BSC • Launched the Overseas accordance with the Korean and started the Invest Korea Expansion Support Center 1998 2006 Trade Promotion Agency Act • Won the WTO/ITC World’s and Defense Materials • Business name was changed Best Trade-Investment Trade Support Center to Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency Award • Opened the Foreign Promotion Agency Investment Policy Center 1999 2008 6 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Management Principles 7 Pledges to the Public KOTRA, to arm ourselves with a sense of mission and spirit of challenge and to better serve our founding purpose as a “tradeinvestment promotion agency,” is laying out management principles and innovation approaches. By pushing forward with the four core policies and four supportive approaches for innovation, KOTRA will become an organization beloved by the people, leading the export of SMEs and job creation. First, we will take responsibility for SME exports until the end. Innovation Promotion Strategy and Scheme Second, we will become the key to solving the youth unemployment problem by Become a world-class trade and investment promotion agency leading the overseas expansion of creating jobs overseas. SMEs and job creation Third, we will pioneer new markets with a spirit of adventure in the field of trade. Fourth, we will work in the field alongside our Diversify target customers to their full satisfaction. Support the overseas markets and expansion of SMEs Four Core export products Fifth, we will be an expert in problem Policies solving for our customers. Develop opportunities Create jobs for multilateral throughout the world Sixth, economic cooperation we will handle all of our work in a fair and transparent manner. Seventh we will never stop innovating ourselves. Establishment of an Customers and business fields Four organizational culture focused on openness, sharing, and collaboration Management Innovation Performances Human resource management and operational based on individual effectiveness competence and performance 2015~2016 • Held the KOIF 2015 2011 2013 (Korea Overseas Investment 2012 Fair 2015) • Celebrated the • Opened the GBRC 50th anniversary of (Global Business Research 2011 establishment 2014 2017 Center) 2011 2013~2014 2017 • Won the Korea HRD Award • Built the Global M&A • Held the Global Employ• Trade amount reached Support Center ment Counselling Confer2012 2015 1 trillion USD • Added the function of ence supporting overseas employment & business start-up and G2G business 2016 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 7 Global Network Europe (23) CIS (10) • ‌GP-WPM(World • ‌Astana Expo 2017 Premier Materials) • ‌Korean Expo in Warsaw KOTRA is operating 127 KBCs in 86 countries in 10 regions. The KBCs are proactive in helping Korean companies expand exports by conducting fieldcentered works such as pioneering new markets, CIS (10) attracting investments, and collecting market Europe (23) information. In 2017, KOTRA opened a new KBC in Kolkata, India, as part of its commitment to expanding infrastructure for supporting the government’s New Southern Policy Initiative. China (19) Japan (4) Middle East (15) Southwest Asia (8) Southeast Asia & Oceania (14) KBCs Operation 10 Regional Headquarters 86 Countries Africa (10) 127 KBCs Africa (10) Middle East (15) • ‌A project to expand • ‌Total marketing to help the infrastructures for NGV (Natural K-Beauty business enter the Gas Vehicle) Middle East market • ‌Korea Consumer Goods •‌International Building & Showcase Construction Show(The Big5 Show) in Dubai China (19) North America (10) Beijing (China), Shanghai (China), Guangzhou (China), Dalian (China), Tianjin (China), New York (USA), Los Angeles (USA), Chicago (USA), Dallas (USA), Chengdu (China), Qingdao (China), Wuhan (China), Xian (China), Shenyang (China), Washington DC (USA), Silicon Valley (USA), Miami (USA), Detroit (USA), Nanjing (China), Chongqing (China), Changsha (China), Zhengzhou (China), Vancouver (Canada), Toronto (Canada) Hangzhou (China), Xiamen (China), Shenzhen (China), Hong Kong (China), Taipei (Taiwan) Middle East (15) Europe (23) Dubai (UAE), Cairo (Egypt), Tehran (Iran), Tel Aviv (Israel), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia), Frankfurt (Germany), Hamburg (Germany), Munich (Germany), Paris (France), Amman (Jordan), Tripoli (Libya), Casablanca (Morocco), Kuwait (Kuwait), Muscat(Oman), London (UK), Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Amsterdam(Netherlands), Baghdad (Iraq), Algiers (Algeria), Damascus (Syria), Istanbul (Turkey), Doha (Qatar) Brussels (Belgium), Milano (Italy), Zurich (Switzerland), Madrid(Spain), Vienna (Austria), Athens (Greece), Helsinki (Finland), Budapest (Hungary), Warsaw (Poland), Prague (Czech Republic), Bucharest (Romania), Zagreb (Croatia), Sofia (Bulgaria), Belgrade (Serbia), Bratislava (Slovakia) Africa (10) Johannesburg (Republic of South Africa), Lagos (Nigeria), Nairobi (Kenya), Khartoum (Sudan), Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), Accra (Ghana), Dares Salaam (Tanzania), Kinshasa (Congo), Maputo (Mozambique), Abidjan (Republic of Cote d'Ivoire) 8 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report China (19) Japan (4) North America (10) • ‌Korea-China economy •‌K-Move Project • ‌GP USA and trade partnership (Korean • ‌K-Beauty in USA • ‌K-Startup Summit employment in Beijing Japan) North America (10) Central & South America (14) Southwest Southeast Asia & Oceania Central & South Asia (8) (14) America (14) • ‌Korea Expo in • ‌ GP ASIA • ‌Latin Business Week New Delhi 2017 Japan (4) Central & South America (14) Tokyo (Japan), Osaka (Japan), Nagoya (Japan), Fukuoka (Japan) Mexico City (Mexico), Panama (Panama), Guatemala (Guatemala), Havana (Cuba), Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Southeast Asia & Oceania (14) Lima (Peru), Bogota (Colombia), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Santiago (Chile), Caracas (Venezuela), Asuncion (Paraguay), Quito (Ecuador) Singapore (Singapore), Manila (Philippines), Bangkok (Thailand), Oceania (14) Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Yangon (Myanmar), Jakarta (Indonesia), Surabaya (Indonesia), Ho Chi Minh (Vietnam), Hanoi (Vietnam), Phnom Penh (Cambodia), CIS (10) Vientiane (Laos), Sydney(Australia), Melbourne (Australia), Auckland (New Zealand) Moscow (Russia), Vladivostok (Russia), Novosibirsk (Russia), St. Petersburg (Russia), Kiev (Ukraine), Almaty (Kazakhstan), Southwest Asia (8) Baku (Azerbaijan), Tashkent (Uzbekistan), Minsk (Belarus), Ulan Bator (Mongolia) New Delhi (India), Mumbai (India), Chennai (India), Bangalore (India), Kolkata (India), Karachi (Pakistan), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Colombo (Sri Lanka) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 9 Management of Sustainability Issues Principles of Sustainability Management KOTRA aims to promote sustainability management to contribute to solving societal, environmental and future challenges of humanity and generate new values in connection with business operation. We align the organization management and businesses with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), establish priorities, and explore business opportunities that are in line with SDGs to create shared values. With the expectation of corporate responsibilities and roles rising at the global level, KOTRA is widening the scope of sustainability management to encompass the entire value chain. By helping domestic companies enter into the global market and perform their businesses taking the SDGs into consideration, we try to address global issues and enhance new business values. UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved safe, resilient and sustainable nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all marine resources for sustainable development Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable manage terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, ment of water and sanitation for all combat desertification, and halt and reverse land Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable degradation and halt biodiversity loss and modern energy for all Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable sustainable development, provide access to justice economic growth, full and productive employment for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive and decent work for all institutions at all levels Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Goal 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation revitalize the global partnership for sustainable Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries development * The UN adopted Sustainable Development Goals in September 2015 on the occasion of the UN General Assembly for the sustainable development of the international community. The SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets designed to address problems facing the future of humanity, the environment of the Earth and human society, and provide directions for the UN and the international community to achieve the shared goals by 2030. The 17 goals and 169 targets are listed on www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment. 10 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Implementation of UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) KOTRA supports the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the UN for the sustainable development of the international community. We are implementing the SDGs, focusing particularly on the ones that are relevant to the businesses and the sustainability management of KOTRA. KOTRA’s SDGs-linked Activities SDGs Implications and Values Major Programs Emerging and underdeveloped countries require external help and support to •D ‌ elivery of relief goods and donations (donations solve their societal issues. KOTRA is committed to addressing environmental and made per each Korea Business Center (KBC)). No poverty. social challenges of countries where we operate by implementing the SDGs. In • P‌ romotion of Private Development Assistance (PDA) particular, we are contributing to enhancing quality of life of people in developing (Exploration and implementation of global CSR countries by tackling poverty issues. businesses) Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages is essential for • P‌ rovision of medical services for senior citizens, children and Ensure healthy sustainable development. KOTRA contributes to upgrading medical skills of develwomen (e.g., free medical checkup for autistic children in China) lives and promote oping countries by running technical schools in the field of medicine. • D‌ onation of medical supplies (glucose monitors, chlorination devices, well-being for antibiotics, dust masks, medical goods for seniors, and innovative all at all ages. products for visually/hearing-impaired people, etc.) UN SDGs • R‌ unning of medical devices / implant technical schools KOTRA Quality education is the foundation for higher quality of life and sustainable devel•O ‌ peration of the export school for the youth Ensure quality opment. KOTRA is upgrading technical skills of people in developing and vulnerable • ‌Nurturing multicultural traders education and promote lifelong learning countries by helping them to gain knowledge and techniques required to promote • ‌Operation of startup technical schools opportunities for all. sustainable development. In particular, we are providing technical education necessary for decent work and company management thereby increasing the number of teenagers and adults with adequate skills. Unemployment is a global challenge. By providing stable, well-paying and decent • ‌Global employment support process Promote sustainable jobs, we can fight against poverty. KOTRA offers job opportunities and guarantees • ‌Job school · camp · fair economic growth equal pay for equal work. We also make efforts to create a safe environment to • ‌OVOP (One Village One Product) project in Indonesia and decent work work for the employees. • ‌Cashmere business in Mongolia for all. • ‌Organic coffee business in Nepal Comprehensive and sustainable industry development is a primary source of in• ‌Transfer of experiences in test certification, Build infrastructures come which can enhance living standards of humanity. KOTRA supports technolproduct manufacturing and public service and promote ogy development, research and innovation of developing countries and promotes operation, and the transfer of idle equipment sustainable policies for industry diversification and higher added values of products. without charge. industrialization. Easing inequality between countries requires efforts at the international community level. • ‌KSP programs in the field of industry, trade Economic growth that is neither comprehensive nor sustainable in terms of economic, social and investment Reduce inequality and environmental development cannot be a solution to poverty issues. KOTRA, with our with in and among countries. KSP programs in industry, trade and investment and Official Development Assistance (ODA), helps emerging and developing countries grow and ease inequalities, thereby contributing to sustainable development. Strengthen the The partnership among the government, private sector and civil society is crucial for the • Follow up projects after MYANTRA ‌ means of successful implementation of the SDGs. Respecting each country’s policies and leadership, • ‌Economic cooperation programs in connection implementation KOTRA helps formulate and implement policies for poverty eradication and sustainable dewith commerce and revitalize the velopment. In particular, by sharing knowledge, technology and finance and by promoting global partnership. diverse forms of partnership, we are contributing to the sustainable development of developing and emerging countries. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 11 Stakeholder Communication with Stakeholders Engagement Communication with diverse stakeholders is prerequisite for the internalization of sustainability management. KOTRA categorizes its stakeholders according to the flow of value and operates communication channels tailored to their respective needs. By doing so, we form a consensus on sustainability management issues and reflect their feedback in our management activities. Category Stakeholder Required Value Communication Channel Value Employees • F‌ orm a consensus on corporate •M ‌ onthly general meetings direction •M ‌ onthly enlarged executive meetings Creation •C ‌ reate a heart-to-heart communication •C ‌ orporate culture TF culture •O ‌ pen innovation TF Labor Union •B ‌ uild a healthy corporate culture •U ‌ nion-management Council •E ‌ nsure work-life balance •U ‌ nion-management joint TF •W ‌ orking-level staff meetings Value Government • I‌ mplement the government’s policy •B ‌ usiness contact space with the agendas government and National Assembly Impact & National • F‌ ulfill social responsibility as a public •P ‌ ublic Institution Job Creation Assembly institution Committee Relevant •S ‌ hare overseas infrastructure •K ‌ BCs’ one-roof infrastructure •D ‌ evelop integrated support services •R ‌ egular council of export support institutions Organizations through cooperation Value SMEs •O ‌ ffer services meeting customer needs •R ‌ egional global business forum •C ‌ reate performance in overseas business • F‌ ace-to-face and non-face-to-face Consumption consulting infrastructure Buyers & •D ‌ evelop business opportunities related •K ‌ OTRA businesses including export to Korea forum Investors •O ‌ vercome distance restrictions through •O ‌ nline platforms including buyKOREA online channels Value Sharing Local • ‌Promote cooperation with public •Y ‌ angjae R&CD Innovation Hub TF institutions for the development of local •V ‌ olunteer work for creating a flower Communities communities walkway around Yangjae Stream • C‌ onduct social contribution with local communities People •S ‌ trengthen communication with •H ‌ omepage, SNS channels potential customers • I‌ dea contest targeting online •E ‌ xpand public institutions’ information consultants disclosure and involvement of people 12 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Communication Activities [Online Town Hall Meeting] Vision & Core Value Internalization Index Bring employee opinions suggested through online anonymous channels to the management communication channels 91.8 such as monthly general meetings and enlarged executive meetings to form a consensus on core issues [Voluntary Research Meeting] 91.2 points points Vitalize voluntary research meetings aimed at deliberating KOTRA’s role and progress such as the Trend Research Group 2016 2017 (700 attendees in 18 meetings) and a global culture club Midday Forum (407 attendees in 10 meetings) Comply with the government [Open Innovation TF] guideline by administering permanent Hold an employee idea contest on open innovation Educate all employees on innovation and data [Organizational Culture TF] Identify tasks such as improving the way of working and establishing a horizontal corporate culture (13 times) positions to 17 non-permanent workers existing Complete 10 improvement tasks including the introduction of MRO and open a mentoring system [Overseas One-Roof] Dispatch a trade mission for Operate the “One-Roof Council” attended by relevant institutions at home and collaboration with relevant institutions 72 1,779 abroad (sharing KBC rooms with 28 relevant institutions and 53 expatriates) [Overseas Marketing Policy Council] institutions and companies Optimize support by activating communication among 30 institutions (6 government departments, local governments of 17 cities and provinces, Establish and operate an integrated and 7 export institutions) export voucher management system Selected as “priority task for collaboration among public institutions” by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Public-Service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Achieved S grade for 4 consecutive years [Local Business Clubs] Exchange export information and share critical issues with 394 CEOs of local exporters by connecting customer networks in the metropolitan area with 11 local branch offices [Service Innovation Meeting] Hold the service innovation meeting with 121 SMEs in 10 regions 94.1 2016 points 96.8 2017 points [Service Consultants Meeting] Reflect opinions of exporters in our businesses and strategies [Community-specific Development] Reflect public opinions in reorganizing the Promote community development in collaboration with Seocho-gu as the Yangjae R&CD Innovation Hub TF portal website 22 [Environmental Improvement] Build 200-meter-long “KOTRA Flower Walkway” along Yangjae Stream cases [SNS Integration] Integrate six existing SNSs into a representative account for more efficient operation [Online Consultants] Reflect public opinions in reorganizing the portal website (regularly collecting opinions of 300 online consultants) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 13 Materiality Test Outline of the Materiality Test KOTRA performed a materiality test in order to prepare this report centered on material topics that reflect internal and external stakeholders’ interests and business impacts. We created a topic pool with regard to sustainability management based on global sustainability initiatives, benchmarking, and media analysis, and then prioritized those topics in view of business impacts and stakeholders’ interests. Materiality Test Process Step 1. Creation of a Topic Pool Step 2. Analysis of Topics Stakeholders’ Interests Analysis of Global Standards Reviewed global standards and evaluation items for sustainability Global sustainability initiatives management Media Research Analyzed valid media articles of KOTRA from January 1 through December 31, 2017 Benchmarking Benchmarking Reviewed sustainability management reports of 10 leading companies in CSR Survey Media analysis Surveyed stakeholders including customers, local communities, and suppliers on economic, environmental, and social responsibilities We collected material CSR topics related to our sustainability management, Business Impacts economic, environmental, and social aspects of the GRI G4 Guidelines, and global leading companies in CSR. Then, we created a pool consisting of 31 Survey topics through global sustainability initiatives (UNGC, UN SDGs, and DJSI) Surveyed employees on KOTRA’s sustainability management activities and media research. such as economic, environmental, and social (labor, human rights, etc.) responsibilities In-company Policy Reflected reviews impacting KOTRA’s internal policies 14 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Materiality Test Matrix The most important topics identified through materiality test were as follows: supports for overseas expansion of SMEs, creation of shared value with local communities, anti-corruption, support for eco-friendly and new technology sectors, employee education, employee health and safety, support for overseas investments, creation of global jobs, diversity and fair opportunities, and prohibition of discrimination. Step 3. Prioritization Selection of We selected key topics to be reported through the materiality test. Reporting boundary and DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) of each topic are presented on the introduction page of each section. Material Topics Materiality Test Matrix Economy & Business Operation Society Environment Social interests Optional Preferred Key Support for overseas reporting reporting reporting expansion of SMEs Low Medium High Improvement of support for Creation of shared value with local communities marketing and service Employee health and safety Anti-corruption Support for overseas investments Recruitment and employment Creation of global jobs Waste reduction and improvement Efforts for energy saving Conventional practices in of resource recycling Diversity and fair opportunities procurement Innovative organizational culture Support for eco-friendly and new technology sectors Compliance with laws Market position Reinforcement of human rights Prohibition of Creation of economic performance management discrimination Employee Promotion of water saving Engagement in establishing public policies Support for and recycling attracting foreign education Work-life balance investments Security enhancement Customer safety and health Communication with local communities Expansion of green purchasing Freedom of association and collective bargaining Environmental grievance treatment system Business impacts Report on Material Topics Material Topics Boundary Reporting Contents Page Employees Customers Suppliers Local Communities Government Globalization of SMEs 19 ① Support for overseas expansion of SMEs ✓ ✓ ✓ Development of new opportunities for overseas expansion 30 Business operation centered on communication, openness, and cooperation 40 ② Creation of shared value with local communities ✓ ✓ ✓ Social contribution for sustainable development 46 Ethics management 62 ③ Anti-corruption ✓ ✓ ✓ Business operation centered on communication, openness, and cooperation 40 ④ Support for eco-friendly and new technology sectors ✓ ✓ Diversification of export items and markets 27 ⑤ Employee education ✓ Innovative organization culture contributing to society 43 ⑥ Employee health and safety ✓ ✓ Human rights management 55 ⑦ Support for overseas investments ✓ ✓ ✓ Attraction of more foreign investors 23 ⑧ Creation of global jobs ✓ ✓ ✓ Global job creation 32 ⑨ Diversity and fair opportunities ✓ ✓ Human rights management 55 ⑩ Prohibition of discrimination ✓ ✓ Human rights management 55 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 15 Back to Origin KOTRA Challenge 18p Global 26p 16 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Customer 34p Contribution 42p KOTRA devotes itself to supporting the overseas expansion of SMEs and creating global jobs with a sense of mission and challenging spirit. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 17 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Advancement of Trade and Investment Businesses Challenge Business Our Key Relevance Approach Performance With prolonged economic slowdown, identifying KOTRA, in order to cultivate new exporters, provides Transform domestic companies into a new growth driver for the future emerged as export support programs customized for the exporters (Unit: No. of companies) a key issue. The government is making efforts industrial characteristics of each company. We also Transform suburban domestic companies into exporters (Unit: No. of companies) to further stabilize the export structure of the help innovative startups and domestic companies 2,526 country by expanding the export bases of outside of the Seoul capital area advance into the 2,373 SMEs and diversifying the export market which global market. A data analysis platform is utilized to 1,746 currently shows disproportionate reliance on provide companies with services that are tailored to certain countries. In line with this, KOTRA is their export capabilities and items. This makes the 1,592 1,686 trying to enhance export capabilities of SMEs companies become more competitive in the global to advance the export structure of the country market. We also assist them in taking preemptive 986 and help innovative startups and domestic actions against diverse investment and technology 2015 2016 2017 companies based outside of Seoul go global to cooperation demands that are likely to follow the secure new growth engines for the future. Fourth Industrial Revolution. National performance in attracting foreign investments (Unit: USD in billions) Investments of over USD 1 million (Unit: cases) Risk Opportunity 22.9 543 21.3 20.9 • Increasing market risk in major trading partners • A cceleration of the 4th Industrial Revolution 421 (protectionism of the U.S., etc.) • E xpansion of e-commerce 328 • Slowdown of GVC (Global Value Chain) expansion • E conomic growth of emerging countries 2015 2016 2017 Interview In-depth Support and Subsequent Monitoring Boosts Growth of Young Exporters We are a young exporter and were provided with the mentoring service of export specialists in all stages of export, including education on trading, information about export market conditions and advice on finding new buyers. The 1:1 mentoring services were of great help in receiving answers to our questions whenever necessary. Hopefully, KOTRA can start a phased program to transform domestic companies to exporters on top of the in-depth services it currently provides for continued growth of new exporters. 18 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Globalization of SMEs Strengthening of the Capabilities of Global SMEs By nurturing new exporters and providing domestic companies, startups and urban companies with support tailored Increase the Number of to their characteristics, KOTRA has increased the number of Korean exporters and thereby improved the conglomerateExporters oriented export structure of the country. With the systematic support targeting domestic companies, KOTRA successfully transformed 2,526 companies to exporters, making the number of Korean SME exporters hit a new high of 94,512. Support by Corporate Growth Stage Domestic Companies / Export Beginners Promising Exporters Strong Exporters Mid-sized Exporters No. of domestic companies transformed Less than USD 100,000 USD 100,000-1,000,000 USD 1,000,000-5,000,000 More than USD 5,000,000 into exporters (Unit: companies) Target 2,373 2,526 2016 2017 Strategy Transform into exporters Jisahwa service World Champ Boost exports Enhance competence by Manage existing clients Support one-on-one Support for one-on-one offering mentoring services and expand exports to coaching for market coaching for overseas Action plan to export professionals target markets through development activities awareness improvement staff dedicated to Jisahwa such as independent and PR service roadshows Transforming Domestic Companies into Exporters KOTRA has increased the number of mentors who provide in-depth support for domestic companies across all stages of export and strengthened the services rendered in connection with relevant outside organizations. On top of that, intensive efforts have been made to help domestic companies expand overseas, by allowing more companies to take part in KOTRA’s marketing projects including export exhibitions and trade missions. Spreading success stories of new exporters as best practices and hosting the Export Innovation Entrepreneurship Award are some other examples of KOTRA’s engagement. KOTRA newly established a support system for young exporters to ensure that they continue selling to the foreign market after an initial success. Follow-up mentoring services for export specialists were provided to give intensive in-depth support to 500 new exporters with an export volume of less than USD 10,000 as of last year. Export Gateway Biz. Plaza Enhance Support for Entire Export Process of Domestic Companies Existing Support Additional Support Establishment of • Require ‌ competence assessment and on-site consultation for all companies roadmaps • ‌Establish roadmaps through GCL* Elaborate target markets by company • Offer ‌ export job training only for domestic companies • Add ‌ support for basic infrastructure for export Export preparation • Connect ‌ with five services such as obtaining MSS Support for publishing brochures in foreign languages and getting certification and job training of KITA “Export Safety Insurance” Export Innovation Entrepreneurship Award Identification of • ‌Operate a team dedicated to identifying buyers at KBCs • Strengthen ‌ connection between export professionals and KBCs buyers • ‌Connect 10 services including KITA’s interpretation and translation services Appoint responsible staff by KBC and match them with export professionals Support for signing • ‌Support marketing activities and communication with buyers • Connect ‌ “legal advice service” of the Ministry of Justice contracts • Link ‌ fundraising and insurance programs needed for export • ‌Continue support for fundraising and insurance programs needed for export * GCL (Global Competence Level) Test: A program to help SMEs conduct self-assessment of globalization competence (eight items) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 19 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Globalization of SMEs Support for Innovative Startups (Born Global) to Go Global As an effort to secure future growth engines for national export, KOTRA helps innovative startups with early intentions Support the of globalization to realize their goal of entering into the foreign market. By establishing a support mechanism that fully Globalization of Startups reflects startups’ needs for finance, market exploration and cooperation with global companies and also by making concentrated efforts in developing new businesses, KOTRA has enabled 92 companies to expand globally, up by 53.3% from last year. Provision of Finance Opportunities KOTRA offered fundraising opportunities through crowdfunding to startSupport the globalization of startups ups with insufficient resources to establish a production system and (No. of companies) develop new technologies. We hosted business presentations and B2B 60 92 meetings with the representatives of the crowdfunding platform from China, where the crowdfunding market is showing a rapid growth recently, Startups successful in exporting and from Japan, where it is difficult to find a new partner owing to the (No. of companies) complex distribution structure. Not only that, KOTRA helped startups take 32 80 part in overseas conferences dedicated to fintech to help them raise funds from foreign investors. Crowdfunding platform Consulting and Mentoring Program New export startups (No. of companies) Support for New Export Market Entry Centered on Innovative Products 39 To support marketing activities of startups that have difficulties in exploring new markets, KOTRA has subdivided the cate11 gories of items for which mentoring services of export specialists are provided. Moreover, we gave startups opportunities to 2016 2017 display and showcase their innovative consumer goods, utilizing the office spaces of KBCs. Strategic Support for Market Entry Using Cooperation Demand for Global Companies After signing a business cooperation agreement, KOTRA and Facebook have been jointly implementing the “Made by Korea, Connected by Facebook” project, which is a marketing education initiative employSupport the globalization ing a social media platform. KOTRA uses accumulated know-how of suburban domestic and provides practical training on exportation while Facebook takes companies charge of the social media marketing education. We aim to educate startups with innovative consumer goods to better use digital marketing tools and increase the chances of their successful entry into the global market. KOTRA-Facebook agreement ceremonyProgram Suburban domestic companies Support for the Globalization of Suburban Domestic Companies transformed into exporters (No. of companies) With the majority of export support infrastructure located in the metropolitan area, domestic companies outside the capital city of Seoul face difficulties in advancing into the foreign markets. Therefore, KOTRA newly opened branch offices in Chungbuk 1,686 1,746 and Gyeongnam provinces to strengthen the support mechanism for each region. Moreover, an information exchange channel among local companies called “Global Business Club” was newly established to enhance accessibility of companies. Apart from Suburban companies that used that, to help upgrade the capabilities of companies outside of Seoul, KOTRA provides in-depth on-site mentoring and consulting our service(No. of companies) services which cover all phases of the export process from setting roadmaps to deal-making. Reflecting the government policy 12,139 13,451 and company demands, KOTRA has promoted exhibition and B2B meetings focusing specifically on local special industries and dispatched more trade missions to regions under the organic cooperation with the local authorities and relevant organizations. 2016 2017 20 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Globalization of SMEs Enhanced Export Support in Accordance with Capabilities Shifting away from previous ways of dividing recipient companies into three categories of domestic, promising and Offer Jisahwa Service medium, KOTRA came up with a new method of classifying recipient companies’ capabilities into four levels: domestic/ new, promising, small but strong and medium exporting enterprises. By providing stronger and more customized export support in accordance with their capabilities, KOTRA aims to advance the export growth ladder. We also plan to enhance export achievements with services tailored to companies’ needs. Support Programs Customized to Export Capability Companies that applied to Jisahwa service(No. of companies) 3,506 Domestic Companies/Export Beginners Promising Exporters Strong Exporters Mid-sized Exporters Classification Support Program Less than USD 100,000 USD 100,000-1,000,000 USD 1,000,000-5,000,000 More than USD 5,000,000 3,273 Transform into exporters ◎ ○ ◎ ○ Export support through Jisahwa Jisahwa service (entry-progress-expansion) ○ service(USD in millions) Local ○ ○ ◎ marketing 3,339 World Champ (Pre-Mid-Post) 2,956 Cultivate mid-sized exporters ◎ 2016 2017 Logistics networks (B2C, warehouse) ○ ◎ ○ Overseas ○ ◎ ○ * Figure in 2016 excluded estimated value. infrastructure Business incubator * Based on annual fixed-term programs (Single or double circle signifies the proportion of support companies.) [Promising Exporters] Jisawha Service “Jisawha Service” refers to a program for SMEs where companies can have local staff members of KBCs in foreign countries serve as their overseas branch office in a given period. With more people wishing to join, KOTRA is now rendering the service to more companies through the collaboration with other organizations that run similar programs. By encompassing services of World Federation of Overseas Korean Traders Associations (OKTA) and Small & medium Business Corporation (SBC), the scope of the service itself became wider to have three stages of entry, development and expansion. KOTRA serves as a hub, operating a consultative group of service providing organizations. A website dedicated to Jisawha Service is now up and running, providing one-stop services from participation to signing an agreement. Domestic training for staff dedicated to Jisahwa service Expansion of Export Voucher Service Export Beginners Promising Exporters Entry level Progress level Expansion level Supporting basic marketing Supporting export and contract Supporting localization Service Market research, buyer identification, Export contract, consultation on exhibition, Technology export, establishment of local Customer meeting for Jisahwa service and joint network exchange customer management, etc. subsidiary, investment attraction, etc. distribution project Support period 6 months 1 year 1 year KOTRA OKTA SBC Support amount 3,506 1,101 474 Offered services to 5,081 companies 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 21 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Globalization of SMEs [Small but Strong Exporters] Overseas Infrastructure Support Business To respond to changes in customer demand and requests for export infrastructure support resulting from the wider Support Export Incubator use of e-commerce, KOTRA is providing Business Incubators (BI*) and logistics services that meet customer demands and World Champ in promising target markets. By promoting One-roof** integration, we have strengthened the marketing collaboration Programs between KBCs and BIs. Moreover, reflecting customer demands, we have launched BIs in Bangkok and Yangon, which are linchpins of the Korean government’s New Southern Policy. Also, B2C logistics centers are being expanded as part of our efforts to adapt to the changes in the trading environment and the increase of consumer goods export. * BI: A program to provide domestic SMEs wishing to go global with offices in major cities overseas and support local marketing ** One-roof: A structure under which SMEs can have access to export information and necessary support programs at a single location in overseas countries. Companies participated in export incubator program (No. of companies) [Mid-sized Exporters] Introduction of Specialized Support Programs 273 291 In order to provide tailored support to companies in accordance with their capabilities, KOTRA has developed forwardand backwardlinkage programs to each growth stage and is now increasing the number of participating companies. To narrow the space between growth stages and allow companies that sit on the boundaries to enjoy customized services, KOTRA is making Amount of export support through export our “Pre World Champ” service and “Post World Champ” service accessible to more companies. The former is designed to incubator program (USD in millions) help companies grow into World Champs while the latter supports companies to grow into medium-sized exporters. Aside 338 446 from this, the Medium Enterprise Support Department was established within KOTRA to support quantitative expansion and qualitative growth of medium-sized companies. By promoting marketing projects designed specifically for medium-sized exporters, we are nurturing specialized global companies of the future. Companies applying for the World Champ program (No. of companies) 170 210 Best Practice Amount of export support through World SMART Consultation Using Big Data Analysis System Champ program (USD in millions) There is demand for a sophisticated consultation system required to systematically support the export of SMEs. 1,976 3,898 Accordingly, KOTRA introduced the “SMART Consulting System” which utilizes a data analysis platform called “Overseas Market Big-bot.” The system is used to provide consulting services tailored to a company’s demand 2016 2017 which might include advice on the capabilities and products of each recipient company. By combining GCL (Global Competence Level) test results which allow for the self-assessment of globalization capability (8 criteria) of SMEs with internal and external data, information necessary for successful export performance is generated. On the Customized SMART Big-bot platform, companies can have relevant market information on the capability test result page and check Consultation the agency’s answer to their questions 24/7, which enable them to have real-time access to the information necessary for exportation. Consulting Process for GCL Companies using big-bot Global Competence Level (GCL) Test (1st stage) Consultation by Big-bot (2nd stage) Consultation by professionals Connection with businesses (No. of companies) • In-depth consultation 5,735 7,083 •‌GCL of exporters and domestic companies •‌Preemptive consultation •‌Recommendation of eligible support projects [Assessment system] ① Customized export information ① Consultation by telephone and visit ① KOTRA (199 projects) Competence analysis, market ② Online inquiry (Trade-Doctor) Competence enhancement (155 projects) ③ On-site consultation (mobile KOTRA) Reduction of time spent on VOC Quantitative(10) + Qualitative(90) promotion, promotion of eligible Marketing (44 projects) ② Relevant institutions (697 projects) Survey and export performance treatment (hours) projects ② Swift FAQ 24 21 * Global competence (8 items): Preparing export (training, workforce, capital, and infrastructure), utilizing export (communication 2016 2017 and marketing), expanding export (network and strategy) 22 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Attraction of More Foreign Investors Generation of New Growth Engine through Increased Investment Attraction Responding to political, diplomatic and commerce issues at home and abroad and the subsequent changes in the investNational Performance ment environment and industrial structures, KOTRA is engaging in strategic actions to attract investment. With flexible in Attracting Foreign efforts adaptive to changes in and outside of the country, KOTRA has contributed to attracting USD 22.9 billion of foreign Investment investment. Efforts in Strategic Investment Attraction KOTRA establishes countermeasures to regional and industrial issues emerging in and outside of the country and reflect them into the investment attraction efforts. The focus of the investment promotion efforts is being given to each region’s industrial and local demand. Moreover, we have designated a promising investment destination industry for each Amount of foreign investments foreign country and conducted IR activities including performance presentations and business roundtables. Investment (USD in billions) promotion groups have been set up for the specialty industry of each local autonomous body. In Korea, we have hosted 21.3 22.9 “Invest Korea Week” to attract large global investors and support foreign companies’ recruitment activities in Korea. No. of investments worth over USD 1 million (Cases) 421 543 2016 2017 Invest Korea Week 2017 Seminar on investment environment in Chhattisgarh State of India and one-on-one meetings Foreign Investments in Newly Rising Industries Investment Promotion for New Industries To lay the investment foundation for promising areas in the era of Fourth Industrial Revolution, KOTRA has set up investment attraction strategies for six major promising areas: futuristic car, robot, digital healthcare, VR/AR, new energy industry and high-tech chemical materials. We have addressed problems faced by investors and contributed to government policy making based on our investment attraction experience which led to the creation of a virtuous cycle where the business environment of domestic companies in new industries is improved. In addition, we closely cooperated with local Amount of investments (USD in billions) autonomous bodies and relevant organizations and actively supported investors to create new demand for investment and technology collaboration. 42.1 54.3 Systemization of FI Attraction Strategy-making Process No. of investments worth over KOTRA integrated and expanded investment attraction strategy-building activities, which had been separately conducted USD 1 million (Cases) by each region, industry or local autonomous body, into the “Foreign Investment Attraction Strategy Establishment Work186 223 shop.” Building upon this, KOTRA is setting up systematic and consistent FI attraction plans and leading similar efforts made by relevant bodies such as local entities and Free Economic Zones (FEZs). Furthermore, KOTRA is expanding the 2016 2017 IK advisory group and listening to industry experts in all stages of FI (foreign investment) attraction for greater expertise. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 23 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Attraction of More Foreign Investors Investment Attraction that Enhances National Competitiveness KOTRA is boosting its strategic investment attraction efforts to meet policy demand for the globalization of domestic companies and balanced growth of the country. With M&As, equity investment and demand for globalization of SMEs and venture companies increasing, KOTRA has expanded project DB and made its operation more effective to timely respond to investment demand. In addition, to meet the heightened policy demand for balanced national growth and to help support local autonomous bodies to better attract investment, KOTRA enhanced its function of drawing investment into local autonomous bodies and FEZs and supported overseas business platforms. Stronger Support for IR Activities of SMEs and Venture Companies KOTRA operated the investment attraction platform “Invest Korea Market Place (IKMP)” to meet domestic companies’ higher demands for strategic investment cooperation with foreign companies. This helped KOTRA to better support the Strategic Investment globalization of SMEs and venture companies. IKMP discovers companies or projects in need of investment and matches Attraction them with foreign investors through overseas KBCs. To enlarge the pool of promising companies and projects, KOTRA established a cooperative mechanism with external organizations and succeeded in discovering 223 new projects, up 237.9% from last year. Moreover, by applying a unified format to all projects and creating a database of them in the IK portal, KOTRA made it easier for investors in and outside of Korea to access promising investment projects. Furthermore, by operating offline businesses in connection with IKMP, we further increased the number of domestic companies matched with foreign investors. Identification of IKMP projects (No. of projects) 66 223 Diversification of investment Destination by Region KOTRA diversified investment destinations in Korea which had been disproportionately concentrated in the Seoul metropolitan area and cooperated with local authorities and FEZs to strengthen their IR capabilities. This enabled Amount of investment attraction in KOTRA to contribute to the balanced national growth. KOTRA provided training to local entities and FEZs to enhance non-capital region (USD in billions) their IR capabilities and supported the dispatch of customized trade missions. In addition, KOTRA helped select and 4.73 6.27 commercialize promising projects of local autonomous bodies by providing across-the-board support ranging from setting IR strategies to attracting actual investment. 2016 2017 Domestic FEZ (Free Economic Zone) Education to help FEZ authorities enhance competence in investment attraction Saemangeum Gunsan Free Economic Zone Gwangyang Bay Area Free Economic Zone GFEZ investment attraction delegation (Dallas in the US) 24 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Attraction of More Foreign Investors Creation of an Investment-friendly Environment To vitalize foreign investment (FI), KOTRA has expanded its provision of information and professional consulting services on FI One-stop Service for related policies and regulations and helped the foreign investors to quickly settle in Korea after making investments. To that Foreign Investment end, 19 staff members of government departments and relevant bodies were dispatched to KOTRA to deliver a one-stop service (Unit: cases) covering all stages of foreign investment, ranging from investment report filing, business activities, to settlement in Korea. Information on available services is given to investors through brochures produced by KOTRA. In addition, we ensured that foreign investors understand changes made in the qualifications for tax incentives after the revision of the Special Tax Treatment Control Act, by working together with the Korea Legislation Research Institute and spreading the Act translated in English. KOTRA tries to make sure that our services reach everyone in need by conducting on-site counseling in and outside of Korea. 20,406 21,464 Administrative support is also rendered to provide a stable living environment for foreign investors to ease into. 2016 2017 Best Practice Operation of an online investment information center Grievance Settlement to improve Investment Environment KOTRA launched the “Foreign Investment KOTRA preemptively identifies and redresses grievances of foreign investors that stem from domestic regulations and Information Center” on the IK website and policies. For example, KOTRA expanded a two-way communication platform between FI companies and the government built a database on FDI (Foreign Direct to allow investment companies to voice their opinions on legislations that might influence their business activities. Investment) including relevant news, research & survey reports, statistics, and Korean Hosting different meetings by job title, sector and region, KOTRA tried to handle diverse problems and complaints from business information, which contribute to the customer’s point of view. In a meeting presided over by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy in September systemizing and sharing foreign investment 2017, we heard from foreign investment companies about difficulties they had in securing inventory when the customs information. were closed during the long Korean Thanksgiving holiday. This led the Korea Customs Service to start operating 24/7 special clearance assistance teams in 34 customs across the country. On top of that, KOTRA promotes 1:1 in-depth Operation of Meetings for Grievance monitoring utilizing Home Doctor Service and visits relevant parent companies overseas to learn more about challenges Treatment facing foreign investors. Working closely with 17 local autonomous bodies, KOTRA redresses on-site complaints and grievances as well. Classification Unit 2016 2017 Participants No. 173 225 Expansion of the Communication Platform between Foreign Investment Companies and the Government of companies Identified No. of cases 79 100 grievances Classification Existing Improved Position-specific segmentation by launching a meeting between higher positions Position Working-level staff of the government and CEOs of foreign investment companies 이해관계자 StakeholderComments Comments Higher • I‌nteractive communication on policy: positions (government) new policies ↔ (foreign investment compaof the nies) presentation to the government When a foreign investment company tries to government Hosted by the acting minister (Feb.), Trade, enter into the Korean market, KOTRA provides -CEO Industry and Energy Minister (Sept. & Dec.) not only legal support in overcoming entry Small group meeting Sector barriers but practical help to receive benefits by sector from policy support of the Korean government. •D ‌ iscussion on regulations: We appreciate KOTRA’s effort to take the Small group Tax, labor, and civil complaints perspective of a foreign investment enterprise meeting by Eight times including trademark rights (Feb.), energy-efsector ficiency equipment (Feb.), chemical substances (Jul. & and are satisfied with their sincere and Aug.) professional services in multiple sectors. Head of Department Moon-ki Kim Region Local discussion meeting Swift treatment of grievances of local foreign investment companies Solvay Korea Co., Ltd 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 25 Challenge Global Customer Contribution GLOBAL Pioneering a New Global Market Business Our Key Relevance Approach Performance The world is seeing a prolonged structural KOTRA, to pioneer new export markets, Active entry into overseas markets economic slowdown. In the meantime, the is focusing on entering into the market of SMEs’ overseas market exploitation (Unit: cases) Fourth Industrial Revolution is rapidly reshaping new industry products and high addedDevelopment of overseas projects (Unit: cases) the industrial ecosystem. The protectionist value services. Providing more marketing movement which puts national interest opportunities is another way for us to support 2,374 above everything is gaining momentum, market diversification. In addition, we are intensifying the competition among export expanding the scope of export support to cover 1,705 support organizations. All these changes in not only big projects but specialized projects 780 commerce require a new set of solutions. New in promising areas. On-site and customized 674 export support programs that reflect market assistance has been reinforced to redress opportunities and government policies should difficulties arising from the changing trade be developed. Export products and markets environment as well. 2016 2017 must be diversified to take proactive measures against the changes in the trading landscape. Expansion of job creation Korean recruits abroad (Unit: persons) Risk Opportunity Job creation from foreign investment attraction (Unit: persons) 15,088 •Occurrence of new global issues •Acceleration of the 4th Industrial Revolution 13,467 700 (protectionism, etc.) •Expansion of e-commerce •Increase of uncertainties •Economic growth of emerging countries •Changes in consumption trend •Expansion of global technical cooperation 476 2016 2017 Interview Nurturing experts to enable consistent support over the long term Choosing a good, suitable partner is important for an SME to expand overseas. KOTRA is very helpful to SMEs through its deep understanding of local circumstances and the ability to discover local buyers. I hope KOTRA can continue to be a great help by nurturing specialized experts for each foreign market and providing consistent support over a long period of time. 26 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Diversification of Export Items and Markets Advanced strategic business by characteristics of overseas market Enhancement of the Strategic Programs based on Overseas Market Characteristics to pioneer new export markets, KOTRA is SMEs’ Development of New expanding marketing opportunities and strengthening strategic programs that are adaptive to changes in circumstances and Markets (No. of cases) opportunity factors in each foreign market. As part of this effort, KOTRA reshuffled the structure of its Business Information & Trade Affairs Division and established a special unit for a wide range of market diversification policy support including basic research, strategy establishment and project implementation. Promotion of Overseas Market-specific Strategic Programs Strategic approaches based on thorough market analysis are essential for SMEs to enter into new export markets. To 1,705 2,374 tactically respond to fast-changing global market conditions, KOTRA is promoting strategic programs specific to each market type. Based on entry strategy and data analysis, KOTRA has classified foreign markets into four categories of 2016 2017 G2, Post China, developed and emerging and set up business principles for each category. With the operation of these strategic programs specifically targeted at each market, we have enabled 2,374 cases of new market entry, recording a 39.2% increase from the previous year. With many companies newly advancing into developed and emerging markets as opposed to the traditionally favored export destination of G2, the structure of the country’s export market has been assessed to be more balanced and improved. Development of New Markets by Region (No. of cases) Business direction [Risk elimination] Target niche markets by capitalizing on new consumption trends Classification 2016 2017 G2 576 595 • Develop ‌ projects to support the entry of consumer products centered on cosmetics G2 U.S. Post-China 417 585 • ‌Pioneer new large distribution channels and expand cooperation with the GMDC Major Advanced markets 323 524 projects • ‌Diversify marketing activities toward top 10 distribution platforms Emerging markets 389 670 China • Hold‌ B2B meetings aimed at pioneering inland consumer markets (Chengdu, Changsha, etc.) Business direction [Market preoccupation] Focus on entering the manufacturing market and securing the domestic market Post • ‌Centered on parts and materials. B2B meetings aimed at selling vehicles and cooperating India China in the sectors of smartphone and semiconductor Major projects • Centered ‌ on premium consumer products. Support for entering local large online/offline distribution channels ASEAN • ‌Hold large-sized exhibitions for Hallyu products (Indonesia and Vietnam) Business direction [Technical cooperation] Utilize the demands of the government and companies for leading the 4th Industrial Revolution Advanced markets Japan • ‌‌ICT advancement policy, demand for R&D in auto parts (Korea-Japan IT Cooperation Conference) Major projects EU • E‌ xpand cooperation to the materials sector (first technical meeting in materials sector) Business direction [Promising industry] Promote businesses centered on market-specific promising products according to economic growth Africa • Conduct ‌ businesses customized to local buyers’ demands by utilizing big data analysis Emerging markets Major Middle East, projects • ‌Promote businesses targeting promising sectors CIS, Central Oceania large-sized on/offline distribution channels • ‌Middle East (medical, defense, environment), CIS (development of the Far East, technical and South B2B meetings America cooperation, machinery), Central and South America (FTA, consumer goods, vehicle) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 27 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Diversification of Export Items and Markets Support for New Export Industries KOTRA develops export support programs which fit market opportunities and government policies and diversifies export products. We have expanded the export support and assigned more human resources in this field by establishing the Service Industry Promotion Center. In addition, the role we play as a consultant and the platform for overseas expansion is being strengthened through expansion of overseas marketing support. Best Practice Global Market Expansion Strategy Forum Improving Support for Leading Exporters in the Service Industry KOTRA cultivates leading players in the domestic service industry by selecting promising companies in sectors including content and franchise, and by providing intensive support for overseas marketing to enable their successful entry into the global markets. With a newly established support program where leading service providers can receive across-theboard support ranging from market research, export preparation, overseas marketing to entry into local markets, KOTRA is meeting different demands of different companies. Support for Leading Service Providers Service Mundus 2.0 Launch ceremony • C‌ reation of business opportunities • ‌Invitation of buyers for sales activities Survey and research • M‌ arket research • O‌ verseas visits for sales activities Marketing activities • P‌ rior preparation for sales • ‌Operation of footholds for sales activities Preparation • C‌ ustomer development • L‌ ocal sales promotion • M‌ atching of customers • C‌ ustoms and logistics Korea Service Market 2017 Selling • O‌ btainment of vendor qualification • L‌ egal advices Infrastructure • O‌ btainment of certifications • I‌nvestment attraction (IR) development Entry into local markets • P‌ rotection of intellectual properties • ‌Support for inroads into local markets Export Support for ICT Convergence Innovative Products Global Bio & Medical Plaza 2017 With the spread of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the ensuing call for innovative technologies, KOTRA is setting up business strategies factoring in national competitiveness and foreign countries’ demands, and is promoting programs considering the government policies and domestic companies’ capabilities. In particular, we have selected leading companies in the field of IoT, security and fintech and provided systematic export support encompassing specialized exhibitions in and outside of Korea, export forums on technology and products, and trade missions. Export Support for Medical and Bio Industry The bio & medical market and the international cooperation for new drug development are showing a rapid growth globally. Accordingly, KOTRA is promoting technological cooperation with global pharmaceutical companies in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Export conferences that previously centered on medical devices have been subdivided to focus also on new drugs and medical supplies sectors. In addition, we are helping Korean pharmaceutical and bio technologies advance into the global markets through collaboration with global pharmaceutical enterprises. 28 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Diversification of Export Items and Markets Support for Market Diversification Utilizing Marketing Efforts KOTRA supports companies so they can penetrate into new export markets through our marketing efforts including exhibitions and trade missions. We helped 740 new companies enter into new markets via our marketing programs, which is an 82.3% increase from the previous year. Discovering New Buyers Utilizing influential exhibitions in overseas countries, KOTRA is discovering new buyers in the host country and beyond. Information on exhibitions is shared among the 10 regional head offices, which leads to stronger collaboration to find new buyers. Furthermore, Korean Goods/Products Expos were hosted in Warsaw and New Delhi to better identify changes in Korean Goods/Products Expo in New Delhi the trading circumstances and support the entry into the promising markets. We also hosted Korea Pavilion in Astana Expo 2017 to increase support for entry into the Central Asian market. Expanded Trade Mission Dispatch to Promising Markets KOTRA expands the dispatch of trade missions to promising markets and improves the project implementation schemes to support market diversification. As part of this effort, we have selected 41 promising areas with high market potential and encouraged local authorities and relevant external organizations to send trade missions. Plus, plans to improve the current practices on dispatching trade missions have been laid out for better export outcomes. Korea Pavilion at the Astana Expo Export Support Utilizing Online Platforms Utilizing our online marketing platform “buyKOREA,” KOTRA is matching more buyers with domestic companies. Buyers can register their “buying offer” that includes detailed information and specifications of the products they want to import on the buyKOREA website. Then, KOTRA filters the buying offers and approaches qualifying domestic companies to match them with the potential buyers, thereby creating new export opportunities. In 2017, as many as 14,801 buying offers were posted on the buyKOREA website which led to 1,305 exports and 193 new market entries. Support Process Based on the buyKOREA Website Exports by Capitalizing on the buyKOREA Website ① Registration ② Discovery of domestic companies ③ Matching of buyers Existing Existing • Registration of buying offers by buyers Direct search of buying offers by Direct contact of buyers by companies companies No. of exports (Cases) 1,095 1,305 Improved Improved •S upport for matching of buyers •D iscovery of eligible domestic Development of new markets and B2B meeting process companies after KOTRA filters (Cases) after confirming the intent of buying offers 193 companies •A nalysis of internal company DB 129 E-mail, video conference, etc. by dedicated staff 2016 2017 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 29 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Development of New Opportunities for Overseas Expansion Building Foundations for Sustainable Export Environment KOTRA has come up with diverse support schemes to fight against the spread of protectionist movement in trade and the Enhancement of Grievance Treatment System resultant obstacles to overseas expansion. Additionally, KOTRA is helping the diversification of the overseas markets and business areas to enable domestic companies to explore and win overseas projects in a more stable manner. Identification of cases • ‌Monitoring of the entire process after Stronger Support for Troubleshooting identifying cases through KBCs To ease trade barriers including non-tariff measures and import regulations that followed protectionist movement, KOTRA is expanding collaboration with specialized organizations and striving to solve difficulties faced by companies. KBCs overseas detect problems and conduct regular monitoring until the problems are completely resolved. Experts in In-depth review judicial affairs and customs and those from Korean Agency for Technology and Standards (KATS) provide in-depth and • ‌Legal and in-depth review of professionals working at law firms, tax corporations, and legal reviews for each case. By diversifying the response channels and sharing information through seminars, we prevent KATS damage from occurring. Increasing the number of DBs on non-tariff measure to encompass 16 countries is another prevention measure we take. Furthermore, the FTA Support Centers, which focused on China and Vietnam, have now been expanded to cover Columbia and Indonesia to better redress grievances. Response by theme • ‌Expansion of grievance treatment channels including cross-government response and local consultation by KATS Dissemination of information Best Practice • ‌Seminar, registration of non-tariff measures on database, etc. Systematic and Phased Support for Winning Overseas Projects To enlarge foundations for SMEs’ entry into the global market, KOTRA uses the Project Management System (PMS) to identify problems facing domestic companies and swiftly provide necessary information. We host council meetings to win overseas projects on a quarterly basis, which encompasses 885 companies in 8 sectors including the environment and renewable energy areas. This serves as a great channel for us to strengthen support for each stage of winning projects. We surveyed member companies of the council in January 2017 to identify and fix problems faced by domestic companies when trying to land contracts overseas. Improvement of Support Projects by Analyzing Corporate Grievances Classification Existing Improved Discovery of • E‌ xpansion of coverage to bid information, • ‌Centered on discovering bid information information pipeline, and national development policies • ‌Disclosure of discovered projects on the • ‌Regular dissemination of information to Dissemination website members (weekly newsletter) • ‌Supporting consultation after inputting • ‌Upgrade of the system to ensure record PMS operation project information management of the entire project cycle Quarterly Wednesday Forum hosted by Overseas Construction Project Council 30 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Special Expanding Businesses with Big Buyers The global value chain of each industry is reshaping fast while global companies are accelerating their new Performances in GP Project product development and entry into the Third World. Accordingly, KOTRA is expanding businesses with big buyers to provide more effective export support. * GVC (Global Value Chain): A division system where entire process from R&D to actual sales of products and/or services is conducted by global cooperation Participants in GP B2B meeting (No. of companies) Best Practice 868 959 Reinforcement of GP (Global Partnering) Program The GP program aims to help Korean companies sign supply contracts with global enterprises* No. of contracts signed (Cases) 241 and enter the global value chain by supporting their obtainment of overseas certifications and R&D 206 efforts. KOTRA had relied on experiences and KBCs to identify local business opportunities, while recently, increasing feasibility and efficiency by approaching target buyers based on industrial Amount of contracts signed research results and changes in the global value chain. Moreover, we computerize database (USD in millions) specified for each industry and product and operate experts in five industry sectors, thereby 223 283 responding to demands of global enterprises for high technologies. The coverage of GP Program is extended to emerging markets and high value-added sectors to attract more target buyers. The 2016 2017 GMS (GP Management System) operates to monitor follow-up activities of promising matches in real time. * Global Enterprise: Fortune 500 companies or manufacturers with the sales of more than USD 100 million. Summary of GP Project 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 Discovery of Company GP B2B Follow-up Global Partnering ASIA demands matching meeting management Support for Entering Global • ‌Implementation of • ‌Establishment of • ‌B2B meeting for • ‌Management of industry survey industry mapping DB sourcing parts promising projects Distribution Channels • ‌Operation of overseas • ‌Utilization of industry • ‌B2B meeting for • ‌Online management footholds experts technical cooperation system Successful inroads into global Support for Entry into Global Distribution Channels distribution channels (Cases) In response to increasing e-commerce, value-conscious consumption, and the influence of global 263 329 distributors, we help domestic companies penetrate into large distribution channels, considering customers and export items. By promoting cooperative projects for target distribution channels, we support their entry, sales, and competence enhancement. Specialized marketing activities are also conducted to Amount of export from entered companies (USD in millions) support the entry of high-end consumer goods into advanced countries. Particularly, we have focused on 46 76 digital marketing to help domestic consumer goods makers successfully enter leading online retail chains in each country. Thanks to these endeavors, KOTRA supported 329 cases of newly opened stores in the global 2016 2017 distribution chain, a 25% increase from the previous year. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 31 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Global Job Creation Support for Employment Overseas In five years since starting support for overseas employment in 2013, KOTRA has successfully sent 700 people abroad Performance in Global for work opportunities. In 2017, a total of 121 people joined global enterprises, 2.2 times higher than last year. KOTRA is Employment strengthening the global employment support process to ensure more quality jobs. Global Employment Support Process No. of people employed abroad (persons) 476 700 Supported by KOTRA (%) “Discovery” “Recruitment” “Placement” “Management” 9.8 13.5 2016 2017 Discover demands for highCollect customized Enhance follow-up Expand job placement quality jobs job seekers management • ‌Expand overseas • ‌Strengthen PR of • Expand ‌ job placement • ‌Support local settlement infrastructure overseas employment events and collaboration • ‌Secure emergency • ‌Promote collaborations • ‌Conduct educations • ‌Improve matching communication network and use networks customized to job process seekers Establishment of Overseas Job Platform KOTRA is expanding overseas infrastructure to explore decent employment opportunities globally. We have established five K-Move Centers in strategic countries including Japan and Vietnam and are utilizing 31 KBCs abroad to promote projects dedicated to local demands. KOTRA provides consistent support throughout the employment process covering job preparation through referral. Sophistication of Cooperation with Related Organizations 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 KOTRA is strengthening the cooperation with related organizations to allow more people to get jobs overseas in the fields Career Camp for Working in Japan of service and IT as well as industrial technology. The “K-Move Week,” which was jointly promoted by KOTRA and Human Resources Development Service of Korea in May 2017, encouraged more people to seek jobs globally. In November, we hosted the Global Job Fair with the city of Busan and BEXCO, widening the window of opportunity for local talents. Operation of Follow-up Monitoring System For a systematic follow-up monitoring, KOTRA has an emergency contact network of those who found jobs overseas and supports their smooth settlement in the host country. The online community for overseas employment is operated K-Move Week by country instead of by existing KBC. We also enhanced the function of online Help Desk and built a database of employment information and consultation contents. In addition, KOTRA has assigned groups of mentors to 23 KBCs overseas to offer online and offline mentoring services and contribute to the easy settlement and grievance resolution of overseas employees. 32 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Global Job Creation Foreign Investment Attraction Aimed at Job Creation To utilize our investment attraction capability in creating job opportunities, we have revamped our recruitment assistance Domestic Job Creation Based system ranging from investigation on recruitment demand through follow-up supports. For example, KOTRA creates new on Investment Attraction jobs in the private sector by linking export B2B meetings with the recruitment support projects. Building Foundation for Domestic Job Creation KOTRA focuses on attracting foreign investments in businesses with abundant job creation possibilities. To this end, we No. of jobs created in Korea (persons) launched the Foreign Firm Employment Support Team aimed at assisting entire recruitment process of foreign investment 13,467 15,088 companies. In 2017, we surveyed 1,000 foreign investment companies on demand for employment and supported their recruitment. The entire process was put into databases to facilitate the follow-up support. 2016 2017 Best Practice Strategic Foreign Investment Attraction Activities KOTRA has been making targeted efforts to generate more jobs by attracting investors and investment companies, while shifting our focus from large companies or service providers to specific companies with higher job creation possibilities. In 2017, a total of 15,088 new jobs were created in Korea by targeting investment attraction projects with higher employment potential. Job Fair for Foreign-Invested Companies Tailored Recruitment Support for Foreign Investment Companies By linking the job fair for foreign investment companies with the Invest Korea Week event, we allowed them and potential investors to meet Korean talents. As for foreign investment companies planning to hire more than 100 persons, PMs dedicated for employment projects were assigned to provide tailored recruitment support. Bluebell Korea Career Day Supports for Jobs of Foreign Investment Companies Classification Activities Performance Supports for Employment of Foreign • ‌Attended by 136 companies and 7,050 job seekers Investment Companies Job fair for foreign investment company (October) • ‌12,484 consultation cases at the fair Flagship projects Connection with the Invest Korea Week • ‌Attended by 138 companies and 828 job seekers Survey on employment plan Foreign-invested company job interview (November) • ‌1,033 in-depth interviews • ‌1,000 foreign investment companies Execution of a pilot project with Bluebell Korea Supports for companyJob Fair (November) • ‌In-depth interview for applicants tailored employment Employment seminar + in-depth interview + Support activities resumeconsulting • ‌(Fewer than 100 employees) Flagship project • ‌(Over 100 employees) Customized supports 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 33 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Prioritizing Win-Win Relations with Customers CUSTOMER Business Our Key Relevance Approach Performance To help customers generate new values, To respond to the fast-changing trade landscape PCSI (Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index) we should first identify their needs and and customer demand, KOTRA constantly provide right services. With the accelerated communicates with stakeholders to redress S grade for 4 consecutive years convergence between industries, open and their grievances and help them become more collaborative culture based on communication competitive. In particular, to make our programs and cooperation is essential to promote the more fruitful, we are redefining our role as a tradevalues of our customers. On top of that, KOTRA investment promotion agency and undertaking 2014 2015 2016 2017 has a responsibility to play a leading role as customer-oriented service innovation based a public organization to create a cooperative on the corporate culture that emphasizes win-win ecosystem to realize social values. communication and collaboration. Risk Opportunity Evaluation on Shared Growth of Public Institutions • Restrictions on accessibility of customers • Supports for diverse customer • Customer requirements of customized interaction services export supports • Advancement of customer and site• Intensifying competition with related oriented support systems institutions • Domestic business structure dependent • Invigoration of value sharing with stakeholders • Joint overseas expansion among large Normal Good on large companies companies and SMEs 2016 2017 Interview Differentiated Services for Companies Successful in Exporting KOTRA is greatly helping SMEs with its support for the entire export process ranging from overseas market research, buyer matching to final deal-making, which SMEs alone can hardly do. I believe KOTRA’s strengths are that it solves difficulties faced by SMEs and serves as a ladder on which SMEs can reach up and sign a business contract. 34 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Customer & Field-oriented Operation Customer Service Innovation To ensure higher customer value, KOTRA has endeavored to establish a service innovation system in which customers can participate and to provide customer-oriented services. Particularly, we redefined the notion of customer to enhance the publicness of our services. Not only customers with whom we directly engage but those who receive indirect or free support are considered potential customers to be managed. Establishment of Service Innovation System The Customer Service Division was launched in August 2017 to make our export support services more customerand field-oriented. We also hosted company-wide workshops to innovate ourselves, surveyed companies which stopped using KOTRA’s services during the last five years, and analyzed the complaints and suggestions presented through the VOCs. We held the “public-private joint meeting on service innovation” in 10 regions across Korea which helped us lay out three approaches and tasks for innovation: enhancing publicness of services, increasing quality of services, and establishing relations with customers. KOTRA continues to improve customer services by checking the service quality index and operating the Service Innovation Committee and responsible departments. Customer-centered service innovation workshop Reinforcement of Foundation for Service Innovation KOTRA Service Innovation Committee Satisfaction on VOC Treatment at Trade Investment Role Meeting Composition Major Function Consultation Center Chaired by the Executive Vice Establishment of project Supreme decision-making body Quarterly President for Customer Service improvement plans in each field to improve projects by listening (private and public joint and departments dedicated to and check of innovation task to the voice of customers meeting once a year) each task practice 89.9 93.9 Customer-oriented Service Support System KOTRA integrated all stages of customer service provision ranging from planning to implement through follow-up activities. 2016 2017 The entire process is managed by the Customer Service Planning Department. Moreover, KOTRA simplified the structure of customer service provision system and integrated ARS call centers into the Overseas Business Consulting Center Won the Minister Award for evaluation to provide one-stop trade and investment consulting services. The satisfaction on VOC treatment at Trade Investment on ARS service of public institutions Consultation Center recorded 93.9 points in 2017, up by four points from last year. KOTRA, in recognition of the quality (Best Award) ARS system operation, received the Minister Award (grand prize) for public organizations from the Ministry of Science and ICT. Enhancement of Customer Consultation Capabilities To make our services more approachable, KOTRA restructured free export consulting service which had been regarded as a blind spot. The “Consultation Reservation System” was introduced to each KBC for quality service whenever necessary. Going forward, KOTRA will create a smart consultation system through consultation reservation, consultation history management and Overseas Market Big-bot. This will enable us to provide each company with essential information that meets their needs. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 35 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Customer & Field-oriented Operation Strengthening of Follow-up Monitoring The Service Recall System is running to ensure the quality of services. The heads of export support service teams are wholly responsible for service recall works that address complaints of companies dissatisfied with KOTRA’s services and offer comprehensive consulting services for exportation. In 2017, KOTRA created manuals for service recalls and made 158 service recall staff support for 406 companies. Export Voucher System from Users’ Perspective To provide more user-friendly services, KOTRA has been subdividing its customer services beyond existing supplierSales of Export Voucher oriented standardized forms. In 2017, we improved the export voucher system, which had offered to companies with fixed forms by business, to allow them to freely choose the service they want using the vouchers. This enables customers to opt for export support projects that fit their needs and capabilities. Particularly, export support services, which had been run separately by KOTRA, the Ministry of SMEs and Startups, Small and medium Business Corporation (SBC) and the Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT), have now been integrated into single window to enhance quantity and quality of services. KOTRA serves as a control tower by launching a dedicated organization and established the “Export Ranked 1st among execution Voucher Integrated Management System (www.exportvoucher.com)” which works as a platform for the export voucher organizations business. The platform enables one-stop treatment from voucher application, progress, management, and settlement, KRW 209 billion contributing to making the service more convenient. Export Voucher Project 11 Kinds of Projects Eligible for Registering Priority Effect of the Integrated Export Voucher Management System Support for Cultivation of leading Cultivation of leading Cultivation of World Champ export initiation companies in consumer goods companies in service Before • ‌Operation of individual system systems by organization development (case-by-case application) Cultivation of mid-sized Support for individual Enhancement of high growth Export success package exporters participation in overseas fair export capability Support for overseas marketing of Export voucher for preventing intellectual Asia Highway • ‌One-stop treatment of project global strong businesses property right-related dispute After application, monitoring of system execution, and settlement at development single window Use of Voucher • ‌Improvement of efficiency and convenience between Menu Sheet Expected companies and execution effects organizations Optional implementation by designating prices and institutions by menu • ‌Easy check of the government’s export support project results* Advice on overseas expansion / PR / advertising Exhibition execution as agent * Real-time check of project-specific results in connection with trade returns of Korea Customs Service Internal and external coaching Business trip Brand development Execution of works for custom clearance Education on trade and investment Survey / information and shipment attraction 36 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Customer & Field-oriented Operation Expansion of Communication with Customers Major Proposals and Service Improvements KOTRA listens to customers through diverse channels and encourages departments in charge to improve their services to elevate customer satisfaction. Major Proposals Improvement of VOC Operation System • ‌Find creative works for PR by holding a public contest in celebration of the 55th Our VOC operation system was integrated and improved, which reduced the average time spent on answering customers anniversary to 21 hours from existing 24 hours. Moreover, not only overseas market information customized for business category, • ‌Gather proposals of online consultants on KOTRA website location, and target regions but also diverse services are offered through mobile and social media platforms. • ‌Disseminate and prevent Mobile KOTRA trade fraud cases • ‌Understand customer grievances at B2B Proactive Reflection of Customer Feedbacks meetings and reflect them in KOTRA services KOTRA ensures that VOCs are reflected into its services. This is monitored by the “Constant Monitoring TF.” To receive diverse customer feedbacks, KOTRA has expanded offline contact points to events, visiting consultations, and forums * Mobile KOTRA: Export professionals’ and identified tasks by forming an online consultants group. Suggestions deemed important are reflected in enhancing consultation service offered by directly visiting customers the service quality. Service Improvements Internalization of Service Innovation and Feedback System In 2017, KOTRA proclaimed the service innovation and conducted workshops and trainings to embed it in corporate • ‌Utilized proposals for KOTRA President’s culture. The service quality index is used as a criterion to assess the organization. The KOTRA Service Innovation appreciation letter (2,632 receivers) and Committee is convened every quarter to establish plans to improve services and monitor the progress in carrying out the news letter • ‌Improved major functions by adopting tasks for innovation. Recognized for the service innovation from the customers’ perspective, KOTRA received an S grade in 22 customer ideas Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) for the fourth year in succession in 2017. • ‌Newly published manuals for B2B meeting to reduce customer complaints Efforts to Ease the Burden on Customers Considering the financial difficulties of SMEs, KOTRA decreased commission fees for major overseas expansion support businesses, which allowed more companies to use KOTRA’s services for export expansion. As a result of expanding cooperation with external organizations and reducing commissions, financial burden of customers decreased by KRW 8.45 billion in 2017. Efforts for Reducing Customer Charge Service consultants meeting Classification Details Reduction PCSI (Public-service Support tariff benefits by cooperating with KBCs and Customs Services KRW 4.08 billion (Korea and each country) Customer Satisfaction Index) Reduction of customer Save budgets of the domestic public institutions by running overseas One-Roof KRW 1.68 billion charge by cooperation with external institutions Mitigate customer costs by attracting funds from external institutions KRW 0.71 billion Reduce logistics costs of buyKOREA members by collaborating with Korea Post KRW 0.19 billion Expand customers supports by securing supplementary budget KRW 1.65 billion Reduction of 2014 2015 2016 2017 commissions s 4 Discount commissions for promising domestic companies KRW 0.14 billion grade for consecutive years 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 37 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Performance & Profitability-focused Business Conduct Stronger Support for Overseas Expansion Utilizing Economic Diplomacy Setup of a Private-Public Virtuous Circle KOTRA capitalizes on the economic diplomacy capabilities to solidify foundations for SMEs’ global market entry. We have Cooperation System established virtuous cooperation cycle linking the private and public sectors based on the economic diplomacy platform and improved the selection process of economic missions. We also promote follow-up projects of MOUs in each region by supporting economic cooperation agendas. 1st stage Discover win-win cooperation areas and Sophistication of Economic Diplomacy Platform demands of target countries (agendas for economic cooperation) The economic diplomacy platform is a system where the government, companies and related organizations work together to generate practical results including domestic companies’ overseas market entry, exportation, investment, and contracts. To enable tangible achievements, KOTRA is stepping up economic diplomacy platform to carry out more nd 2 stage tasks, from identifying areas of potential cooperation in target countries, exploring demands, to conducting follow-up monitoring. Hold economic diploma cooperation projects among companies, government, and institutions (ex. Business Partnership) Subsequent Support for Economic Diplomacy KOTRA explores overseas expansion opportunities for domestic companies through one-on-one meetings and agreements made between Korea and foreign countries at the government level. We have substantiated and successfully initiated 3rd stage projects based on 12 out of 33 MOUs signed between KOTRA and our foreign counterparts. The achievements are shared through online and offline channels. Support follow-up measures of MOUs and promising projects Best Practice 4th stage Setup of Selection Criteria for Companies Participating Economic Missions To ensure fruitful outcomes of the economic diplomacy, KOTRA has improved the criteria for selecting strategic Expand corporate participation by creating and spreading results companies that meet the purpose of economic cooperation agendas. The collaboration with related organizations, customer opinions, and relevant data are utilized to identify which companies qualify for economic missions. The criteria also include big-bot marketability assessment, Trade Map import volume, and UN SDGs index. Internal assessment of KOTRA and the target market demand are also considered to finally select participating companies. Performance in Follow-up Supports for Economic Business Partnership Participants Selection Procedure Diploma 1st stage Healthiness of financial structure by systematic financial management and reasonable budget operation Selection of qualified Big-bot Trade Map SDGs Index companies No. of companies that signed • ‌Marketability • ‌Trade volume & • ‌Utilization of UN SDGs • ‌Selection of promising export contracts (Companies) assessment demand of target ‌Identification of SDGs products with 2nd stage 50 ‌Comprehensive countries index that Korea has marketability marketability ‌Korea’s import volume competitive advantage ‌HS Code Six Digit, 36 assessment by product by products of target corporate DB (accessibility, growth, countries, fluctuation competence) rate No. of export contracts signed (Cases) 48 85 3rd stage Sequential PR (e-mail, telemarketing, etc.) in accordance with grade identified 2-step assessment, discovery of corporate demands, and recruit notice 2016 2017 4th stage Selection after assessment by KOTRA and KBCs and verification of trade partner demands 38 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Performance & Profitability-focused Business Conduct Collection and Distribution of Overseas Market Information To help domestic companies’ global expansion, KOTRA has upgraded the types and contents of overseas market informaUtilization of KOTRA’s tion. And the authority to offer information was shared with even the private sector and related organizations. As a result, Global Market News the number of visitors to our overseas market news increased 47.4% than before. Strengthening of the Response System to Global Issues We have strengthened our response system to global issues such as the protectionism of the US and China risks. Any unusual movement is reported to the headquarters immediately and the treated by both the headquarters and relevant Total no. of visitors KBC. (10 thousand persons) 317 497 Provision of Customized Information for Overseas Expansion KOTRA is proactive in identifying global business trends, generating and disseminating relevant information to support No. of daily average visitors overseas expansion of Korean companies. We established a system to collaborate with internal and external experts (persons) in analyzing global and in-depth issues, in which customers can join entire process from planning to production and 9,247 13,643 dissemination of information. Particularly, we published strategic reports targeting 83 countries and 10 regions to give guidelines for overseas expansion to companies. To ensure higher quality of the reports, we invited more researchers by 2016 2017 region, conducted in-depth review and supplementary works, unified reporting structure according to strategies by issue and business, and improved readability. Moreover, we hosted Global Market Strategy Forum including the response to changes in the China market environment in major cities. Utilization of Market Expansion Strategy Report Online views (No. of times) 97,332 236,886 Market expansion strategy report by country Global Market Strategy Forum 2016 2017 Stronger Support for Overseas Procurement KOTRA provides a packaged procurement service ranging from demand survey to delivery by expanding overseas bases to emerging countries. In February 2017, we surveyed bidding procedure to international organizations, thereby identifying that domestic companies had difficulties in participating in global procurement due to different requirements on products among them and complex processes. To address this issue, KOTRA divided companies into two groups – export beginner and promising company – to provide procurement information and consulting services customized to their growth stage. As a result, our performance in public procurement support rose by 18.9% from the previous year to USD 63 million in 2017. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 39 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Business Operation Centered on Communication, Openness, and Cooperation Creation of a Cooperative Ecosystem for Sharing and Co-existence KOTRA Shared Growth Framework To create a cooperative ecosystem for sharing and co-existence, we have divided our support recipients into two groups of general suppliers and large company suppliers (Shared Growth Company). By doing so, we promote fair trades and KOTRA Shared Growth Committee win-win relations with suppliers, while pursuing joint overseas expansion with shared growth companies to cultivate them as global exporters. Shared Growth Cooperation Joint Overseas Market Entry Subcommittee Cooperation Subcommittee (Director of (Director of Expansion of Shared Growth Foundation and Organization in Charge Subcommittee) Subcommittee) With the setup of operation guidelines for the Shared Growth Committee in February 2017, KOTRA expanded the number Head of General Head of Global Business Services Dept. Cooperation Dept. of supporting units from 7 to 20 and KBCs responsible for shared growth from existing 30 to 127. Moreover, shared growth (Function) (Function) Shared growth with Support for export of index is reflected in performance evaluation of executives and all organizations at home and abroad. suppliers shared growth partners Expansion of Partnership Related departments of Overseas market entry suppliers support departments KOTRA has established a partnership with 59 companies in 6 cooperation areas of printing, interpretation, equipment/ design, transportation, traveling, and system. Based on the partnership, we support our partner companies’ training, (Printing) (Hallyu) General Services Dept. Service Industry promotion, consulting, marketing and market research activities to help enhance their competitiveness. In addition, (Function) Promotion Center Human Resources (Distribution) they can promote their businesses through our website and use our partnership logo on their websites, catalogues, and Development & Consumer Goods business cards. Management Dept. Promotion Dept. (System) (Electronics) Information Systems ICT Business Office Dept. (Plant) Partner Company Protection System (Device/Design, Project Support Dept. Transport) (Overseas KOTRA is running diverse systems to enhance productivity and business management capabilities of smalland mediumExhibition & Investment) Convention Dept. Overseas Investment sized partner companies. For example, the Win-win Partner Loan helps the 2nd tier suppliers liquidate the payment (Translation) Dept. Global Business (Startup) we have made to 1st tier suppliers quickly at minimum financial cost. This system is encouraged to share with more Cooperation Dept. Global Startup suppliers and subcontractors. In addition, we have made the General Affairs Team take full charge of printing contracts Support Dept. (Others) since November 2017, receiving specifications required from each unit without quotations. This helps us to provide equal Export Initiation Office Medium Enterprise project-winning opportunities to all our registered partner companies. Support Dept. Overseas Business Consulting Center Effective Communication We share the value of win-win cooperation with partner companies through effective online and offline communication Supports through overseas networks: 127 KBCs channels. We host offline meetings on a quarterly basis to listen to our partner companies, ease their difficulties, and improve systems. Online surveys are also utilized to reflect their opinions in business planning. These activities help us simplify the project application procedure and diversify the type of services. Improvement Process through Communication 1ststage 2ndstage 3rdstage 4thstage Collection of opinions Grievance and System improvement Performance sharing issue management • ‌Hold quarterly suppliers meeting • ‌Listen to suppliers’ grievances • ‌Prepare improvement plans by • ‌Share system improvement • ‌Identify improvement tasks in each task results with suppliers each field 40 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Business Operation Centered on Communication, Openness, and Cooperation Enhancing Competitiveness of Shared Growth Companies Performance in Customized Supports KOTRA puts together industrial, regional, and corporate demands to implement overseas expansion projects. In 2017, for Overseas Expansion 814 domestic SMEs participated in our projects and made exportation of USD 106 million. Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 No. of conferences held Times 33 38 49 Tailored Support for Shared Growth Companies’ Overseas Expansion Large Companies 24 57 71 KOTRA makes effort to develop joint overseas market entry projects with shared growth companies by combining their Participants companies requirements and our capabilities. By selecting promising areas in target markets by business and region, we offered SMEs Companies 472 578 814 intensive tailored supports for companies engaging in four major business areas in accordance with their demands. This No. of Cases 137 181 195 contracts signed led to the diversification of joint entry projects in consumer goods, electrics, automobiles, and IT sectors. Contracts USD in 73 96 106 amount signed millions Enhancing Product Competitiveness of Shared Growth Companies Shared growth companies need unique design and brand of their own to grow into global exporters. In this regard, KOTRA promotes the Art-Collaboration Program aimed at encouraging the production of art-collaboration products with differentiated design and supporting their exports in conjunction with global marketing activities. KOTRA provides them with customized and phased supports for product designing, sample production, promotion activities, and export, which contributes to differentiating their product design and enhancing global competitiveness. Promotion of Fair Trade and Co-existence KOTRA releases the notice of tender to all companies regardless of the contract size. By making all the bidding processes Art Collaboration Company-Artist Matching Day public including small contracts of less than KRW 100 million, KOTRA is promoting the value of fair trade in its businesses. Details on our private contracts are disclosed to the public every month on KOTRA’s website. Product Purchasing Results (Unit: KRW in millions) Improvement of Suppliers’ Cash flow To help improve suppliers’ capital operation, KOTRA revised internal rules on contact affairs in November 2017. According Classification 2015 2016 2017 to the new rule, the time for inspection procedure was reduced from 14 days after delivery to 7 days and payment period Purchasing SMEs 17,561 23,782 46,137 amount was also shortened from existing 14 days to 5 days after invoice issuance. This rule cut the total number of days spent on Female-owned Purchasing inspection and payment from 28 to 12, thereby improving the cash flow of smalland mediumsized suppliers. 1,641 3,239 7,498 companies amount Companies with the Purchasing Support for Socially Disadvantaged Businesses 587 770 926 severely amount handicapped KOTRA is applying assessment standards that are stricter than the government recommendation to allow for practical Social Purchasing support for socially disadvantaged businesses. We fully implemented the government recommendation by assessing 667 1,048 1,698 enterprises amount each department’s purchasing of products from social enterprises. In April 2017, we adopted a platform to better match Total purchasing 19,693 28,315 53,523 the internal needs with socially disadvantaged businesses and to make group purchases so that we can buy more of their amount * Companies with socially disadvantaged products. classes: Female-owned companies, social enterprises, social cooperatives, and selfsupport veterans’ business * Total purchasing amount does not include duplicated purchasing cases. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 41 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Realization of Sustainable Organization and Society CONTRIBUTION Business Our Key Relevance Approach Performance The society is paying more and more attention to KOTRA is improving the way we work by practicing Average Education Hours per Employee the CSR activities of enterprises. Companies are the values of communication and collaboration, (Unit: hours) also making business activities not only to seek which helps us to internalize leading innovation profits but to realize social values. Companies, culture and enhance employee capabilities. We following these changes in the business also make contribution to solving problems of landscape, should utilize their capabilities countries we operate in, utilizing the unique to actively come up with solutions for social issues and be committed to redressing global characteristics of our work and global networks. We implement SDGs in all stages of our work to 174 190 challenges as well. This is how the growth and create business values. We also help emerging 2016 2017 development of companies can lead to social countries develop sustainable local business stability. models to promote shared values between Korean companies and the local community. Risk Opportunity No. of KSP Projects (Unit: cases) • Non-smooth communication due to • Increasing requirements on supporting job rotation at home and abroad and job creation increased new employees • Difficulties in forming organizational • Securing talents with global mindset • Shared value creation through social 9 in 7 countries 9 9 in countries 2016 2017 consensus due to far-flung sites and jobs contribution activities Interview Promoting Trade-investment Education for Teenagers I wish KOTRA can promote a program to explain what KOTRA does to teenagers at schools, private afterschool classes and local children centers. Teenagers would be able to establish visions for their own future if they get to know stories of SMEs working hard on the global stage and KOTRA KBCs supporting them. 42 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Innovative Organizational Culture Contributing to Society Talent Cultivation To nurture business experts with a global mindset, KOTRA is enhancing capabilities and expertise of employees based Employee Education on the capability development system. The primary focus is given to fundamental capabilities to adapt to changes in internal and external business environment, global capabilities to pioneer overseas markets, work skills for the future and leadership skills. We are linking online and offline education to provide more effective training and encourage selfdirected learnings. Education hours per employee (hours) Human Resources Development Framework 174 190 HRD Goal Cultivate business experts with global mindset Education on foreign languages per employee (hours) 52 70 HRD Direction 2016 2017 Strengthen job capability Strengthen leadership Strengthen basic capability Strengthen global capability (professionalism) capability Foster ability for Cultivate ability for Nurture business & Develop organization Action communication supporting global market-specific experts and HR management Plans with customers and business capability business field Enhancing Global Capabilities 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 KOTRA runs education programs to enhance global capabilities of local employees. Those who will be dispatched abroad FTA Overseas Utilization Support Center Workshop are educated about skills that are necessary to work in other countries and to handle global labor management issues. Local employees are also educated in accordance with their local career development systems. KOTRA shares best practices and business know-how by each region through workshops and invites local employees to educate on diverse areas including the Jisawha service, jobs, exhibitions, defense, etc. Nurturing Experts To develop future-oriented talents, we provide new recruits with opportunities for acquiring expertise such as mentoring In-company education on digital marketing program guided by export specialists and senior employees. All employees receive job educations specified for business, market, and function to cultivate their capabilities to respond to changes in business environment. Workshops by position level are also held to discuss on pending management issues and the entire process is filmed for sharing with employees working abroad. Cultivating Female Talents KOTRA is increasing the number of female workers and creating the culture of gender equality. As of 2017, five out of nine job experts were females. KOTRA is nurturing female job experts to increase the pool of female talents who can reach up Workshop for enhancing female leadership to the manager level. competence 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 43 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Innovative Organizational Culture Contributing to Society HR Management KOTRA promotes fair HR management based on work skills and performance. As a public organization, we try to establish an assessment system which can contribute to realizing social values. Skill-based HR Management For fair promotions, KOTRA made quantitative assessments and convened a promotion recommendation committee. We attached more weight to evaluation results by those who better understand evaluees while reducing the effects of evaluators with less relations to make the screening result more acceptable. KOTRA rotates staff across different posts in a fair and transparent manner. In 2017, we newly established a system where an administrative worker can change his/ her position and work in trade or other specialized fields, thereby eradicating the silos between departments. Performance-based Compensation System KOTRA runs fair compensation system which emphasizes competence and performance and reflects employee opinions. We award promotion and rewards to employees who show good performances and provide capacity building trainings for underperformers to help them enhance their work outcomes. Basic salary is accumulated at different rates depending on the result of comprehensive working assessment. The performance evaluation is fully reflected in determining how much performance-based salary an employee can receive. HR Management based on Job Capability • ‌Efforts for fair promotion system Promotion -Measurable assessment, Promotion Recommendation Committee • ‌Expand promotion of employees with career by ability-centered HR management • ‌Change the existing multidimensional evaluation to evaluation by superiors Evaluation • ‌Reduce the influence of other evaluators • ‌Operate fair and transparent job rotation system • Launch ‌ a system to allow job change from administrative position to trade/expert position Arrangement • Provide high school graduates with nondiscriminatory HR management and capability enhancement opportunities • ‌Reflect only the level of job difficulty without performance evaluation when deciding Compensation position-specific compensation • ‌Enhance disciplinary guidelines on sexual abuse and drunk driving equivalent to Disciplinary public officials action ‌Revise detailed HR regulations and sexual harassment and sexual abuse prevention guidelines • ‌High performer: Academic training for those in the top 10% in comprehensive job Performance evaluation • ‌Low performer: Commissioned education by external institutions 44 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Innovative Organizational Culture Contributing to Society Communicative Corporate Culture KOTRA promotes communication and harmony between different job categories and generations, using multi-dimensional communication channels that reflect unique organizational characteristics of KOTRA. Utilization of Multi-dimensional Communication Channels Employees at KOTRA make active two-way and field-oriented communication to share pending issues and make cooperation based on trust. We constantly improve our way of work to enhance efficiency and communicate actively with 이해관계자 StakeholderComments Comments colleagues to dispel misunderstandings that might stem from differences in job categories, ages, experience, and culture. KOTRA holds the Corporate Culture Innovation TF meetings every month, Operation of Communication Channels where employees with diverse opinions and positions gather together and discuss various issues. This enables Classification Purpose Major Activities in 2017 us to listen to and share everyday difficulties at work and suggestions for • Organizational ‌ Culture TF: Identification of tasks such as improving the way of improvement, creating a chance for a farworking and building horizontal organizational culture (13 times) reaching change within the organization. Reflection of creative • ‌Open innovation idea contest (once) Top-down In 2017, we discussed the problem ideas • Proposal system (93 items) of insufficient office space and tried • Survey (when necessary) rearranging the interior of one floor to create an open-plan workspace that resembles a honeycomb. This led to a [Between executives and employees] Sharing of pending •‌Meeting with basic level employees (4 times) horizontal and open office atmosphere issues and listening to and boosted communication among field opinions •‌Lunch meeting with the President (73 times) colleagues. With these positive results, •‌President’s visit to fields (frequently) Interactive the new arrangement will soon be adopted to all floors of the building. [Among employees] Manager Yeon-Su Jeong Sharing of experience, time, and knowledge • ‌Mentoring, club activity, CSR activity, training on organizational activation General Affairs Team (5 times), Team Spirit Day (59 times), etc Presentation on corporate visions and • ‌Broad executive meeting (11 times), monthly meeting (12 times), other meetings Bottom-up promotion plans of key and message delivery (when necessary) issues Open Mentoring Education To expand opportunities of exchanges between different position levels and generations, KOTRA provides new employees with insufficient field and customer-facing experience with open mentoring education guided by export specialists with rich experience and know-how. One export specialist with more than 15 years of field experience is matched with two new recruits who are among the youngest and have been on the job less than a year. The mentor and mentees carry out training on SME export support and customer management and visit export initiators to provide visiting consultation together. Enhancing Innovative Mindset We have been running the “Open Innovation TF” since 2017 to encourage company-wide participation in innovation activities. The “Open Innovation TF,” which is presided over by the Vice President, consists of 40 members; 30 from the headquarters and 10 from overseas. The taskforce pools capabilities to establish KOTRA’s own O2O (Online to Offline) platform. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 45 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Social Contribution to Sustainable Development KOTRA’s Social Contribution Promotion System KOTRA carries out contribution activities to fulfill our social responsibilities as a public organization and to proactively respond to global environmental issues. Our global contribution activities are conducted based on Private Development Assistance (PDA*) and Official Development Assistant (ODA**). We make a concerted effort to fulfill our responsibility for global communities and realize social values by utilizing our business characteristics and global networks. * PDA: Assistance of the private sector – companies, civic groups, etc. – given to address recipient countries’ poverty, environment, health, infrastructure, and welfare issues. ** ODA: Assistance of the government and public organization given to recipient countries Global Social Contribution Promotion Framework Global CSR Activities in 2017 Assist emerging countries in addressing social issues and cultivating talents in collaboration 3C strategy with Korean government and local governments, and pursue coexistence with them in 52 countries Strategic tasks Promote global CSR projects that can help businesses of Korean Expand development cooperation projects aimed Conduct social contribution activities that can make the most 100 CSR projects companies at enhancing trade promotion capability of emerging countries of KOTRA’s characteristics 87 companies joined • ‌CSR activities to experience • ‌2017-2018 KSP • ‌Cultivation of multicultural products and services • ‌Follow-up projects of MYANTRA traders • ‌Operation of overseas technical • ‌Commerce-linked economic • ‌Social contribution projects that Action plans schools cooperation projects reflect KOTRA’s characteristics • ‌CSV for co-prosperity • ‌Transfer of idle equipment to emerging countries Global CSR Activities Creating a cooperative business ecosystem is becoming more important for the overseas expansion of domestic companies due to the spread of protectionism. KOTRA is running global CSR programs as a part of PDA to help domestic companies execute their CSR activities in foreign countries to contribute to solving local social challenges and making win-win cooperation with emerging countries. These activities contribute to creating a cooperative business ecosystem and improving reputation of Korea on the global stage. CSR Activities Utilizing Products and Services KOTRA contributes to resolving societal challenges facing the local communities of the recipient countries by donating 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 Philippine Kids Health Campaign products and services of Korean companies. This leads to the creation of a network linking local agencies, buyers and clients and enhances the brand image of the domestic companies. In 2017, KOTRA conducted 34 projects in 22 countries, thereby establishing marketing networks and enhancing awareness among local consumers. 46 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Social Contribution to Sustainable Development Operation of Global Technical Schools By operating technical schools in overseas countries, KOTRA shares technologies of Korean organizations and companies with emerging countries. This project contributes not only to nurturing local talents and technologies but also to enhancing ties with local clients, thus strengthening the foundation for project winning of Korean companies. In 2017, we have successfully completed 56 technical school projects in 36 countries. Transfer of Idle Equipment 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 Land Management System School in Tunisia KOTRA transfers Korea’s idle equipment and experience in the field of test & certification (R&D), product manufacturing and the public service to emerging countries without charge, thereby contributing to their economic development and overseas expansion of domestic companies. This project helps emerging countries to establish cooperative relations with Korean companies and learn from Korea’s industrial standards, conformance testing system, and research achievements. In 2017, KOTRA transferred domestic certification system along with the idle equipment of three domestic organizations to three emerging countries. Creating Shared Value (CSV) Project Indonesia Idle Equipment Transfer The CSV project is to utilize business of Korean companies to help emerging countries increase income levels and improve the local economy. KOTRA’s CSV project aims to promote mutual development of domestic companies and recipient countries by supporting local economic development and the establishment of profitable business models. In 2017, we successfully completed 7 CSV projects with 3 countries, which include the OVOP project in Indonesia, which is our flagship CSV model, Cashmere CSV in Mongolia, and Nepal Organic Coffee CSV. Best Practice Nepal Organic Coffee CSV OVOP (One Village One Product) Project in Indonesia KOTRA has been running the OVOP project in partnership with the Ministry of Cooperatives and SMEs of Indonesia (KUKM) since 2013. The OVOP project is to make an underdeveloped village produce, process and sell one local specialty so that the village can stand on its own. Starting from the year 2017, KOTRA revised the project to ensure the outcomes of one single project are shared among diverse people to benefit more recipients. The revision was to explore social enterprises related to OCOB (One Community One Business) and encourage them to work with Korean companies operating in Indonesia, in addition to the support for OVOP projects. In 2017, we improved the in-store sales and package design of coconut sugar products and improved the quality of coconut oil. Coconut oil producers were assisted in opening stores and branches as well. KOTRA also provided necessary equipment and training for Ketak, Tenun Ikat and Coffee business owners. The total sales from the OVOP projects on sugar, oil and coffee amount to 456 million Rupiah as of 2017, equal to the salaries for 300 months of an average local worker. The sales of Ketak and Tenun Ikat increased 20% as well, helping the local communities become independent and more developed. For the coming 2018, KOTRA plans to not only further develop existing products but secure diverse income sources so that OVOP projects can trigger development of related products and industries as well. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 47 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Special Hungary Dental Tech School Cashmere CSV in Mongolia KOTRA Budapest hosted “Hungary Dental KOTRA Ulaanbaatar leads the Cashmere CSV Technical School” event and provided in Mongolia. The agency provided education training for 30 local doctors. Innovative for those in charge of branding, marketing and dental technologies of Korea were shared distribution of the business and discussed with Hungary, which contributed to the sample product manufacturing of the business’s development of health industry of the local sub-brand. By developing products for the subcommunity. Also, free dentistry was provided brand which is operated by local producers, for people in the low income brackets. KOTRA aims to enhance self-reliability and the development of the local community. Ulaanbaatar Budapest Osaka Cairo Changsha Karachi Egypt Railway Technical School KOTRA Cairo hosted Railway Technical School with Korea Rail Network Authority, inviting members of Egypt National Railways (ENR), Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and Railways Dar Es Salaam Training Institute. KOTRA Cairo is transferring Korea’s know-how in railway construction and operation, nurturing local experts to help local Egyptians benefit from more convenient transportation services. Needle Disposal Device Drinking Water Treatment Donation in Tanzania Devices Donation KOTRA Dar Es Salaam hosted a conference on KOTRA Karachi supported the installation Sydney needle disposal devices with experts in infectious of drinking water purifiers in the Good diseases and preventive medicine and donated Samaritan Hospital in Karachi for healthier the products. Education on the risks of secondary lives of local residents. Two chlorination infection and prevention methods were provided devices for drinking water and disinfectants which enhanced the overall level of health hygiene were donated. Staff members and employees of Tanzania. of the hospital received training on device maintenance and drinking water monitoring. KOTRA aims to improve the drinking water and sanitation status to help provide clean and safe drinking water and contribute to the prevention of water-borne diseases. 48 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Product Donation CSR KOTRA Osaka promoted a CSR business to donate pain relief products. KOTRA Osaka visited Hometown House (故郷の家), an elderly care HS2AS Art-collaboration CSR center in Osaka, to offer the products. KOTRA Osaka tries to provide practical help in enhancing KOTRA New York assisted education and the quality of senior citizens’ lives by engaging in career development of artists from HS2AS relevant first-hand experiences. through CSR programs. This provided marginalized teenagers and young generation in the local community with opportunities for training on industrial design and chances to become professional designers. Changsha Beauty Tech School KOTRA Changsha teaches skills necessary for New York employment, decent jobs and business activities. In 2017, advanced skin beauty techniques, which are highly preferred and practical, were demonstrated and some of the related products were donated. Local residents could acquire knowledge and skills through KOTRA’s daily technical schools which were open to the public for free. Quito Photovoltaic Facility Donation in Ecuador Idle Papua New Guinea Equipment Transfer KOTRA Sydney supported a donation project under which KOTRA Quito, as part of overseas CSR activities a high school in Papua New Guinea, an area suffering and in connection with the KSP projects, from serious electric power shortages, was provided with donated test and certification devices of photovoltaic (PV) facilities. The equipment enabled the high Korea Testing & Research Institute (KTR) to the school to generate electricity on its own, which expanded the Ecuadorian Service for Standardization (INEN). energy infrastructure of Papua New Guinea and enhanced KOTRA Quito hosted the technical schools as the quality of local residents’ lives. well. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 49 Challenge Global Customer Contribution Social Contribution to Sustainable Development Development Projects Based on Win-win Cooperation In 2017, KOTRA carried out Knowledge Sharing Programs (KSPs) aimed at enhancing capabilities of the partner countries through the transfer of Korea’s knowledge and experience in economic development, a follow-up project of MYANTRA, and tradeand commerce-linked economic cooperation projects. KSP for Industry, Trade, and Investment KOTRA contributes to the sustainable development of emerging and developing countries through KSP programs that Results of KSPs support global expansion of Korean companies. KSPs for industry, trade, and investment are a package-type program Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 which not only provides academic research and policy advices but train trade and investment capabilities and develop Policy advice Cases 6 9 9 new business opportunities through public-private partnership. KOTRA serves as a beachhead with which domestic Budget KRW 100 5.4 36 18 million companies can approach recipient countries and promote businesses for economic development. We push forward with industry, trade and investment KSPs on our own and have enlarged private participation in the development and consulting fields. We do not stop at giving policy advice but explore economic cooperation agendas and opportunities to match domestic companies with while making the programs more performance-oriented. Operation of KSPs Best Practice Russia Partner • ‌The Khabarovsk India Partner • Invest ‌ India Agency / Krai Government Agency / KSP in Chile Organization Organization With its vertically stretching land Subject • ‌Ways to enhance export capability of Khabarovsk, Russia • ‌Strategies to develop the investment promotion Subject Results • ‌Expansion of Khabarovsk companies’ exports and agency in India. and 70% of the population densely and Desired Korean companies’ investment in the region Results • Expansion ‌ of Korean companies’ entry into populated in urban areas, Chile is Effect and Desired India through investment seminars and 1:1 B2B Effect meetings / Transfer of operation know-how and actively trying to advance telemedicine policies of the Invest Korea, the Korean investment to redress the problem of insufficient promotion agency selected as the best in addressing grievances of FI companies. medical human resources and budgets. KOTRA provided advice Cuba Partner • ‌Ministry of Iran Partner • ‌Iranian Ministry of to help enhance their telemedicine Agency / Industry Agency / Justice capabilities through the KSP project, Organization Organization which led to the implementation of • ‌Diagnosis on the industrial complex and ways to promote •‌Support for making policies to advance the intellectual Subject Subject an active operation property regime. global CSR businesses in Chile in Results • ‌Redressing chronic financial deficit through the Results • Improvement ‌ in business environment by partnership with the Chilean Ministry and Desired creation of a business ecosystem by industrial and Desired enhancing awareness of IP and establishing Effect complex revitalization as well as FI attraction. Effect necessary infrastructure in Iran / Domestic of Health. In September 2017, a pilot • ‌Exchanges in the private sector expected to companies’ easier entry and investment in Iran project for ICT-based monitoring on the increase over the long term. health status of the chronic patients was implemented. Ecuador Partner ‌ • Ecuadorian Service Chile Partner • ‌Ministry of Health Agency / for Standardization Agency / Organization (INEN) Organization •‌Transfer of equipment in line with the “Project to Advance • ‌Ways to support capabilities in the telemedicine sector Subject Subject National Conformance Assessment System.” (Nov 2017) of Chile. Results • ‌Lower technical barriers in trade by transferring Results • Follow-up ‌ implementation of the signed MOU and and Desired technologies and organic matter analyzers used in and Desired initiation of follow-up projects based on the results Effect the environment and chemical sectors in Korea. Effect of KSPs. • ‌MOU between INEN-KTR (Korea Testing & Research Institute) on improving standards, conformance Chile KSP Interim Reporting Seminar infrastructure, and technical trade barriers in Ecuador 50 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Social Contribution to Sustainable Development Follow-up Project of MYANTRA KOTRA, since 2014, has been promoting MYANTRA project to help Myanmar establish and operate its own trade-investment Cultivation of Multicultural Traders promotion agency and develop its economy, utilizing Korea’s experience in export-driven economic development. For the smooth operation of MYANTRADE, the trade promotion agency established as a result of the MYANTRA project, KOTRA has carried out a follow-up project since 2017. Under the project, training opportunities in a third country and necessary equipment were provided. Experts from KOTRA were dispatched to advise on trade promotion activities, office organization of MYANTRADE, and the operation of the Special Economic Zones (SEZ). 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 Tradeand Commercelinked Economic Cooperation Projects KOTRA newly introduced tradeand commercelinked economic cooperation projects to provide economic cooperation Education on trade business practices assistance in connection with the market opening of the partner countries. KOTRA leads the projects as a supervisory body. We have been working with the Vietnamese Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT) to eradicate entry barriers against the Vietnamese market, including tariff, non-tariff, administrative and certification barriers, by promoting a FTA-linked economic cooperation business model since June 2017. Independent Contribution Activities Based on KOTRA’s Capabilities Job Fair for multicultural traders By promoting diverse social contribution activities that utilize its unique organizational characteristics, KOTRA contributes to nurturing talents in the field of trade and investment and developing local economies. Nurturing Multicultural Traders KOTRA provides trade education for migrants with multicultural backgrounds to help them find jobs or start their own 이해관계자 StakeholderCommentsComments businesses. The training program offers curriculums on multiple subjects including practical trade businesses to help trainees grow into global traders based on their language skills and multicultural understanding. In 2017, as many as The President and employees of KOTRA 129 migrants completed the 9th and the 10th training sessions. KOTRA also provides career advice through job and have visited our center more than twice a year since KOTRA started sponsoring recruitment fairs of KOTRA and external bodies to support them in getting a job or founding a company. us in 2015. In particular, KOTRA invited our center’s brass band to perform in its events. The kids who participated Independent Contribution Activities were inspired by what they saw on We share our knowledge and experience with teenagers, backed up by the active participation of our employees. We the video, about how hard domestic elevate teenagers’ interest in and understanding of the world economy by hosting “KOTRA Trade School for Teenagers,” SMEs work despite the harsh global landscape and how supportive KOTRA and provide education on trade and investment through an education program on FDI’s economic contribution. A program KBCs are. called “Get to Know KOREA” is also operated to strengthen the networks with FI companies and foreign journalists Director Jung-hye Lee residing in Korea and enhance their understanding of the Korean culture. Other CSR activities including the support for Anyang Children's Home the marginalized and the tree-planting in Yangjae Citizens’ Forest are also conducted under the cooperation between the labor and management. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 51 Human Rights Report With a principle that puts people before everything, KOTRA is committed to protecting human rights of all stakeholders and promoting their rights and interests. 52 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Human Rights Management 55p Ethics Management 62p 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 53 Realization of Sustainable Organization and Society HUMAN RIGHTS Business Our Key Relevance Approach Performance Non-financial performance of a company is KOTRA respects the Universal Declaration of No. of Suppliers for Sharing Ethics Code becoming more and more important in the global Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on (Unit: companies) business environment, which requires companies Business and Human Rights. We consider ethics 40 to enhance their CSR activities. Enterprises management and sustainability management should make constant efforts in internalizing the as part of the human rights management. Thus, law-abiding attitude and ethics management, we are expanding the scope of human rights 33 which are the foundations for fulfilling social management to cover employees at home responsibilities. The international community and overseas, customers, partner companies, and countries around the world are applying related organizations, and local people. KOTRA stricter rules and laws on corporate social is also imparting human rights management and responsibilities, making proactive responses focuses on helping companies avoid difficulties 2016 2017 imperative to companies. arising from human rights issues. Risk Opportunity Overall Integrity Level Rated “Great” for 6 consecutive years • K BC’s violation of local regulations • Enhance risk management • Unethical behaviors • Disseminate human rights and ethics • Increasing risks such as accident, management disaster, and terror • Advance safety and accident control • Information security incidents such as system hacking • Strengthen information security management system Interview Organization Culture That Guides Active Participation of Employees KOTRA communicates actively with employees to strengthen support for their work-and-life balance. To improve the quality of employees’ lives and create a healthy corporate culture, a communication channel which can fairly listen to and reflect all members’ opinions is essential. The communication channel should be continuously expanded to let all members empathize with the leading roles and social responsibilities given to KOTRA. 54 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Human Rights Management Principles on Human Rights Management KOTRA established the Human Rights Charter and proclaimed our volition to enhance interests and rights of stakeholders. KOTRA Human Rights Charter of Constitution We respect and support the international standards and principles on human rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the UN and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights of the UN Commission on Human Rights. To realize these values, we have enacted “KOTRA Human Rights and Ethics Charter,” which serves as a guiding principle for all behaviors and decisions of the executives and the employees of KOTRA. KOTRA is committed to advancing As a public institution, KOTRA establishes the principle to prioritize people for national our human rights management to meet the global standard. We not only respect the human rights of our employees welfare and the prosperity of mankind and but strive to protect and improve the human rights and interests of our stakeholders including customers, partner and promises to protect the human rights of everyone concerned, including its companies, and local people. employees, partner companies, related organizations and the local community. To achieve this purpose, KOTRA supports the international standards and norms regarding human rights and pledges to enact and practice the Charter of Rights and Freedom. Framework for Human Rights Management First, we shall endeavor to prevent the With a strong sense of responsibility as a public organization, KOTRA works to minimize any negative implications of our breach of human rights and to business activities on human rights. Human rights management at KOTRA is our commitment to creating a fair society for actively relieve any such breach. the future generations and laying a solid foundation for sustainable growth. Accordingly, we strive to establish frameworks Second, we shall not discriminate anyone concerned on the basis of race, on norms and organizations for human rights management promotion, and to internalize and spread the culture of religion, disability, gender, place respecting human rights. The top decision-making body in human rights management is the “Human Rights and Ethics of birth, political opinion, etc. Third, we shall not permit forced Committee” which consists of the President of KOTRA – the chair of the committee –, auditor, executive board member, labor of any form. and the CEO of Invest Korea. Under the committee is “Human Rights and Ethics Working Committee,” which is joined by Fourth, we shall not permit child labor the Vice President and the union representative to ensure all employees work together for the realization of human rights of any form. Fifth, we shall guarantee freedom of management. In addition, we also operate the Clean KOTRA Committee in charge of making human rights and ethics association and collective management fruitful, and Open KOTRA Committee in charge of transparent management which provide consultation and bargaining for our employees. advice on human rights and ethics management. Sixth, we shall provide a safe and pleasant working environment for our workers. Seventh, we shall make transparent and Organization for Human Rights Management fair deals with partner companies and advise them to practice human rights management. Eighth, in the course of business, we Human Rights & Ethics Management Committee Open KOTRA Committee Clean KOTRA Committee shall execute social service activities for the promotion Advice Advice of human rights for the local Chairperson: Director of residents abroad as well as Chairperson: CEO Chairperson: Auditor Service Advisory Group for the domestic residents and pursue a mutual beneficial cooperation. Ninth, we shall observe domestic and foreign environmental protection rules and take action against climate change. Human Rights & Ethics Human Rights & Ethics Human Rights & Ethics Clean Report Center Management Practice Committee Management Bureau Management Officers (Auditors’ Office) Tenth, we shall make prompt and accurate responses to clients’ • ‌Chairperson: Vice President • ‌Generally manage our human • ‌Generally manage human • ‌Check the implementation of requests and protect their • ‌Member: Staff dedicated rights & ethics management rights & ethics management human rights & ethics charter information collected in the to human rights & ethics • ‌Establishment of companyby department and code of conduct course of business. management wide human rights & ethics • ‌Practice of human rights & (Code of Conduct Officer) management system ethics management 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 55 Human Rights Management Wider Influence on Human Rights KOTRA supports and implements the global standards and principles that respect human rights and prohibit forced labor Human Rights Management at Regional HQ by Adopting the UNGC 10 Principles and discrimination. We enhance our employees’ awareness of the issue by educating them on human rights management, China and spread the value through overseas KBCs and domestic companies advancing overseas. • ‌Discrimination against minorities • ‌Opportunities to get involved Assessment on Human Rights Impact in eco-friendly projects • ‌Need to respond to customary In planning or promoting a project, KOTRA runs a human rights impact assessment in case there is a possibility of human practices including guānxì right infringement affecting our employees and stakeholders. We identified issues negatively affecting their human rights Europe by assessing the human rights impact of overseas networks in 2016. We are making continuous efforts in improving the • ‌Labor practices in Greece human rights and working environment in KOTRA by analyzing the assessment results. • ‌Low environmental awareness in East Europe • ‌Need to respond to public procurement Research on Practices of Overseas KBCs North America KOTRA spreads human rights management overseas through 127 KBCs in 86 countries around the world. The KBCs might • ‌Racial discrimination face human right risks in host countries due to differences in the degree of respect for human rights or awareness of • ‌Growing interest in new renewable energy related laws. Therefore, the KBCs apply 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) to find out any practices that go • ‌Strict penalties against against the values. Human rights risk factors are detected at the regional head office level and addressed. unethical behaviors Middle East Education on Human Rights Management • ‌Discrimination against foreigners and women KOTRA provides education on human rights management to increase awareness among the executives and employees, • ‌Inadequate legal framework on environmental issues and to internalize the respect for human rights into the corporate culture. Employees in charge of human rights • ‌Bribery in certain countries management and those who volunteer can receive education on UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Africa (UNGP) of the UN Commission on Human Rights, which helps us spread the global trends regarding the human rights • ‌Violation of human rights management. In addition, we newly introduced a clause on mutual respect in the code of conduct for executives and • ‌Child labor, discrimination employees, thereby forbidding all the activities which might violate human rights at work. Training was provided in this • ‌Lack of interest in environmental issues regard as part of the prevention effort. • ‌Rampant corruption Japan Education on Human Rights in 2017 • ‌Changes to corruption-related laws • ‌Stricter environmental Program Target No. of Participants Contents regulations Prevention of sexual All employees at home • ‌Accounting frauds involving 1,022 Case-oriented education (format of drams) some companies harassment and power abuse and abroad All employees at home Internal and external risks with regard to labor, Southeast Asia Management risk control and abroad 3,531 integrity, information security, etc. • ‌Violation of human rights • ‌Some cases of forced labor • ‌Low awareness of environmental issues Spread of Human Rights Management to Companies Going Overseas As an organization which supports the overseas expansion of domestic companies, we are proactive in disseminating human rights management to companies to help them conduct business activities in overseas markets without violations of protecting human rights. We have taken part in establishing the National Action Plan (NAP) on Human Rights Policies to disseminate human rights management to companies going global since September 2015. We invite companies wishing to go global and make them write a pledge on their social responsibility to enhance awareness and sense of responsibility on human rights and ethics risks that might emerge in the foreign markets. 56 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Human Rights Management Respect for Diversity Open Recruitment and Employment Open Employment (Unit: persons, %) KOTRA constantly improves its systems for competency-based open recruitment. To eradicate unreasonable and discriminatory elements, we are expanding the blind recruitment system for all stages of hiring based on National Classification 2015 2016 2017 Competency Standards (NCS). In 2017, we stopped collecting private information of applicants and increased the number Total no. of 822 886 930 of outside interviewers for fairer and more transparent ability-based hiring. employees No. of female 240 276 299 employees Recruitment for Social Equality No. of female 9 12 15 To diversify the employees’ background and contribute to making a fairer society, KOTRA tries to expand the hiring of local managers* talents, high school graduates, and people of national merits. Local applicants can receive additional points in interviews Ratio of employees with 3.2 2.9 2.7 and are provided with regional recruitment fair and on-site work experience opportunities. In addition, we enhance the disabilities capabilities of high school graduates by exploring suitable work categories, developing employment processes, and *Female manager: Level 1 & 2 positions providing work-related academic training for them. Female Workforce Employment of Female To help female employees avoid career discontinuity or problems in workplace due to pregnancy and childbirth, KOTRA Employees has set up a lounge and shortened work hours for pregnant females and new moms. According to the “Mother and Child Health Act,” KOTRA guarantees regular medical check-ups for pregnant workers and nursing time for moms of less-than-ayear-old kids. Workers who had to leave KOTRA can receive preferential treatment when trying to come back as indefiniteterm contract workers. Open mentoring is also provided to enable easier return to work after maternity/paternity leave. We also support childcare center fees to parents who work in Korea and raise infants or toddlers. These are some of the Ratio of female employees (%) examples of KOTRA’s efforts to protect female workforce and fulfill corporate responsibility of assisting childrearing. 31.2 32.2 Ratio of female managers (%) Union-Management Communication 1.4 1.6 Win-win Union-Management Culture The labor union of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency was established on April 29, 1988 and is a member of the 2016 2017 Federation of Korean Public Industry Trade Unions under the Federation of Korean Trade Unions. As of 2017, 645 out of 855 qualifying workers – 75.4% – joined the labor union. KOTRA holds councils and meetings with the labor union every Use of Maternity Leave (Unit: persons) quarter, and the labor-management working committee every month. With the direct communication channel between Classification 2015 2016 2017 the labor and management running constantly, we ensure the two parties share their opinions on relevant issues. Use of working time reduction system during 7 14 pregnancy period Preventive Handling of Grievances Total 33 37 32 Employees working overseas might face difficulties due to the time differences and the unique characteristics of the local Employees who took childbirth Male 4 5 communities they work in. In 2017, we newly created an online window through which employees can file complaints leave Female 33 33 27 wherever they work. In particular, we match workers to be dispatched overseas with their predecessors for 1:1 mentoring Employees Total 17 22 18 sessions. All employees are encouraged to assess themselves for any possible problems to preemptively manage who returned Male 3 3 grievances. to work after taking leave Female 17 19 15 Employees who Total 13 17 21 worked for 12 (87%) (100%) (95%) months or longer 1 3 Male after returning (50%) (100%) to work 12 17 18 (percentage) Female (91%) (100%) (95%) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 57 Human Rights Management Enhancing Quality of Life We improve our policies and the work culture to help employees strike a work-life balance. To ease the burden of working overtime, which hampers health and family lives of workers, we run diverse policies abiding by the laws on work hours. Advancement in the Work Culture KOTRA improves work policies and culture to help employees feel less burdened by overtime and balance their home life and career. We have upgraded and expanded the flexible working policy to allow them to choose working hours of 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 their preference. Through Workplace Innovation Consulting, causes behind the overtime were identified, which led to Union-Management cooperation Hi-Five Day enhanced work processes and environment. “Happy Friday Policy*” and “PC-Off Policy” were introduced to allow for more efficient practices at work. * Happy Friday Policy: To do 30-minute overtime from Monday through Thursday and leave work at 4pm on Friday Family-friendly Management We listen to employee’s opinions through the labor-management communication channel and reflect them into strengthening support for family-work balance. We have held open mentoring sessions to ease difficulties facing employees, including working moms. “Childcare Leave Policy” was newly initiated to help them attend children-related events and meetings with teachers twice a year. On top of this, every Wednesday is designated as Family Day to encourage employees to spend time with their family. 이해관계자 StakeholderComments Comments Health and Safety of Workers As part of expanding healthcare supports based on the demands of employees, KOTRA conducted a tailored 10-month Among the diverse programs running program for 54 employees working at the headquarters to help them overcome their metabolic syndromes. Particularly, under the KOTRA GWP (Great Work the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) dedicated to managing the mental well-being was offered to their spouses, Place), I find it most wonderful of the parents, and children as well as KOTRA employees. Psychology counseling is further provided to employees working in company to express appreciation to family members of our workers disaster areas overseas to help them manage their stress levels. In 2017, KOTRA adopted a policy to support regions with who have been supporting them poor medical environment, under which 24 more KBCs started to provide medical assistance. The SOS service – overseas all the way. “Welcome New Family” transfer and evacuation service in case of medical emergency – is also provided by more KBCs. events, under which parents of a new recruit receive a congratulatory orchid or card, or KOTRA sending Creation of Quality Jobs gifts to congratulate childbirth or KOTRA joins the government’s effort to generate quality jobs by improving the work conditions of indefinite-term contract school enrollment of kids can be good examples. I believe a small workers. We designated an employee in each department to come up with a reasonable mid-term transition plans for token of gratitude and attention that temporary workers. The review system for contract worker recruitment was introduced for temporary and periodic works. a company gives to family members Under the KOTRA Human Resources Unified System (KOHRUS) covering both regular and temporary workers, the reward of its employees is a final piece that and welfare benefit schemes were revised based on the equal-work-equal-pay principle. The revision enabled indefinitecompletes the work-life balance. term temporary workers enjoy the same benefits as regular workers and provided high school graduate workers with Staff Hee Yeon Park Network Support Team the same promotion opportunity, career development, education, vacation, leave and welfare benefits as university graduates. 58 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Human Rights Management Safety and Disaster Management Risk factors including extreme weather events, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and infectious diseases are emerging Spread of Disaster/ globally, increasing the exposure of domestic companies operating overseas to potential risks. Accordingly, KOTRA is crisis Information to Customers strengthening its differentiated safety management and support systems for employees and the people. Advancement of Safety and Disaster Management System To guarantee the safe operation of overseas KBCs and strengthen the disaster response, KOTRA has subdivided the grades of crisis in our disaster/crisis response manual. We also provide necessary supplies depending on the security level considering the characteristics of local communities. Safety & Disaster Management System For the personal safety and security of our customers, KOTRA established a “365 HotGoal Ensure safety and health of the public and employees by upgrading the safety & disaster management system Line” to share information on disasters and crisis occurring overseas on a real-time basis. In 2017, we published a guidebook Prevention Preparation Response Recovery to help people on business trips stay safe. The guideline, which is operated in line with the Safe Travel Information run by the System • Company-wide ‌ ‌ • Personal Safety 365 Hot (Internal) • Establishment ‌ of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is available on response training Line • Emergency ‌ Planning disaster recovery the webpages of 127 KBCs overseas. • Manuals ‌ against crisis • Setup ‌ of hardware & Committee system software infrastructure (External) • Identification ‌ of crisis • Contingency ‌ Planning management evaluation Council and improvement plans Swift Response and Restoration Responsible (Preparation for crisis/caution stage) crisis management situation + headquarters department (Risk response/serious stage) Emergency Planning Committee, Corporate Culture Innovation TF Domestic Overseas Crisis management skills for KBCs and conduct Operation Comprehensive crisis management guideline and guideline to keep safety of customers, employees, guideline conduct manuals against accidents and their families abroad KOTRA formed a consultative group with embassies and legations abroad and related organizations in Korea to allow for Education and Training immediate response in case of disasters We enhance employees’ emergency response capabilities through education and training for proactive safety and abroad. In 2017, when some Korean people in Bali were isolated due to the airport disaster management. Disaster prevention education and comprehensive training in Korea are provided focusing on shutdown after the eruption of Mount natural disasters scenarios. Staff members in charge of facility maintenance receive dedicated training. KOTRA holds Agung volcano, we supported their swift video conferences on disaster/crisis response with regional head offices overseas and conducts diverse anti-disaster evacuation and quick return to Korea, which drills. In 2017, we have provided education on disaster management to staff members from each regional head office led to the official commendation from the Minister of the Foreign Affairs. who are in charge. Each KBC ran their own education and training sessions on disaster risk handling in connection with local organizations and agencies. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 59 Human Rights Management Information Security Management System Sporadic responses are not enough to tackle an increasing number of cyberattacks and hacking attempts targeting the headquarters of KOTRA. We endeavor to thoroughly control cyber risks and securely protect management information through sustainable information security management system to maintain public confidence. Enhancement of Information Security Level KOTRA identifies vulnerabilities through self-assessment and evaluations, and makes intensive efforts in fixing them, thereby enhancing the level of information security. KOTRA’s information security level was assessed to be higher than the average of quasi-government organizations in the evaluations on information security management status run by the National Intelligence Service. Improvement of Information Security Classification 2016 2017 USB security • Respond ‌ to the latest hacking technology and fundamentally • Block ‌ off unauthorized USB enhancement block off USB involving malicious code by advancing the system Elimination of • Eliminate ‌ 46 kinds of information detected by complete • Check ‌ vulnerabilities through website vulnerabilities in enumeration of unnecessary system information exposure in mock-hacking internet internet • Remedy ‌ 10 shortcomings by initiating a comprehensive security Enhancement of • Respond ‌ to website hacking by utilizing management process ranging from launch to disposal of website security one-time technology websites Upgrade response ‌ • Conduct collective trainings for • Conduct ‌ tailored trainings considering personal job features by capability to hacking vulnerable classes further segmenting vulnerable classes through e-mail ‌ • Conduct trainings during certain periods • Build ‌ a year-round training system by introducing a new system Sophistication of the Cyberattack Response Mechanism We perfectly defended the company against a total of 384 external hacking attempts in 2017 by continuously upgrading cyberattack response mechanism. We have completed an integrated response system against cyberattacks by collaborating with 15 partner companies since 2016. In addition, three outsourced information security professionals are now working at KOTRA. These activities enable KOTRA to build a perfect back-up system and eventually ensure business continuity. Maintenance of Information Security Management System Certification KOTRA has maintained the Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification for two years in a row, in recognition of its continuous efforts to manage cyber risks. KOTRA analyzed possible threats and vulnerabilities • Certification on ISMS (Information and identified priorities in information assets to figure out what to protect first. Then, we established a phased risk Security Management System) management plan based on the priorities we assigned to information assets of different levels of importance. Under the Maintained system, we checked nine websites of KOTRA for vulnerability and improved 12 technical defects that were identified. 2 consecutive years We have run information restoration drills six times as part of our prevention efforts, thereby enhancing the cyber risk management capabilities. 60 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Human Rights Management Tailored Security Management Intensive Management for Overseas KBCs Our overseas KBCs have maintained zero information security accident on the back of intensive efforts for protecting No. of Information Security information security. In 2017, all our KBCs upgraded security equipment to ensure higher technical security. We also Educations (times) encrypted the communication between KBCs and the headquarters to prevent information leaks and strengthened user authentication to root out the possibility of unauthorized access. Information security education videos were produced and distributed to KBCs where collective education can be practically difficult. On top of that, through the cooperation with the Information Security Team and the Auditors’ Office, we conducted our first information security audit in KOTRA Tokyo of Japan Head Office to identify three imperfections, which are now fully addressed. 6 18 Information Security Education 2016 2017 KOTRA mandated temporary workers as well as regular workers to receive information security education. Recent cases of cybercrimes and information security issues are shared with all employees. In 2017, we focused on raising employees’ awareness of information security by offering educations that consider even the characteristics of individual works and Information Security Webtoon diversifying contents. Some of education materials were made in the form of webtoon to help employees better approach and deeply understand the issue of information security. Information Security Education Classification 2016 2017 Education Contents Prevention of export fraud for employees working at Export experts Once customer interaction sites Young interns Four times Basic information security for beginners in business One-on-one tailored education Twice One-on-one education for low performers in e-mail mock-hacking Information security webtoon Twice Easy understanding of information security through webtoon Introduction of the latest information security trends and Newsletter Twice Five times new technologies All employees Twice Twice Education by inviting external professionals Introduction to information security management system and New employees Twice Twice related works Total 6 times 18 times Survey on Personal Information Management Status Improvement of Personal Information Protection KOTRA encrypted sensitive information such as SMEs’ export data in addition to important personal information whose encryption is legally required. We also corrected 11 vulnerable areas such as establishing personal information handling manuals and strengthening the management of access records identified through self-assessment based on the 105 checklists of the government. In particular, thanks to the efforts in making tailored personal information management • Achieved “Excellent” – self-assessment, training for staff in charge, reviews and feedbacks – part of our daily routine, KOTRA scored 91.1 in the personal information management status assessment conducted by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety in 2017, grade, the highest level receiving the highest grade. With the continuous work to respond to hacking attempts and protect private information, • Zero KOTRA suffered zero incident in information security. damage in information security 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 61 Ethics Management Creating Infrastructure for Anti-Corruption and Integrity We pursue zero-defect in business ethics by focusing on preemptive anticorruption activities. All employees sign a pledge on conducting integrity and ethics management every year and are proactive in participating in ethics educations and campaigns to raise the bar of our ethics management to the global level. Efforts for Anticorruption A variety of incentives are provided to encourage employees to put ethics management into action. Specific tasks are given in accordance with job features of each organization and the implementation results are reflected in performance evaluation. Starting from 2017, KOTRA has publicly noticed bids for private contracts, implemented blind recruitment system, and introduced integrated management system for the government subsidies, through which we prevent any potential corruption in advance. System Improvements in 2017 내수기업 전용 수출상담회 Pledge on anticorruption and integrity Classification Subjects Performances • Provide ‌ equal opportunities to small suppliers • Conduct ‌ open private contract system Contract • Prevent ‌ mistakes in signing contracts due to • Expand ‌ the scope of contract departments’ agency business unawareness of regulations and guidelines • Elaborate ‌ response plans to exchange risk • Shorten ‌ exchange risk monitoring period (from quarterly to monthly) Budget • Disclose ‌ expenses of government subsidies to • Introduce ‌ the “GOSIMS,” a state subsidy integrated management the public system • Manage ‌ tax risks in KOTRA’s outsourcing projects • Build ‌ a tax treatment plan by business type Finance • Systematically ‌ manage overseas billing • Build ‌ a database for overseas billing by establishing a information documentary evidence handling system • Standardize ‌ short-term workers management • Operate ‌ an integrated HR management system for nonHR • Ensure ‌ equal opportunities and fair competition permanent employees when hiring • Implement ‌ a blind employment system KOTRA Helpline poster Activation of the Whistleblowing Policy KOTRA is running the Clean Report Center that receives reports on corruption and graft. The “Guidelines for the Protection of and Reward for Public Interest Whistle Blowers” are strictly met to ensure that whistleblowers are well-protected. In 2017, we have newly introduced “KOTRA Helpline,” an anonymous report center available in online and mobile settings and further strengthened the whistleblower protection by preventing IP tracking and hiding their information. We encourage active use of the confidential reporting system by allowing the intervention of external experts in case of ethics related complaints. Stronger Rules and Response In compliance with the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act (Anti-Graft Act), KOTRA has strengthened the company-wide anticorruption efforts. In 2017, we ran an education program on Anti-Graft Act for the corporate expatriates in relation to their works conducted overseas. The detailed rules for operation of KOTRA’s personnel policy were also revised to be stricter toward sexual assaults and drink-driving. The guidelines for sexual harassment & abuse prevention were strengthened as well to apply harsher punishment. 62 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Ethics Management Ethics Management Education Based on Work Characteristics Audit casebook Considering our business features that our employees face different ethics standards in each country, KOTRA has been focusing on establishing ethics management education systems tailored to work characteristics. We enhanced employees’ understanding on integrity by hosting discussion and education sessions for each position level semi-annually. Online and on-site education on integrity were further promoted to let overseas KBCs acknowledge changes from the revisions on regulations and guidelines. The education sessions focus on real-life cases to dispel integrity risks stemming from cultural and environmental differences of each KBC. The “Global Culture Information Forum” was hosted for new recruits, which was joined by 407 people. We also published a casebook on common mistakes pointed out in audits and used this as an education material. Practice of Ethics Management Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Executives Persons 6 6 6 Education on ethics management Employees Persons 835 860 894 Sharing the code of ethics Target suppliers Companies 33 33 40 with suppliers Participation rate % 100 100 100 Expansion of Monitoring and Feedback KOTRA was rated “Great” in Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission’s evaluation on the overall integrity of public agencies for six consecutive years in recognition for our consistent company-wide efforts for the spread of ethics and integrity culture. We also received the highest grade (AAA) in the Korean Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management (KoBEX SM), which is governed by the Ministry of SMEs and Startups. We are constantly improving ourselves to go beyond Korea and become a world leader in ethics management and integrity. In 2017, we conducted a companywide self-assessment campaign to ensure higher integrity and activated communications on anticorruption and integrity among different position levels. On top of this, we operate an ombudsman who monitors the practice of business ethics and makes improvements. Ethics Management Evaluation Classification 2015 2016 2017 Won the “Great” Overall integrity 8.49 8.47 8.49 grade in overall integrity External integrity 8.64 8.68 8.76 for 6 consecutive years Integrity check (Points) Internal integrity 8.56 7.91 7.81 Policy customer evaluation (new) 8.36 Evaluation on anticorruption policy Overall result 2nd grade 1st grade Not implemented* Research on sustainability KoBEX SM AA AA AAA management practice * Winning the 1st grade in evaluation on anticorruption policy in 2016, KOTRA was exempted from the evaluation in 2017. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 63 Appendix Corporate Governance 66p Risk Management 68p Performances in Sustainability Management 70p GRI Standards Index 77p Third Party’s Assurance 80p Sustainability Management Initiatives 82p Awards, Associations, and Memberships 84p 64 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 65 Corporate Governance Board of Directors (BOD) The KOTRA BOD consists of five executive directors and six non-standing directors as of June 2018. In accordance with the fourth clause of Article 18 of Act on the Management of Public Institutions and Article 3 of BOD regulation, the BOD is chaired by the CEO of KOTRA. To ensure the independence of non-standing directors, the regulation stipulates that nonstanding directors should hold a majority and convocation of non-standing directors meeting is guaranteed in accordance with the second clause of Article 6 of BOD regulation. The CEO of Invest Korea plays a role as an observer and the auditor states opinions in the decision-making process and checks the execution of results. BOD Members *As of June 2018 Classification Name Position Role Pyung-oh Kwon President & CEO of KOTRA BOD Chairman Senior Executive Vice President for Management Tai-Sik Lee Support Executive Director Seog-ki Sun Executive Vice President for SME Support Doo Young Kim Executive Vice President for Innovative Growth Executive Vice President for Economic Commerce Won-Sok Yun Cooperation and Trade Foundation Director General for Trade, Ministry of Trade, Ex-officio member Seon-min Kim Industry and Energy Young Lee CEO of Teruten Seok-won Kang Attorney, Jeonmang Law Office Non-standing Director Yeong-gyu Kim CEO of BMC Professor in Chinese Language, Graduate School Heung-ho Moon of International Studies, Hanyang University Myeong-su Ahn Former ambassador to Turkmenistan Auditor Ae Kyung Kim Head of Compliance Office, BC Card Head of Invest KOREA Yong Kook Kim Head of Invest KOREA Operation of the BOD The BOD meeting is regularly held to deliberate and conclude major managerial issues stipulated in related laws, the articles of association, and BOD regulation. The BOD is convoked by the requirement of the CEO or more than a third of directors and conclusion is made by a majority in attendance and a majority vote. Particularly, in accordance with the third clause of Article 4 of BOD regulation, the voting right of directors with private interest in issues is strictly restricted. The BOD holds face-to-face meeting in principle, while document-based meeting is also available if necessary. BOD Operation Results Classification 2015 2016 2017 No. of BOD meetings (times) 16 14 14 No. of agendas concluded (cases) 30 22 16 Attendance rate of BOD members (%)* 92.3 88.6 89.9 Attendance rate of non-standing directors (%)* 94.9 91.4 92.3 * Excluding the attendance of ex-officio position: The ex-officio non-standing director attended only three times out of 17 meetings due to unfavorable export environment. 66 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Corporate Governance Operation of Subcommittees KOTRA operates subcommittees Executive Nomination Committee, Clean KOTRA Committee, and Service Commission Review Committee under the BOD according to related regulations to ensure efficient decision-making. Each subcommittee consists of three or more directors including non-standing directors and is chaired by a non-standing director. Details of subcommittee meeting and agendas are disclosed through our corporate website. Subcommittee Operation Results Classification Function Meetings in 2017 Executive Nomination Recommendation of executive candidates and agreement on contracts with them Three times Committee according to related regulations Clean KOTRA Committee Support for the promotion of ethics management Four times Service Commission Review Deliberation on the introduction, pricing, change, adjustment, and abolition of service Seven times Committee commission Director Appointment and Support for Activities The CEO of KOTRA is appointed by the President after the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy recommends the most qualified person among candidates by the Executive Nomination Committee. Executive directors are appointed by the CEO, while non-standing directors are appointed by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy after plural recommendation of the Executive Nomination Committee and deliberation of the Public Institution Steering Committee in accordance with the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. KOTRA appoints qualified directors with ample experiences and professionalism in our business and impartiality. We also provide non-standing directors with business operation status on a regular basis and materials needed for deliberating major agendas to support faithful operation of the BOD. In 2017, we reflected a total of 21 advice items proposed by non-standing directors in management activities. Evaluation and Compensation We evaluate the operation of the BOD based on 10 indicators with regard to independent operation, engagement of nonstanding directors, and use of their professionalism. Executive remuneration consists of basic salary and performancebased bonus. The CEO’s bonus is determined based on a salary contract and the level of contract execution, while nonstanding directors’ bonus is paid as determined by the CEO. Performance-based bonus is not applicable to non-standing directors. Compensation Rate (Unit: KRW in thousands) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Maximum compensation (A) 185,535 192,104 193,689 Average compensation per employee (B) 76,562 77,438 76,760 Compensation rate (A/B, multiples) 2.4 2.5 2.5 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 67 Risk Management Company-wide Risk Management KOTRA has established a company-wide risk management system to effectively respond to diverse risks that can come from business activities. This system ensures our effective prevention, monitoring, response, and follow-up management against five major risk areas of disaster, finance, business, operation, and security. The department in charge of risk management leads the establishment and implementation of risk response strategies and works for comprehensive risk management in cooperation with other departments and overseas KBCs. Company-wide Risk Management System CRO (Chief Risk Officer) Overall Risk Management (Planning & Coordination Department) Risk type and organization Accident risk Financial risk Business risk Operation risk Security risk • ‌Disturbance, • ‌Foreign exchange • ‌Faithless customer • ‌Faithless conflict • ‌Leakage of kidnap, loss of loss, reduction management control and personal lives, disease, of governmental and business business conduct information and earthquake, fire, subsidies operation cyber terror etc. Planning & Competent Operation Support Customer Strategy Operation Support Coordination Department of Each Department Department Department Department Head Office Management Follow-up Prevention Monitoring Response direction management Financial Risk Management System KOTRA operates a company-wide and manual-based response system to key financial risk factors. In 2017, we focused on managing the potential risks from budget cut and exchange rates. For example, we segmented financial risks into government subsidy, revenue of KOTRA, average exchange rate, and foreign currency fluctuation, and then set thresholds for risks in each possible scenario in order to allow for appropriate responses to risks. Moreover, we checked exchange risk on a monthly basis instead of existing quarterly basis to ensure the accuracy. 68 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Risk Management Response Manuals by Risk Stage Classification Interest Caution Warning Seriousness • ‌Government subsidy • ‌Increase rate≥2.6% • ‌2.6% 〉Increase rate ≥ △1.2% • ‌△1.2% 〉Increase rate ≥△3.1% • △3.1% ‌ 〉Increase rate • ‌Revenue • ‌Increase rate≥8.9% • ‌8.9% 〉Increase rate ≥ △4.1% • ‌△4.1% 〉Increase rate ≥△10.6% • △10.6% ‌ 〉Increase rate Assessment of • ‌Average exchange rate • ‌1,185±8 KRW/USD • ‌1,201±8 KRW/USD • ‌1,217±8 KRW/USD ‌ • 1,233±8 KRW/USD situation • ‌Exchange fluctuation • ‌CFaR≤100% • ‌100%〈 CFaR≤200% • ‌100%〈 CFaR≤300% ‌ • 300%〈 CFaR • ‌Government subsidy • ‌Monitoring of • F‌ inancial Structure Improvement • S‌ tronger negotiation with the • E‌ mergency Planning • ‌Revenue government policy Promotion Group government and National Assembly Committee • ‌Stronger cooperation • A‌ dditional attraction of national (securing supplementary budget) •B ‌ usiness restructuring with related institutions budget • R‌ earrangement of •D ‌ evelopment of more profitable overseas workforce projects Response plan • ‌Average exchange rate • ‌Monthly monitoring • C‌ onvocation of the Finance • R‌ eview of purchasing F/X hedging • E‌ mergency fund • ‌Exchange fluctuation of exchange Operation Committee products operation plan fluctuation •O ‌ peration of the daily monitoring • S‌ ettlement of external cooperation system expense with foreign currency • C‌ ontrol of exchange execution time Non-financial Risk Management System In order to preemptively control non-financial risks that affect business activities, KOTRA operates an internal management system. Even though overseas network related budgets have a high proportion, there is a limit in controlling overseas networks due to physical distance between the head office and 127 KBCs. Moreover, we launched the “Network Risk Management Council” to enhance risk information exchange among departments in response to increasing organization structure and workforce at home and abroad. KOTRA is focusing on upgrading the quality on internal control by tightening prevention activities such as education, checklist, monitoring, and compliance surveillance as well as adjusting the scope of daily audit. Operation of Internal Check System Improvement of Follow-up Prevention Monitoring & Audit Management Enhancement of internal check Expansion of internal check System improvement & follow-up Strategic direction system activities management • ‌Reinforce internal check system • ‌Activate internal checks on our • ‌Prevent reoccurrences by by utilizing the features of KOTRA unique risks strict treatment and system • ‌Strengthen professionalism and • ‌Expand checks through the system improvement Strategic task independence of internal check • ‌Prevent careless management • ‌Conduct systematic follow-up system activities management of audit results • ‌Expand feedbacks on audit results and benchmarking Internal External Standing auditor, non-standing director, corruption Check by Integrity ombudsman, audit consultant group prevention officer, compliance officer Daily audit, e-audit system, restriction on and proactive monitoring of corporate credit card use, Monitoring whistleblowing channel, and inspection on jobs 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 69 Performances in Sustainability Management 56th period: From January 1st, 2017 to December 31st, 2017 55th period: From January 1st, 2016 to December 31st, 2016 Financial Performance (Summarized Financial Position) (Unit: KRW) 56th period 55th period Assets Current assets 52,450,767,561 61,967,676,996 Cash and cash equivalents 38,745,654,369 47,368,759,179 Current financial assets 1,218,327,000 856,112,000 Trade and other receivables 1,423,274,782 1,448,002,519 Current income tax assets 118,677,724 21,548,523 Current non-financial assets 10,944,833,686 12,273,254,775 Non-current assets 72,595,922,854 74,179,265,380 Non-current financial assets 5,297,802,500 5,675,090,000 Long-term trade and other receivables 38,941,672,160 39,436,091,623 Tangible assets 15,396,710,941 15,230,291,012 Real estate investments 2,329,183,585 2,284,503,843 Intangible assets other than goodwill 4,369,422,111 5,903,452,798 Investments in associates and joint ventures 5,994,776,420 5,536,405,109 Non-current, non-financial assets 266,355,137 113,430,995 Total assets 125,046,690,415 136,146,942,376 Liabilities Current liabilities 46,045,657,419 43,616,772,571 Trade and other payables 10,869,861,368 15,670,663,339 Current non-financial liabilities 17,169,887,666 11,367,920,294 Liquidity provisions 18,005,908,385 16,578,188,938 Non-current liabilities 16,763,065,745 12,349,047,159 Long-term trade and other payables 785,781,041 694,466,389 Non-current non-financial liabilities 637,214,210 903,738,968 Provisions for employee benefits 15,340,070,494 10,750,841,802 Total liabilities 62,808,723,164 55,965,819,730 Equity Paid-in capital 50,000,000,000 50,000,000,000 Retained earnings 10,213,208,286 28,159,429,987 Other components of equity 2,024,758,965 2,021,692,659 Total capital 62,237,967,251 80,181,122,646 Total liabilities and equity 125,046,690,415 136,146,942,376 70 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Performances in Sustainability Management 56th period: From January 1st, 2017 to December 31st, 2017 55th period: From January 1st, 2016 to December 31st, 2016 Financial Performance (Summarized Income Statement) (Unit: KRW) 56th period 55th period Sales 406,411,197,756 408,028,336,401 Revenue from rendering of services 85,918,696,316 78,258,999,380 Transfer earning (sales) 317,351,186,866 326,614,240,154 Other revenues (sales) 3,141,314,574 3,155,096,867 Cost of sales 289,842,622,184 281,817,210,524 Cost of sales on revenue from rendering of services 287,343,170,492 279,311,584,131 Cost of sales on other revenues 2,499,451,692 2,505,626,393 Gross profit 116,568,575,572 126,211,125,877 Selling and administrative expenses 135,773,521,407 130,831,512,932 Labor cost 118,695,894,609 114,749,500,329 Other expenses 17,077,626,798 16,082,012,603 Operating income (loss) (19,204,945,835) (4,620,387,055) Other expenses 34,830,093 34,556,242 Depreciation expense on investment property 34,830,093 34,556,242 Other profit (loss) (737,605,108) 1,002,921,668 Gain on disposal of property, plant, and equipment 74,607,013 62,008,677 Gains on foreign exchange translations 29,220,132 365,886,847 Gains on foreign exchange transactions 196,298,881 522,099,203 Other gains 2,018,777,319 1,928,021,615 Losses on disposal of property, plant, and equipment (28,734,301) (27,793,080) Losses on foreign exchange translations (2,310,983,019) (1,254,476,557) Losses on foreign exchange transactions (716,791,133) (592,825,037) Financial income 973,852,136 117,850,072 Interest income 973,852,136 117,850,072 Gains (losses) on associates and joint ventures 355,898,695 736,012,198 Gains on evaluation of associates and joint ventures 355,898,695 736,012,198 Net profit before income tax (loss) (18,647,630,205) (2,798,159,359) Profit from continuing operations (18,647,630,205) (2,798,159,359) Net profit (loss) (18,647,630,205) (2,798,159,359) Other comprehensive income 1,744,383,000 2,086,737,384 Total comprehensive income (16,903,247,205) (711,421,975) 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 71 Performances in Sustainability Management Economic and Business Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Operation of retirement pension Total amount raised (DB plan) KRW in millions 26,866 31,294 31,231 No. of pension holders (DB plan) Persons 607 691 755 No. of pension holders (DC plan) Persons 275 266 267 Wage level of new employees Minimum legal wage KRW in thousands 13,995 15,123 16,227 Wage paid to new employees (avg.) KRW in thousands 31,881 32,844 33,675 Male KRW in thousands 32,511 33,388 34,123 Wage paid to new employees Female KRW in thousands 30,584 31,410 32,101 Distribution of Economic Value Classification Details Unit 2015 2016 2017 Employees Wage, retirement benefit, welfare benefit KRW 110,547,237,143 121,157,434,001 125,736,723,425 Shareholders Dividend KRW 4,041,220,760 1,039,908,190 Suppliers Procurement and outsourcing costs KRW 2,322,761,071 2,525,601,156 3,577,896,371 Government Corporate tax, other taxes and dues KRW 2,110,958,589 2,050,917,640 2,029,869,403 Local Financial donation, social contribution KRW 91,882,300 45,151,000 28,700,000 communities expenditure Environmental Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Recycling of raw materials Paper Boxes 515 902 1,146 Ratio of recycled paper use % 100 93.3 100 Water use and water reuse rate* Water use (underground water) ton 10,339 12,258 11,287 Water use (water supply system) ton 16,287 17,991 16,328 Total annual water use ton 26,626 30,249 27,615 Reused water ton 1,320 1,595 1,468 Water reuse rate % 13 13 13 Direct & indirect GHG emissions Total tCO2eq 530 518 497 Direct GHG emissions (stationary combustion-city gas) tCO2eq 381 369 362 scope1 Direct GHG emissions (mobile combustion-gasoline) tCO2eq 121 120 107 Direct GHG emissions (mobile combustion-diesel) tCO2eq 28 29 27 Total tCO2eq 2,599 2,664 2,599 scope2 Indirect GHG emissions (electricity) tCO2eq 2,599 2,664 2,599 Expenses and investments for environmental protection Sewer charges KRW in millions 26 29 29 Sewer treatment cost (wastewater purification and general waste treatment) KRW in millions 16 23 13 Procurements of eco-friendly products KRW in millions 674 547 628 Total amount of procurements KRW in millions 730 576 731 Ratio of eco-friendly products purchased % 92.3 94.9 86.0 * Water use can be monitored through water meters, while water reuse rate is calculated by using ground water as the denominator. * Environmental performances are based on the Head Office. KOTRA manages its environmental indicators including GHG emissions according to the government recommendations 72 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Performances in Sustainability Management Social Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Employment and turnover Male Persons 44 55 45 Female Persons 29 39 38 New employment Locally recruited employees Persons 11 12 3 Science & engineering majors Persons 17 14 15 Non-permanent employees Persons 15 20 7 Male % 3 1.8 1.1 Turnover rate Female % 4.4 2.9 5.0 Employee composition Total Persons 7 7 7 Executives Male Persons 7 7 7 Female Persons Total Persons 59 57 58 Level 1 Male Persons 58 56 57 Female Persons 1 1 1 Total Persons 160 165 161 Position Level 2 Male Persons 152 154 147 (permanent) Female Persons 8 11 14 Total Persons 154 158 174 Level 3 Male Persons 128 127 136 Female Persons 26 31 38 Total Persons 368 499 530 Levels 4, 5, and 6 Male Persons 220 266 284 Female Persons 148 233 246 Total Persons 748 886 930 Male Persons 565 610 631 Gender (permanent) Female Persons 183 276 299 Domestic Persons 400 529 549 Region (permanent) Overseas Persons 348 357 381 35 and below Persons 271 330 370 36~45 Persons 241 287 282 Age (permanent) 46~55 Persons 192 221 230 56 and older Persons 44 48 48 Total Persons 7 7 7 Executives Male Persons 7 7 7 Female Persons Total Persons 741 803 843 Trade & specialized Male Persons 558 588 608 functions Function Female Persons 183 215 235 (permanent + non-permanent) Total Persons 135 62 80 Special services Male Persons 47 34 38 Female Persons 88 28 42 Total Persons 79 76 80 Administrative Male Persons 15 15 16 Female Persons 64 61 64 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 73 Performances in Sustainability Management Social Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total Persons 748 886 930 Permanent Male Persons 565 610 631 Female Persons 183 276 299 Total Persons 18 62 80 Indefinite-term Male Persons 9 34 38 contract positions Employment type Female Persons 9 28 42 (permanent + nonpermanent Total Persons 38 Contract positions* Male Persons 23 Female Persons 15 Total Persons 17 20 4 Non-permanent Male Persons 13 7 3 Female Persons 4 13 1 Persons 31 31 41 Disabled employees % 3.2 3.0 3.5 Employment of Persons 183 276 299 members of socially Female employees disadvantaged % 24.5 31.2 32.2 classes Persons 34 45 45 Patriots and veterans 4.5 5.0 4.5 Total Persons 33 37 32 Employees who have Male Persons 4 5 taken a leave Female Persons 33 33 27 Total Persons 17 22 18 Employees who returned to work after Male Persons 3 3 taking a leave Female Persons 17 19 15 Childbirth and childcare leave Total Persons 13 17 21 Employees who have worked for 12 months or Male Persons 1 3 longer after returning to work following a leave Female Persons 12 17 18 Total % 87 100 95 Employees working for Male % 50 100 12 months or longer Female % 92 100 95 * Contract positions were integrated into indefinite-term contract employees in 2016. 74 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Performances in Sustainability Management Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Employee education No. of employees who have received education Persons 857 948 930 Total education cost KRW in thousands 2,502,000 2,348,065 2,189,148 Total No. of education sessions Sessions 763 940 786 Total hours of education Hours 230,060 165,291 176,938 Education cost per employee KRW 2,919,487 2,476,862 2,353,923 Total Hours 268 174 190 Male Hours 268 177 185 Gender Education hours Female Hours 271 170 202 per employees Executives Hours 45 43 41 Position Level 1 & 2 Hours 307 203 162 Level 3 or lower Hours 258 167 194 Foreign language education hours per person Hours 58 52 70 Ethics management Education on ethics Executives Persons 6 6 6 management Employees Persons 835 860 894 Corruption risk No. of targets Locations 34 40 41 assessment by business location Achievement rate % 25 29 30 Sharing ethics No. of targets Organizations 33 33 40 code with business partners Achievement rate % 100 100 100 Corruption cases and actions taken No. of corruptions Cases 1 Employees Disciplinary actions Actions 1 Education on human rights No. of sexual harassment education sessions Cases 6 7 8 Employees who have received education on sexual harassment Persons 935 948 930 Unionized employees and employees covered by collective bargaining No. of employees eligible for the labor union Persons 633 763 855 No. of unionized employees Persons 506 539 645 Ratio of unionized employees % 79.9 70.6 75.4 Grievance settlement Labor-Management Joint Grievance Settlement Center Reported and settled Cases 7 10 9 Users Persons 17 54 22 EAP (employee assistance program) No. of inquiries Cases 139 115 74 Clean KOTRA center Reported and settled Cases 12 13 11 Customer satisfaction survey Customer satisfaction Head Office Points 95.6 94.1 96.8 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 75 Performances in Sustainability Management Social Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Injuries and diseases Total Per million hours 0.67 Male Per million hours 0.89 Gender Female Per million hours Accident injury Executives Per million hours rate Position Level 1 & 2 Per million hours Level 3 or below Per million hours 0.96 Domestic Per million hours Region Overseas Per million hours 0.14 Total Per million hours 0.57 Male Per million hours 0.83 Gender Female Per million hours Rate of Executives Per million hours occupational diseases Position Level 1 & 2 Per million hours 0.23 Level 3 or below Per million hours Domestic Per million hours 0.96 Region Overseas Per million hours Total % 0.00015 0.00019 Male % 0.0002 0.00028 Gender Female % Executives % Rate of days off taken Position Level 1 & 2 % 0.00077 Level 3 or below % 0.00022 Domestic % 0.00032 Region Overseas % 0.00032 Total % 0.38 0.50 0.49 Male % 0.19 0.28 0.24 Gender Female % 0.96 0.98 1.00 Executives % 0.12 Absence rate Position Level 1 & 2 % 0.10 0.20 0.04 Level 3 or below % 0.50 0.60 0.63 Domestic % 0.65 0.77 0.83 Region Overseas % 0.07 0.09 Total % 1 Male % 1 Gender Female % No. of Executives % work-related fatalities Position Level 1 & 2 % 1 Level 3 or below % Domestic % 1 Region Overseas % 76 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report GRI Standards Index Universal Standards(GRI 100) Topic No. Title Reporting Status Page SDG Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization  6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services  8~9 102-3 Location of headquarters  6 102-4 Location of operations  8~9 102-5 Ownership and legal form  6 102-6 Markets served  8~9 102-7 Scale of the organization  6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers  73~74 SDG 8 102-9 Supply chain  6 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain  6 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach  68~69 102-12 External initiatives  82~83 102-13 Membership of associations  84 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker  2~3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  2~3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior  55 SDG 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics  62 SDG 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure  66~67 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees  66~67 SDG 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body  66 SDG 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  67 SDG 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest  66 SDG 16 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body  67 SDG 4 102-35 Remuneration policies  67 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups  12~13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements  57, 75 SDG 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders  12~13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement  12~13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised  18, 25, 26, 34, 42, 54 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements  About this Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries  14~15 102-47 List of material topics  15 102-48 Restatements of information  21, 41 102-49 Changes in reporting  About this Report 102-50 Reporting period  About this Report 102-51 Date of most recent report  About this Report 102-52 Reporting cycle  About this Report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report  About this Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards  About this Report 102-55 GRI content index  77~79 102-56 External assurance  80~81 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 77 GRI Standards Index Universal Standards(GRI 100) Topic No. Title Reporting Status Page SDG Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary  15 SDG 12, SDG 13, SDG 14,SDG 15 SDG 1, SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 13, SDG 14, 103-2 The management approach and its components  18, 25, 26, 34, 42, 54 SDG 15, SDG 16 Economic Performance(GRI 200) Topic No. Title Reporting Status Page SDG Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  72 SDG 2, SDG 5, SDG 7, SDG 8 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 201-3  72 SDG 9 retirement plans Indirect Economic Impacts SDG 2, SDG 5, SDG 7, SDG 8, 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported  46~51 SDG 9, SDG 11 SDG 1, SDG 2, SDG 3, SDG 8, 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts  46~51 SDG 9, SDG 10, SDG 17 Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2  62~63 SDG 16 policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 205-3  75 SDG 16 taken Environmental Performance(GRI 300) Topic No. Title Reporting Status Page SDG Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume  72 SDG 12 301-2 Recycled input materials used  72 SDG 12 Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource  72 SDG 6 303-3 Water withdrawal  72 SDG 6, SDG 8, SDG 12 Emissions SDG 3, SDG 12, SDG 13, 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  72 SDG 14, SDG 15 SDG 3, SDG 12, SDG 13, 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  72 SDG 14, SDG 15 Environmental Compliance Non-compliance with environmental laws and SDG 12, SDG 13, SDG 14, 307-1  72 regulations SDG 15, SDG 16 78 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report GRI Standards Index Sicial Performance(GRI 400) Topic No. Title Reporting Status Page SDG Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover  73 SDG 5, SDG 8 401-3 Parental leave  74 SDG 5, SDG 8 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system  75 SDG 8 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation  76 SDG 3, SDG 8 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee  42~43, 75 SDG 4, SDG 5, SDG 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs  43 SDG 8 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 404-3  44 SDG 5, SDG 8 reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees  57, 66, 73~74 SDG 5, SDG 8 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men  72 SDG 10 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  58 SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 16 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor  56 SDG 8, SDG 16 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor  56 SDG 8 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples  56 SDG 2 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments  56 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures  56, 75 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 412-3  38, 56 or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 413-1  46~49 development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2  46~49 SDG 1, SDG 2 communities Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories  59 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products 416-2  59, 75 SDG 16 and services Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy and 418-1  75 SDG 16 losses of customer data 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 79 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of 2017 KOTRA Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report: Foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (hereinafter KOTRA ) to verify the contents of its 2017 Sustainability & Human Rights Management Report (hereinafter “the Report”). KOTRA is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and standard KMR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Comprehensive Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. • GRI Standards Reporting Principles • Universal Standards • Topic Specific Standards Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-3 Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1, 203-2 Anti-Corruption: 205-2, 205-3 Materials: 301-1, 301-2 Water: 303-1, 303-3 Emissions: 305-1, 305-2 Environmental Compliance: 307-1 Employment: 401-1, 401-3 Occupational Health and Safety: 403-1, 403-2 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 Non-Discrimination: 406-1 Child Labor: 408-1 Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Rights of Indigenous Peoples: 411-1 Human Rights Assessment: 412-1, 412-2, 412-3 Local Communities: 413-1, 413-2 Customer Health and Safety: 416-1, 416-2 Customer Privacy: 418-1 This Report excludes a data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KOTRA, among report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: • Reviewed overall report • Reviewed materiality test process and methodology • Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets • Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 80 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Third Party’s Assurance Statement Our conclusion ● 포괄성 ● 포괄성 Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOTRA on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the 포괄성이란 Report’s 지속가능성에 포괄성이란 지속가능성에 final version 대해 to in order 책임 대해있고 confirm 책임 전략적인 that 있고 our 전략적인 대응 방안을 recommendations 대응for 개발하고 방안을 개발하고 달성해 improvement 달성해 and나가는 나가는 과정에 our revisions 이해관계자를 과정에 have 이해관계자를참여토록 been reflected. 하는 것입니다. 참여토록 When reviewing 하는 the 것입니다. results of the assurance, the assurance 대한무역투자진흥공사는 team could not 대한무역투자진흥공사는 find any이해관계자에 이해관계자에 inappropriate 대한 조직의 contents 대한 책임에 in the Report 조직의 책임에 대해 to the compliance 대해 공약하고 공약하고 이를 the with실천하기이를principles 위해 실천하기 다양한위해below. stipulated 형태와 다양한 Nothing 수준의 형태와 has come 수준의 이해관계자 attention that to our이해관계자 causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. 커뮤니케이션 커뮤니케이션 채널을 개발하여 채널을 개발하여 유지하고유지하고 있으며, 검증팀은 있으며, 검증팀은 이 과정에서 이 과정에서 누락된 중요한 누락된이해관계자 중요한 이해관계자 그룹이 있음을 그룹이발견하지 있음을 발견하지 못하였습니다. 못하였습니다. ● 중요성● 중요성 • Inclusivity 중요성이란 조직과 중요성이란 Inclusivity is the그조직과 이해관계자에 그 이해관계자에 participation 대해 어떤 of stakeholders in이슈가 대해 어떤갖는 developing이슈가 관련성과 and 갖는 관련성과 achieving중대성을 판단하는 중대성을 an accountable 것으로서, and판단하는 strategic 것으로서, 이러한to 맥락에서 response 이러한 맥락에서 중요한 이슈란 sustainability 중요한조직 이슈란 혹은 조직 혹은 이해관계자들의 KOTRA is 의사결정, 이해관계자들의 developing 의사결정, 행동 행동 및영향을 및 성과에 and maintaining 성과에줄 stakeholder영향을수 있는 이슈를in말합니다. 말합니다. 수 있는channels 줄 이슈를 communication various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. 대한무역투자진흥공사는 대한무역투자진흥공사는 The assurance 이해관계자 team could 이해관계자커뮤니케이션not find 커뮤니케이션 critical stakeholder any 채널을 채널을 통해 파악된통해KOTRA파악된 이슈들의 during left out이슈들의 중요성을 procedure. this중요성을 고유의 중대성 고유의평가 중대성 프로세스를평가 프로세스를 통해 결정하고 통해 결정하고 있으며, 검증팀은있으며, 검증팀은 이 프로세스에서 이 프로세스에서 누락된 중요한 누락된이슈를 중요한발견하지 이슈를 발견하지 못하였습니다. 못하였습니다. • Materiality ● 대응성● 대응성 Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the 대응성이란 대응성이란 조직의 decisions, 지속가능성 조직의 actions, 지속가능성 성과에of영향을 and performance 성과에 미치는 영향을or an organization 이해관계자 미치는 이해관계자이슈에 대한 its stakeholders. 이슈에 조직의대한 대응을 조직의 의미하며, 대응을 의미하며, 이해관계자와의 이해관계자와의 커뮤니케이션뿐만 커뮤니케이션뿐만 아니라 -조직의KOTRA 의사결정, 아니라 is조직의 determining활동 의사결정, the및materiality 성과를 활동 및통해 of issues 성과를 통해 실현됩니다.found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the 실현됩니다. assurance 검증팀은 중요한team 검증팀은 중요한could not 이해관계자 find 이해관계자이슈에 any critical 대해서 이슈에 issues 대해서left out 대한무역투자진흥공사의 in this process. 대응 활동들이 대한무역투자진흥공사의 대응 활동들이 보고서에보고서에 부적절하게 기재되었다는 부적절하게 기재되었다는 증거를 발견하지 증거를 발견하지 못하였습니다. 못하였습니다. • Responsiveness Responsiveness is an GRI Standards GRI Standards (Comprehensive issues(Comprehensive that affect Option) Option) 또한 본 또한 검증팀은, 본 검증팀은, 보고서가보고서가 organization’s 의 포괄적 의 방식 포괄적 response to stakeholder 방식 의 요구사항을 its sustainability 의 요구사항을 준수하지준수하지 않았다는않았다는 증거를 발견하지 증거를 발견하지 performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and 못하였습니다. 못하였습니다. performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOTRA’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. 개선을 We 위한 개선을could 제언 not 위한 find제언any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Comprehensive Option’ of GRI standards. 한국경영인증원은 한국경영인증원은 대한무역투자진흥공사가 대한무역투자진흥공사가 발간한 보고서가 발간한 보고서가 이해관계자 이해관계자커뮤니케이션의 커뮤니케이션의 수단으로수단으로 적극 활용되기를 적극 활용되기를 기대하면서 기대하면서지속적인지속적인 Recommendation for improvement 개선을 위해개선을 We 다음과 hope 위해 the 같이다음과 Report 같이 권고합니다. 권고합니다. is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. ● 보고서의 •●KOTRA 보고서의 완전성 derived제고 key: topics 완전성 대한무역투자진흥공사의 제고 : 대한무역투자진흥공사의 based on its well-developed 보고서는 대부분 보고서는 materiality 정량적인 대부분 assessment and정량적인데이터로 faithfully 보고하고 데이터로 covered in있으나, them보고하고 일부 비재무 있으나, the sustainability 일부 지표와 report. 비재무 We 관련하여 지표와 advised 관련하여to the organization 정성적으로 formulate 정성적으로 보고하고 a medium/long-term 보고하고 있습니다. 추후strategy 있습니다. 독자의추후 and이해를 thoroughly 독자의 이해를 돕기 manage 위해 돕기related 보다 위해 performance 일관성 보다 있는 일관성 정보의있는in선정, indicators order to 정보의 편집promote 선정, 및 편집sustainability. 정량화를 및 정량화를통해 보고서의 통해 보고서의 완전성을완전성을 높이시기를 높이시기를권고합니다. 권고합니다. Our independence ● 지속가능경영 ● 지속가능경영 정보관리시스템 정보관리시스템 구축: 데이터의 구축: 데이터의 수집 및 관리 수집 활동은 및 관리지속가능성 활동은 지속가능성 리스크 관리의 리스크토대로서 관리의 토대로서 데이터의데이터의 유용성과유용성과 가치를 높입니다. 가치를 높입니다. With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other KOTRA’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid GRI에서any GRI 요구하는 에서 요구하는 conflicts 모든 of 항목에 interest and to대한 항목에 모든 수집 maintain 대한 및 수집 관리 및 independence. 프로세스, 관리 프로세스, 담당조직담당조직 등 정보관리시스템을 등 정보관리시스템을 구축하고구축하고 이를 내부 이를 내부 평가시스템과 평가시스템과 연계하실연계하실 것을 것을 권고합니다.권고합니다. June, 20th, 2018 검증의 독립성 검증의 독립성 한국경영인증원은 한국경영인증원은 제3자 검증서비스를 제3자 검증서비스를 제공하는제공하는 업무 이외에 업무대한무역투자진흥공사의 이외에 대한무역투자진흥공사의 사업활동에 사업활동에 영리를 목적으로 영리를 목적으로 하는 어떠한 하는이해관계도 어떠한 이해관계도 맺지 않고맺지 않고 있으며 독립성을 있으며 독립성을 유지하고유지하고 있습니다.있습니다. 2017년 42017월 20 년일4월 20일 000-129 000-129 대표이사 대표이사 박 기 박 호 기 호 ceo Eun Ju Hway 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 81 2016 KOTRA2016 KOTRA 지속가능경영 & 인권경영 보고서 지속가능경영 & 인권경영 | 81보고서 | 81 Sustainability Management Initiatives UN GLOBAL COMPACT (ADVANCED LEVEL) Since joining the UN Global Compact in August 2007, KOTRA has been proactive in fulfilling its social responsibility and reporting performances in sustainability management every year. The UN Global Compact adopted the “Advanced Level” to the “Communication on Progress (COP)” regulation in order to encourage corporations to fulfill their social responsibilities and engage in dialogue with stakeholders. It helps corporations autonomously declare their reflection of corporate governance and management strategy in disclosing sustainability performances. KOTRA complies with the 10 principles regarding human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. This report contains our commitments and activities regarding 21 criteria the UNGC’s Advanced Level requires. No. Summary of Criteria Page 1 Organization’s roles and business units 6~7 2 Implementation of UN Global Compact principles within the value chain 10~11 3 Strong will, strategies or policies for protecting human rights 55 4 Effective management system to integrate the principles of human rights 56 5 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles of human rights 56 6 Strong will, strategies or policies for labor issues 55~58 7 Effective management system to integrate the labor principles 55~58 8 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of labor principles 55~58 9 Strong will, strategies or policies for environment management 72 10 Effective management system to integrate the principles of environment management 72 11 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles of environment management 72 12 Strong will, strategies or policies for anti-corruption 62~63, 75 13 Effective management system to integrate the principles of anti-corruption 62~63, 75 14 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of the principles of anti-corruption 62~63, 75 15 Contribution of core businesses to promoting the UN goals and issues 10~11, 82 16 Strategic social investments and social contribution activities (charitable work) 46~51 17 Support for policies and involvement in public policies 10~11, 82~83 18 Partnerships and collaborations 40~41 19 CEO statement and leadership 2~3 20 Explanation of decision-making process and governance structure for corporate sustainability 67~68 21 Description of engagement of all key stakeholders 12~13 82 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report Sustainability Management Initiatives ISO 26000 The ISO 26000 is a global initiative providing guidelines for CSR under seven core subjects: governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. KOTRA complies with the ISO 26000. Please refer to the table for more detailed performances. Core Subjects Key Issues Page Organizational Governance Decision-making process and structure 66~67 Due diligence Human rights risk situations Avoidance of complicity Resolving grievances Human Rights 54~61 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Civil and political rights Economic, social, and cultural rights Fundamental principles and rights at work Employment and employment relationships Conditions of work and social protection 43~45, Labor Practices Social dialogue / Health and safety at work 57~61, Human development and training in the workplace 76 Human capital development and training in the workplace Prevention of pollution Sustainable resource use Environment 72 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Protection of the environment, restoration of natural habitats Anti-corruption Responsible political involvement 40~41, 46~51, Fair Operating Practices Fair competition 56, Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 62~63 Respect for property rights Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information, and fair contractual practices Protecting consumers’ health and safety Sustainable consumption 34~39, 40~41, Consumer Issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 60~61, Consumer data protection and privacy 75 Access to essential services Education and awareness Community involvement Education and culture Employment creation and skills development 32~33, Community Involvement Technology development and access 46~51, and Development Wealth and income creation 72 Health Social investment 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 83 Awards, Associations, and Memberships Awards Award Awarding Body Date of Award Letter of Appreciation for CSR Po Leung Kuk (a philanthropic institution in Hong Kong) Apr. 2017 Asia Pacific-National Top IPA SITE Selection Magazine May 2017 OKTA’s Appreciation Plaque OKTA Jun. 2017 Appreciation Plaque Soongsil University Aug. 2017 Social Contribution Awards (global contribution category) Korea Chamber of Commerce/ Forbes Sept. 2017 Dong-A Daily News / Channel A / Institute for Industrial CSV Porter Award (public sector) Sept. 2017 Policy Studies (IPS) Green Booth Awards (participation prize) IPIM (Macao Trade and Investment Promotion Institute) Oct. 2017 GWP 100 Best Places to Work for (grand prize) GPTW Korea Nov. 2017 LACP Spotlight Award (gold prize) LACP Nov. 2017 Certification on Excellent Institution in Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism / Korean Culture Nov. 2017 Supporting Culture & Art and Arts Committee Integrity & Ethics Sector (grand prize) Public Institution Audit Council Dec. 2017 Letter of Appreciation (for cooperation and supports in City Hall of Encarnacion Dec. 2017 2017) Citation (International Korean Medicine Bio Industry EXPO Governor of Chungcheongbuk-do Dec. 2017 in Jecheon, Korea) Ministry of Science and ICT (Minister Prize) Ministry of Science and ICT Dec. 2017 Appreciation Plaque Tỉnh Quảng Nam Dec. 2017 Associations and Memberships Association Major Activities Korea International Trade Association Head Office and KGCs use the database on the association’s website all year round KOTRA attends major forums hosted by the Institute and uses the forums to build a network Korea Institute of Auditors with other related institutions Auditors Forum for the Advancement Exchange information on audit performance, promote the innovative mindset, and network of Public Institutes with other members Korea Society of Public Enterprises A channel for sharing information with other related institutions Korea Accounting Association Improve transparency in financial and budget management Korea Management Association Share information on training programs offered by different organizations Korean Red Cross Participate in settlement work Hold FDI meetings for foreign correspondents working in Korea, invite influential foreign media Seoul Foreign Correspondents’ Club to FDI meetings Collect information on HR and labor trends in foreign investment companies, host laborKorea HR Club management relations seminars jointly with HR Club Submit an annual COP report on the implementation of ten core principles, publish the CEO UN Global Compact statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles Share quality information, network with quality experts, establish and publish a roadmap for Quality Leaders Forum the development of the state and industry Ethics Management SM Forum Share and spread models of ethics management, promote learning from benchmarking other organizations A forum where investment promotion organizations around the world gather together to WAPA express opinions and share information; 174 countries attend conferences regularly as members UFI Entitled to join top global expos and expos eligible for government subsidy 84 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report KOTRA’s Previous Sustainability Reports Previous Reports 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Publication in 2017 Cover Story The lighthouse that helps vessels keep the right course emblematizes KOTRA’s role as a reliable partner supporting overseas expansion of Korean companies and people. 2017 KOTRA Sustainability and Human Rights Management Report 85 This report is printed in soy ink and on FSC®-certified paper (06792) 13 Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea (Yeomgok-dong 300-9) T. 1600-7119 www.kotra.or.kr Document No. KOTRA자료 18-042 ISBN 979-11-6097-755-4 (95320)
