Communication On Progress Year 2017 CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE REPORT PT. Martina Berto, Tbk Management commitment in implementing Sustainable Business Statement of Support Entering the year 2017, the government alongwith parliament in the draft of state budget set theeconomic growth by 5.10%. Regarding to improvementof export & import growth, government expenditure,consumption and investment, the target revised into5.20% in the draft of revised state budget. Howeveruntil the end of year 2017 the target never achieved,instead lower than the previous draft of state budget as5.07%.However, functions of corporate governance have run well due to high commitment of management in seeking and using our competitive advantage to overcome weakness by looking for more creative efforts to face the heavier challenges. We express our appreciation and thanks to stakeholders over the full trust and continuous support to us in 2017 that make it possible to grow and reach target on every milestone, while we are pleased to continuous support the ten principles of the Global Compact in line to the SDGs achievement for the next years and after as we have been engage both local and global network under the flag of UNGC for over the last 18 years covering area of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The world is now facing big challenges regarding make balance between supply (resources) and demand. The world’s resources currently support more than seven billion people, and will need to support 150% more by 2050 means there will increase the gap between resources and demand if no serious intention on it. Sustainable efforts to reduce the gap of them are remain challenges for us. Sincerely yours, Brian David Emil President Director Board of Commissioners PT. Martina Berto, Tbk 2 FORWORD FROM CHAIRWOMAN Along the year 2017 was quite challenging moment for almost all private sectors. Commodities price was falling due to the global economic downturn such as the price decline of energy sector. The effect of the oil prices would pressing Indonesia foreign exchange revenue which many depends on commodity exports. However, company has to be survived and run continuously as we are employing more than 500 people. By strong commitment and dedication company can still achieve small growth on sales. We are looking at the prospect of cosmetic business is still good. Beside the portion of women citizen of middle class and productive ages as well as the cosmetics and personal care which still growing, show a lot of opportunities to grow sustainably. As a beauty company, we have blended business, social, and ecological principle by exploring the ancient wisdom of beauty care throughout the lifecycle. Based on the concept of “RupaSampatWahyaBiantara”, the beauty and health are of balance reflection about inner and outer performance. We have transformed and blended the richness of Eastern culture and Indonesian natural resources to be the soul of our brands and services to win the heart of consumers around the globe. While corporate social responsibility (CSR) is merged in the company mission that in-line to the business strategy and being highly committed by corporate management for the sustainable development. The 4-pillar of CSR activities consist of beauty green, beauty culture, beauty education and empowering women. We do our business not just Profit oriented, but we commit in considering People and Planet. The reputation of our company is more internationally recognized as a trend setter producing natural techno beauty products that continuously merged with the richness of our Eastern culture, where we transform the local wisdom that supported by scientific data to meet the urban lifestyle and go global. Founder of Martha Tilaar Group DR. (HC) Martha Tilaar 3 COMPANY PROFILE PT. Martina Berto, Tbk Capital Market Institution and Professional Share Registrar Domicile in Jakarta, Jl. PuloKambing II no. 1, Jakarta Industrial Estate Pulogadung, East PT. AdimitraJasaKorpora Jakarta 13930. RukanKirana Boutique Office. Jl. Kirana Phone : +62-21-460 3717 Avenue III Blok F3 no. 5, Kelapagading – Facs :+62-21-4682 6316 Jakarta Utara 14250, Indonesia. Mail Address :corpsecretary@martinaberto.co.id Public Accountant Office Website :www.martinaberto.co.id Tanubrata, Sutanto, Fahmi, Stock Exchange where the Company’s BambangdanRekan. Jl. Jend. SudirmanKav. Stock is listed Indonesia Stock Exchange 79, Prudential Tower lt. 16-17, Jakarta 12910, Indonesia. HISTORY Being successful in the beauty salon business through opening many beauty salons in Jakarta, Mrs. Martha Tilaar established PT. Martina Berto, Tbk “Puspita Martha” School of Beauty to develop beauty specialists, make up artists, hair specialists and therapists. The beauty salons and beauty school were operated under the flagship of PT Martha Beauty Gallery. Being successful in beauty salon and school, Mrs. Martha Tilaar and her partners, the late Mr. Bernard Pranata and Mrs. Theresia HarsiniSetiady founded PT Martina Berto 1stJuni 1977. The first brand produced and marketed was “Sari Ayu Martha Tilaar” as natural cosmetics with a holistic approach, Dr. HC Martha Tilaar started her bussiness with the salons and beauty school as teaching with a beauty salon in 1970. She continuously laboratories. This has enhanced Sari Ayu enhanced her knowledge about beauty and Martha Tilaar as education-oriented, practical body care from American and European and easy-to-apply products. beauty centers. It motivated and gave her understanding that the raw materials from Indonesia, if professionally processed, will be able to produce natural cosmetics and traditional medicines that can beautify Indonesian women and those of the world in a holistic manner. 4 Since the market response was very positive, the Company built the first modern factory on Jl. PuloAyang, PuloGadung Industrial Estate in 1981. Along the years, this factory was short of production capacity, until the second factory was built at Jl. Pulokambing II/1, PuloGadung Industrial Estate, which focused on dry, semi solid cosmetics and herbal medicines, while the first factory focused on liquid cosmetics. During the period of 1998-1994 in order to meet the increasing market demand, the Company developed new brands of cosmetics such as Cempaka, Martina, Pesona, Biokos Martha Tilaar, Caring Colours Martha Tilaar and Belia Martha Tilaar. All these products have helped utilize the factory capacity. Further strategic action done by the Company after year 2000 was to restructure the brand ownership between Martha Tilaar-labeled-brands under license from Dr. (HC) Martha Tilaar and her family, and other brands such as “Cempaka” and “Pesona” remaining the Company’s intellectual property. During the period of 1993 – 1995, the Company acquired various subsidiaries in cosmetics business, i.e. PT Cedefindo (CDF), PT KurniaHarapan Raya (KHR) and PT Estrella Laboratories (Estrella). To achieve e ciency in production, the Company conducted business restructuring process and factory relocation during 1995 – 1996 period. Further strategic development during 2001-2009 was among others remapping of brands in dierent market segments which will be discussed in a separate chapter. In 2016, the Company acquired Rudy Hadisuwarno Cosmetics trade mark for cosmetics, beauty and personal care categories. 5 Glimpse on Milestone of PT. Martina Berto, Tbk. PT. Martina Berto,Tbk is a manufacturing company, pioneering group of company under the flagship of Martha Tilaar Group (MTG) found by DR. Martha Tilaar in 1970 by launching her first beauty salon at her parents’ house, at Jl. KusumaAtmaja No. 47 Menteng, Central Jakarta. For the time being, this company grows up to now as we can see here the milestone of the company. 1979Started operations with the launch of Sariayu brand in own salon 1981– In this year the company (PT. Martina Berto) built its first modern factory at Puloayang Pulogadung Industrial estate, as a manufacturing cosmetics and herbal products with “Sariayu – Martha Tilaar” brand. 1986– This year the company built its second modern factory at Pulokambing – Pulogadung Industrial estate, as the second manufacturing company. 1993– In order to diversify to the upstream industry, in year 1993 the company acquired PT. Cedefindo whose main business was in contract manufacturing (of private labels) for cosmetics products. 1995– Due to fast growing sales, in year 1995 the company relocated the manufacturing facilities of herbal products to Gunungputri Factory, Cibinong. Meanwhile, Puloayang factory was then transferred to the subsidiary company, PT. CempakaBelkosindo Indah which manufactured cosmetics producing “Mirabella” and “Cempaka” brands. 1996– the company obtained ISO-9001 Certificate (Quality management system). 1999The Company fully owned by Martha Tilaar family after passed the monetary crisis 2000– the company obtained ISO-14001 (Environmental management system) and GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) certificates on cosmetics and herbal products. 2005– this year PT. CempakaBelkosindo Indah (CBI) was merged with the company (PT. Martina Berto) so, “Mirabella” and “Cempaka” brands were also transferred to the company and being manufactured in PuloKambing factory. Puloayang factory (ex PT. CBI, was then converted to Sales office next to company distribution centre (DC) located at Puloayang, Pulogadung. 2010– Opened a new retail outlet “Martha TIlaar shop” (MTS) in Singapore to boosts the International market. 2011 – There were two important moments this year, ie. a. Initial stock listing and b. Establishing a subsidiary Eastern Beautypelago, Pte.Ltd. in Singapore to operate Martha Tilaar Shop (MTS) in Singapore and outside Indonesia. 2012 – Groundbreaking construction of new herbal product factory at the area of KampoengDjamoeOrganik (KaDO) in Cikarang. 2013 – Established the packaging production facility in PuloAyang Factory 2016 Acquired Rudy Hadisuwarno trade mark for cosmetics, Beauty and personal care categories. 6 7 Since the beginning of this company, management Bringing along the ten principles in CSR committed to run business inclusively by involving activities all stakeholders in the company program and activities related to sustainable business. By From the very first start, company has been implementing clean and green process, company running the business by involving all stake holders will continue to expand its wings by releasing along from the production chain to product international quality products. In order to be able distribution. CSR activities are embedded in to enter global market and take the position beside business processes from upstream to downstream multi-national companies, all of the companies by empowering all people involved in the under the Group have to comply the ten principles production processes. From farmers, the supplier of the UN Global Compact. of raw materials, to end users of our products, mainly women, have to be touched and involved in In implementing the Ten Principles of UNGC, our program. While principle 10, Anti-corruption, company has developed strategy to translate those has played more important role and it is big principles into practical works and later become challenges in building good performance in company attitude to gain every tied competition in competing global market. the market. In some cases we do business processes from the beginning trough the marketing Above all, the application of GC principles through communication and program activities by involving CSR activities has mad the efforts to create high other parties as our stakeholders such as impact to communities and to achieve our targets government and non-government organizations. more effective. We unite the values of our business and operations to meet the expectations of Combining the ten principles into business stakeholders, which include customers, employees, strategies regulators, investors, suppliers, communities, and environments. Our business strategies, as reflected company’s vision, “To be one of leading companies in beauty We combine our social, economic, and and spa industries with eastern atmospheres and environmental responsibilities to the stakeholders value through modern technology”, are designed by actions and in our corporate policies. We openly by combining UNGC principles. These strategies communicate our strategies, targets, performance involve stakeholders along the supply chains. and management to the stakeholders in a Labor, human rights, and environment issues continuous commitment to company’s altogether colorize company and become the sustainability development. Finally, we also model of company’s strategy. This is the most measure the implementations and results of the valuable point in improving our product CSR activities, and then continuously improve the competitiveness. to fulfill company’s short-term and long-term goals. 8 Inspired by the values and culture of the Eastern, Founder and Chairwoman of Martha Tilaar Group, DR. (H.C.) Martha Tilaar, has the spirit to continue to explore the richness of nature and culture of Indonesia to beautify Indonesian women and the world. The spirit is implemented into the 4 Pillars of Martha Tilaar Group which is the foundation in every CSR activity and every business unit run by Martha Tilaar Group. Beauty Green is one of the main pillars ways of organic cultivation of MAC of the company's commitment to plants. In addition, here is also maintain and preserve the green explained the procedure of making environment for a better life. Through compost fertilizer and how to fertilizing theKampoengDjamoeOrganik (KaDO) soil in good ways. Furthermore,KaDO program we do some activities in term also provide counseling to farmers of Company green movements. throughout Indonesia in term of organic cultivation system and how to grow KampoengDjamoeOrganik (KaDO) is a MAC plants organically. KaDO also garden built to preserve a wide range of contributed to the cultivation Medicinal, Cosmetic and Aromatic knowledge of Family Medicinal Plant (MAC) plants. KaDO becomes organic (TOGA/live Apotec) in the community, herbal garden (the one and only in schools, and campuss, such as in the Indonesia) and as an educational University of Indonesia forest and tourism place that introduces and Bandung Institute of Technology. teaches various types of plants and Figure 1. Planting awareness from the beginning 9 Companies running a business on all activities must keep the balance of natural ecosystems. This is by creating companies that save natural resources such as electricity and water use. Not only that, we also strive to create a company with a controlled impact by reducing the waste generated, both solid and liquid waste.Organic wastes are collected at a special shelter for later processed into compost. This fertilizer is applied in the garden to fertilizing plantssurrounding factory and office areas. Figure 2. Organic waste collector and composter SDGs Goals 15 Life On Land 10 The company has also help women of over Indonesia, especially those with less economic potential from low income families. We have Martha Tilaar Training Center (MTTC) which is a professional spa therapist training center aimed to empowering young women to avoid the women trafficking in poor areas and left behind. Therefore, the company wants Indonesian women to be more independent and able to improve their quality so they can have a chance to work based on skill they have. Figure 3. Guidance to Jamu seller,JamuGendongdanJamuRacik business Empowerment is a form to achieve equality and improve the position of women in various areas of life. Currently, progress is quite rapid in gender equality, although discrimination is still being found. The Company helped to improve the economy of Indonesian women with the Workshop on Technical Development and Business Competitiveness of JamuGendong and JamuRacikanbusiness (jamu seller) in collaboration with the Ministry of Health Directorate General of Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices. Figure 4. Views of Martha Tilaar Training Center 11 The importance of quality education becomes the reason for the company to be one of its pillars. Education can provide a lot of knowledge about various things and provide a view of life. Moreover, education is also the main foundation needed to achieve a better and prosperous life. Not only conducted in Martha Tilaar Training Center, but the company also helped women and empowered women in communities of all Indonesia to beautify themselves by giving the program of Beauty Class. Figure 5. Empowering women through Beauty Class program The company also provides scholarships to outstanding employee children ranging from elementary to high school levels with an average grade requirement above 7.5. In the year 2017 recorded the following scholarship recipients: No. Tingkat Sekolah 2015 2016 2017 1. SD 30 30 29 2. SMP 16 20 20 3. SMA 10 10 10 Total 56 60 59 12 Puspita Martha Beauty School Puspita Martha International Beauty School is a wellknown beauty school in Indonesia founded in 1970 and has given a huge role in the provision of professionals. Many alumni have become successful and independent creative insane because they succeeded in creating jobs for themselves and others SDGs Goals 4 Quality Education Goals 5 Gender Equality 13 Beauty culturepillar is a company's commitment to preserve Indonesian culture. As a national private company, we strive to lift the culture of every region in Indonesia from year to year through Color Trend Sariayu.Starting from 1987 until now 2017 with Sariayu Color Trend 2017 Inspiration of Jakarta with colors that are very compatible to Indonesian women which are energetic, confident, and full of activity throughout the day. With the Sariayu Color Trend, the characteristics of each region in Indonesia can be recognized by all Indonesian people and is expected to have a positive impact to the surrounding local community. We are also proud to be trusted to be an official cosmetic to beautify the members of the Hedgehog Flag of Indonesia Flag at the Anniversary ofRepublic of IndonesiaI at the Merdeka Palace for 33 years. 14 The Ten Principles of UNGC and Sustainable Business strategy of the Company Human Right Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights The Company undertakes various efforts to develop and improve welfare by providing employment opportunities to the nation's next generation. One of them in 2017 with the Management Trainee program (Martha Tilaar Development Program / MTDP). Training program is an effort to develop employee’s knowledge and skills. In line with the MTDP program which also involves senior leaders and managers for knowledge transfer with leadership training, lean six-sigma, and the 4 discipline of execution. These trainings are also given to existing employees at every level of both general and functional training. Required materials include ISO, GMP, SMK3, and Halal. 15 SDGs Goals 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 16 Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Employee Award Program No. Length of 2017 Working Awards are awarded to employees based on 1 5 years 20 dedication and loyalty according to length of service. In 2017, this award is given to employees 2 10 years 1 with a term of service ranging from 5 years to 30 years. 3 15 years 19 4 20 years 36 5 25 years 22 6 30 years 16 The Best Employee The Company rewards not only for dedicated employees and loyalty, but is also awarded to Exemplary Employees with career value and track records while working in the Company.In 2017, this exemplary employee award was awarded to Sudarno who has joined the Martha Tilaar Group for more than 15 years. With persistence, professionalism, perseverance and dedication that lead him to success. Employment, Health, and Safety The Company applies the Health and Safety Management System (SMK3) consistently and continuously. Since 2015, the company has been awarded the gold flag, even the company set up HSE department (Health, Safety, Environment) to ensure the company implements the Health and Safety Management System (SMK3) within the company's.In 2017, the company has made procurement of facilities and infrastructure about work safety such as Apar and Fire Alarm. In addition to the procurement of facilities & infrastructure, the company also implements 5R on every line and routinely performs medical check-up of employees at the end of each year. Furthermore, to support the Occupational Health and Safety Management System, selected employees are provided with certified training to support occupational health and safety at the company. 17 Emergency Preparedness and Response (SMK3) No. Items Status 1. Hidran Available 2. Fire Alarm Available 3. Heat & Smoke Detektor Available 4. APAR Available 5. TanggaDarurat Available 6. Generator Listrik Available 7. Poliklinik Available 8. Kotak P3K Available 9. Ambulance Available 10. Tandu Available 11. OksigenKlinik Available 12. Lemari Safety Available 13. Pamphlet Informasi K3 Available 14. Megaphone Available Accident Rate of Work Year 2017 By conducted the OHSAS program, the Company did optimally to drop the work accident by applied the standard and procedure tightly. Month Total Employee January 5 February 0 March 1 April 3 May 0 Jun 0 July 1 August 0 September 2 October 0 November 2 18 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Labour Union In order to achieve harmonious industrial relations between the company and its employees, the Company has various programs and activities that have been implemented throughout 2017 such as conducting a bipartite communication forum in order to create a good partnership in employee welfare. With this union, employees are free to voice their opinions to the company. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour In accordance with principle 4, namely the elimination of all forms of violence and burdens on workers, the Company has a policy in the form of Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) which regulates the position of trade unions on the rights of companies and trade unions, facilities and activities as well as meeting and membership fees bared from labor union. The written agreement also covers everything from employee acceptance, wages, regulations, rules to settling complaints and disputes. Termination of employment, social security and welfare are also included in the Collective Labor Agreement. This agreement is signed by the Workers' Union Team and the Company's Management Team up to the President Director. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour In accordance with Principle 5, the company does not employ children under the age of 18. In 2017 the highest average age of employees is 20-29 years. This amount is very large compared to the previous year. In 2016 the highest average was at the age of employees around 40-49 years. This proves that there is regeneration in the company. 19 Ages 2015 2016 2017 Less than 18 years 0 0 0 old 18-20 years old 0 0 110 20-29 years old 95 31 1024 30-39 years old 197 205 457 40-49 years old 274 291 311 above 50 years old 75 87 99 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees in companies are not chosen based on religion or gender. Evidently the number of employees with female gender is not much different from that of men. Every human being has the same job opportunity. Number of employees by gender and religion Sex 2015 2016 2017 Women 345 319 1521 Men 296 295 480 Total Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment Program (electricity, water, and waste) The company has a commitment to running every business in all activities must keep maintaining the balance of natural ecosystems. This started by creating a company that saves natural resources such as the use of electricity and water. The company also strives to create a company with controlled impacts by reducing the amount of waste produced, both solid and liquid waste. It was noted that electricity usage, electricity usage ratio, and liquid waste amount decreased from the previous year as listed in the following table: 2 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Organic compost processing for organic fertilizer The visitors of KaDO were not only introduced to plants but also taught about making compost. Waste from plants such as dried leaves is collected in one place and then given treatment to be used as compost. No. Target, Objective and Program 2016 2017 1. Create a save natural a. Usage of monthly electricity 121 104 resources company (KwH/month) b. Electricity usage ratio (pcs 22,441 24,14 product/KwH) c. Average usage of water 2482 2594 (m3/month) 2. Create a low a. Average amount of waste (kg) 1859,77 2699,74 destructive impact b. Amount of liquid waste (m3) 958,6 685,6 company c. Average amount of discharge 119,16 102,77 (m3/month) 21 MAC plant conservation at KaDO (KampoengDjamoeOrganik) KampoengDjamoeOrganik (KaDO) is one of the Company's initiatives as a form of environmental responsibility. KaDO is an area of conservation and environmental studies. There are 650 species of medicinal, cosmetic and aromatic (MAC) plants from all over Indonesia. Visitors are educated about the importance of love for the environment. They were introduced to various types of plants and their benefits. Not only that, visitors can also try to plant MAC plants organically. SDGs Goals 15 Life On Land 22 conducting, monitoring, and Principle 9: Encourage the processing the evaluation. There development and diffusion are about 38 tons on average per month of recycled water from the of environmentally friendly WWTP used for garden irrigation and other uses such as washing technologies vehicles, and flow directly into the drainage of the city. Waste Water Treatment Plan b. Continuing electricity-saving program by changing the current The company is committed to running its electrical equipment to new business while remaining environmentally energy-efficient appliances, responsible. The company has a Waste Water including light bulb and air Treatment Plant (WWTP). This facility serves to conditioner. Trial in applying solar eliminate contaminants from industrial cell for office electricity. wastewater. Industrial waste is processed until the water is safe to be disposed of so as not to c. Reviewing the environmental damage the environment. This treated water program documents related to government regulations and can be used to water plants in factory and office communicating environmentally environments. friendly activities so that we got the BLUE Label of PROPER policy from ISO 14001 the Ministry of Environment. Blue label means that we have met the Since 2000 we have been implementing the ISO requirements in handling the 14000 management systems related to environmental impacts of the environmental policy in running our production production process in our plant. process. Thus, there is no doubt that our The next step is to get GREEN label company conducts monitoring and evaluation next year, which means that our of implementation of the ISO requirements. business activities undertake CSR Company management, from the top down, programs involving community as give their full support. Some steps made in the stakeholders. strengthening environmental awareness among company members can be described as follows: d. Promoting Green & Healthy action and movement program and ecoa. Continuing the environmental friendly activities among program on the waste water stakeholders through: treatment arrangement by 23 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption commitment is stated by the systems are conducted every year to evaluate management, supported and implemented by our suppliers and the principle of materials. all levels of employees, suppliers, and other Internal audit has also applied to ISO 140001 stakeholders. This program is an ongoing action and management. We have run the ISO-2000 in our company, continuously monitored, and and ISO-14000 simultaneously since 2000. So, evaluated at all levels and all fields related to regular audits are performed to meet the government policy and corporate policy. This requirements by an independent regulatory are mentioned in company values called DJITU body. or accurate in English, but this word stands for Internal audits on the company’s financial Disiplin (discipline), Jujur (honesty), Iman/Inovatif (faith/innovative), Tekun The Audit Committee fulfills its duties in (diligent), and Ulet (persevering). Honesty is one accordance withthe Audit Committee Charter of value that have to be put deeply in everyone approved by the Board ofCommissioners. The heart for not doing bad things especially Charter is reviewed annually, andwas last corruption and all forms including bribery. updated by the Board of Commissioners on April2017.The Audit Committee provides We seriously identify potential areas prone to independent andprofessional recommendations corruption, including bribery, to eliminate the to the Board ofCommissioners on a range of potentials. We also apply this policy to all issues regardingcompliance, internal and related stakeholders in the supply chain, external audits, financialstatements, and other including suppliers, partners, and government. matters reported by the Boardof Directors to Internal audits in our business the Board of Commissioners. The AuditCommittee also identifies matters In order to the implementation of good requiring the attentionof the Board of corporate governance,the board of Commissioners, and carries out specialduties commissioners has formed the audit assigned to it by the Board of Commissioners. committee.The formation of audit committee is conducted based on:The resolution of Jakarta Stock Exchange Board of DirectorsNo.KepPursuant to the Audit Committee Charter, the 305/JSE/07-2004 dated 19 July 2004, Decree of AuditCommittee has unrestricted access to BAPEPAM Chairman No.29/PM/2004 on 24 information andpersonnel of the Bank, and has September 2004which has been renewed with direct communicationchannels with both Financial Service AuthorityRules independent auditors and internalauditors. The no.55/POJK.04/2015 concerning the Audit Committee meets at least fourtimes a implementationof the guidelines for the year, and may call additional meetings at establishment and work of the anytime. The independent and internal auditors AuditCommittee. have theright to appear and be heard at any Internal audit is applied to all processes of Audit Committeemeeting. Directors and other production, management, and also financial key officers may be invitedto attend meetings matter. Regarding to the production process, at which their presence is quality control, GMP, and environmental consideredappropriate. The Audit Committee 24 reports its activities tothe Board of Institutions SupervisoryAgency (Bapepam-LK), Commissioners. the Board of Commissioners hasformed the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reviews the selection andindependence of independent auditors, and Purpose of establishment of the Audit providesrecommendations for appointment to Committee isto assist the Board of the Board of Commissioners. In 2017, the Audit Commissioners in the conductof supervisory Committee met by 20(twenty) times. role by reviewing financial statements,internal control systems, audit process, compliance of Among others, the following issues were thecompany on the regulations and applicable discussed: laws, code ofethics and risk management  Provided the recommendation for initiatives of the company.In carrying out its appointment ofIndependent Auditors. duties the Audit Committee cooperatewith  Recommended the internal audit to Internal and External Audit. assess theadequacy of internal Internal Audit Unit controlling system, audit plan,significant audit findings along The Internal Audit Unit was established as the with the follow up.Emphasized on corridororganization in implementing strategies planning, especially inventories, to achieve thetargets that have been in charge, salesand production as well as and to improve thefunctioning of the integrated management informationsystem. control in order to ensurethat operational  Reviewed the Accounting procedures activities had been well run and canincrease the and activities,financial reporting, effectiveness of the Organization throughvalue recalculation and fixed added implementation of risk management assetinventorization. andthe principles of Good Corporate  Reviewed the audit plan, scope of Governance. audit,independency and significant Duties and responsibilities of the internal audit: audit findings withIndependent Auditors.  Carry out the inspection/audit of  Advised the Board of Directors internal controlsystem in the course of regarding theorganizational structure, the implementation ofGCG in rendering based on supply chain basis. judgment in accordance with theregulatory/policy In line with the spirit to implement good organization. corporategovernance as well as to comply the regulations ofCapital Markets and Financial  Perform evaluation and validation of accordance with therequirements of the systemthat runs as well as new ones legislation and applicable regulation. will be implementedregarding the  Presenting an audit that have been management, control, monitoring ofthe implemented tothe CEO (Chief effectiveness and efficiency of the Executive Officer) systems andprocedures for each  Carry out specific tasks in the scope of organizational unit. internal controlthat is assigned by the  Monitoring and evaluation on the CEO (Chief Executive Officer) results of theaudit findings as well as The structure of the Internal Audit is a notch give the suggestions to below theBoard of Directors and has a position theimprovement of the activities of the under the PresidentDirector. During the year organization andthe system/policy/regulations in 25 2017, internal audit had internalaudit activities, as well as theiradequacy to production such as: planning in year 2017.  Controlled on the stocks close to  Review the 2017 work program and expired date andstrategic program to prepare the 2018audit work program. sell them  Reviewed the company standard  Examination on the repaired activities operation onbusiness activities are still and assetprocurement. emphasizing in financialrisk treatment and operational based on the  Examination on the contract to findingsexamination and management suppliers, visitedthe supplier domicile needs. for the suitability againstlegal document, as well as the suppliers  Examination of the marketing and sales, ability andfeasibility. compatibelity between promotion with branding activity,operational costs and  Examination on security and sales target. comfortability aspects ofwork according to employment regulation as well  Examination on the availability of finish asoccupational health and safety goods and itsdistribution channel in assessment series. sales location.  Follow up the outcome of audit findings  Reviewed the availability of stocks by byfollowing up for the period audit year monitordispersion and stock 2017 as wellas the previous audit distribution to the outlet andstores, period in accordance with optimizing the days of inventory and bestrecommendations required by the the abilityto fulfill the customer the Company andexactly can be service level. implemented by unit of work which  Reviewed, examination and renewed isneed. Compiereapplication implemented in order to integratetransaction Improve internal audit personnel skill and ability information. as astep to improve supervision function in  Reviewed purchasing activity and their accordancewith the Company needs raw andpackaging material availability Internal Control SystemInternal Control that developmentof the Company business applied by the Company: in order to obtain the bestconditions and under control, the Company more  Financial control, do with determination activein involving each function in the of budgetplanning that already department of as initialcontroller allocated in beginningof financial year beside internal audit. based on achievement planexpected by  Compliance controlling refers to the the Company and economics rule set incompliance rule of each growthplan, financial realization plan department function whichinvolved ruled by expendedprocedure and cost each task function, stipulated in responsibility focused oneffective and writtenrule or procedure that easy to proper financial management, understand andexecute of all costefficiency aimed to focus on personnel. The compliance potential resources formaximum result. regulationreviewed by internal control  Operational control, referring to function periodically orspontaneously. standard operationalprocedure which  In implementing of work, the Company has been certified and audited as wellas providedtraining as well as knowledge reviewing continuously according to the of Safety Inductionsfor each employee 26 so they have the ability to do distributors, media, and the facilities of theCompany safety policy. government agencies. Thus, the success of company development lies on a good Effectivity of internal control during the year integration between us internally and also 2017, shownthe awareness improvement of externally with other parties, including the each employee asexecutor or as part of the government. This success can be seen through Company control. our supply chain which involves all stakeholders. Sustainable Business for Sustainable a. Loyal customers and Distributor Awards Development Goals There are loyal customer gathering events The principle of a successful business is the organized by each product brand to reward our commitment of company management to loyal customers in various kinds of activities. integrate all stakeholders, including workers There are also distributor gatherings to reward and society. Our labors have a good their good performance by achieving the target performance in the work area based on their or even more, for both national and specialization. Company produces good quality international distributors. The success of products because of the support of labors and marketers is about how they can connect and suppliers. The same is true with the high integrate the products with their customers. product sales in the market with the support of It is the policy of company’s marketing different subsidiary company also provides department to reward our loyal customers. As outsourced manpower for manufacturing mentioned above in the event of annual facilities. customer gathering. d. Strategic location and facilities are b. Implementation of the Global Compact supported by distribution network and principles in the value chain marketing activities Description of raw materials and semi-finished The company operates three strategically products used by the country or region from located manufacturing facilities in Indonesia, which they originate. Our company uses natural close to the main ports, both sea and air. materials and chemicals for cosmetics and Seamless logistics support results in excellent herbal products from local and global suppliers. distribution system. Locations such as these become elements of important strategic c. Strong relationships of supply and advantages for the company. distribution The strategic locations make Company available The company maintains strong relationships across marketing channels with agents, with suppliers and distributors. Distributors’ branches and depots in Indonesia thus ensuring network enables wide-scale distribution and superior distribution. In addition, the company serves as a channel of promotional activities, has strong relationships with suppliers and consumer education and awareness programs. distributors that support it in various In addition, the Martha Tilaar’s outlets support promotional activities. brand development initiatives, acting as the company’s customer support center together e. Value chain policy, including policy for with retail centers. suppliers and subcontractors Company’s spa products are separately We have standard operating procedures to promoted and distributed through the spa chain evaluate and monitor the performance of operated by PT CantikaPuspaPesona. A suppliers. We have a principle based on the 27 supplier assessment policy which is evaluated Description of high standard of transparency every year. This policy also includes the and report disclosure allocation of responsibility in the value chain Detailed Description of the company’s and procedures. Through this policy, we fix the performance can be analyzed in company’s problem of non-compliance, compliance checks annual report in 2015, consisting of several in the value chain and value chain risk parameters, including data such as: assessment to identify potential issues with suppliers and other business partners. a. Indonesian cosmetics industry: the Indonesian market size and growth, with • Transparency and Verification the potency to maintain the momentum All information regarding to the company’s until 2015 profile and context of operation, the legal and b. The main players in the Indonesian market organizational structure as well as countries c. Comparison of key performance indicators where the organization operates and the for the previous 2-3 years market share can be found in the Company’s Annual Report 2015. 28 COVERING The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy innitiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the Ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. By doing so, business as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology, and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. “The UN Global Compact Management Model” guides companies through the process of formally committing to, assesing, defining, implementing, measuring, and communicating a corporate sustainability strategy based on the Global Compact and its principles. It is a simple, yet broad and flexible, model to guide companies of all sizes through the process of organizational change to embrace corporate sustainability. This model is particularly helpful for those just entering the sustainability realm, but also offers guidance on Leadership Practices for more experienced companies. Currently, the consumers expect that companies do more than just earn a profit, but only a few companies who believe that the effort will have a positive impact on the companies. Sariayu Martha Tilaar fought hard to close the gap between customer expectations with perceptions of CSR year after year. Sariayu Martha Tilaar recommends companies improve how they share their CSR efforts with the public and emphasizes that transparency and authenticity is the best approach. “If they [companies] believe they are in business to serve people, to help solve problems, to use and employ the ingenuity of their workers to improve the lives of people around them by learning from the nature that gives us life, we have a chance.” (Paul Hawken) Jakarta, September 2018 Palupi C. Kusumaningrum Heru D. Wardana Head of Ccom and CSR CSR Manager 29
