Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Cairn Energy PLC is an independent, UK-based oil and gas exploration and production company. Cairn has explored, discovered, developed and produced oil and gas in a variety of locations throughout the world with more than 20 years’ experience. Cairn is listed on the London Stock Exchange with its headquarters in Edinburgh and offices in London, Norway, Senegal and Mexico. O U R S T R AT EGY THIS REPORT A SSU R A N CE Cairn’s strategy is to deliver This report comprises Cairn’s full We have commissioned thirdvalue for stakeholders from a Corporate Responsibility (CR) party assurance by RPS of the balanced portfolio of exploration, report 2017. It covers our approach integrity of greenhouse gas (GHG) development and production and performance from 1 January emissions data, as indicated in the assets. Exploration activity is 2017 to 31 December 2017, and RPS assurance statement given principally in frontier and emerging includes our assets and activities on page 81 in the About this basins where the greatest value over which we have operational report section. potential exists. Cairn is currently control. We exclude data where we focused on generating cash are not controlling operations, but flow from its North Sea assets, consider risks associated with our developing its Senegal resource partners’ position and their control base, progressing its North Sea of such activities. exploration assets and continuing to replenish its exploration portfolio.  ore information regarding our M operations is available on our website at www.cairnenergy.com/operations/. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Contents 4 Approach 49 People, safety 4 CEO Statement and security 5 2017 snapshot 49 M  ajor accident prevention 6 Frameworks and standards and safety 9 Creating value 56 Health and well-being 11 Key issue identification 59 Security 62 Employees 65 Equality and diversity 20 Business relationships 67 Environment 20 Economics and funding 67 Climate change, emissions 26 Contractors and supply chain and discharges 31 Ethics, ABC (anti-bribery and 75 Biodiversity corruption) and transparency 78 Resource use 79 Product stewardship 36 Society and communities 80 About this report 36 Social and economic benefits 41 Communities 43 Human rights 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report CEO Statement Corporate Responsibility is at We underlined the importance of working responsibly in 2017 with the publication of our new Code of Ethics, which brings together our Business Principles and Code of the heart of Cairn’s business. Business Ethics in a single published format for the first time. This further improves our established Corporate Responsibility Management System and helps build on our We aim to deliver value from strong track record. our assets and people for the Wherever we work, we apply international industry standards of good practice. We benefit of all our stakeholders continue to be committed to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the UN Global Compact and more recently we have begun integrating the UN Sustainable in a responsible manner. Development Goals into impact benefit planning. During 2017, we once again undertook a review of the issues that were material to our Code of business. Following discussions with stakeholders, both internal and external, as well as our own risk management process, we identified the following material issues: Ethics • Economics and funding • Contractors and supply chain • Major accident prevention and safety • Security Our new Code of Ethics can • Ethics, ABC (anti-bribery and corruption) • Climate change, emissions now be downloaded here and transparency and discharges www.cairnenergy.com/media/ • Social and economic benefits • Biodiversity 2150/group-code-of-ethics.pdf. • Human rights Modern These guide us in setting our Corporate Responsibility objectives each year, which form part of our Key Performance Indicators. We recognise that we are accountable to our stakeholders for our progress against these objectives; hence our continued focus Slavery and our commitment to delivering against them. We have also produced a Modern Slavery Statement this year for the first time. While Statement we are not obliged to do so at this time, we recognise stakeholder expectation and the need to demonstrate our commitment to zero tolerance, prevention in our supply chain and transparency. We have also set up training on how to detect potential instances You can read our Modern Slavery and improved our procedures to help prevent modern slavery within our supply chain. Statement www.cairnenergy.com/ services/modern-slavery-statement/. As we continue to deliver success across our business, we are working to bring lasting and positive social and economic benefit to our stakeholders. Senegal is a clear example where we believe that a successful oil and gas industry could generate significant social and economic benefit for the country. This can support country development, improve infrastructure, drive inward investment and assist in reducing reliance on solid fuels while providing affordable energy. SIMON THOMSON, Chief Executive We must always remember that in delivering any commercially attractive project it is important that we maintain our high standards to protect people and the environment and deliver our commitment to always working responsibly. SIMON THOMSON, Chief Executive 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report 2017 snapshot Business Production: providing near-term production and future development options. UK and Norway, Kraken and Catcher fields: ~25,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day 2P reserves (as at 31.12.17) New area of activity: Mexico Society People Leveraging partnerships to Zero Lost Time Incidents in 2017 deliver social investment in Updated Group People Policy host countries Collaboration with governments and industry to promote participation of host countries in the oil and gas industry Environment Decrease in the number and volume of chemical and hydrocarbons reaching the environment (one spill totalling ~34 litres in 2017 vs four spills totalling ~167 litres in 2016) Minimisation of waste to landfill (76% decrease in waste sent to landfill in Senegal in 2017 vs 2016) 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Frameworks and standards O U R CU LT U R E We can only deliver value for all stakeholders by operating in a safe, secure and environmentally and socially responsible way. We manage our business activities in line with our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly (the 3Rs). Building respect: We act with respect for people, the communities, the environment, human rights and the law. Nurturing relationships: We act honestly, transparently and with integrity to develop strong and lasting relationships with our stakeholders. Acting responsibly: We behave fairly, ethically and are accountable for our actions. We believe in, and act on, our responsibility to care for people, society and the environment. The behaviours we expect from our people are based on the 3Rs and are known as our High Performing Behaviours. They identify the behaviours we expect to see exhibited by our people in everything that we do, day to day. These behaviours are promoted throughout the organisation and ensure that everyone understands how they are expected to contribute to the success of the business. The behaviours are: • be safe; • be entrepreneurial; • be focused; • be a leader; • be collaborative; • be open; and • be empowered. To further ensure that these behaviours are adopted by our people and embedded in our culture, all individuals in the organisation are measured on their performance against each of these behaviours. This is done as part of an employee’s annual performance review and objective setting for the following year. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report 14) All the standards Cairn measures itself against All the standards we measure ourselves against Our culture of working responsibly and our Corporate Responsibility Management System (CRMS) Business Society is also built upon global EITI GRI AA1000 ISO26000 UDHR SDGs VPSHR frameworks and standards. They inform how we deliver strategy. These frameworks UNGC IOGP Standards for the Oil and Gas Industry and standards are part of valuable, global initiatives IFC Performance Standards that promote responsible corporate behaviour and working practices. People Environment Investor in People OSHAS18001 OSPAR ISO14001 Cairn is a signatory to the United Nations We joined the Extractive Industries Global Compact (UNGC), an initiative for Transparency Initiative (EITI) in September businesses committed to aligning their 2013. The EITI requires companies strategies with 10 universally accepted to publish what they pay to governments, principles in the areas of human rights, and for governments to publish labour, environment and anti-corruption. what they receive from companies. We have integrated the principles into See Payments to governments. our internal policies and the Cairn Code We report our Corporate Responsibility of Ethics. We have made significant (CR) information in accordance efforts to ensure these are applied in a with the Global Reporting Initiative meaningful manner in our operations, (GRI) Standards (Core option) and in engagement of our partners, AccountAbility’s AA1000 Accountability contractors and stakeholders, and in Principles Standard (AA1000 APS). This the way we conduct our business. We ensures that we engage with internal report against these principles as set out and external stakeholders, identify and in the UNGC index. See https://www. assess our most important CR issues, cairnenergy.com/media/2202/dataand address and respond to them in a index.pdf. structured way. See our GRI Index on We are also committed to working to our website. the International Finance Corporation (IFC)1 Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) standards and good practice guidance. We have integrated the requirements of these standards within our CRMS. 1 The IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, is the largest global development institution focused exclusively on the private sector in developing countries. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out We have established security procedures that address 17 prioritised areas, including ending poverty, ensuring the steps to be taken to mitigate security risks in our access to energy, protection of ecosystems, addressing operations. These also seek to ensure that standards climate change and working responsibly practices. of operations, equipment and training of personnel We recognise a responsibility to look at our activities meet the requirements of the Voluntary Principles on to identify where both our business adds value for Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) and reflect the society and where we may need to mitigate for potential requirements of key UN human rights guidelines. negative impacts across environmental, social and We have maintained accreditation to the Investors governance (ESG) related issues. In Senegal, we have in People (IIP) People Management Standard. developed an Impact Benefit Plan that concentrates on Accreditation requires an assessment by an seven of the SDGs where we feel we can have the most external expert that includes employee interviews impact. See Society and communities. and observation. We support the principles contained within the Our Corporate Responsibility Management System Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) (CRMS) has been developed to recognise the through an approach guided by and aligned with the requirements of OHSAS18001, an internationally Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our applied standard for occupational health and safety Human Rights Policy is integrated into our Corporate management systems; ISO26000 guidance on Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, and our Corporate how businesses and organisations can operate in a Responsibility Standard Operating Procedures clarify socially responsible way; ISO14001, which maps out requirements across the business. a framework that an organisation can follow to set up an effective environmental management system; and OSPAR, a mechanism that protects and conserves ecosystems and biodiversity through management of human activities, guided by an ecosystem approach. CO M PL I A N CE Every two years, our CRMS is subject to external verification that the system fulfils the requirements We will always comply with as specified in the UK Department of Business Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) guidance and regulations set by our host countries. OSPAR 2003/5. The last verification took place in Where host country regulations May 2016. We will reverify our CRMS against OSPAR 2003/5 in 2018. for the oil and gas industry are undeveloped, we use our CRMS, which is based on IOGP and UK good practice. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Creating value B US I N E SS M O D E L Cairn’s business model is to create, add and realise value for stakeholders through the exploration, development and production of oil and gas within a self-funding business model. Exploration offers material value potential to stakeholders, and production provides the cash flow to sustain exploration and development. Strategic objectives Our strategy is to deliver value for stakeholders from a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets. Annual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) identify the Company’s strategic objectives and how they can be met, enabling the Company to measure its delivery of strategy. The ‘Maintain licence to operate’ KPI measures the Company’s ability to work responsibly and means delivering value in a safe, secure, and environmentally and socially responsible manner. Understanding our key issues and managing risks Working responsibly means identifying and managing issues that are material not only to the Company but also to stakeholders. By understanding and managing risks, we provide greater protection to our people, society, communities and the environment. Effective management of risk is critical to our CR performance. Cairn’s Group Risk Management Committee is responsible for satisfying itself that an effective risk management and internal control system has been developed. Our most significant risks, and how they are being managed, are regularly reviewed and recorded in a risk register. Stakeholder feedback and the risk register are the two primary sources of information considered when determining our material issues. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Working together and with others We also work with others, such as our joint venture partners, industry organisations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to leverage We train teams to help them understand how to embed CR into our experience, expertise and resources. For example, we are members activities, and support is also provided from a group of CR specialists of the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), who work alongside project teams to ensure that potential CR keeping us in touch with the latest industry good practices; participate impacts are considered in project design and construction, and in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) multiduring operations. stakeholder group in Senegal, promoting transparency throughout the extractives sector; and work with NGOs to deliver effective and sustainable social investments. Bringing 1) Existing graphicvalueBusiness Principles We have long had a set of business principles that frame the way we work to bring value. Our Code of Ethics identifies these principles. Cairn’s Business Principles Cairn’s Business Principles OVERARCHING PRINCIPLE We manage risk and seek to continually improve CORE PRINCIPLE We behave honestly, fairly and with integrity BEHAVING RESPONSIBLY BEHAVING RESPONSIBLY BEHAVING RESPONSIBLY to people towards the environment to society We develop the potential of We take a precautionary approach to We seek to make a positive social our people. our effect on the environment. impact in every area in which we work. We foster a workplace that We strive to prevent and minimise our We respect the rights and acknowledge respects personal dignity and impact on the environment. the aspirations and concerns of the rights, is non-discriminatory and communities in which we work. provides fair rewards. We provide a healthy, safe and secure work environment. Our Business Principles frame the way we work to deliver value Our CR Policies and our Code of Ethics must be applied not only Our CR performance is linked to remuneration for employees. Our by employees but also by all other parties that work on the CR Objectives are linked to our material issues, and performance Company’s behalf, including contractors and suppliers. We also against these determines staff end-of-year bonuses. seek to work with partners with similar values. They are integrated The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring this culture of into our systems and processes, of which the key ones include the working responsibly exists within the organisation and our assurance CR Management System (CRMS), the Cairn Operating Standards, processes help the Board to ensure this. We have three levels of the Group Risk Management Procedure, People Management application and assurance within the organisation: firstly, our values, Manual, and the Internal Control and Assurance Framework. policies and Code of Ethics and our processes and systems with You can find our Code of Ethics and our Corporate Responsibility which all employees are required to comply; secondly, internal Policies on our website at www.cairnenergy.com/workingoversight of their application by key committees such as our Senior responsibly/.policies. Leadership Team (SLT), which includes our Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer; and thirdly, internal and external assurance audits and opinions. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Key issue identification WO R K I N G R E S P O N S I B LY W I T H S TA K E H O LD E R S As one of Europe’s leading independent oil and gas companies, we recognise the importance of working in the interests of all our stakeholders. As such, we are committed to transparently reporting our activities and performance on Corporate Responsibility (CR). Strategic objectives Cairn’s strategic objectives are developed by the Board and these set our direction for any given year against the background of our long-term Company strategy. We continue to review, understand and mitigate the risks to our business at both a strategic and tactical level while demonstrating our commitment to our CR policies and principles. Transparent and responsible working helps us protect our people, the communities and the environment in which we work. In doing so, we secure further opportunities to deliver value to our stakeholders. This is part of our ‘licence to operate’. The significance of our stakeholders’ position on CR matters in relation to our business continued to be a focus in 2017, both in the Company KPIs and in our specific CR Objectives for the year, which we again grouped under these four themes: Business relationships; Society and communities; People; and Environment. The four themes consist of 15 key issues, as shown below, and are used to help determine our CR Objectives for a given year under the licence to operate strategic objective. In 2017, the CR Objectives formed 17% of our overall performance KPIs. The emphasis of the CR Objectives is strongly influenced by those issues considered material arising from our materiality assessment, described on page 15. Proposed CR Objectives are reviewed and approved by the Board and tracked through the year by the Board and the Management Team. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report S TA K E H O LD E R E N G AG E M E N T I N 2 017 Our material issues Our stakeholder engagement model follows the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness as defined in AccountAbility‘s AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000 APS). AccountAbility is a global organisation providing solutions to challenges in CR and sustainable development. This ensures that we engage with internal and external stakeholders, identify and assess our most important CR issues, and address and respond to them in a structured way. 15) Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement for materiality 1. Identify stakeholder 2. Interview stakeholders 3. Discuss materiality 4. Collate stakeholder 5. Updated matrix groups for engagement using an independent methodology issues feedback and reviewed by the third party and location on amend the matrix Board and internal the matrix stakeholders for final validation Investors Governments Business Contractors Communities NGOs Employees and regulators partners and suppliers and peers 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report In 2017, we have again assessed our material issues, based on both the This group included: an investor; two business partners/peers; a Group risk registers and their importance to stakeholders, using defined major international contracting company; an NGO representing criteria for 15 specific issues. The issue areas are derived from IOGP1, community interests; employees selected from our UK and Norway UN Sustainable Development Goals and GRI2 international reporting (UKN), Senegal and International regional assets; one government requirements. Each of these 15 issues has linked sub-issues, each of and regulator representative; one industry association; an academic which was ranked to indicate its level of importance to Cairn and to institution; and an environmental NGO. stakeholders (high, significant, medium, low, insignificant). Material The feedback from these stakeholders was used to quality assure the issues identified influence the CR Objectives for any given year and stakeholder position of issues placed on our materiality matrix. Where these form the main part of the licence to operate KPI, linked to both comments from stakeholders sufficiently reinforced one another Company and personal performance assessments and remuneration. indicating a change in position, we adjusted the issue position on This year, as in 2015, we engaged with a representative group of the matrix. The process is outlined in the graphic below. stakeholders to gain feedback on our assessment of material issues. Materiality analysis and methodology 16) Materiality analysis and methodology Cairn risk register Risk reviews by Management Team and Board Aggregation of risks into CR issues (reference to GRI G4) Cairn stakeholder Cairn risk criteria Cairn rating of CR issues according Cairn assessment of importance criteria applied to probability and impact stakeholder position applied Cairn CR issue ratings Cairn perception of stakeholder CR issue ratings Insignificant High Insignificant High Initial materiality matrix Low High Updated matrix included in Annual External stakeholder Report and Accounts review by engagement interviews Board and internal stakeholders Adjusted final materiality matrix Low High 1 International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) (www.iogp.org/). 2 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (www.globalreporting.org/pages/default.aspx). 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement through the year in our projects We invest considerable time engaging with stakeholders through New and existing projects are subject to specific procedures to ensure the year. This ranges from explaining our position and performance we understand and engage stakeholders in a positive way. This helps us to analysts, investors and shareholders to presenting at conferences understand issues and risks, enabling effective communications through and participating in industry bodies on good practice. We engage the project and oil and gas lifecycle. To do this we develop Public with stakeholders as part of our impact assessments and our Consultation and Disclosure Plans (PCDPs) that are updated regularly management plans. Stakeholder engagement also includes responding to ensure changes to the project and stakeholder expectation and to concerned parties on specific issues. The variety of topics is wide sentiment are taken into account. and in 2017 included Company strategy, financial position, human PCDPs identify stakeholder concerns and issues, the materiality of issues rights, modern slavery and climate change. and the associated risks to the business. This enables us to identify actions to mitigate those risks, which forms part of the PCDP. Stakeholder Example: Our Senegal General Manager gave one of the keynote engagement plans are bespoke to each project (see graphic below). speeches at the MSGBC (Mauritania-Senegal-Gambia-BissauConarky) Summit in Dakar in November, for which we were one of Example: As part of our new country entrance process for the headline sponsors. The summit was attended by the Energy Mexico 2017, we performed a review of stakeholders to assist in Minister of Senegal and around 250 delegates from several West developing a stakeholder PCDP during 2018. African nations and the international oil industry. 17) Stakeholder engagement in our projects Stakeholder engagement in our projects Define strategic purpose Assign responsibility Identify stakeholders and and scope engagement their interests and concerns Assess and review Develop strategy Managing our stakeholder (consultation, engagement, engagement disclosure, grievance mechanism) Monitor and repeat Implement Document plan in Public (revisit strategy as needed) Consultation and Disclosure Plan (PCDP) O U R AC T I V I T I E S I N SE N EG A L For our activities in Senegal we have maintained a PCDP since country entry in 2013 that we have kept up to date during our subsequent exploration and appraisal drilling programmes. We have also shared this with our joint venture partner in order to develop a joint approach to engaging stakeholders as part of the potential development of the field. We hold regular meetings to discuss progress and review the outcome of any engagement activities. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report M AT E R I A L I T Y A SSE SS M E N T R E SU LT S 2 017 Our materiality results appear in the graphic below and a summary of each theme and issue area is given in the accompanying table. We identified nine issues of high or significant importance to both Cairn and stakeholders that were considered material. 19) Materiality assessment results 2017 19) Materiality Our graphic shows the positionassessment results of our 15 issues. 2017 These issues are analysed in detail in this report. 19) Materiality assessment results 2017 Our materiality matrix Our materiality matrix Our materiality Our materiality matrix matrix Key: Key: High materiality Medium materiality Low materiality Key: High materiality Medium materiality Low materiality High materiality Medium materiality Low materiality High High • Economics and Funding High • Economics and funding • Economics and Funding • Ethics, ABC and • Major Accident Transparency Prevention and Safety • Ethics, ABC and Significant Significant • Health and Well-being • Security transparency •• Contractors and Major Accident • Ethics, ABC and Significant • Major Supplyaccident Chain • Health Transparency • •Social and Security Prevention and Safety • Communities and well-being prevention and safety Economic Beneﬁt •• Climate Change, Contractors and • Health and Well-being • •Social Security and • Contractors Emissions, and • Communities economic SupplyDischarges Chain • Communities • Human Rights • Socialbenefit and supply chain and Noise Economic Beneﬁt • Climate Change, • Human rights Emissions, Discharges • Human Rights and Noise Importance Importance to to Cairn* to Cairn* • Employees Medium Medium • Employees • Equality and Diversity • Climate change, Importance Cairn* • Biodiversity Medium • Employees emissions and • Resource • Equality Use and diversity discharges • Equality and Diversity • Resource use •• Biodiversity Biodiversity • Resource Use Low LowLow • Product Stewardship • Product stewardship • Product Stewardship Insignificant Insignificant Insignificant Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Insignificant Low Importance toMedium stakeholders Significant High Importance to stakeholders Importance to stakeholders *The Importance to Cairn reflects on assessment of risk to the company, combining both the potential impact of risks connected with the issue and the likelihood of it occurring. *The Importance to Cairn reflects on assessment of risk to the company, combining both the *Thepotential impact Importance of risks to Cairn connected reflects with the issue on assessment andtothe of risk company,ofcombining thelikelihood it occurring. both the potential impact of risks connected with the issue and the likelihood of it occurring. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this 18) Material issues inrelationships four themes with H/M/L communities and security report The 15 potentially material issues are listed below, grouped The 15 potentially into the material four issues themes. are listed below, grouped into four themes: Materiality signiﬁcance key: High Medium Low Business Society and People Environment relationships communities Economics and funding Social and economic Major accident Climate change, Funding beneﬁt prevention and safety emissions and discharges Investment Shared value Asset integrity Energy use and Reserves valuations and Benefit and impacts to Major accident prevention alternative sources capital expenditures communicate Major oil spill prevention GHGs Local content Workplace safety Other emissions Social investment Flaring and venting Contractors and Government relations Strategic carbon risk supply chain Security Discharge/disposals to Culture and leadership Office water and land Selection Human rights Personnel Spills Competency, training Working conditions/T&Cs Local assets Reuse, recycling and and education Freedom of association Travel waste management Modern slavery/security Cyber security Stranded assets Complicity Ethics, ABC and Grievance transparency Non-discrimination Health and well-being Biodiversity Principles, policies, CRMS Workplace health ESIA, environmental surveys Risk and material issues Infectious diseases and ecosystem services Strategy and operations Communities Well-being and health Biodiversity action plans Accountability and Local community support responsibility Stakeholders Advocacy and lobbying Indigenous peoples Resource use Cairn ABC practices Local labour Employees Water abstraction and use Contractors and suppliers Community health Culture and leadership Local resources Government and authorities Cultural heritage Selection Materials Whistleblowing Displacement Succession Communications Workforce planning Remuneration Product stewa rdship Tax and payments to Oil and gas sales and government Equality and diversity impacts Fines and prosecutions Anti-discrimination Non-operated joint ventures Equal pay and international investments Equal opportunities and diversity 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report The movement of issues as a result of testing with the stakeholder group is summarised in the table below. Issue area Explanation of Cairn Stakeholder Cairn response Change assessment feedback and movement following feedback Economics The economic environment The issue was raised by Classification unchanged. None and funding remained challenging in 2017 several stakeholders. They Aggregation of issues occurs to despite some recovery of the oil generally agreed this was keep the assessment focused. price. This remains an important classified correctly. Some Economics and funding-related area for our investors and the supply considered different subtopics are expanded in the Annual chain in particular. This also includes classifications should be Report. The issue remains material. the change in funding position presented. of some investing institutions on hydrocarbon projects and their strategic position on climate change. Contractors Cairn relies heavily on contractors Most stakeholders agreed Cairn agrees that some locations None and supply chain and suppliers for services for that the classification was present greater challenges operations and supporting our correct with one believing than others. On the balance of projects. Their adherence to it too high and one too comments we concluded that good industry practice and our low. One indicated that the classification should be requirements is important to deliver contractor challenges unchanged. The issue remains CR performance. This protects our are a higher risk in some material. licence to operate and reputation. locations than others. Ethics, ABC and Cairn reduced the assessment of Only one stakeholder On balance, it was considered None transparency importance to stakeholders for group considered that that the issue had been correctly this issue slightly from 2016 on the issue should remain classified. The issue remains the basis of increased visibility of as high importance to material. our actions on the Code of Ethics, stakeholders. remuneration and transparency. However, we still consider it a significant risk to the business. Consequently, we left our risk assessment as significant. Social and We considered this issue to present No comments from Classification unchanged. The None economic benefit significant risks to the Company stakeholders. issue remains material. given our areas of operation, and its importance to stakeholders likewise remained significant. Human rights We considered this issue to present No comments from Classification unchanged. The None significant risks to the Company stakeholders. issue remains material. given our areas of operation, and its importance to stakeholders likewise remained significant. Communities Our risk assessment is that the A single stakeholder Classification unchanged. The None communities in which we work commented that the issue issue is not material but we report are significant to Cairn, although should be classified in the on it in our CR report and on our the perceived importance to material issue area. website. stakeholders is medium, based on routine engagement. Preventing major The Cairn risk assessment No comments from Classification unchanged. The None accidents and considers major accidents to stakeholders. issue remains material. safety be low-likelihood, high-impact events, and safety issues, though more frequent, generally have a lower impact. Nevertheless, the industry continues to be scrutinised closely on this issue and is of high importance to stakeholders. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Issue area Explanation of Cairn Stakeholder Cairn response Change assessment feedback and movement following feedback Health and wellHealth and well-being risks to No comments from Classification unchanged. The None being personnel remain an ongoing risk stakeholders. issue is not material but we report classified as significant to Cairn on it in our CR report and on our but of medium importance to website. stakeholders. Security We raised the importance of No comments from This means the classification rises Increased Security to stakeholders from stakeholders. from medium to high overall and medium to significant given the therefore the issue is considered increased number of high-profile material. events in 2017. Our own risk assessment considers security a significant risk. Employees Our assessment of risk of this issue This was the most Overall, we understand the Increased to Cairn reduced in 2017 following commonly discussed concern around perception. We a number of risk management item, with six stakeholder believe our risks have decreased actions. This gave a decline groups indicating they given improvement of internal to medium importance. Our believe we should not controls and reduced likelihood perception was that stakeholder decrease the significance and some concerns expressed importance was also medium. of this item. The reasons are dealt with in other issues such included external as Security and Contractors and perception and reputation, supply chain. Nevertheless, we and some groups also acknowledge the concern among highlighted issues stakeholders and have increased associated with security the importance to stakeholders and contractors. accordingly. Although the overall classification of the issue remains medium and therefore not material, we discuss this issue in the Annual Report and on our website. Equality and The risk assessment at the end Only one comment Although we have left this item None diversity of 2017 suggested this issue was was received and the unchanged, we recognise it is unchanged from last year, as was stakeholder regarded it likely to grow in significance in the importance to stakeholders. as ‘the hot topic’. the coming years. Consequently, we will include CR Objectives on this for 2018. The issue is not considered material but we report on it in our CR report and on our website. Climate change, We consider the risks from climate Two commented that this We have separated Biodiversity None emissions and change to our business to remain item should be linked with in order to allow us to examine discharges medium and clearly this is an Biodiversity and have an biodiversity in more detail as not important topic for a number of equal classification. all impacts are linked to climate stakeholders, including investors, change. This takes better account communities and the environment. of local sensitivities. However, we See also Economics and funding acknowledge the link with climate regarding investor position. change and we feel it is covered by that issue. Overall the issue is unchanged and remains material. Biodiversity We raised our risk classification Almost all stakeholders We have raised the importance Increased of Biodiversity (low to medium) considered this of of biodiversity for stakeholders to given our progress towards high importance; one the highest level. This together development in Senegal and new considered it the top issue. with our own risk assessment acreage in Mexico. The stakeholder See also Climate change increases the significance of this assessment was considered comments. issue to high and therefore is significant. material. A section appears in the Annual Report, CR report and on our website. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Issue area Explanation of Cairn Stakeholder Cairn response Change assessment feedback and movement following feedback Resource use Our risk classification and No comments from Classification unchanged. The None stakeholder classification for this stakeholders. issue is not material but we report issue were considered unchanged on it in our CR report and on our since the previous year. website. Product We raised our risk assessment This was the second most We agree that the concern should Increased stewardship of Product stewardship from debated issue among our rise for stakeholders, on account insignificant (no production in consulted stakeholders. of increased production, handling 2016) to low given we have some Comments were varied, and transparency of trading. The non-operated production. We including reference to risks linked to economics and left stakeholder importance as connected economic and funding and environmental impact insignificant. funding issues and the are covered in those issue areas. increased possibility of The issue is not material but we environmental impact. report on it in our CR report and on our website. Other comments The majority of stakeholders considered our approach to material issue assessment in line with others and saw it as good practice to reach out to stakeholders. Other comments included that it is positive that the CR issues are integrated with business risks, and that it is very consistent with advanced risk management practices. Only one stakeholder would have liked a different approach with greater emphasis on ‘likelihood’ and ‘severity’, which would have affected the way in which issues were plotted. Greater emphasis on the risk management system and links to remuneration and internal KPIs was flagged by the same stakeholder. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Business relationships Economics and funding S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Deliver exploration and appraisal success Portfolio management Deliver a sustainable business Maintain licence to operate Deliver operational excellence PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance Delay in Senegal development plan Securing new venture opportunities Volatile oil and gas prices Inability to secure or repatriate value from Indian investments Reliance on joint venture operators for asset performance Health, safety, environment and security 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 Strengthen link between Corporate Annual CRMS audit Responsibility Management System Our annual internal audit (CRMS) and business risk management programme looked at the application of the CRMS with only We reviewed our CR policies and introduced a Corporate two minor findings. Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP). We discussed with the Board how We integrated our Code of Business Ethics with our CR issue management is assured Business Principles for a new Code of Ethics (the Code); and audited. this was published for the first time. We presented to the Board how the CRMS and the Cairn Operating Standards (COS) work together to manage risk. Enhance CR content of Investment Proposals (IPs) and support new ventures All our IPs were reviewed and signed off by department Improve CR risk register heads. We revised our risk register We increased our scrutiny of modern slavery and climate process and improved quarterly change issues and included these issues in our IPs. CR risk updates. We implemented a checklist of CR issues for use in We further integrated the IP preparation. CR risk register with other business risks for regular review We supported our new ventures team successfully during by the Management Team and our new country entry into Mexico. the Board. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Economic contribution Our positive contribution How we distribute value Cairn has a commitment to making a positive contribution, We distribute value through: wherever we operate, by delivering tangible benefit to our • payments to governments, including taxes, stakeholders, including: duties and other payments; • host governments, which grant us our permits and licences • payments to promote social and community to operate; development in our host countries; • host societies and communities that give us our social • payments to our contractors and suppliers; licence to operate; and • payments to our employees; and • employees, contractors and suppliers, who provide the expertise and resources that we need to carry out our • payments to those who provide us with capital. activities and create value. Total value generated and distributed by Cairn business in 2017 split by: Beneficiary Economic value distribution Value (Group) US$ Governments Taxes, fees, etc $36.1m1 Communities Social investment $238,769 $592.7m2 Contractors Capital spend and suppliers Employees Staff costs $39.7m3 $7.9m4 Dividends, interest, bank Investors charges, repayments, etc4 1 Refunds from governments, in 2017, were US$37.6 million. 2 Net share across the Group. 3 Excludes share-based payment charges which are non-cash. 4 In 2017, no dividends were paid. Cairn realises value by progressing development assets through to production and/or realising value through asset sales, and either reinvesting the proceeds into the business, to fund exploration and development activity or returning cash to shareholders. Finance costs included those associated with drawing on the Exploration Finance Facility (EFF) in Norway and charges associated with maintaining the Group’s reserve based lending facility. In 2017, the Group’s exploration business remained fully funded. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Increasing standards in a challenging business environment In 2017, we recognised that the increasing pressure on our industry to improve standards of operation within the challenging business environment continued. Our industry faces an ongoing increase in the standards we must apply while continuing to focus on cost efficiency. Volatile oil price continues to be one of our principal risks, which means the business remains focused on efficient capital allocation across the portfolio. It is important that cost reductions do not compromise our commitment to working responsibly. The level of detail required regarding the CR standards we use and performance we achieve continues to rise in requests from analysts, shareholders and funding institutions. This includes our reporting and transparency requirements (see Ethics, ABC and transparency). In order to maintain our licence to operate, we must apply latest good practice in the way we do business. We track and participate in industry bodies such as the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). This enables us to ensure we are aware of the latest developments in good practice and translate them into our CRMS for application at a corporate level and locally in our projects. During 2017, we initiated actions to further integrate our CRMS into our day-to-day business activities. This included a more concise Code of Ethics (the Code), which integrated our previous Code and our longstanding Business Principles. We published this wider Code externally for the first time in December (see www.cairnenergy.com/media/2150/group-code-of-ethics.pdf). Our risk management system was modified during the year. This included ensuring routine department and asset risk reviews were held on a quarterly basis prior to the aggregated risk register being reviewed by the Management Team. In December, our Board held its detailed review of the risk and developed strategies to realise value for shareholders and stakeholders from our portfolio. In September, the Board requested a review of how our business management system integrates the CRMS within projects and how it links with the Cairn Operating Standards (COS). This was presented in October. The Board was satisfied that the CRMS was fit for purpose and that appropriate controls were in place to protect our licence to operate. Ernst & Young also conducted an internal audit of our CRMS that resulted in two findings: one medium rated, to improve the management of potential CR risks that fall outside the Project Delivery Process; and one low rated, to improve reporting of progress of our CR Objectives. Actions were set in place to address these findings. CRMS standards and development costs, it is important nevertheless to maintain our high CR standards. Increasingly, improvements in our projects providers of capital want to ensure that the highest CR standards are adhered to. Cairn is committed to During our Senegal drilling programme in 2017, we observing high CR standards across all our activities, improved our management of CR risks and managed including International Finance Corporation (IFC) to reduce costs compared to previous campaigns. This requirements, good industry practice, and all was achieved not only from effective rig and equipment international and national legislation. selection in late 2016, but also with strong consistent CR leadership from our management and our In October 2017, we introduced the Corporate contractors during the campaign. Our operational safe Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP), which systems of work was improved in Senegal by holding strengthens our commitment to avoiding major monthly contractor meetings in Dakar see (Contractors accidents and mitigating major accident risks. This and supply chain). complements our other corporate policies, which were updated at the same time. Although our Development planning in Senegal commenced with our standard operating procedures within the CRMS partners in January and continued throughout the year. already contained these requirements, the CMAPP While seeking to maximise value from the project for the gives more visible commitments as required under joint venture and Government of Senegal by managing the EU Offshore Safety Directive. It is a pre-requisite for operating in the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS). This is necessary as part of our planning preparations for drilling an exploration well in the Ekland block during 2018. It helps clarify our commitment and standards for the selection of a cost-effective drilling CRMS improvements in obtaining new rig, which will need to comply with the UK Offshore Installations (Offshore Safety Directive) (Safety Case opportunities etc) Regulations 2015. International investment in new opportunities is a significant part of our Our CRMS will be re-audited in 2018 to re-verify the activities, both where we may become operator or joint venture partner. environmental component against the requirements To protect our investment, we continue to assess CR risks as part of of the OSPAR recommendation 2003/5, also a our evaluation of a new relationship or a new location. Although some requirement in the UKCS and in Ireland. In addition, opportunities may be financially attractive, we may judge them to we will review the CRMS against the latest health and represent an unacceptable risk due to associated ethical, safety or safety management systems standard, ISO45001, environmental concerns. which replaces OHSAS18001 and is due to be released during 2018. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Evaluation process Before entry into a new venture, we undertake a due diligence process to ensure we have confidence in the integrity and CR track record of the partners involved and have a clear for new ventures understanding of the CR risks associated with the locations of interest. Through our CRMS, we rigorously assess new venture opportunities. This consists of a phased process of evaluation using our Cairn Operating Standards (COS) (see Project Delivery Process) to understand all aspects of risk associated with a new venture. From a CR perspective, we screen risks in relation to the CRMS requirements and CR issues arising from the type of deal (e.g. new country entry, licence application, existing asset acquisition or company deal). As part of this process, we develop Investment Proposals (IPs) that identify and evaluate the risks associated with the investment; these risks include any CR-related concerns. All significant new venture projects require 2) Evaluating Board approval and are considered by the Board relative to strategy and new ventures risk appetite. All IPs developed in 2017 included appropriate assessment of CR considerations. Due diligence Due diligence process process for new ventures for new ventures Risk screening Investment Proposal Board approval Health and safety Identify and Alignment with evaluate risks strategy and risk Social appetite Human rights Identify key Political mitigation measures Test implications of investment Corruption Security Environment Our new ventures team successfully secured attractive acreage in Mexico against strong competition. This required us to demonstrate conformance with the health and safety management system (OHSAS18001) and environmental management system specifications (ISO14001). Our existing OSPAR environmental management verification was sufficient to demonstrate environmental management arrangements. A separate external health and safety audit was conducted to demonstrate that our health and safety systems met the required standard. No adverse findings were made following this audit. The IP prepared for the Board approval of entry into Mexico included detailed assessment of multiple risks including anti-bribery and corruption (ABC), security and environmental risks (see Ethics, ABC and transparency, Security, and Environment). As a condition of signing the Production Sharing Contract (PSC), we were required to determine a block environmental baseline position and social impacts in order to understand pre-existing liabilities. Preparation from this work was well advanced at the year end. We strengthened the assessment of risks within our IPs during 2017 to include a standardised approach to the evaluation of modern slavery and climate change risks. We will continue our efforts to identify and secure further opportunities and maintain our licence to operate in 2018. Investors continue to scrutinise not only our financial position but also our commitments on CR. In 2017, we reviewed the position taken by key investors on climate change to understand related risks to our business. Although our own assessment of climate change risk to the business remains the same as in 2016, we noted the change in position of some investing institutions in relation to investing in hydrocarbon projects. Despite this, we consider our funding position to remain robust. In the short to medium-term – taking into account government policies, existing legislation, expected energy demand, and oil and gas project timescales – ongoing exploration, appraisal and development will continue to be supported and viable in our areas of interest. Our Kraken and Catcher non-operated developments remain fully funded. In the near term, the marginal cost of carbon is not seen as a significant issue, although it may play a part as these assets age and production declines, precipitating a marginally earlier decision to cease production. We do not foresee funding or carbon cost as impacting shareholder value overall in our mature area portfolio at the end of 2017. We will continue to assess the risks associated with access to debt markets and funding. See also Climate change, emissions and discharges. This and our materiality review were used in shaping our CR Objectives for 2018. Our commitment to working responsibly is undiminished, and we aim to maintain and demonstrate a strong track record to continue to secure investment and opportunities across our target areas. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report O PE R AT I O N A L H I G H L I G H T S I N O U R R EG I O N S Our Senegal region In the Senegal region in September 2017, we completed the phase three appraisal and drilling programme, maintaining our implementation of the CRMS requirements within the project without any non-compliances. We achieved substantial cost savings without compromising our standards, with delivery times and operational costs well below estimates. This was due to availability and selection of high-quality contractors at a competitive price and also an ongoing engagement of contractors as part of operational processes. At a local level, we continued to track changes in regulations and standards, including the Senegal Petroleum Code proposals and their implication for operation and cost. In addition, we are working with our partners on the development project in Senegal to ensure cost-effective implementation while maintaining good industry practice and strong relationships with regulators and local communities. Our International region Our UK and Norway region Our International region acquired acreage in Our UK development assets in our UK and Mexico following the handover from our new Norway region (UKN) came onstream in 2017. ventures team. There are substantial challenges Kraken delivered its first oil in June and Catcher in from the CR perspective, not least from natural December. This was achieved while making good phenomena such as earthquakes, as seen in cost savings and meeting the latest requirements, September. Successful bids made on block 9 as in particular, under the UK Offshore Installations operator and block 7 as joint venturer relied on (Offshore Safety Directive) (Safety Case etc) demonstration of a sound CR approach. At the Regulations 2015 (Safety Case regulations). end of 2017, works to demonstrate our position Production is increasing and Cairn continues to in relation to Mexican regulatory requirements monitor and engage the operators on production were well under way and we will continue to seek and CR performance matters. efficient operations as we progress our plans, Cairn’s UKN region also continued to participate in applying our CRMS. a wide variety of non-operated assets. In Norway, we continued to fulfil our ‘see to’ responsibilities under the Norwegian regulatory requirements and participated as a non-operating partner in a number of licences along with applications for further acreage in the UKN sectors. Progress towards commercial development of Nova continues while maintaining our CR position. Planning is under way for drilling a well on Ekland in 2018 under the UK regulatory O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 framework. We will apply UK regulatory requirements including implementation of our CMAPP, and Implement CMAPP within the business. re-verification of our CRMS against OSPAR recommendation 2003/5, which was last conducted in 2016. In addition, we are continuing to monitor Review the CRMS against the new health and safety standard developments in geopolitical blocks such as the EU ISO45001 that is due to replace OHSAS18001. by our involvement in international trade bodies and understanding the implications arising from Brexit. Re-verify the CRMS against the requirements of OSPAR recommendation 2003/5. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Contractors and supply chain S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate Deliver operational excellence PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 Run contractor workshops in Support other Senegal with themes including Life programmes planned Saving Rules (LSR) and the Modern across the Group Slavery Act (MSA) Contractor selection support Contractor workshops were implemented through the commenced for future Senegal drilling campaign on a monthly basis. programmes in the UK, Senegal and Mexico. Contractors were engaged on LSR, human rights, MSA and a variety of health, safety and environment Contractor input was made to our (HSE) topics. joint venture partners. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Quality contracting services As a predominantly exploration and appraisal-led operator, we In 2017, we again used an international drilling rig contractor continued to rely very heavily on the use of contractors to provide with aviation and vessel contractors for the Senegal phase three significant elements of our operational capability. All our contractors exploration and appraisal programme. Local contractors from our are selected on the basis of service capability, application of 2016 programme in Senegal, used for our shore-base support suitable standards and cost. This is assessed through the tendering services, were re-engaged for the 2017 campaign to build on processes, pre-activity readiness assessment and engagement, and the previous success and provide continuity of support. This subsequent monitoring during our operations. For the most part, proved successful, with the shore-base personnel showing a high these contractors are international service companies; however, we level of professionalism, delivering the programme in a safe and continue 3) Leadingand to promote andgive lagging indicator preference triangles to the for services Senegal use of local environmentally responsible manner. wherever we can, provided our high CR standards are met. Health and safety triangles, Senegal operations December 2016 – September 2017 Health and safety triangles, Senegal operations, December 2016 – September 2017 Number of preventative Number of health and health and safety actions safety incidents 10 0 Management Fatalities visits to rig 535 0 HSE audits Lost work day cases 1,213 2 Restricted work day cases Safety drills and training Medical treatment cases 13,979 6 Job risk assessments First aid cases Time-outs for safety | Toolbox talks 36,478 8 Safety observations Near misses Our stakeholders continue to have a significant interest in opportunities for local contracting services and we anticipate that this interest will grow as we approach development in Senegal. We are conscious that the degree of potential local involvement depends on available skills and where we are in the oil and gas lifecycle. Where locations have limited experience in oil and gas activities, it is important to capacity build. Therefore, as we progress in Senegal, we continue to do so through partnership with local organisations and academic institutions. See Case study. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report C A SE S T U DY: PR O M OT I N G LO C A L PA R T I C I PAT I O N I N O I L A N D G A S AC T I V I T I E S I N SE N EG A L Through our exploration and appraisal activities offshore Senegal, we have been promoting the participation of local businesses and workers within our activities. While there were few local businesses with direct oil and gas expertise when we started working in Senegal in 2013, we have steadily worked with local businesses to promote participation in our office, exploration and appraisal activities. This includes participation of local enterprises through mentoring and supervision, training on waste management, HSE, oil spill response and safe lifting operations, as well as support through our social investment activities, specifically to support local waste management facilities. See Environment. As we move towards a potential development phase offshore Senegal, the joint venture is looking to optimise opportunities for local enterprises to participate in the country’s new oil and gas sector, through building on experience gained in the exploration and appraisal phase. The first step has been to establish reliable information on the current capacity of Senegal’s suppliers to service the needs of any forthcoming development projects. To achieve this, the joint venture commissioned an Industrial Baseline Study to identify near-term opportunities to utilise local capacity and identify any critical gaps that will need to be addressed to further local participation in the oil and gas supply chain in future projects. With other industry peers and an implementing partner, we are now exploring potential mechanisms to improve access for local businesses to our and other industrial sector opportunities. We promote quality and responsible operating standards through enhanced capacity building at the same time. Recognising that local businesses will require qualified local personnel, the Senegalese Government is promoting a national institute for oil and gas training. Together with our joint venture partners and other companies involved in the oil and gas sector, we have been engaging with the government to support such training opportunities in Senegal. Through 2017, we continued a programme of English language training for institutional stakeholders and university students. See Social and economic benefits. % of spending on local suppliers (Senegal) 2017 24 2016 18 2015 5 2014 11 2013 1 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report In 2017, we had a total organisational workforce of 236, of which 76% were direct employees and 24% were consultants employed on fixed-term contracts. We also had material contracts with over 20 organisations representing approximately 360 contractor personnel. Services and equipment used in exploration and development came from various locations and suppliers around the world. On this basis, approximately 60% of our workforce was contractors representing 63% of our hours worked. See Major accident prevention and safety. Total national and non-national contractors (%) 2017 19 81 Key 2016 23 National (%) 77 Non-national (%) 2015 15 85 2014 17 83 2013 15 85 Contracting in new licences In 2017, we acquired new acreage in Mexico and secured operatorship of the Ekland block in the UK from the previous operator. Planning is key to ensuring we select contractors who share and implement the principles and standards we support. Following successful acquisition of block 9 in Mexico, as operator we selected contractors to help us understand potential liabilities and risks associated with acquiring the asset, both in respect of the social impact and environmental baseline conditions. This is required as part of compliance with Mexican regulations on taking over from a previous operator. We identified an experienced contractor, which ensured our requirements were understood and allowed us to develop a cost-effective approach to delivering environmental surveys. This meant partnering with other operators in a similar position to use a single vessel to undertake the surveys over multiple blocks. For the UK Ekland block, planning and selection of contractors commenced in anticipation of an exploration well in Q2/3 2018. We will follow our contracting procedures that are aligned with our Code of Ethics and CRMS requirements, ensuring a streamlined approach. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report CR issues for our contractors It is important that our contractors During an offshore drilling campaign, due diligence on contractors, as share our focus and culture on all a number of activities are undertaken detailed in our ABC and human rights aspects of HSE and CR to maintain that may pose significant HSE risks. procedures. our licence to operate. Experience, These crucial processes include, but are We anticipated falling under the competence and demonstrating good not limited to, the rig, marine vessels, provision of the UK Modern Slavery performance are some of the key helicopters and supply base operations. Act (MSA) in 2017, although the issues when it comes to choosing the In Senegal, during the phase three qualification criteria were not met right people to supply the provisions, appraisal and drilling programme in 2017, by the close of the year. Our equipment and services needed we reinstituted a strong programme preparation to comply with the MSA to help run our business. Cairn of monthly workshops for sharing continued with the requirements applies a rigorous selection process experiences, good practice, incident mainly affecting our supply chain and in choosing contractors, which is information and lessons learned. contractors in terms of measures to embedded in Cairn’s Contractor Our robust anti-bribery and corruption ensure forced labour does not occur Management Procedures and which (ABC) policies are of growing importance within our operations. Consequently, includes assessing contractors’ as we start to operate in new areas of we conducted an initial training of competency levels in HSE and related the world. Our contractors are assessed contractors and an audit of one of management systems. to ensure they apply compatible our key local contractors in Senegal. standards and that control and reporting Further actions have been identified mechanisms are clear. We have a and included in our CR Objectives for zero-tolerance approach to bribery 2018. See Human rights. and corruption and modern slavery (see Ethics,graphic 4) Existing ABC and transparency Contractors and and suppliers Human rights) and conduct risk-based People who work for Cairn, whether employees or contractors, are united by our shared ambitions and priorities Employees and contractors Cairn workforce1 Contractors 236 People who work for Cairn, whether employees or contractors, are united by our Health and safety 361 shared ambitions and priorities Security Environment Social responsibility 1 This includes Cairn employees and Males Females other time-writing personnel who have been contracted for more than 135 101 Anti-bribery and corruption three months to an organisational position. Note: 1. This includes Cairn employees and other time-writing personnel who have been contracted for more than three months to an organisational position. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Ensure Cairn Life Saving Rules and drilling lessons learned are implemented in the Ekland drilling campaign. Develop integrated contractor audit plan. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Ethics, ABC (anti-bribery and corruption) and transparency S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate Deliver a sustainable business PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security Fraud, bribery and corruption Political and fiscal uncertainties Access to debt markets H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 We integrated our Business Principles into the new Code of Ethics (the Code). The new Code was published for the first time. We delivered targeted training on ABC in ‘high risk’ countries. The ABC content of our due diligence process was revised. We revised the gifts and hospitality register. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report The Code Since inception, Cairn has maintained a strong stand on ethical matters, which is M E A SU R I N G the key to delivering value and maintaining our licence to operate. Back in 2004, PE R FO R M A N CE we established our HSE Guiding Principles, which have been updated annually ever since. The HSE Guiding Principles evolved into our Corporate Responsibility Zero incidents of nonBusiness Principles in 2006, introducing our core values of Respect, Relationships and Responsibility, the 3Rs. The principles were further enhanced in 2010 with the compliance with the Code establishment of Cairn’s 10 Business Principles. In 2017, we have combined our Business Principles with the Code of Business Ethics Zero employee dismissals for to produce an integrated Group Code of Ethics (the Code). This retains our 3Rs and non-compliance with the Code Business Principles and combines them with our ethical position. It also better aligns them to our four Corporate Responsibility themes – Business relationships; Society and communities; People; and Environment – against which we report. In order to improve transparency, the Code is published in full and is now available on our website (www. cairnenergy.com/media/2150/group-code-of-ethics.pdf) for the first time. The Board’s audit committee remains responsible for appointing an internal auditor to regularly conduct internal audits of Cairn’s compliance with the Code. All levels of management at Cairn, including executive and non-executive directors, regional directors, general managers and heads of departments, are responsible for ensuring consistent application of the Code. Personnel must abide by the Code and promote its use in all business activities, and all employees are required to sign up to the Code as part of their employment conditions. Our position on ethical matters continues to grow in importance, with interest from investors, funding institutions and a wide variety of stakeholders. Poor performance in this area could precipitate inability to access opportunities and funding (see also Economics and funding), loss of reputation and impacts on people and communities. Anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) We continued to improve our ABC management system in 2017, also facilitate an independent investigation of any matters raised. including a review and upgrade of our gift and hospitality register The Group’s whistleblowing procedure was also highlighted for use along with a revision of our due diligence procedures. In addition, in the event of suspected issues relating to modern slavery. we targeted further training for staff working on projects in ‘high Cairn is registered with the whistleblowing charity Public Concern risk’ countries, which was rolled out in December. at Work, which offers staff an alternative way of reporting an issue if Employees are encouraged to report any incident they believe may they are not comfortable using internal procedures. compromise our Code of Ethics. They can do this in a number of There were no reported incidents raised through the whistleblowing ways, including using a confidential phone line or speaking directly procedure in 2017. to their regional director. Where appropriate, the procedures can Employees trained in Cairn’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (%) 2017 17 2016 91 2015 15 2014 59 2013 27 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Ethical issues and our assets Our ability to do business relies on developing trust During 2017, our assets included a 20% non-operated with our stakeholders, including investors, governments, interest in Boujdour Maritime block in offshore Western business partners, suppliers and broader society. This Sahara. Western Sahara has been classified as a ‘Nonmeans we work in an ethical and transparent way. Self-Governing Territory’ by the United Nations since 1961. Both Morocco and the Saharawi Arab Democratic During 2017, we maintained our efforts to track Republic claim Western Sahara as their sovereign emerging ethical issues of importance to us and society territory. Following withdrawal of the operating partner, in general. Particular attention has been paid to the Cairn decided not to continue to pursue this opportunity requirements of the Modern Slavery Act (MSA) that and subsequently also relinquished this block at the we anticipated would be applicable to Cairn in 2017. year end. We continued to fulfil our commitment by This is discussed in our section on Human rights. We completing the 3D seismic programme initiated in 2017. also tracked requirements under the Equality Act, although we do not fall under the current provisions. We hold a wide portfolio of operated and non-operated See Equality and diversity. assets in Norway, some of which are in the Barents Sea. There is some stakeholder debate around exploration in the Barents Sea, mainly in relation to potential environmental impacts, especially in Arctic waters, and climate change (see Climate change, emissions and discharges). Our assets are in parts of the Barents Sea M E A SU R I N G that have ice-free operating conditions similar to drilling on the Norwegian shelf. Norwegian health, safety PE R FO R M A N CE and environment (HSE) requirements are among the highest in the world, and with our track record of high Employees trained in Cairn’s standards of well design and offshore operations, we anti-corruption policies and believe activities in the Barents Sea can be delivered in accordance with them. procedures: 17% Transparency We continued to engage in and report on our business activities in a transparent and open manner in 2017. As in previous years, we have been proactive in engaging with investors and shareholders through investor roadshows and regular and routine market updates. We maintain an investor area on our website that provides relevant up-todate information (see www.cairnenergy.com/investors/). In addition, in 2017 we published the Group Tax Strategy on our website. We also worked with potential investors in Senegal to demonstrate our position on working responsibly across our operations and our commitment that our partners should do the same. We responded to multiple requests for information from investor analysts, shareholder representatives and other concerned stakeholders regularly, always endeavouring to answer as transparently as possible as part of our day-to-day activities. The Board remains fully briefed on engagement programmes and inbound requests. Our investor relations database is continuously updated in order to manage the communication process effectively. In 2017, we also reviewed the position of some of our shareholders on material issues such as climate change, given the rising profile of this as a business and investor issue (see Economics and funding and Climate change, emissions and discharges). This was used to understand potential engagement requirements and to inform our reporting processes. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Transparent reporting As a listed public company, we continue to report annually in line with UK regulations. We completed responses to all queries associated with our Annual Report and Accounts 2016. We also closed out final requests from the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) received in Q1 2017 arising from the ClientEarth referral regarding the reporting of climate change risk. As part of our material issue identification, in 2017 we initiated a stakeholder engagement that is discussed in Working responsibly with stakeholders. We are committed to responsible and transparent reporting and have been recognised for the quality of our work in this area. In 2017, we were shortlisted for the Best Use of Digital Communications award, which recognised the investor, strategic and reporting content of our company website that we re-launched in May. In the analysis of FTSE 250 Corporate Trends 2017 by PwC, Cairn was one of the few companies specifically commended for integration of information in the front end of accounts. We apply global standards to ensure our reporting is of the highest quality, including reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)1 Sustainability Reporting Standards at Core level. We follow the content principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness; and its quality principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. See www.cairnenergy.com/ working-responsibly. Payments to governments Cairn supports transparency in revenue payments from As Cairn operates in various territories with diverse tax the natural resources extractive industry and how they obligations and requirements, we are committed to are used, and the transparency of tax contributions ensuring that in every territory we comply fully with local KPIs and other payments to governments by oil and gas tax rules and regulations. Cairn’s Tax Policy does not companies. Cairn reports payments to governments permit any artificial tax planning and, in managing its tax Payments to annually, which are published in our Annual Report and affairs, the Group must align any planning with genuine governments: Accounts. This is in compliance with European Union commercial activity. US$36.1 million2 (EU) legislation and as part of our voluntary commitment Payments required to be disclosed under the EU to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Accounting Directive are aligned to those required to be which we joined in September 2013. The EITI requires disclosed under UK EITI and comprise the following: companies to publish what they pay to governments, and for governments to publish what they receive • production entitlements; from companies. Under EITI regulations, payments • taxes levied on income, production or profits are then validated and reconciled by an independent (excluding VAT, personal income tax or sales tax); administrator appointed by a multi-stakeholder group. Norway, Senegal and the UK have all joined the EITI. • royalties; Mexico was approved to join the EITI as a member • dividends; and in October 2017. We are actively participating in EITI • signature, discovery and production bonuses. working groups in Senegal and look at the requirements in Mexico as part of our forthcoming increase in activities. As at 31 December 2017, Cairn held 5% of Vedanta Limited following the merger of Cairn India Limited As in previous years, we have disclosed our payments to (CIL). The retroactive tax claim made by the Indian governments. These disclosures include both payments Tax Department continued during the year and is due to governments included in our EITI reporting, such as for an arbitration decision in August 2018. See corporate income tax, licence fees and withholding tax Investment in India www.cairnenergy.com/investors/ suffered, and additional payments made including VAT, investment-in-india/. payroll taxes and social security costs. We also reported on payments to governments under the EU Accounting Directive on a country-by-country basis for the second time in 2017. 1 GRI is an international independent organisation that helps businesses, governments and other organisations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption. 2 Refunds from governments, in 2017, were US$37.6 million. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Participation in public policy Remuneration development and lobbying Remuneration, and in particular executive pay, remains an issue of interest among our shareholders and wider The governments of the countries where we operate are society. Following review of the pay arrangements key stakeholders due to the significance to our business across the organisation in 2016 and early 2017, the new of legislation, regulation and the awarding of new remuneration framework regarding short-term and longlicences. Each asset within the business is responsible term performance and reward was approved at the AGM for engaging with our host governments and this is on 19 May 2017. considered within each asset’s Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan (see Stakeholder engagement in our The new arrangements were rolled out in 2017 and projects) and carried out in accordance with our Code of presentations were made to personnel on Share Ethics. Cairn does not engage in party politics or make Incentive and Long-Term Incentive Plans. donations to political parties, candidates or lobbyists. Full details of the policy are set out in our 2017 Cairn’s participation in public policy development and Annual Report. lobbying is usually carried out through relevant industry bodies such as the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) or regional industry groups such as Oil & Gas UK, the Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies (BRINDEX), the Irish Offshore Operators’ Association (IOOA) and the Norwegian Oil & Gas Association (OLF). O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Ensure the Code is rolled out to all new and existing personnel. Conduct ABC risk assessment for Mexico operations. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Society and Communities Social and economic benefits S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security Delay in Senegal development plan H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 Our Impact Benefit Plan for Senegal was updated, matching it more clearly to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Managing social risks We have recognised for some time that the effective management extensively with key stakeholders. This engagement helps us of social risks is critical to sound project development. to identify and assess potential social impacts and utilise local knowledge in the formulation of plans to manage these impacts. We assess potential social risks for all new major projects. These Through this open process, we look to maximise shared economic include all new ventures, new country entries, exploration and social benefits, and to forge strong ties with communities, seismic and drilling operations and projects requiring Investment government, business partners, investors and our workforce to lay Proposals (IPs). Where challenging issues such as land acquisition, the foundations for long-lasting relationships. resettlement, water use, human rights, security and potential or perceived impacts on livelihoods are involved, we consult 6) Managing social risks Managing social risks Identify Scope social Assess Define social Implement, Communicate social risk assessment social risks management plan monitor and evaluate Delivering social and economic benefit Our strategy continues to be delivery of value for our stakeholders through the oil and gas lifecycle by generating social and economic benefit through our activities. Our stakeholders are diverse and there are many ways in which we can deliver value for them, both economic and social. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Social and economic benefit Value distribution Economic value Beneﬁciaries mechanisms Link to Cairn’s risks (US$) Payments to governments Political and fiscal uncertainties $36.1 million Payments to Promoting international Fraud/bribery and corruption Governments governments1 governance frameworks Contributing to affordable energy and Impact on community $238,769 economic development and local livelihoods Social investment Communities to local populations Expenditure with contractors and suppliers, including locally Health, safety, and internationally based environment and $592.7 million companies security and corporate Capital spend2 Contractors and suppliers social responsibility Local capacity building Salaries to our Staff retention and $39.7 million workforce, including recruitment Staff costs3 local employees Employees Dividends to shareholders, $7.9 million Access to internal and interest, investment and Finance costs and external funding Investors repayments for investors dividends4 *In 2017, no dividends were paid. Cairn realises value by progressing development assets through to production and/or realising value through asset sales, and either reinvesting the proceeds into the business, to fund exploration and development activity, or returning cash to shareholders. Finance costs included those associated with drawing on the Exploration Finance Facility (EFF) in Norway and charges associated with maintaining the Group’s Reserve Based Lending facility. In 2017, the Group’s exploration business remained fully funded. 1 Refunds from governments, in 2017, were US$37.6 million. 2 Net share across the Group. 3 Excludes share-based payment charges, which are non-cash. 4 In 2017, no dividends were paid. Cairn realises value by progressing development assets through to production and/or realising value through asset sales, and either reinvesting the proceeds into the business, to fund exploration and development activity, or returning cash to shareholders. Finance costs included those associated with drawing on the Exploration Finance Facility (EFF) in Norway and charges associated with maintaining the Group’s Reserve Based Lending facility. In 2017, the Group’s exploration business remained fully funded. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report UN Sustainable Development Goals Whilst economic and social policy is the remit of government, Cairn recognises that it has a role in adding value to society. In 2015, world leaders committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals I N SE N EG A L (SDGs), which set out targets across 17 prioritised areas ranging from ending poverty and ensuring We have developed an Impact access to energy to protection of ecosystems, addressing climate change and decent work. Benefit Plan that concentrates on Although not all the SDGs are relevant to Cairn, there are expectations on companies to look across seven of the 17 SDGs where we the value chain to where both positive and negative impacts can occur and to identify next steps can have the most impact. based upon this. We are now assessing our activities for contributions we can make to the UN SDGs to develop our plans to minimise the impacts and maximise the benefits of our activities to host countries. Social and economic benefit Sustainable How we are Impact Deﬁnition Development Goal contributing in Senegal measurement Ensure healthy lives and Through our social investment 8 rural community development promote wellbeing for activities with The Hunger Project centres being supported to all at all ages (THP)* for clean water and sanitation, self-reliance through our nutrition, maternal health and partnership with THP. community health. Ensure inclusive and To help current and future Senegalese 29 students receiving equitable quality workforce to develop skills to enhance English language training. education and promote their ability to find work in the developing lifelong learning oil industry and other sectors, through: opportunities for all • support of English language training; and • working with government and other oil and gas companies on educational support. Achieve gender equality Through our social investment activities Over 700 women participating and empower all women with THP for women's empowerment in THP training activities in and girls in rural and coastal communities by: fishing communities through our partnership with THP. • enabling greater access to finance; • mobilising and organising women-led groups; and • building skills and entrepreneurship. Ensure access to Through our contribution to 75K–125K barrels of oil per affordable, reliable, affordable energy for Senegal day targeted for phased sustainable and r through the discovery, appraisal development. modern energy for all and delivery of oil and gas to meet energy demands. Promote sustained, Through: Total national contractors 18%. inclusive and sustainable • payments to our contractors and economic growth, full and suppliers, including locally and Total non-national productive employment internationally based companies; contractors 82%. 1 and decent The Hunger Project is a global, non-profit, strategicwork organisation • payments for allcommitted to our to the sustainable local end employees; of world hunger. Its mission is to end hunger and poverty by • payments pioneering sustainable, grassroots, women-centred strategies and advocating to government, their widespread including adoption in countries Totaltheproportion throughout world. of spending licence fees, taxes, duties and on local suppliers 24%. training allowances; and • application of our Policies and Achieve gender equality Through our social investment activities Over 700 women participating and empower all women with THP for women's empowerment in THP training activities in fishing communities through 40 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT and girls in rural and coastal communities by: our partnership with THP. • enabling greater access to finance; Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this • mobilising and organising relationships communities and security report women-led groups; and • building skills and entrepreneurship. Ensure access to Through our contribution to 75K–125K barrels of oil per affordable, reliable, affordable energy for Senegal day targeted for phased sustainable and throughr the discovery, appraisal development. Sustainable modern energy for all and delivery How of oilweandare gas to meet Impact Deﬁnition energy demands. Development Goal contributing in Senegal measurement Promote Ensure sustained, healthy lives and Through:our social investment Through ruralnational 8Total contractors community 18%. development inclusive and promote sustainable wellbeing for • payments activities with contractors our Hunger toThe and Project centres being supported to economic all growth, full and at all ages suppliers, (THP)* waterlocally including for clean and and sanitation, Total non-national self-reliance through our productive employment internationally nutrition, maternal based companies; health and 82%.THP. contractors with partnership and decent work for all • payments health. community to our local employees; • payments to government, including Total proportion of spending licence fees, taxes, duties and on local suppliers 24%. training allowances; and • application of our Policies and Principles and respect for human rights in our own operations and through our suppliers. Ensure inclusive and To help current and future Senegalese 29 students receiving equitable quality workforce to develop skills to enhance English language training. Build resilient education andinfrastructure, promote Through: their ability to find work in the developing 72 contractors in Senegal promotelearning lifelong inclusive and •oilprovision industry and of training and mentoring other sectors, through: receiving training/mentoring sustainable industrialisation opportunities for all for suppliers on best industry practices; from Cairn. and foster innovation •• support developing of English language a recycling training; and business • working through with government our social and other investment oil and programme; gas companies on educationalofsupport. • upgrading existing infrastructu re at the supply base; and Achieve gender equality Through • w orking social ourwith investment other activities oil companies Over 700 women participating and empower all women with on THP for women's promoting accessempowerment to local in THP training activities in and girls in suppliers rural and to coastal oil andcommunities gas contracts. by: fishing communities through our partnership with THP. • enabling greater access to finance; Build effective, •Through: mobilising and organising 38 institutional stakeholders accountable and inclusive • women-led upholding high groups; and of standards participating in English institutions at all levels • building governance, and entrepreneurship. skillsethics, transparency language courses and and anti-corruption through our assisting in building Ensure access to commitment Through to the UN Global our contribution to good practice. 75K–125K barrels of oil per affordable, reliable, Compactenergy affordable and working with the for Senegal day targeted for phased sustainable and r multi-stakeholder EITI through group in the discovery, appraisal development. modern energy for all andSenegal; delivery andof oil and gas to meet •energy Provision of English language and demands. oil industry awareness training to institutional stakeholders. Promote sustained, Through: Total national contractors 18%. inclusive and sustainable • payments to our contractors and economic growth, full and suppliers, including locally and Total non-national productive employment internationally based companies; contractors 82%. and decent work for all • payments to our local employees; O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 • payments to government, including Total proportion of spending licence fees, taxes, duties and on local suppliers 24%. Review developments to integrate UN SDGs into Company strategy. training allowances; and • application of our Policies and Review social investment criteria and guidance. Principles and respect for human rights in our own operations and through our suppliers. Build resilient infrastructure, Through: 72 contractors in Senegal promote inclusive and • provision of training and mentoring receiving training/mentoring sustainable industrialisation for suppliers on best industry practices; from Cairn. and foster innovation • developing a recycling business through our social investment programme; • upgrading of existing infrastructu re at the supply base; and • w orking with other oil companies on promoting access to local suppliers to oil and gas contracts. Build effective, Through: 38 institutional stakeholders 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Communities H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 We have launched a pilot community development programme among fishing communities in Senegal with The Hunger Project (THP). The people who may be impacted by our operations are one of our most important stakeholder groups, and we are keen to give them the opportunity to have their say about our activities. We engage with local communities on issues including employment, community development, safeguarding the environment and livelihoods, using methods such as consultation meetings as part of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs), media briefings and public meetings. Our operated and non-operated assets are principally based offshore. As such, the potential for our activities to impact negatively on local communities is limited. However, we recognise the potential for our activities to limit the ability of local fishermen to exploit the waters in which we work, through the short-term (typically one to two months) exclusion of fishing vessels from the waters, some 500m around our drilling rigs. We work with local fishermen to minimise disruption through communication of our day-to-day and forward operations, and implement a mechanism whereby they are able to provide us with feedback. In addition, and as part of the development of our Impact Benefit Plan in Senegal, we have been working with THP to engage with and identify specific challenges facing fishermen along coastal areas closest to our operations. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Review social investment criteria and guidelines. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report SU PP O R T I N G M O B I L I SAT I O N O F F I S H I N G CO M M U N I T I E S I N Y E N N E , SE N EG A L Based on decades of experience, The Hunger Project (THP) – via integrated programmes that combine confidence building with tools and training – has empowered communities to positively take the lead in their own development. Ultimately, communities are able to take the necessary steps to end their own hunger and poverty using an established and successful model known as the epicentre strategy. There are four broad phases through which epicentre communities progress: Mobilisation, Construction, Programme Implementation and Transition to Self-Reliance. In the last phase, communities are able to fund their own activities and no longer require external financial investment. Over time, epicentres follow an integrated plan that includes the development of social infrastructure, by developing elected committees, and physical infrastructure, in the form of the epicentre building. This new infrastructure supports sustainable synergy among programmes in health, nutrition, education, adult literacy, empowerment of women, improved farming and food storage methods, income generation, water and sanitation, and microfinance. 22,450 In 2015, Cairn carried out a 3D seismic survey in its nearer shore licence areas. A seismic survey interprets seismic energy to assess the composition, fluid content, extent and geometry of rocks The project in the subsurface. Through the ESIA and operational activities, we had significant interaction with will support artisanal fishermen from the coastal areas of Senegal. Subsequently, Cairn asked THP to carry out approximately an exploratory mission to better understand the challenges faced by these communities to assess 22,450 people how oil and gas activities may impact them or be perceived to impact them. The study identified from across seven vulnerable fishing communities managing threats to their artisanal way of life, fishing stocks and coastal fishing food security. villages, based in the southern peninsula of Cap Vert, near Dakar. Considering the potential significance of these communities to ongoing and potential future oil and gas activities, Cairn asked THP to consider whether its epicentre strategy could be transposed to a coastal community. It was agreed that a pilot programme could be developed, and in April 2017 Cairn signed a third Memorandum of Agreement with THP. The aim of this 30-month programme is to support seven fishing village communities around Yenne, south of Dakar. It seeks to develop strong leadership skills and build capacity by providing knowledge and training, particularly for women and girls. The programme training and capacity building cover health and nutrition, education, hygiene, environment, and microfinance and credit opportunities. Ultimately, the proposed project aims to catalyse community-led development among the seven communities by identifying leaders to enable advocacy for their own community needs. This strategy will contribute to the economic and social development of the community, via the key components as identified by the fishing communities themselves. The project will support approximately 22,450 people from across seven coastal fishing villages, based in the southern peninsula of Cap Vert, near Dakar. Image: The launch of octopus pots – a project in Senegal to increase the stocks of high value octopus. Octopus pots have been donated to the community committee who will manage their distribution and replacement for future years. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Human rights S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We evaluated potential modern slavery risks in our supply chain and in our investment planning. We developed a mechanism to assess modern slavery issues during contractor selection. We developed training packs on human rights and modern slavery that were rolled out to our staff and key contractors in Senegal. We commenced auditing of our key contractors in Senegal on modern slavery issues. A statement as required by the Modern Slavery Act was developed and posted on our website. Improvements to our contract terms and conditions were identified by our internal audit programme. Our People Management Manual was revised and released. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Our approach Respecting human rights is part of our commitment to delivering Our Corporate Responsibility Standard Operating Procedures and value for all stakeholders. We are committed to respecting human Human Rights Guidelines clarify what needs to be done, and detail rights in all our activities and this commitment is embedded in our the tools available to support implementation of our policy across Code of Ethics and includes our support for the United Nations the business. Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Over the years we have implemented a ‘rights aware’ approach, In order to ensure respect for human rights in all our activities, we which means identifying potential human rights issues in our have a human rights position that is integrated into our Corporate activities, assessing if we have influence over the issues and defining Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. It requires us to respect and appropriate action to be taken by the business. support internationally recognised human rights standards; identify, Our Human Rights Handbook contains guidance for managers on assess and manage human rights risks; and ensure that appropriate assessing human rights issues. This helps to ensure that human mechanisms are in place for those affected by our operations to rights is one of the CR risks considered at key stages of every raise and address grievances. project, and is reflected in our Project Delivery Process (PDP) (see 8) Human rights approach Major accident prevention and safety). We use a five-step approach to identify and assess human rights issues in our sphere of influence. Business Principles, policies and performance standards and compliance Identifying and assessingto law human rights issues in our sphere of influence Step 1: Identify potential and actual impacts Human rights impacts assessment (scaled to risk and impact) and grievance mechanisms Potential impacts Actual impacts Step 2: Planning, integrating and acting on ﬁndings Prevent Response and remediation Mitigate mechanisms Step 3: Monitoring, measuring and tracking Account Step 4: Communicating and reporting Step 5: Reviewing 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report 9) Human rights control and influence 9) Human rights control and influence Human rights control and influence Company Partners/Contractors Community Society Ensuring the human Using influence or management Ensuring the Company does Using influence to rights Companyof employees controls to make sure partners/ Partners/Contractors not have a negative impact or Community Society policy that develop are respected contractors/suppliers are not legacy in the communities supports and rewards Ensuring the human Using influence or management Ensuring the Company engaged in human rights abuses where projects/sites aredoes Using influence responsible to behaviour rights of employees controls to make sureforced partners/ not have a negative impact or develop policy that such as child labour, labour located are respected and modern slavery are not contractors/suppliers legacy in the communities supports and rewards engaged in human rights abuses where projects/sites are responsible behaviour such as child labour, forced labour located and modern slavery Cairn's reducing ability to control and inﬂuence Cairn’s reducing ability to control and influence Cairn's reducing ability to control and inﬂuence Before entering a new country as an operator, we apply human rights screening as part of our comprehensive due diligence process. Before operating activities, we assess human rights impacts as part of an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) or, where necessary, we undertake a Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA). If, following these assessments, any potential human rights issues are identified, we consider the most effective way to manage them through engagement with potentially affected communities. When considering a non-operated joint venture, we identify and check any human rights issues and establish any risks requiring management by the operator before proceeding. Protecting people in our supply chain Our new Code of Ethics and CSR Policy uphold our operate, including potential vulnerabilities to modern longstanding support for the UN’s UDHR. Human slavery within the supply chain. We tend to use rights are particularly important to some of our key specialist international contractors with well-developed stakeholders, including our employees and the employment practices. However, they may have a communities in which we operate. subcontracting chain using agencies and other sources with unclear practices, particularly in locations with less Following the introduction of the UK Modern Slavery Act strict or weaker human rights regulations and especially in 2016, we identified the likelihood of falling within the for less skilled tasks. Our influence diminishes the further provisions of the Act in 2017 as turnover increased. As a we travel along the supply chain (see graphic above) but consequence, we set CR Objectives in 2017 to improve we will continue to press our contractors to apply good our position regarding these requirements, including practice. building on our understanding gained in 2016. This involved attending a briefing session at the Institute of We also use local suppliers directly and it is important Directors, Scotland, to gain further knowledge and proof to ensure they understand our requirements on human our approach. Despite production commencing in both rights, implement zero tolerance towards any form of Kraken and Catcher at the end of 2017, our turnover did modern slavery behaviour and protect the rights of their not reach the threshold specified in the Act. However, workforce. A summary of our actions on modern slavery we progressed as planned, as we will fall under the in 2017 appears on page 46. provision of the Act in 2018. Our Modern Slavery Statement appears on our website In general terms, the approach developed followed at www.cairnenergy.com/services/modern-slaverya similar track to that used in our ABC management statement/. system. Primary actions conducted were to carry out We have not identified any significant risk of forced or a risk assessment covering all countries where we compulsory labour in our supply chain in 2017. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report OUR K E Y AC TIONS ON MODER N SL AVERY IN 2017 Two training packages were developed. The first was a general human rights and modern slavery pack rolled out to our employees; the second a more focused session that was presented to our key Senegal contractors at the July contractor workshop in Dakar. Our procedure for the Selection of Services Providers was revised to incorporate assessment for modern slavery during the selection process. This followed a similar approach to that applied for ABC assessment. Our assessment of human rights as part of due diligence processes, including country entry, now comprises a review of key indicators under international classification indices. An internal audit made recommendations for improving our contracting arrangements. The standard terms and conditions within our contracts were modified to specify zero tolerance of modern slavery and likewise requirements of sub-contracting parties, and we strengthened our right to audit. We developed a Modern Slavery Statement as part of our 2017 reporting, which is available on our website. We identified some irregularities in terms of employment of personnel working for our key contractor in Senegal that was addressed with them. A modern slavery assessment of the contractor was conducted subsequently. Preparations are in hand for an integrated assessment of potential contractors that we may use in 2018 for drilling the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS), possible Senegal drilling and development activities, as well as to support contractors in Mexico. Our Whistleblowing Policy has been extended to cover modern slavery issues. The mechanisms for reporting and the general Human Resources Group Whistleblowing Policy are supported by training. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Protecting our employees In July 2017, our People Management Manual was released following a comprehensive review. It contains our Group People Policy and all employee-related policies and procedures. This manual includes our requirements for personnel employment, such as: general employment terms; recruitment and selection; diversity; health and well-being; work-life balance; training and deployment; employee relations; rewards and benefits; facilities management; and other policies such as whistleblowing (see People, safety and security). We expect our contractors to treat their employees in the same way with a clear mechanism in place. We respect the rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. We have identified the specific risks and requirements around unions in certain locations such as Mexico. We continue to consult our workforce on organisational and performance issues on a regular basis and through a variety of means. We respect those contract employees who work with us and their membership of unions. Protecting communities Our position on human rights in the communities where We built on our programmes to protect and enhance we operate continues to be an important element support for local communities, and we achieved of what we do. This means applying our Corporate substantial progress in our initiative with fishing Responsibility Management System (CRMS) that includes communities in Senegal who may have been subject to the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance limited impact from our offshore activities. The work, Standard 51. As in 2016, our activities remained largely which is ongoing with NGO THP, is captured in our offshore with limited potential impact from our shoreImpact Benefit Plan for Senegal and is further discussed base activities in Senegal, and no physical displacement under Social and economic benefits. occurred as our shore-base is within the curtilage of The requirements and tools to support implementation Dakar port. The same is likely to apply to any potential of our Human Rights Policy across the business are activities in Senegal for 2018 and in the UKCS Ekland laid down in our CRMS and Human Rights Guidelines. well. Moreover, in 2017 we looked at locations for This includes continued commitment to a ‘rights aware shore-base activities in Mexico, and these too will have approach’, which means identifying potential human limited impact. rights issues in our activities, assessing if we have influence over the issues and defining appropriate action. This applies across the lifecycle of the business. We have not identified any interaction between our operations and indigenous peoples in 2017. 1 IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standard 5 – Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement. 1 January 2012 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Addressing grievances Grievances where they do occur are taken very seriously, M E A SU R I N G whether arising from employees or associated with PE R FO R M A N CE a project in the communities where we operate. Complaints and grievances are reported to the Operations that have been subject Management Team and the Board when they arise, investigated and actions identified. to human rights reviews or impact Our Group whistleblowing procedure is contained within assessments: 100% the People Management Manual and has been in place since 2009. It details responsibilities within the Company, Employees trained on human rights the safeguards in place, mechanisms for raising concerns policies and procedures: 47% and the investigation process. Separate grievance mechanisms in operating locations are provided in local languages and published to allow communities access. Some locations may also have specific external mechanisms for reporting concerns, such as, Public Concern at Work (www.pcaw.org.uk/ individual-advice/guidance) in the UK, or hotlines for specific issues, such as the Gangmaster Licensing and Labour Authority and UK Slavery Helpline. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Include Modern Slavery Act requirements in all contract terms and conditions. Define a human rights and modern slavery audit programme for 2018. Enhance due diligence for human rights and modern slavery risks in new venture evaluations. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report People, Safety and Security Major accident H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R prevention and safety O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Our crisis and emergency team were fully Maintain licence to operate trained to support our operations, and exercises were performed quarterly. We developed a Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP). We implemented a series of successful safety campaigns. No Lost Time Injuries (LTIs). No Restricted Work Day Cases (RWDCs). Two Medical Treatment Cases (MTCs). A single spill to sea of 34 litres of hydraulic oil. PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environmental and security 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 50 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Prevention of major accidents Cairn’s reputation for responsible exploration is underpinned by a • Primary well control – we apply a dual barrier approach during rigorous approach to well design and well control. All our wells are drilling activities. This involves control measures designed to engineered to the highest industry standards and are designed to maintain fluids in the wellbore, including drilling-hole pressure comply fully with the requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering evaluation and management, kick detection, kick tolerance and Construction System (WECMS) standards and Corporate management, fluid management, cementing practices, blow-out Responsibility Management System (CRMS). Safe drilling and preventer (BOP) system testing and assurance. Testing of a BOP prevention of major accidents is dependent on the development system is rigorous and conducted routinely on a defined schedule and implementation of multiple safety barriers, which are designed to ensure it remains functional. In the event of unsuccessful tests, into our programmes and verified by a series of rigorous internal and we make safe the well and cease drilling until the problem is found external assurance processes. and resolved, which can result in substantial lost time and cost. Despite this, we do not recommence drilling until completion of • Design – our wells are designed and assured to a level that any required remedial work and, if necessary, specialist support to exceeds requirements for the expected characteristics of the assure the BOP system is fully functional. geological formations to be encountered. We apply our well design standards to ensure the appropriate materials are used • Secondary well control – this includes measures to prevent and installation methods conform to recognised good industry wellbore fluids escaping from the well, using a BOP. The BOP, standards. We also select drilling fluids to maintain well integrity which is usually installed on the wellhead at the seabed, is made and minimise impact on the environment. up of a series of hydraulically operated rams and can be operated in an emergency from the rig or via the backup remotely operated vehicle (ROV) onboard a standby vessel that remains with the rig. The BOP is rated for pressures significantly in excess of those expected to be encountered in the exploration well. • Tertiary well control – these measures provide a third line of defence when formations cannot be controlled by primary and secondary measures, and cover well control options such as drilling of a relief well and use of a capping device. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Our well engineering and well control and assurance processes are shown below. ineering Well engineering Primary well control Well bore full of fluid and managed drill fluid weight keeps the well stable Activate secondary well control if the primary well control fails Secondary well control Well control incident procedure/methods and failsafe mechanical sealing device (blow-out preventer) can manage an incident and shut down a well Activate tertiary control if the primary and secondary well controls fail Tertiary well control Toolbox of methods to address a well releasing hydrocarbons: relief well; sub-sea ‘cap and secure’; and oil spill contingency arrangements Extensive assurance controls External Internal Planning and procedures DNV major hazard assessment CPDP4 gate External well examiner Project risk register Well experts and peer review Corporate risk review Regulator and partner review WEC5 competency assessment DWOP1/TWOP2/LWOP3 Rig inspection and acceptance Independent reviews of critical Daily operations review meetings equipment and systems 1 Drill Well on Paper (DWOP) Well operations 2 Test Well on Paper (DWOP) 3 Logging Well on Paper (LWOP) 4 Cairn Project Delivery Process (CPDP) 5 Well Engineering and Construction (WEC) 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Operated assets Non-operated assets Our operated and non-operated activities continued without major In our UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) non-operated asset Kraken, first oil incident in 2017. This is attributable to a number of factors, but in no production commenced in June following successful commissioning small part to ensuring preventative measures are integrated into the and receipt of all approvals. This included fulfilling all major accident projects during the planning and operational phases. In our operations hazard prevention requirements of the enhanced Safety Case in Senegal, we applied our Well Engineering and Construction regulations for offshore installations. Similarly, the Catcher Floating Management System (WECMS), including: well engineering and Production Storage and Offloading vessel (FPSO) arrived in the UK construction standards; well design, barrier and casing standards; well during October following approval of its Safety Case in July, with control manual; and management of change standard. production commencing in December 2017. The importance of developing robust Safety Cases is underlined by the need to ensure For the Senegal phase three drilling programme, the rig was selected major accident Safety and Environmental Critical Elements (SECEs) and accepted in late 2016 using defined criteria to meet the WECMS of the equipment are identified, properly assessed, maintained and and CRMS major hazard prevention requirements and those of the controlled. national regulations. These specific engineering and management control barriers were set in place as part of the planning process We continued to support our operating partners in the UK, providing under the Project Delivery Process (PDP), which is a requirement of challenges and lessons learned to assist in meeting our commitments the Cairn Operating Standards (COS). This included acceptance and to prevention of major accidents. In our Norway non-operated readiness assessments, operational contractor bridging procedures, activities, we continued to manage our ‘see to’ duties, which require regular contractor engagement (see Contractors and supply chain) and the licensee to supervise the operator in a systematic manner and our ongoing monitoring and assurance. management system in Norway is designed to help us do so. Our well design, planning and inspection procedures are applied wherever we operate in conjunction with existing legislation. Planning commenced in September 2017 for our UK Ekland well due to be drilled in 2018 on this basis, employing the same rigorous approach and in accordance with UK regulations. As part of our commitment to high standards of prevention, we also developed a Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy (CMAPP) in 2017 to conform to the requirements of the Offshore Installations (Offshore Safety Directive) (Safety Case etc) Regulations 2015. These commitments reinforce the existing requirements set out in our WECMS, CRMS and COS (see Economics and funding). Project Delivery Process Our Project Delivery Process (PDP) is the well-established method defined in the Cairn Operating Standards (COS) that ensures we understand and can control risks at key stages in our projects. During the oil and gas lifecycle, the PDP helps us maintain focus on what is important to the Company and apply good practice through the application of local and international standards. We also use the Cairn PDP to manage CR issues and apply these standards for all operated projects under our control. Specific project types (e.g. seismic, drilling) must meet defined criteria at designated ‘stage gates’. Each stage gate has defined actions and deliverables, which must be available and signed off by a ‘gatekeeper’ who is independent of the project. In this way, project integrity and performance are reviewed throughout the process and, where they deviate from standards, corrective actions are identified and implemented. 12) Project delivery process Our PDP Why How Ready Finished Learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate Why are we How could Are we Ready Have we What do we doing this we do this to sanction Finished all we Learn and project? project? the work? needed to do? achieve? 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Continuous improvement of crisis and emergency response capability At the beginning of 2017, our Crisis and Emergency Response Team (CERT) based in Edinburgh and our Dakar-based Incident Management Team (IMT) were briefed fully on Senegal activities and their duties in the event of a major accident or incident. We tested their combined readiness in our set-piece Q1 and Q2 exercises. In addition, we ran weekly desktop briefings and exercises to continue to broaden exposure to operational drilling scenarios. We also refreshed oil spill training for our shore-base team and our Emergency Response and Rescue Vessels (ERRVs) crews during the campaign. Over recent years, and 2017 was no exception, we have continued to train and reinforce responsibilities of our CERT staff over a wider range of crisis and emergency response scenarios in order to expand their experience. In 2017, our training and exercise plan set out exercises and planned training for the year. In addition to those exercises for Senegal, our other quarterly exercises examined our capability to support our personnel in the event of specific security situations (Q3) and during a business continuity event (Q4). We will continue to test a wide range of scenarios as part of our 2018 plan, taking into account activities planned in Senegal, the UK and Mexico. High-impact, low-probability events We are always prepared for the very low possibility of Oil spill risk continues to be of high concern to a high-impact event, and have robust plans in place to stakeholders, and we remain committed to applying manage potential incidents. In advance of our Senegal the IPIECA–IOGP Joint Industry Practice1. We remain drilling activities in 2017, we revised our Emergency an associate member of Oil Spill Response Limited Response Plan (ERP) to integrate with our contractors, (OSRL) with a number of supporting memberships. and align and improve the Oil Spill Contingency We were also a West Africa Central Africa Aerial Plan (OSCP). As part of our management of change Surveillance and Dispersant Spraying service (WACAF) process and in preparation for our 2017 campaign, we member during our Senegal campaign in 2017 (see again revised the ERP and OSCP to ensure different www.oilspillresponseproject.org/). We continued to rigs and vessel capabilities were taken into account. improve our oil spill preparedness in relation to: OSCPs; This information was also shared with the regulators equipment logistical arrangements and deployment in Senegal. planning; and identification of capabilities to support contractors. We continued to invest heavily in other OSRL memberships to gain access to specialist equipment managed by them during 2017 and this will continue in 2018. These memberships allow access to a toolbox of different response equipment and techniques, including mechanical containment and surface dispersant application systems, sub-sea systems, and aerial surveillance and dispersant spraying capability. Specialist sub-sea equipment includes the Sub-sea Incident Response Toolkit (SIRT), which enables debris clearance and application of dispersant at or near any well releasing hydrocarbons, and also improves mixing and efficiency of treatment and dispersal. This improves spilled oil amenability to biodegradation. We also have access to a Global Dispersant Stockpile, which consists of substantial amounts of commonly used dispersants that can be drawn on should our supplies run out. Membership of the Capping Stack System (CSS) allows access to well-capping stacks situated at four strategic locations worldwide. These can be deployed to shut-in a well and prevent oil from escaping into the sea, at which point sub-sea dispersant is no longer needed. We continue to plan for relief well drilling as an option to address a major event. The nature of the response depends on numerous factors relating to logistics and effectiveness. 1 The IPIECA–IOGP Oil Spill Response JIP (OSR–JIP) was set up to implement learning opportunities in respect of oil spill preparedness and response following the April 2010 well control incident in the Gulf of Mexico. As part of this effort, the OSR–JIP has produced more than 20 good practice guides. IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Future planning In 2018, we will be working as an operator in the UKCS for the first time in several years. To do so, we are planning to ensure we conform to the UK regulatory requirements for the Ekland M E A SU R I N G campaign. Our CERT will remain in place, and IMT duties for the UK will be provided by a very experienced service provider commonly used to support other UK-based operators. In advance, PE R FO R M A N CE we will ensure all roles and responsibilities are clear, including crisis and emergency approvals and readiness assessment, and will undertake a pre-drilling exercise. Spills in 2017 – one spill In the UK, we are required to develop an Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (OPEP) defining our (34 litres) of hydraulic oil overall onshore-based response, and in the case of the selected rig, a Temporary Operations released at 1,000m depth Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (TOOPEP). We will maintain all relevant OSRL memberships and from a burst hose on a associated insurances required for operations in the UK. remotely operated vehicle. Mexico emergency support providers will be assessed during 2018 or early 2019 as part of planning for wells on our operated block. Occupational safety Our Senior Leadership Team (SLT) and Management The importance given to CR performance is also Team (MT) are responsible for embedding the CR recognised in Cairn’s Remuneration Policy. The approach and procedures across the Group with overall remuneration committee assigned a 17% weighting in accountability remaining with the Board. Applying the Group’s 2017 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). these procedures in our operations falls to the MT. To In 2018, the CR element of the KPIs will be 15% to do so, we have set in place a safe system of work that match previous years. Performance against the Group’s employees and contractors must take responsibility for KPIs is an important criterion for assessing the annual following closely. Regional directors are responsible, at discretionary bonus and individual performance. an operational level, for ensuring that operations adhere Management of occupational day-to-day safety to our health, safety and environment (HSE) standards hazards uses a number of mechanisms to promote and procedures; that all risks are managed to As Low As the implementation and effectiveness of working Reasonably Practicable (ALARP) levels; and that plans procedures. This includes management visits, audits, are in place to manage these risks. We have a robust permit to work, toolbox talks, safety drills and training, incident management process that ensures incidents all of which are monitored through our leading safety are recorded and investigated as required and that indicators in our projects. The lagging data below lessons are learned. The most senior personnel oversee shows no Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) during 2017, although assurance of the implementation of these standards, and we experienced two Medical Treatment Cases (MTCs). performance updates are reported to the Board. These were a hand injury during pump repair in February and a finger pinch injury in August, both on our rig in Senegal. Investigations were completed and findings were reported to the Board, with lessons learned shared with contractors and emphasised during contractor monthly meetings. Our supply base operations again performed well, reaching one year without an LTI in April and, with continued commitment to managing occupation safety risks, surpassed 500 days without an LTI by the end of August. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report During 2017, we worked hard to apply our Safe System Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) of Work (SSW) at our operational base in Senegal along (lost time injuries per million hours worked) with continued engagement with our contractors in our operational activities. The shore-base SSW was linked to a series of safety campaigns that included, among others: 2017 0 dropped objects; quayside safety; fire prevention and n/a fire-fighting; manual handling; and ‘pinch points’. This built on previous themes of: team working; lifting operations; 2016 1.04 tubular handling; traffic management; and authority to 0.27 stop work. We also ensured our Life Saving Rules, based on those developed by the IOGP, were clearly understood 2015 0 and promoted during the campaign. Our overall lagging 0.29 indicators are given right. 2014 0.65 Routine contractor engagement meetings were held which 0.36 allowed all issues to be fully aired, solutions discussed and lessons learned shared. See Contractors and supply chain. 2013 2.52 See also Health and well-being; Security; Equality and 0.45 diversity; and Employees. Total Recordable Injury Rates (TRIR) (total recordable injuries per million hours worked) 2017 1.88 n/a 2016 1.04 1.03 2015 0 1.21 2014 3.88 1.54 2013 5.04 1.60 Note: IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark figures (average of onshore and offshore for employees and contractors). IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2017. Key Note: Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of incidents, because our Cairn total exploration activities often last for only a short time period, so there are IOGP benchmark relatively few hours worked compared with ongoing production and other long-term operations. 2016 2015 O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Implement requirements of the CMAPP to conform to 2014 UK requirements. Ensure Crisis and Emergency Response Team and Incident 2013 Management Team’s readiness, and maintain function and capabilities, including quarterly exercises. 2012 Update all emergency and oil spill plans to meet operational activities. Roll out our Safe System of Work in our directly controlled shore bases. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 56 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Health and well-being S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We developed pandemic guidance in support of our Business Continuity Plan and trained our Crisis and Emergency Response Team (CERT). We launched a health and traveller advice area on our intranet. We revised the Senegal asset health assessment. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report International health challenges As in 2016, health issues continue to represent a possible, of greater concern is the potential for challenge to Cairn and we support our staff who are natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. exposed to health risks associated with the business. The 7.1 magnitude earthquake and tragic consequences For our own personnel, the main threat remains the experienced in central Mexico in September potential for exposure to infectious diseases that may re-emphasised the need to ensure our staff know how be encountered in the locations in which we have assets to react in an event, and basic training was provided to or during travel to prospective business locations. key personnel. Although the risks from Ebola and Zika overall appear We also improved our advice to travellers by launching to have receded, we continue our vigilance regarding our Traveller Health and Security intranet site. This developing epidemics and pandemics. provides travellers with wide-ranging advice, including: In 2017, we improved our business continuity planning basic travel health; natural disasters; security alerts; by introducing pandemic guidance and we trained female traveller security; and specific country briefings. our CERT on its application. Endemic diseases remain Furthermore, we revised the Senegal health assessment prevalent in certain locations, such as malaria in Senegal, and ensured we had all contracts in place to support our and we have well-established mechanisms to minimise operations. For 2018, we will improve the content further the risk of exposure. Our interest and subsequent and incorporate new asset locations such as Mexico successful bid for Mexican acreage prompted us to once further local assessments are conducted. look at health risks during the investment phase prior to country visits, recognising the potential exposures to Zika and Dengue viruses. Although altitude sickness is Exposure to chemical and other biological agents We have limited direct exposure to potentially hazardous chemicals and wastes. However, our CRMS specific requirements for chemical and waste management are to not only protect the environment, but also to avoid exposure and associated health issues. This includes the selection of least damaging materials where possible, provision of suitable storage and handling facilities, work risk assessment, handling procedures, and provision of suitable personal protective equipment as necessary. Our contractors are expected to have compatible arrangements in place to prevent health impact to their workforce, including acute and chronic exposure prevention. For example, where our exploration activities anticipate potentially harmful gases such as hydrogen sulphide, appropriate detection and protection arrangements are required and emergency drills must be put in place. We also require our contractors and other facilities to provide a suitable water supply and wastewater disposal facilities to ensure prevention of infection and illness from water-borne or other pathogens. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 58 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Well-being Staff wellness continued to play an important role throughout 2017. One of our largest ongoing requirements is ergonomic assessments for all our staff and contractors in our offices. While the majority of staff had the correct ergonomic set-up, we were able to ascertain where modifications were needed and make seating and desk adjustments where necessary. We continue to offer optional annual health assessments for all members of staff. This benefit has seen a high degree of usage since its initial roll-out in 2015 and has proved to be a well-received employee benefit. We also undertook several health and well-being awareness initiatives over the course of the year. These included ‘Lunch and Learn’ sessions on the benefits of healthy nutrition, outdoor exercise and yoga. Many staff also take part in sponsored sporting and fitness challenges, and Cairn provides both encouragement and financial support through our charities committee. See www.cairnenergy.com/working-responsibly/ charitable-giving. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Improve our Traveller Health and Security intranet. Develop health support programmes in Mexico. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 59 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Security S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We trained our senior managers and CERT on high-impact security scenarios, including an emergency exercise. We continued to improve our support for those in-country and travelling on business. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 60 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Security landscape The worldwide security environment continues to be dynamic, and Cairn recognises the need to adapt and innovate in order to mitigate identified and emerging threats and provide a duty of care to our people, assets, investments, reputation and data. There have been a number of well-publicised security incidents during 2017 and the general security threat level in the UK rose to its highest level for a period. Such incidents continue to represent a risk to our personnel and business, demonstrating that they are of global concern irrespective of specific country issues. It is clear that our focus must not be directed at locations with known or high risks of threat to the person alone but must also take into account the more wide-scale threat to all our personnel. During 2017, we continued to improve the support and advice given at an organisational level and to individuals against this challenging security situation. It involved tracking changes in threats across our current locations and providing advice as necessary to all staff. We use targeted online training packages designed with the business traveller in mind and carry out robust, bespoke risk assessments for individual non-routine travel to countries with a medium risk or above. We continue to subscribe to specialist tools and support to allow us to evaluate threats to personnel and our assets, and assess risks on a routine basis so that appropriate training, mitigation and advice can be provided. This also includes advice posted on our Traveller Health and Security intranet traveller support area. See Health and well-being. Total security incidents (number) 2017 11 2016 0 2015 0 2014 1 2013 0 1 Break-in at staff apartment. New country entry In addition to monitoring the security situation in our existing locations, we look at threats in potential new business locations and countries of interest as part of our due diligence process and new country entry requirements. For example, as part of our evaluation of the Mexico opportunity, we reviewed the security information thoroughly to identify the key risks we could expect and be required to mitigate. Country visits and our new country entry procedure require us to deepen our understanding of security risks as a matter of course. Our initial security works were completed in Mexico during 2017 in terms of offices and other locations we may use for operational purposes. We also developed location-specific procedures, which are designed to mature and evolve with the current circumstances, to allow us to support our personnel both locally and from our head office. In Mexico, the earthquake in September 2017 tragically resulted in a significant number of fatalities and widespread damage in Mexico City and elsewhere outside the capital. Vulnerable personnel, either in-country or visiting, were provided with earthquake briefings to ensure they were aware of how to react in the event of a major seismic event. In 2018, we will continue to develop our presence in Mexico and support personnel, including development of security and business continuity arrangements. We continue to have a large number of personnel travelling on a daily basis and consequently we have implemented and improved a number of mechanisms to assess the before travel risks they may face, including health, safety and security. A travel information area has been placed on our intranet and this is available to all staff. We support our people during their trip and in certain instances specific travel security and management plans are set in place to address heightened concerns. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 61 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Cyber security This year also saw examples of cyber attacks on organisations and Location threats software across the globe; in some cases, with significant impacts on Operations in Senegal continued to be the businesses involved. Although we experienced no cyber security supported by a local security consultancy, breach from the malware incidents this year, and despite our cyber which provides assistance in the event of an security plan being in place, we reviewed arrangements to ensure there emergency or serious threat, as well as by our were no residual issues or gaps as part of lessons learned from these specialist support in head office. We continued incidents. Specifically, our Information Systems department acted to assess all operational areas, including the swiftly in response to the breaking news of the worldwide cyber attack UK and Senegal, for emerging threats during (Wannacry ransomware) and, although our cyber security was not 2017. Where intelligence was received, we took breached, it quickly imposed extra countermeasures to safeguard our a precautionary approach and acted upon IT infrastructure. advice quickly, notifying all personnel potentially Cairn previously identified increasing convergence between physical affected. Such advice received from embassies, and cyber security management. Our internal Security Governance civil authorities and our support contractors Forum (SGF) continued to communicate threats, strategies and security allowed us to check security arrangements improvement plans and ensure a holistic and collaborative approach to rapidly. Low-level crime advice was provided and security management throughout the Cairn Group. extra security measures were also implemented in Senegal during 2017 following the targeting of We continue to monitor developments in this area and participate in some accommodation. active industry bodies to ensure we are aware of potential threats and measures to prevent security breaches and risks that would result from data loss. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Develop security and business continuity plans for our Mexico operation. Streamline our security guidance documentation. Review current cyber security systems and follow industry good practice to mitigate risks. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 62 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Employees S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Staff recruitment and retention At Cairn, we believe that our people provide the foundation for our success and we are committed to providing the best possible employee experience. This includes: providing a safe, collaborative, positive work environment; recognition of employee contributions; the provision of opportunities for growth and development; and access to the right systems and support to facilitate the delivery of our strategy and annual work programme. Our people initiatives are centred around the need to provide a direct link to the achievement of business results and are underpinned by our High Performing Behaviours and values of Respect, Relationships and Responsibility (the 3Rs). HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We rolled out the new People Management Policy and People Management Manual. We ran Management Bootcamps and assessed performance. We performed a Managing Talent audit and set an action plan in place to address issues. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 63 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Equipping our people with the right processes and skills to deliver People Management Policy refresh One of our key projects during 2017 was the refresh and redesign of our People Managment Policy. Key to this was the development and roll-out of a new Group People Policy, which sets out our overarching people principles covering staff in all of Cairn’s Group offices. Our People Management Manual contains the individual people policies and procedures that underpin our Group People Policy and defines how we deliver to the principles and standards to which we are committed. To support the Group People Policy, we also reviewed and refreshed our individual people policies, for staff across our regional locations. As well as refreshing the existing policies to reflect updates in employment legislation and/or business practice, one of the key aims of the project was to create a single, harmonised framework where policies were applicable to all employees of the Cairn Group wherever they might live or work in the world. While local legislation will prevail, overall, the refreshed policies are designed to ensure that employees have a consistent employment experience. Our aim was to ensure a clear, open and transparent approach to people management within Cairn, as well as equitable and consistent application and compliance with appropriate employment legislation. The policies also support and encourage consistent and good employment practices that help inform and guide dayto-day decisions that impact our people. Management Bootcamp In terms of evaluation, participants remain enthusiastic and keen to attend. The post-attendance feedback continues to be very positive: At Cairn, we believe good people management is the key to a high performance culture and to being a high performing organisation. We have “Was the most useful programme I’ve ever attended.” high expectations of our people managers’ skills in supporting and motivating teams to deliver optimum “Very thought-provoking and enjoyable in an informal results within Cairn’s behavioural standards. and relaxed setting.” In 2015, we commissioned a tailored personal “Great two days, allowing much needed time to reflect on my development programme targeted at our people management style and how I can develop in this regard.” managers to support individual and teams’ success – the Management Bootcamp. This programme “Very positive. Fresh ideas to think about performance/behaviours was designed to deliver on our commitment to and how to develop the team more.” developing our people managers, specifically through providing them with the practical tools they need to successfully deliver Cairn’s business “Some new approaches to existing themes. Well-presented objectives through their teams. and engaging.” We continued to deliver against this commitment “Very good refresher of good management practices.” throughout 2017, with our focus on: • continuing with the delivery of phase 1 of the programme to people managers across the business; and While this feedback is encouraging in itself, we also wanted to evaluate and understand the return on investment from the programme and to identify • evaluation of the programme and the impact on development areas to include in potential future phases. To do this, we sought those who have participated so far. evidence of its impact from a selection of the participating managers as well as a By the end of the 2017, over 70% of our people sample of staff across the business who report to them. managers had participated in the programme, Results from both sample groups was overwhelmingly positive. In the survey of increasing to over 90% by the end of Q1 2018. participating managers, 100% of participants agreed that the programme had been valuable to them in terms of developing their management and leadership skills. Similarly, they all agreed that they had been able to apply the key learnings from the programme in their role. 70% In the survey of staff reporting to participating managers, the results showed that respondents consistently agreed that their managers were able to build By the end of the 2017, over 70% effective interpersonal relationships, work collaboratively, communicate effectively, of our people managers had manage conflict, coach and develop their team, promote a one team culture, participated in the Bootcamp, create an environment where people are empowered and motivated, and provide increasing to over 90% by the end appropriate recognition and feedback. of Q1 2018. Given the success of the programme, we are committed to progressing to a second phase of the Management Bootcamp during 2018. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 64 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Total management and non-management training (average hours per employee) 2017 36 33 Key 2016 37 Management grade employees 36 Non-management grade employees 2015 39 42 2014 12 21 2013 40 43 Assessing our effectiveness Managing Talent audit 2016 In June 2017, our internal auditors conducted a Managing Talent audit. 1.04 The objective was to assess the effectiveness of the processes in place n/a within Cairn to identify current and future key talent requirements and 2015 to recruit and/or develop existing talent to meet those requirements. 0 The review also considered processes in place to engage, support and 1.21 incentivise the current workforce to maximise talent retention, including 2014 3.88 the effectiveness of knowledge management processes. 1.54 The review highlighted a number of positive observations, namely 2013 in the areas of identifying talent requirements, geoscience technical 5.04 competency and skills development, alignment of incentives with 1.60 performance, management and leadership development, and staff 2012 engagement. 0 In addition, there were some recommended areas for improvement 1.74 in relation to the approach to talent management. Fortunately, these did not include any unexpected outcomes and there was no high-risk exposure to the business. Of the risks identified, one has already been fully mitigated and others are currently being progressed. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Design and review a talent management programme. Design and implement a management development programme. Design and implement a career pathways programme. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Equality and diversity S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Staff recruitment and retention HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We confirmed the Group status under the UK Equality Act. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 66 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report We are committed to equality and diversity. We understand the importance Our approach to equality and diversity extends consistently to all our staff across the of a diverse workforce in broadening our Cairn Group. skill base, bringing different approaches, perspectives and ideas, challenging At year-end 2017: norms and encouraging creativity. All of these support the business in delivering 48% of Cairn staff were women its strategy. 13% of Cairn staff worked part time Our People Management Policy covers our approach to equality and 100% of employees returned to work following parental/adoption leave diversity and how this is implemented in recruitment and selection, training 17 different nationalities were employed at Cairn and development, and remuneration 3% of the workforce had a disability and benefits. We also have policies on disability, religion and belief, and Average age at Cairn was 46 the treatment of those employed on a 30% of management roles were held by women part-time basis. We collect data on the gender, nationality and disability of our 2 of the 10 members of the Board were female (20%) appointed staff through our voluntary Equal Opportunities Form. Board member gender (%) 2017 80 Our approach to equality and 20 Key diversity extends consistently 2016 89 Male to all our staff across the 11 Female Cairn Group. 2015 89 11 2014 86 14 2013 80 20 O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Work with educational groups to encourage more females into science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. Identify mechanisms to encourage diversity through our recruitment process. Implement an employee engagement strategy on equality and diversity. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 67 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Environment Climate change, H OW W E PE R FO R M E D AG A I N S T O U R C R emissions and O B J EC T I V E S 2 017 discharges We completed our annual review of COP21 and COP22 related risks for the S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S business, including a review of the position Maintain licence to operate taken by key investors and peers. Our phase three Senegal exploration and appraisal programme reduced landfill waste substantially. PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance Access to debt markets 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 68 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Climate change risk and reporting We recognise the potential risk represented by climate change as Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are carbon global energy transitions to a less carbon-intense economy. This intensive, and our approach to climate change continues to include: includes issues such as the potential for future restriction of funding, shareholder position and stranded assets. We also recognise that • GHG measuring and reporting; balancing the need for energy and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) • further consideration of climate change risks and opportunities emissions will require efficient use of energy and the full utilisation associated with all our projects; of both conventional and innovative sources of energy into the foreseeable future, particularly if energy is to remain affordable and • promoting efficient use of energy in our activities and, wherever accessible in developed and developing countries. Other global factors possible, including efficient and timely completion of projects; remain important in relation to our industry, including growing demand • integrating climate change considerations and potential costs into for energy and provision of energy security in individual countries. investment decisions; The International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2017 • stakeholder engagement – for example, through participating in indicates that between 2015 and 2040 world energy consumption industry associations, on mitigation and adaptation to climate change is likely to increase by 28%. The majority of this increase is likely to measures; and occur in non-OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries, with an estimated increase of 41%. Despite • contribution to local programmes that address environmental and volatility in oil and gas prices giving rise to uncertainties (see Economics social impacts within our sphere of control and reasonable influence. and funding), the analysis concludes that the end-use demand does We continued to monitor and assess developments in relation to not vary. It states that except for coal, all fuel sources are projected to climate change in 2017 and will do so on an ongoing basis. This increase over that period, with renewables showing the fastest growth. included understanding the position taken by significant contributors It further indicates that petroleum and liquid hydrocarbons remain the such as the USA and China as well as those countries in which we have largest source with gas as the fastest growing fossil fuel. Despite this, it activities. We conducted a review that looked at our risks in context of projects a fall in carbon intensity due to the decline in the use of coal, the position taken by our key investors and peer companies in order to although this may be impacted by population growth. benchmark our position (see also Economics and funding). The review In 2016, the IEA special report analysed a number of transition scenarios was discussed with members of the Board and shared with other senior to a low carbon economy. The most challenging of these (IEA 450) personnel. This included announcement by some financial institutions restricts global temperature rise to 2oC. In this instance, nearly 60% of to cease investing in oil and gas projects. We also continued to monitor the power generated in 2040 is projected to come from renewables, developments in relation to Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC)1 almost half of this from wind and solar photovoltaics. Even in this reports and their implementation for all locations in our portfolio. scenario, IEA considers there to be ‘no reason to assume widespread Potential strategic issues include emissions control restrictions (e.g. stranding of upstream oil assets, as long as governments give clear trading and permitting, levies), potential for stranded assets, securing signals of their intent and pursue consistent policies to that end’. IEA access to finance, licence to operate, and adaptation by countries and goes on to indicate that ‘Investment in developing new upstream communities (e.g. due to rising sea levels or change in environmental projects is an important component of a least-cost transition, as the conditions affecting communities) to the impact from climate changes. decline in output from existing fields is much larger than the anticipated We completed responses to the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) fall in demand’. questions on our reporting of climate change risk in early 2017. We also tracked and commented on climate change reporting proposals arising from recommendations to the G20 Finance Ministers from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was formed in response to the COP21 Climate Change agreement. These recommendations covered governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. We took on board comments from others regarding TCFD recommendations, such as the FRC, analysts such as IHS Markit, and the oil and gas industry organisation for environmental and social issues, IPIECA. Cairn will continue to monitor requirements in this area as they develop. 1 Countries across the globe adopted a historic international climate agreement at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties (COP21) in Paris in December 2015. In anticipation of this moment, countries publicly outlined what post-2020 climate actions they intended to take under the new international agreement, known as their Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs). These became NDCs on signature. The climate actions communicated in these NDCs largely determine whether the world achieves the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement: to hold the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C, to pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5°C and to achieve net zero emissions in the second half of the 21st century. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 69 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Overall, the risk profile of climate change within the With our partners, we started to consider climate change business and materiality assessment have left this issue issues that may arise for development in Senegal. This unchanged since 2016; however, we remain conscious includes requirements in particular in relation to gas of the potential for this risk to increase associated with management and funding. access to debt markets and funding (see Economics and In 2018, our focus will maintain our efforts to track and funding). We looked at risks overall and in new country understand risks and development on climate change, entry situations, including specific risk reviews in our and we will perform a portfolio ‘resilience’ review. Investment Proposal summaries to the Board. The UK and Norway In areas where the oil and gas industry is considered mature, such as in the UK and Norway, there is clear legislation around climate change, including EU Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations1, with ongoing emission reduction targets by individual countries and collectively by the EU. Through our membership of the IOGP, we follow the developments within the EU and the engagement processes in Brussels. As such, the climate change risks pertaining to our assets in the UK and Norway, which include our non-operated development projects Kraken and Catcher, are well understood but changes will result from the next round of the scheme. This is under discussion and may be impacted by Brexit. Future exploration in the UK and Norway appears to be secure against the background of UK and Norwegian reduction commitments and the cost of carbon. A short-term challenge is the volatility of oil and gas prices, although this is unlikely to affect demand overall and some recovery has occurred late in 2017. See Economics and funding. Access to funding is not seen as an issue currently, given government policies and known legislation and timescales for the sector. Our Kraken and Catcher non-operated developments are fully funded and production has commenced. In the short term, the marginal cost of carbon is also not seen as a significant issue, although it may play a part as assets age and production declines, precipitating a marginally earlier decision to cease production. We do not foresee funding or carbon cost as impacting shareholder value overall in our mature area portfolio and at the end of 2017. Similarly, the likelihood of stranded assets due to climate change in mature areas is not regarded as an issue. There continues to be considerable promotion of exploration and production in mature areas due to the benefits, including economic and social, and recognition that the transition will take some decades. In the short to medium term, asset risks such as proximity to infrastructure and size of discovery, outweigh most other risks to project viability and delivery of shareholder value. Longer-term climate change is also likely to drive innovation and improvement in equipment, including during the design and selection stages of projects to remove and optimise emissions. For example, long-term innovation may take the form of low emissions technology and carbon capture. We do not use an internal cost of carbon on the basis that it is not material to our projects at this time but we continue to factor costs into our due diligence and investment proposal processes as necessary; it is an area we continue to monitor to ensure we understand trends and implications. Given that much of the UK’s health, safety and environment (HSE) related legislation is based on EU regulations and directives, including the area of climate change, the UK’s exit from the EU following the 2016 referendum is identified as a business risk. This may impact not only climate change issues but also other CR issues of interest, as the details of Brexit become clearer. 1 The EU Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations require regulated activities such as many offshore installations to restrict emissions of carbon (as carbon dioxide and methane emissions, among others). This is achieved by allocation of allowances that must be maintained and surrendered in line with strict requirements of the regulations. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 70 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Senegal and Mexico Transition risks in developing locations are closely tied to the need for economic growth to provide local benefits, such as employment and social and economic development. Such countries tend to have much lower aspirations in terms of carbon reduction and will be dependent on investment funds. Market-based mechanisms also tend to play a less central role. Access to investment for companies is often linked with demonstrating a responsible position in terms of both environmental and social performance. Stranded assets are unlikely to be a significant issue in respect of climate change alone. There are likely to be other significant issues, such as the cost of delivery of a project in remote or poor infrastructure areas that will affect the overall value of the project. At the end of 2017, our principal asset of this type remains the Senegal appraisal and exploration project. Plans for development are progressing and we remain confident that funding will be made available to ensure delivery. In part, this is due to the need for development in-country and affordable, reliable energy in Senegal, linked to its status as one of the United Nations Least Developed Countries. As part of our assessment of risks prior to participation in the Mexico acreage bid round, we assessed the climate change risk and these were included in our investment proposal. This acknowledged the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) commitment to a 25% reduction in GHG emissions unconditionally by 2030 (from the 2013 level). Mechanisms to achieve this include carbon tax, energy reform, new standards and regulations. A market mechanism is also being contemplated. Physical risks Physical risks arising from climate change include the potential for extreme weather, sea-level rise, water scarcity and impacts on biodiversity. The likelihood of impact on Cairn business, as with other companies, is highly location and infrastructure specific. In terms of our infrastructure, as at the end of 2017, Cairn had no permanent installations with the exception of our leased Dakar shore base and non-operated interests in Catcher and Kraken FPSOs; consequently, almost all our activities involved mobile offshore equipment. No significant issues are anticipated at this time. Local people in our areas of activity may be adversely affected by sea-level rise or degradation in fishing quality/quantity, availability of water or farming. These are social issues that are essentially in the government domain; however, Cairn has a long history of both social responsibility and social investment. For example, water supply issues in India in the location of our land operations were the subject of a major aquifer management programme developed by Cairn. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 71 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Our GHG emissions Greenhouse gases (GHGs) form a part of our operational environmental footprint. We monitor and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities and disclose them in accordance with industry requirements and standards. In 2017, we again updated the methods and factors used in the calculation of our GHG emissions, and corrections were made in line with best practice. We disclose on an ‘operational control’ basis, which means we report emissions from those assets that are operated by us and not those controlled by our partners. With no operated production facilities in 2017, our direct GHG emissions occurred primarily from the combustion of fuel on the rig, vessels and aviation, and from flaring during testing, in relation to the completion of the third phase appraisal and exploration programme in Senegal. Our GHG emissions over five years show that they are heavily related to the level of operational activity in any given period. Our emissions levels in absolute terms vary with the length of operations and operational requirements, which are often also influenced by safety considerations (e.g. vessel or rig selection to meet specific operational requirements). The emissions intensity is calculated per 1,000 hours worked, as this provides a direct relationship with our activity. Factors such as the nature of the work in hand (i.e. drilling or seismic survey), environmental conditions and distances between operations and logistic support bases have further significant influences on the intensity of GHG emissions. We strive to reduce the footprint of our activities by operating efficiently and quickly but not to the detriment of safety. Our total and normalised GHG emissions increased in 2017 from 2016, the latter despite an increase in hours worked, largely due to the increase in flaring during the appraisal drilling Air emissions process and drilling a total of five wells in the campaign. RPS was appointed to provide Offshore, we contracted a rig that independent verification of GHG emissions reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 operated to the highest industry and this CR report. standards; however, there is restriction on availability of low sulphur diesel in Africa See our GHG Assurance Statement here www.cairnenergy.com/media/2237/cairn-ghgso sulphur emissions are higher than verification-report-2017_final.pdf. See also Cairn Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Data would be the case if low sulphur diesel Appendix here www.cairnenergy.com/media/2202/data-index.pdf (which includes data and were available. The implementation methodology notes). of a novel tank storage system on the drilling rig ensured we were able to flare hydrocarbons offline and did not Total and normalised GHG emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) have to flare any more hydrocarbon than was absolutely necessary to ensure Tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked that well test objectives were met safely and successfully. Consequently, our 50 phase three exploration and appraisal 53 48 programme in Senegal completed in 36 40 41 September ahead of schedule for the 33 30 wells drilled, with reduced emissions on a per well basis from those estimated 20 during the assessment and planning process and submitted as part of 10 our Environmental and Social Impact Tonnes CO2e Assessment (ESIA). 0 100,000 59,395 75,000 50,000 48,782 32,435 29,487 24,972 25,000 0 420 2,793 402 3,127 2,606 355 2,140 337 2,471 351 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Key Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (location-based) 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 72 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Emissions, discharges Water and wastewater and wastes We use some freshwater in our offices, but the largest use of freshwater is in supporting offshore drilling operations. Over the course of the phase three campaign, freshwater was For offshore activities, we carefully transferred from stand pipes in the Port of Dakar to our supply vessels. This water was used manage emissions to air and discharges for the vessels themselves or transferred to the drilling rig for either domestic use in the into the sea. It remains difficult to set accommodation areas or for the mixing of drilling muds where seawater could not be used. specific reduction targets when levels See Resource use. of activity vary from year to year, but we are committed to minimising our Wastewater generated from our offices was treated through the municipal sewage and environmental impact from operations wastewater process. Wastewater offshore from domestic use on the vessels and rigs was and to reporting fully and transparently treated to the standards specified by the MARPOL International Convention for the Prevention on this matter. of Pollution from Ships. Waste drilling fluids generated in the drilling operation were discharged to sea and met the OSPAR convention conditions following assessment in the ESIA The emissions, discharges and wastes and approval by the regulator. associated with our phase three exploration and appraisal programme Cairn uses the OSPAR Convention and associated guidance as a touchstone for the standards in Senegal were originally estimated to apply for any discharges to the marine environment. We adopt the precautionary principle and assessed in an addendum to our and apply best available technique assessments. Sangomar Deep Offshore ESIA. During During the well test activities on the Stena DrillMAX, produced reservoir water was discharged the tendering and contract evaluation to OSPAR standards that is treated to less than 30 parts per million oil in water before being process, care was taken to ensure that released overboard. For sewage, organic kitchen waste, bilges and contaminated drainage assets and contractors were selected water, we maintained compliance with MARPOL standards. Water that could not be treated that were in line with our philosophy to this standard was transported onshore for further treatment prior to controlled disposal. All of emissions and waste management drilling mud used and discharged during the campaign was water based, and the impact of reduction and elimination. Great effort this discharge was assessed and reported to the regulator as per our Environmental and Social was employed to ensure that emissions, Management Plan. discharges and waste were managed to minimise them where possible. Total water withdrawal (m3) 2017 19,369 11,140 2016 2,285 8,511 2015 2,514 6,302 2014 5,832 29,945 2013 4,692 7,167 Key Freshwater withdrawal Seawater withdrawal 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 73 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Waste Our exploration activities generate different volumes and types (the Basel Convention) to Europe for safe destruction and disposal. of waste, including oil-contaminated wastes, chemical wastes, In addition, all waste management facilities used in the course of the non-hazardous wastes from office and domestic operations, and project were subject to a close-out audit. clinical wastes from medical facilities offshore. Our management of We feel confident that we have a well developed and tested Waste wastes is in line with internationally accepted best practices and legal Management Plan for operations in Senegal, and will ensure that this requirements, and duty of care standards remain our priority. information is shared with our partners as we move to towards field Shipboard wastes generated during offshore support operations (i.e. development. excluding drilling) are managed in accordance with MARPOL 73/78 We experienced a single minor spill of hydrocarbon in 2017, with a leak requirements. Wastes that cannot be discharged at sea or incinerated of 34 litres of hydraulic oil from an underwater remotely operated vehicle offshore are segregated and transferred to shore for further treatment (ROV). This resulted in no discernible impact. This incident was included in and disposal. our report to the Senegal regulators as part of our ongoing requirements. For all projects and programmes, we continue to ensure that: • waste management options in-country are well understood prior to Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste (tonnes) start-up of operations; • local facilities and service providers have been audited and, where gaps are identified, plans are put in place to meet our requirements; 2017 149 • Waste Management Plans are in place and informed by the findings 373 from in-country reviews and audits; • daily supervision of the waste management activities is set up for the 2016 245 duration of operations and a cradle-to-grave approach is followed 381 through for each waste stream; • hazardous wastes that cannot be treated locally are transferred to 2015 33 suitable treatment and disposal facilities outside country and in full 273 compliance with international law, including the Basel Convention; and • records of wastes and their treatment and disposal routes are 2014 172 maintained at all times. 489 In Senegal, we again partnered with a specialist international waste 2013 30 management company to deliver good practices in full compliance 266 with our Corporate Responsibility Management System (CRMS) and local requirements. At the end of the third phase of exploration and appraisal drilling, there were a number of waste streams – including fluorescent tubes, batteries and waste electrical equipment – that could Key not be disposed of in Senegal due to the absence of suitable waste Hazardous Non-hazardous management sites (see Case study). This waste has been safely and securely stored and will be transported under international legislation Sound The environmental impact of sound associated with our drilling activities is assessed in the ESIA undertaken for the work. For operations in Senegal, this was carried out for the 2014 operations and revisited for both phase two and three via the ESIA addendums. The three areas of potential impact identified were sound from vessel movements, drillship operations and seismic while drilling (SWD) operations. SWD was identified as the most likely source to impact the marine environment. In order to mitigate against the effect of sound generated from SWD, actions were implemented including use of marine mammal observers (MMOs), visual observations and soft-start and mitigation guns. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 Continue to assess climate change risks for the business, including reporting. Develop a climate change resilience review of the portfolio. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 74 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report C A SE S T U DY: WA S T E M A N AG E M E N T I N SE N EG A L One of the success stories from our 2017 operations in Senegal has been the management of waste we have generated by our operations both onshore and offshore. Over three phases of drilling with different rig contractors have generated specific hazardous wastes that cannot be disposed of locally due to the absence of suitable arrangements to meet and exceed industry best practice. The approach that Cairn takes to waste management is detailed in our Business Principles (now the Code), specifically ‘Behaving Responsibly towards the Environment’ by preventing, or where that is not possible, minimising discharges to land, sea and air. Our CRMS has specific requirements on how waste is managed, including application of EU waste classification and management practices such as duty of care. Senegal and Dakar specific challenges carrying water or food for human or animal consumption. In addition, seemingly benign waste such as wood and There are a number of challenges specific to operating metal scrap also had to be tightly monitored to ensure it in Senegal that we have had to overcome to ensure posed no harm through inappropriate reuse. robust application of our principles and procedures and to establish a robust and effective waste management Working with partners chain. The Mbeubeuss landfill, a 175 hectare site in a suburb of Dakar, receives nearly 500,000 tonnes of To this end, Cairn employed the services of Veolia waste per annum, including local hazardous wastes. ES Field Services Limited to develop a secure waste management area within the confines of our supply There is little or no control of wastes sent to the site base and to work locally in Dakar to identify and build and thousands of local people make a living reusing working relationships with existing waste management materials from the site. The site is a very hazardous contractors and recycling facilities. In addition, environment with risk to health and the environment. we worked together to agree arrangements with Mbeubeuss is one of a number of similar landfills in a local cement kiln involved with waste to energy Africa that have few recognisable management controls. initiatives. Through Veolia and our local Cairn team, As a responsible operator, Cairn had to eliminate we identified contractors who could treat and dispose wherever possible any waste that may be disposed of the majority of the waste generated during our at the Mbeubeuss landfill and ensure that materials operational activities. Those specialised or hazardous destined for it did not contribute to these health and wastes that could not be treated in Senegal included environmental risks. waste electrical equipment, some batteries and fluorescent tubes. These were safely and securely We also had to ensure that waste stored and transported stored and arrangements were made to export them to prior to sorting, cleaning and disposal was controlled dedicated treatment and disposal facilities in Europe and secure in line with duty of care arrangements. Some in compliance with the Basel Convention. materials, such as oil-filled items, had potential resale value, particularly items such as plastic and metal drums and containers. These are classified as hazardous wastes given our intent to dispose of them. It was imperative that given the harmful nature of their original contents, these containers did not inadvertently get repurposed for Statistics In 2017, Cairn and its partners generated nearly 414 tonnes of waste during operational activities in Senegal. Of this, 0.6%, or 2.5 tonnes, was sent to landfill and this consisted of domestic waste only. For comparison, the UK sends over 50% of municipal waste to landfill1. Of the rest, 16.3% was recovered or reused, 28.2% was recycled, 25.1% was treated wastewater, 20.8% was incinerated, 6.8% was stored pending treatment, 1.4% was composted and 0.8% was exported. Wastes treated included domestic waste, filters, oily rags, plastic, metal scrap, wood, empty metal and plastic drums, wastewater, drilling waste, medical waste, waste electrical equipment and hazardous chemicals. 1 www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/593040/UK_statsonwaste_statsnotice_Dec2016_FINALv2_2.pdf 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 75 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Biodiversity S T R AT EG I C O B J EC T I V E S Maintain licence to operate PR I N C I PA L R I SK S Health, safety, environment and security Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance Access to debt markets Global awareness of biodiversity has increased dramatically in recent years. As a result, there is more understanding of the many issues that threaten it. This places a greater onus on businesses like Cairn to recognise the impact that our activities may have on biodiversity, and to commit to protecting it in the regions in which we operate. We also recognise the potential for climate change to impact biodiversity and livelihoods in local communities. HOW WE PERFOR MED AGAINS T OUR CR OB JEC TIVES 2017 We commissioned and/or completed baseline environmental surveys for blocks in Senegal, Mexico and the UK as part of environmental impact assessments We reviewed potentially sensitive areas as part of our new venture Investment Proposals 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 76 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Biodiversity framework and guidance Oil and gas exploration and development activities have the potential to affect biodiversity both on land and in the marine environment. Our commitments and principles related to biodiversity are laid out in our Senegal impact assessment Code of Ethics and our Environment Policy. For example, Cairn does Phase three appraisal and exploration drilling was completed not explore, develop or enter into joint ventures in UNESCO World in Senegal in 2017. During planning for this phase, we again Heritage sites. Moreover, we take a precautionary approach, believing revisited our Sangomar Deep ESIA and developed a further that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, even addendum to take into account changed rig and other significant where such damage is not scientifically certain, cost-effective damagedevelopments in this next phase. At the same time, we reported prevention measures should still be taken. our phase two performance to the Senegal regulator, as agreed We take our responsibilities very seriously for all operations that may with them, without significant issue or incident. affect critical habitats, protected areas and/or the welfare of local Our consultation continued with key stakeholders, and the communities relying on ecosystem services. We undertake extensive Senegal National Technical Committee (NTC) was convened due diligence of potential biodiversity impacts, and engage with in November 2016 to review the phase three ESIA addendum. relevant technical specialists, government departments and NGOs, Minor modifications were identified and we ensured the revised along with local stakeholders. Such dialogue helps us by guiding our Environmental and Social Management Plan for phase three subsequent mitigation activities. incorporated these required changes and improvements. The NTC also considered the Project Risk Study, the supporting Early assessment dossier for classified installations and Plan of Internal Operations, Cairn assesses potential biodiversity impacts early on and at all which were also revised for the new programme. stages of project development, from asset acquisition through to Mitigation measures were implemented as part of the amended decommissioning. We assess direct impacts as well as the potential ESIA. We revised all associated operational documentation, cumulative and indirect impacts of operations on biodiversity, and we including the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Plan, Waste consider these impacts in the wider context (i.e. beyond the immediate Management Plan and base operating manual. physical footprint of the asset). This entails an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and includes consideration of the supply chain for primary products. Any project in which significant potential impacts to biodiversity are identified undergoes additional studies and a formal assessment. These are required to demonstrate how potential impacts will be managed effectively. We develop asset and site-specific Environmental and Social Management Plans that integrate biodiversity. Cairn also develops Biodiversity Action Plans where there is a significant risk to biodiversity or a measurable benefit for targeted biodiversity conservation action. Cairn ensures appropriate resources and expertise to manage biodiversity risks and impacts, and commissions external specialists as necessary. When identifying, assessing and managing biodiversity risks and impacts, we follow the requirements outlined in the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standard 6 (Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources), appropriate national legislation and other internationally accepted good industry practice. Our biodiversity framework sets out a common approach, with processes and deliverables that apply to all Cairn’s business and operations. The framework is owned and governed by the highest level of management within Cairn, and implemented locally in accordance with our Cairn Project Delivery Process (PDP). See Major accident prevention and safety. In 2016, the revised IPIECA-IOGP guidance on biodiversity was produced and this is being considered as part of the revision of our own guidance, which is ongoing. This includes Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (BES) and is acknowledged by the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in their publications. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 77 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Other impact assessment activities O U R C R O B J EC T I V E S 2 018 In 2016, we commenced planning activities for potential drilling on our Rufisque and Sangomar offshore blocks. Rufisque block Promote high standards of design and in particular has areas that present different environmental challenges, most notably the shallower water and proximity to performance in our developments. the mainland. This gives potential for different environmental habitats and interaction with communities, not least local Complete environmental impact assessments artisanal fishermen. for new operational programmes. In 2017, we completed an environmental baseline survey of the areas of interest being considered for well locations in the Revise our biodiversity guidelines. Rufisque and Sangomar blocks. We subsequently commenced ESIA work in Edinburgh and Dakar. During 2017, we also commenced planning for benthic surveys1 for projected operations in the UK (Ekland drilling in 2018) and Mexico (as part of the Production Sharing Contract commitment) using specialist local contractors. This information will be used to support environmental impact work going forward, and in the case of Mexico is required for delineation of impact by previous operators. Investment Proposals also consider key biodiversity sites before submission to the Board for approval. This helps define risk, including the presence of sensitive sites and species well in advance of entry into a new licence or location. 13) Biodiversity framework Biodiversity framework Screening Scoping Assessment Predict magnitude of impacts Baseline studies Interaction with Stakeholder (existing data project planning Evaluate their significance engagement collection and and design new surveys) Investigate options for mitigation Reassess residual impact (as required) Management plans/mitigation register Reporting and disclosure 1 These are surveys of seabed life to be used in impact assessment and identification of sensitive environmental habitats. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 78 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Resource use Cairn continues to be mindful of the resources we use in our activities. These mainly consist of energy, water, and solids and liquid consumables used in drilling activities. We also use local resources such as food and water for our personnel in-country. Energy use For our offshore activities, the majority of our energy sources are hydrocarbon fuels such as marine diesel. Where possible, Cairn gives Water management preference to low sulphur diesel sources, although for our operations At Cairn, we appreciate that our business both in Senegal low sulphur fuel options are not available. By contrast, impacts and depends on water resources close to the supplier is local and therefore economic benefits accrue locally, our operations, while recognising that access to and the supplier used in the Dakar terminal operates a high-quality clean water by communities is a key human right management system with good infrastructure. See Climate change, and of importance to local communities and the emissions and discharges. environment. We have had a water resource strategy In mid-2017, due to increased turnover, we could have been subject in place for some years, which covers: to the requirements of the UK Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme • monitoring and assessing the need for freshwater Regulations. Consequently, a compliance review was conducted in early abstraction and use, and potential impacts on 2017 to address this. This review found no participation in the scheme freshwater resources of our operations; was required at this time, but we will continue to monitor applicability in future years. • investigating ways to improve our freshwater management processes; • identifying, evaluating and implementing Total direct and indirect energy consumption (GJ) improvement measures to reduce impacts on freshwater; and 2017 493,033 • enhancing reporting of our freshwater resources 2016 333,446 management. 2015 361,962 In our 2017 exploration and appraisal activities 2014 857,795 offshore, our use of freshwater is limited to offshore and onshore domestic use and in drilling fluid 2013 362,630 formulation. Given the level of our activities, there was limited local impact from those materials abstracted and used in our Senegal drilling activities. Dakar is a major West African port and a local focus of food importation. Cairn and our contractors source food locally, which adds to the local economy without adverse impact. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 79 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Product stewardship Chemical management Our business also requires the use of liquid and solid chemicals and some solids. Chemical formulation for drilling fluids for our exploration campaigns undergoes rigorous selection 2017 saw the culmination of our portfolio to ensure well safety and minimisation of impacts on the environment while maintaining well bore stability and rebuild with the start-up of production of our reservoir pressure control. non-operated assets Kraken and Catcher. We identify and assess the potential risks and impacts of chemicals as part of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) we carry out before starting new Although the primary focus of stewardship of product from these assets operations. We have a stringent approach to chemical selection will remain with the operator, it is important to Cairn to ensure that and waste management. See Climate change, emissions and any product over which we have an influence, share or may control is discharges. handled properly. Cairn manages chemicals in accordance with the Oslo/Paris This means ensuring that high standards of management are Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the maintained and the transfer of product between floating production, North-East Atlantic (OSPAR). It is an internationally recognised storage and offloading (FPSO) units and customers is conducted using mechanism, developed by 15 governments of the western appropriate and well-managed standards. In addition, trading of coasts and catchments of Europe, together with the EU. In the product needs to be conducted transparently. Product handling Senegal, we continue to track and support the development of and stewardship increased as an issue in 2017 due to the initiation harmonised chemical selection and disposal practices under the of production; however, the management of them is controlled by Abidjan Convention, which seeks to coordinate chemical and our partners on a day-to-day basis. As a consequence, our activities discharge management standards along the west coast of Africa. relate to ensuring our partners act responsibly on management of the The convergence towards the OSPAR approach is welcomed by product. We are confident that our partners, as responsible operators, Cairn to implement good practice in the region. have this in their operations. Every chemical used in the Senegal exploration campaign was checked for its suitability for the drilling programme before submission for approval by the regulatory authority. O U R C R O B J EC T I V E 2 018 Monitor requirements for the UK Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 80 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report About this report Reporting period Detailed CR objectives and KPIs are included under the ‘Maintain licence to operate’ objective, and CR KPIs amounted to 17% of the total This report covers Cairn’s global operations from 1 January to indicator score of performance across the Group as a whole in 2017, 31 December 2017. with over two thirds of that total covering ‘leading’ indicators (proactive improvement activities, e.g. training) and the remaining covering ‘lagging’ indicators (reactive values, e.g. Lost Time Injury Frequency). Reporting standards CR KPIs and a wide variety of data are collected over a range of topics within the areas of environment, health and safety, security, Cairn reports its 2017 Corporate Responsibility (CR) information in communities and employees. Data is used for monitoring and reporting accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000 Accountability Principles purposes, and it is maintained in a specialist database. This database Standard (AA1000 APS) founding principles of inclusivity, materiality records data by geographical region, and defines the KPIs to be and responsiveness. This ensures that we engage with internal and measured and the frequency in which data should be recorded. Data external stakeholders, identify and assess our most important CR entry and approval are tracked within the database. issues, and address and respond to them in a structured way. Our incident and accident data is recorded in a separate incident We also use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core reporting system that stores all relevant details and also emails option). We follow its content principles of materiality, stakeholder defined individuals, including senior managers, across the business inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness; and its to keep them informed of progress with the reporting, and triggers quality principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, investigation and follow-up of an incident depending on its nature. clarity and reliability. Download our 2017 GRI Index here www.cairnenergy.com/media/2203/gri-index.pdf. We use definitions set by the GRI and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) to provide comparable and credible data that can be benchmarked against our peers in the oil and gas sector. Scope and boundaries Data is collected from our offices and from our field operations, We report on an ‘operational control’ basis, which means that we which includes each individual rig, vessel, aviation company and report on those assets and activities over which we have operational shore base involved. The field operations data is usually provided control in terms of CR policies and practices during 2017, irrespective by the contractors that Cairn takes on for the project (e.g. the rig, of the licensed operating party. We exclude data where we are not vessels, aviation). These contractors are informed about Cairn’s controlling operations, but consider risks associated with our partners’ KPI requirements in advance of the work as part of the contracting position and their control of such activities. In line with this, our 2017 process and receive detailed instructions about the data needed. The CR information covers Cairn’s head office in Edinburgh, other offices in instructions include definitions of the KPIs, instructions about reporting the UK, Norway and Senegal, and field operations in Senegal. and methods (e.g. waste reporting with volume-to-mass conversion factors), and information on incident reporting. The data is collected The report excludes the performance of non-operated joint venture from field operations on a monthly basis. Data is entered directly into activities and the performance of Vedanta Limited (Cairn Energy has a our database via an online connection where possible and is otherwise ~5% shareholding and is not involved in management of activities). submitted via excel spreadsheets. Data is queried through the database and via email communications between Cairn’s head office and the data providers in their different locations. Data and performance indicators We update our methodologies on a regular basis and any factors used We measure our performance against set Key Performance Indicators are reviewed annually. For example, when improved methodologies are (KPIs), which are aligned with the strategy and operational programme identified, there are developments in best practice or emission factors of the Company and revised annually. The KPIs in 2017 were set based are updated. on strategic business objectives and fell into the following categories: • deliver exploration and appraisal success; Baseline data • portfolio management; We report historical data from all our activities over the last five years. • deliver operational excellence; Levels of activity at Cairn vary considerably from year to year and for this reason we do not have a fixed baseline. • maintain licence to operate; and • deliver a sustainable business. 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 81 Approach Business Society and People, safety Environment About this relationships communities and security report Uncertainties and estimates While we make every effort to ensure our data is as accurate as possible, it is not possible or practical to measure all data exactly. Where this is the case (e.g. obtaining electricity consumption data for a small office that is part of a larger building or recording water effluent External assurance from an office or vessel that has no water outflow meter), then we RPS Planning and Environment has provided verification of Cairn use accepted estimation methodologies that may involve the use of Energy’s 2017 greenhouse gas emissions as stated in its Annual Report conversion factors (e.g. calculating office data as a proportion of the and Accounts 2017 and this Corporate Responsibility Report. Within figures for the whole building, using volume-to-mass conversion factors the scope of the limited assurance engagement, the GHG statements for calculating tonnage of waste), calculating GHG emissions. We made are found to be materially correct, a fair representation of highlight these methodologies in our data. available GHG data and information, and to have been prepared in accordance with the methodology defined for reporting by Cairn Energy. A full verification statement with details of the verification Targets scope, independence of RPS and recommendations is available on the Cairn Energy website at www.cairnenergy.com/media/2237/cairn-ghgWe recognise the importance of targets in driving performance verification-report-2017_final.pdf. improvements. Cairn sets corporate objectives at the start of each year, and these include some health, safety and environment (HSE)related KPIs – e.g. spills, Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) and HSE Leading Performance Indicator targets. When Cairn owned operated producing assets, it had Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emission targets normalised against production. This was not a meaningful target in 2017, as Cairn does not have operated producing assets. It is also hard to forecast, or set targets for, annual GHG emissions from our operated exploration activities as these operations can change significantly from year to year depending on location and scale of activity. Supporting data Our Reporting Guidelines for 2017 Key Performance Indicators, which can be found in our CR report 2017 Data Appendix www.cairnenergy. com/media/2202/data-index.pdf, provide a methodology and definitions for selected KPIs from subject areas that were assessed through our materiality process to be the most important to Cairn and its stakeholders. A full set of CR data and associated notes can also be found in our CR report 2017 Data Appendix www.cairnenergy.com/media/2202/dataindex.pdf.
