maEerialise innovators you can count on UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP), 2017 Published: February 19, 2018 moteriolise.com bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP), 2017 2 1. Our Statement of Continued Support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Materialise reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and AntiCorruption. With this annual COP, we summarize the progress we have made against these principles to date, and pledge to continually improve their integration into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. Making the world a better and healthier place is the mission of Materialise, and we consider our support of the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles to be a key component of this. We're proud of our progress so far, but we see there's still work to be done. Being a good corporate citizen, improving the lives of those around us, and continually setting the bar higher are aims that are enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our organization. Yours sincerely, Peter Leys Executive Chairman _-1 materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise.com innovðÈors you can count on bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP),2017 3 2. About Materialise When Materialise was founded in 1990, our goal was to enable new uses for the extraordinary potential that 3D printing offers. Since then, we have leveraged our experience to create a range of software solutions and 3D printing services, which together form a backbone for the 3D printing industry. Our open and flexible platforms enable players in industries such as healthcare, automotive, aerospace, art and design, and consumer goods, to build innovative 3D printing applications that make the world a better and healthier place. Headquartered in Belgium, with branches worldwide, Materialise has combined the largest group of software developers in the industry with one of the largest 3D printing facilities in the world. Ultimately, we empower our customers to transition towards a digital manufacturing process and to launch innovations that have the potential to forever change the faces of their industries. 2.1 The Materialise Mission The Materialise mission has remained unchanged since our company was founded by CEO Fried Vancraen more than 25 years ago. Our mission is to innovate product development that resu/fs in a better and heatthier world, through our software and hardware infrastructure, and an in-depth knowledge of Additive Manufacturing. 2.2 The Materialise Quality Policy At Materialise, we implement quality in everything we do. This means we are continuously improving ourselves, enabling every employee and manager at Materialise to make a commitment guaranteeing quality in compliance with regulatory requirements. We have dedicated ourselves to innovating product development that contributes to a better and healthier world as well as aiming to fully understand, anticipate and satisfy the needs of our customers, suppliers and partners. We provide the backbone for 3D printing technology, and by implementing the Materialise Quality Policy, we are able to deliver high-value service and products to our customers in our three main areas of expertise: manufacturing, software and medical. -/ maEerialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise com ¡nnovðÈors you cån count on bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP),2017 4 Materialise values quality management principles according to ISO 9001:2008, with a strong focus on customer satisfaction and continuous -g improvement. On a regular basis, we perform customer surveys or customer journey workshops to receive customer input. This triggers and %, scq enables us to constantly improve the entire organization. Materialise touches individual lives with our medical devices and every resulting story is patient-specific. Each step in designing and manufacturing patient-specific medical devices and medical device software follows the regulatory focused quality management system for medical devices compliant to ISO 13485:2003 to ensure safe and effective products. As providers of high-quality prototypes, production tools and cutting-edge software, we've already enjoyed a long collaboration with the aerospace industry. Since adopting specific aerospace industry standards, we have received EASA Par|21G and EN9100 certification. This allows authorized delivery of ainryorthy additive manufactured end-use parts. By obtaining these certifications, we've proven to meet the industry demands in: Quality and safety Reliability and traceability Project management and administration 2.3 The Materialise Environmental Policy As a 3D printing company with industrial and medical production facilities, Materialise has a responsibility towards the environment around us and we're moving towards a sustainable future with our environmental management system (EMS). Our EMS allows us to understand, address and minimize out ecologicalfootprint. With this policy in place at our headquarters in Belgium, we are making a commitment to protect the environment and to comply with European environmental legislation, regulations and customer-specific requirements in all of our operations, processes and services. The EMS focuses on: . Reducing raw material usage by controlling spills and rejected parts . Minimizing waste through recycling and proper waste disposal . Efficient water and energy use . Minimizing the use of harmful solvents . Encouraging environmentallyfriendlycommuting _-1 maEerialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialisecom I materialisecom innovdtors you can count on bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP), 2017 5 But we know we can keep doing better. We remain committed to continual improvement and each year, we set relevant targets, measure, review and report our performance. We also make sure everybody gets involved our employees all receive environmental awareness training and are actively encouraged to participate in Materialise's EMS. 2.4 The Materialise Code of Conduct & Ethics The Materialise Code of Conduct & Ethics was created to provide guidelines for conducting the business of Materialise to the highest standards of business ethics. This Code applies to all Materialise directors, officers, consultants and other employees, and the Code has been incorporated into the Materialise training program to ensure that all employees have read and understand what is expected. The Materialise Code supports all of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and is available publicly on our website at: Connected to this Code, we operate an anonymous hotline, available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, which employees can call should they have any concerns or questions. ln 2017, no complaints to this hotline were received. 3. Description of Actions and Measurement of Outcomes Please find below descriptions of the progress Materialise has made against each of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. To the extent they are available, performance indicators and quantitative data are also provided. 3.1 Human Rights Principles Principle I Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Prin e 2: make sure they are not complicit in human abuses Human rights are a priority for us. We will always respect and support them and act in accordance with legislation. At Materialise, we owe our success to our people, and one of our primary objectives is to provide a work environment where employees are free from discrimination, harassment and abuse or threats of any kind. We aim to provide an environment where they feel not just safe and healthy, but where they can go beyond, where they can grow and thrive. To this end, our initiatives include, but are not limited to: ,-'1 materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialisecom I materialisecom innovators you can count on Compact Communication on Progress (COP), 2017 6 Safe and Healthv Offices and Production Facilities All Materialise facilities are safe, suitable and sanitary and comply with government legislation. ln addition, all employees, consultants, and directors are required to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations and policies relevant to their positions. We take this very seriously, and all relevant parties are aware that failure to comply can result in civil and criminal liability as well as possible termination of employment. Materialise headquarters has 16 employees who are trained in first aid and can be contacted in case of injury. We also have 11 fire prevention officers, responsible for ensuring that employees evacuate safely in case of emergency. These officers receive training on a regular basis. The remaining Materialise offices are organized in this regard according to national laws. ln 2017, no complaints were received and out of the approximately 550 employees at Materialise HQ where our primary production facilities are located, there were no accidents that resulted in death or permanent injury, and only 14 less serious accidents with a total of 9 days of sick leave. Ha rrassment-Free Workplaces Materialise prohibits harassment based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law, in any form, whether physical or verbal and whether committed by supervisors, nonsupervisory personnel or non-employees. Harassment may include, but is not limited to, otfensive sexual flirtations, unwanted sexual advances or propositions, verbal abuse, sexually or racially degrading words, or the display in the workplace of sexually suggestive or racially degrading objects or pictures. Where harassment or discrimination is uncovered, prompt corrective action is taken, which may include disciplinary action by Materialise, up to and including, termination of employment. ln addition to the anonymous hotline mentioned above which is connected to our Code of Conduct and Ethics, we also employ four Confidential Advisors who can provide guidance and mediation in the case of complaints, and are bound by confidentiality and will behave consistent with the law. Wellness and Lifestvle Support At our offices around the world, Materialise offers a variety of programs to help employees live healthy lives. For example, at Materialise HQ, during 2017, the initiatives included, but were not limited to: a no-smoking policy/program, ergonomics consulting, a stress management coaching course for managers, flu shots, running training, and a bike leasing program. ln 2017, all employees with a medical condition participated in the ergonomics consulting, 25o/o of managers participated in the stress management course, 35% of employees registered for flu shots, and 39% of employees received a bike allowance. Materialise employees always have access to fresh drinking water, tea, and coffee. And every Materialise office has at least one equipped kitchen. Flexible contracts are also available to help support work/life balance. ln 2Q17 , 14o/o of Belgian and 7 .5o/o of worldwide employees opted for part-time contracts. --'1 materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise com innovatofs you cðn count on I Compact Communication on Progress (COP),2017 7 3.2 Labour Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Not only is Materialise against discrimination and the exploitation of vulnerable workers, but we believe that diversity is one of the keys of a successful organization. To this end, we have a number of initiatives to protect those who need protecting, and to foster an equal opportunity environment for talented individuals around the world. These initiatives include, but are not limited to: Formalized Fair Em plovment Policies Materialise operates offices around the world including in emerging countries such as Colombia, Ukraine, and Malaysia, and is committed to providing equal opportunity and fair treatment to all individuals on the basis of merit, without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status or other characteristic protected by law. We do not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor. Employees have the right and are free to join trade unions. Employees must comply with all applicable labor and employment laws relevant to their jobs, and are aware that a failure to do so can result in civil and criminal liability, and termination of employment. ln 2017, no complaints to our anonymous hotline were received and at Materialise headquarters, lVo of our workforce had a disability, and our approximately 550 employees represented over 40 different nationalities. ln addition, on a worldwide basis, women held 38% of all positions (please see below for a breakdown by country), and 31% of people management positions. ln our Board of Directors, 22o/o of the positions were held by women and in our Director's Committee, 42o/o of the members were women. Gender DÍversity J-'1 maEerialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise.com innovatDrs you can count on bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP),2017 8 Waoe Band and Perform ance Evaluation Svstems Materialise has a formalized wage band system to ensure 'equal pay for equal work'. The system conforms with national legal standards and is regularly benchmarked against industry standards. This system is currently fully in place in our headquarters and is in the process of being deployed to our worldwide operations. Employees at Materialise HQ and some worldwide offices can also benefit from additional medical insurance and retirement provrsrons. Materialise also has a formal performance evaluation system, with evaluations occurring twice annually, to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to shape their career paths. A comprehensive training program is available to all employees to further support career development and personal growth. ln2017, at Materialise headquarters, approximately 50% of employees benefitted from additional training. Charitable Activities Materialise supports numerous charitable initiatives around the world. Among these many initiatives are the Benin Summer School and SilkRoad China Projects, both of which aim to improve the education levels and employment opportunities for less advantaged children. The Benin project offers children in West Africa with the opportunity to access higher education scholarships and go on to positions that will enable them to contribute to their communities. The SilkRoad project aims to address educational inequalities in China, and offers children across the country with the opportunity to learn, first-hand, about 3D printing To date, l8 children have benefitted from the Benin Project and in 2017 , approximately 10,000 children participated in the SilkRoad project. 3.3 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Materialise is committed to avoiding adverse impact and injury to the environment and the communities in which it does business. Company employees, consultants and directors must comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and Company standards and our Code of Conduct makes it clear that a failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal liability as well as disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. As previously mentioned in Section 2.3, Materialise runs a company-wide environmental management system (EMS) that seeks to understand and above all minimize our effect on the environment. With this policy in place at our headquarters in Belgium, and our ISO 14001 certificate, we are making a commitment to protect the environment and to comply with European environmental legislation, regulations and customer-specific requirements in all of our operations, processes and services. Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialise com --J materialise ¡nnovarorsyoucancounron bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP), 2017 9 All Materialise employees receive environmental awareness training and are actively encouraged to participate in our EMS. To ensure engagement, compliance, and continuous improvement, every year, we set relevant targets, measure, review and report our performance. For example, at Materialise HQ, in 2017. o 39% of employees used a bike for all or part of their commute. This was up 3% from 2015. o Water consumption per full{ime employee was consistently below expectations at an average of 21.5litres per day. The expected consumption level was 25-35 litres/day/employee (based on an average Belgian company). o We did not use any minerals that came from conflict zones, and we overachieved our target in terms of using antimony-free resins in our production. o Our continued focus on quality further ensured waste production was minimized. o Our solar panels generated over I 10,000 kWh of energy, reducing our dependence on traditional energy sources. 3.4 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Materialise has a zero tolerance policy with regards to any form of corruption, extortion, or bribery. As mentioned above, our Code of Conduct & Ethics clearly outlines our guidelines for doing business consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. All employees, directors, officers, and consultants are expected to adhere to these standards. Failure to do so will result in appropriate discipline, which may include civil damages, criminal fines, and termination of employment or removal from our board. The specific areas that our Code covers include, but are not limited to: Conflicts of lnterest, lnsider Trading, Relationships with Suppliers, Relationships with Customers, Gifts and Entertainment, Financial Reporting, Compliance with Laws and Regulations including Laws Covering Bribery & Kickbacks, and Government lnteractions. Our Code is publicly available at: and employees can anonymously report any suspected incidences of corruption to the already mentioned hotline, which in 2017, received no calls. --'1 materialise Materialise nv I Technologielaan 15 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise.com I materialisecom innovðtors you can count on bal Compact Communication on Progress (COP),2017 10 4. 2018 Objectives ln 2018, we aim to further solidify our position as a highly ethical organization which supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, and to put greater focus on the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. To this end, our objectives include, but are not limited to: o The introduction of uniform GRI measurements and benchmarking. o Updated policies, codes of conduct, and connected training for employees. o A move towards an official CSR team with regular, standardized processes. o A further evolution of our charitable initiatives. Materialise nv I Technologielaan l5 I 3001 Leuven I Belgium I info@materialise com I materialise.com -'1 materialise ¡nnovatofs you cðn count on
