Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Table of contents Sustainability Responsible Digital Environmental at Telstra business futures solutions Message from our Ethics and governance 15 Networks 37 Climate change and energy 57 Chairman and CEO 02 Networks 38 Energy and emissions 58 Ethics, values and governance 16 Performance highlights 03 Protecting our customers’ data and privacy 19 Climate change resilience 62 Everyone connected 41 About Telstra 04 Managing our supply chain 21 Digital inclusion 42 Environment and Our changing world 05 Human rights 24 Community investment 48 resource efficiency 63 Product responsibility 25 Resource efficiency 64 Our customers 06 Tech for good 49 Environmental risk and compliance 66 Culture and capabilities 28 Social and environmental innovation 50 Contributing to the SDGs 08 Building our culture and engagement 29 Keeping safe in a digital world 55 Our sustainability approach 09 Create a diverse and inclusive workplace 32 FY18 performance 10 Promoting health, safety and wellbeing 35 For more information about our Material topics 11 Employment and workplace relations 36 sustainability approach and performance, as well as access Managing material impacts to our FY18 data pack and additional across our value chain 12 downloads, please visit our Stakeholder engagement 13 reporting website at www.telstra. com/sustainability/report. About this report 14 Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 1 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Message from our Digital futures and technology to help address environmental As digital technologies play an increasingly challenges. This strategy goes beyond simply central role in our lives, there remains a managing our own environmental footprint Chairman and CEO significant gap between those who are by encouraging innovation in digital products connected and those who are not. and services, such as smart farming and cloud technologies, to create environmental solutions. This year we helped around one million vulnerable customers to stay connected. We In terms of operational efficiency, this year we There is no doubt Telstra, and the teleOur Sustainability Strategy is key to this also reached more than 48,000 people through achieved a 24 per cent reduction in our carbon communications industry globally, is operating and is focused on the issues that are most our digital literacy programs and enabled over emissions intensity and collected 23.7 tonnes in times of enormous challenge and change. material for our business, the areas in which 4,000 community focused organisations to of customer mobile phones and accessories we have the expertise to make a meaningful provide digital learning opportunities. for recycling. On one hand demand for our core products impact, and where we see opportunities to and services continues to grow and We also continued to strengthen our Transforming Telstra use innovative, tech-based solutions to help telecommunications networks have become network coverage across regional Australia, address major societal challenges. We want While T22 represents a bold new strategy some of the most important pieces of extending our mobile networks coverage to everybody to thrive in a digital world and are for Telstra, we remain committed to the core infrastructure in the world today. On the 99.5 per cent of the Australian population focused on helping our customers and society values that drive our business. To underscore other hand, competition has never been by switching on over 300 new base stations more broadly to adapt to technological that we remain a proud supporter of the United more intense, our market dynamics are as part of the Federal Government’s Mobile change and the opportunities it brings. Nations Sustainable Development Goals shifting rapidly, and customer expectations Black Spot Program. (SDG’s) and have continued to make progress are changing. Responsible business against our SDG commitments this year. We are Our two-year networks resiliency program has These factors have influenced our performance In an age where stakeholder trust in business also a signatory to the United Nations Global helped us to minimise the likelihood and impact this year and underpinned our decision to take is challenged, it is more important than ever Compact and remain committed to supporting of network disruptions. Since 2016 we have bolder steps to transform the business through that we manage our business responsibly. its principles – on human rights, labour rights, achieved a 60 per cent reduction in the number our new Telstra2022 (T22) strategy. We are We remain committed to being transparent, environment and anti-corruption – wherever of lost service hours on our mobile network. determined to meet the challenges we face, ethical and accountable, wherever we operate. we operate. and to continue to lead in the market, just as We are also committed to creating a strong, While every effort is made to avoid disruptions We hope you enjoy reading our Bigger Picture we have always done. values-based culture. disappointingly this year we experienced a 2018 Sustainability Report and welcome number of network issues during May 2018 Telstra2022 The roll-out of T22 will create significant your feedback. that impacted our customers and the broader structural changes to our business. community. The most significant of these was Through T22 we aim to deliver simpler, more Regrettably, these changes will mean a fibre cut caused by a fire, which triggered a flexible products, eliminate customer pain a net reduction of 8,000 employees and disruption to Triple Zero emergency services. points and create a great digital experience. contractors over the next three years. We take our responsibility to connect people We will maximise the value of our infrastructure assets, simplify our business Recognising the impact these changes will very seriously, particularly to Triple Zero and streamline our cost base for the future. have on employees, we announced two new services, and sincerely apologise for the programs this year. A Transitions Program for impact this caused. In making these changes we are acutely those leaving Telstra will provide enhanced aware of the role we play in connecting all outplacement support. For those remaining, Environmental solutions Australians. While we are leaving many aspects We are committed to managing our Telstra will provide support to upskill and of our legacy behind, we remain committed environmental impacts and helping our transition to new ways of working in a leaner to supporting our communities, regional customers and communities to do the same. and more agile organisation. To support these Australians and to serving the needs of our Andrew R Penn John P Mullen programs initial funding of up to $50 million vulnerable customers. This year we launched a new environment CEO and Chairman will be made available. strategy focused on embracing innovation Managing Director Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 2 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY18 highlights $29,042m1 $3,529m Net profit after tax Total income 24% $130m reduction in our emissions intensity of value provided through our social from a baseline year of FY17 and community investment programs Episode Net Promoter Score up 5 points Around 1m vulnerable customers helped to stay connected 48,000 + people reached through our digital literacy programs from last year 3,871 6,952 31% 74% tonnes of e-waste collected with a recycling rate of 99.9% volunteering days undertaken in the community female representation across sustainable engagement Telstra Corporation Limited score achieved 1 On a reported and guidance basis. Excludes finance income. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 3 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About Telstra Telstra is Australia’s leading telecommunications and technology company. Our world-leading networks cover Around 99.5 per cent of the Australian population, and we facilitate over 2,000 network points One of Australia’s largest 350 of presence in more than 200 countries and shareholder bases, with around Telstra Retail Stores territories around the world. We have a diverse range of customers 1.3 million and including consumers, small business, large enterprises and government organisations. shareholders 70 Business Centres We bring innovative and intuitive products and services to market, and offer a broad suite of media, content and connectivity options in Australia, as well as connectivity and enterprise services globally. For more information about our business structure and strategy, please refer to our 4.9 million 3.6 million 17.7 million retail fixed voice services retail fixed data services domestic retail mobile services 2018 Annual Report. 50 million 2 petabytes of data are carried over our voice calls, and mobile network each day facilitating over Mobile networks covering More than 400,000km 2,000 99.5% network points of presence of Australia’s population of subsea cable across the globe Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 4 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our changing world Technological disruption is fundamentally Increasing stakeholder changing the way the world works. Today’s businesses, governments and consumers expectations, coupled with are creating and responding to shifts that would have seemed unimaginable even a declining trust in business a few years ago. Telstra’s products and means the relationship services play a central role in the daily between business and lives of millions of people, and technologies such as ultrafast 4GX mobile, fibre-optic society is changing. networks, cloud computing, and the Internet of Things (IoT) are transforming markets Our operations and workforce are also and redefining the future of work. fundamentally changing as a result of new technologies and business processes. Most people today have access to more Customer expectations continue to grow content and information at the touch of a and diversify in line with technological button than previous generations did in a advances, and rapid changes in IT systems, lifetime. The pace of change and innovation data access and privacy regulation are is having a transformative effect. While all creating a more challenging market. technology is revolutionising access to education, healthcare and financial services Competitive dynamics are also shifting for millions of people, it is also raising among Australia’s mobile network operators, important questions about consumer and with international competitors entering privacy, the ethical implications of emerging the market to provide services including data, technologies and the future of work. IP and network-attached storage. The rollout These questions make it more important of the nbn™1 is further altering our place than ever that we deliver our products in Australia’s fixed service market, where and services responsibly, and champion we are moving from being a network operator their responsible use. As a leading to one of many retailers competing in a lowertelecommunications and technology margin environment. company, we have a particular responsibility While these multifaceted challenges to help bridge the digital divide. undoubtedly provide a more complex our T22 strategy. We are well positioned to For more information on our T22 strategy, operating environment, they also underscore leverage our strong brand and reputation, a please refer to our 2018 Annual Report. our unique advantage as Australia’s leading growing domestic and international customer telecommunications provider. We are base, world-leading networks, and cuttingcommitted to leading the market in this edge technologies to help us to achieve our 1 nbn™, nbn co and other nbn™ logos and brands are period of transition, and creating a sustainable purpose to create a brilliant connected future trade marks of nbn co limited and used under licence. platform for growth with the roll-out of for everyone®2. 2 Registered Trade mark of Telstra Corporation Limited Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 5 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our customers We are in an environment of constant Making it easier to connect The improvements we have made to our technological change, innovation, disruption to the nbn nbn customer experience have had a and competition. Delivering a brilliant positive impact for our customers. While customer experience that adapts with As the nbn continues to roll-out around the number of nbn related complaints to this change is our number one priority. Australia our customers are making the the TIO increased by more than forty per cent switch, and we understand the process this year, our ratio of nbn complaints to nbn Our customers want to be able to access is not always easy. To help address our services in operation improved significantly, the best products and services wherever, customers’ concerns regarding their nbn from 8.8 complaints per 10,000 services in whenever and however they like. To achieve service, and to make the transition as easy operation in June 2017 to 3.5 in June 2018. this, we are investing in our world leading as possible, we have introduced a number networks, digitising our systems and of new initiatives this year, including: For a more detailed overview of TIO processes, and bringing innovative and • The launch of the nbn Satisfaction complaints, please see the Product intuitive products and services to market. Guarantee, where customers can cancel responsibility section of this report. We have made progress, but we have more their service within 30 days of connection work to do. That is why in June we announced Giving our customers more if they are not completely satisfied, free we will radically simplify our product of fees and charges This year, we introduced our first smartphone offerings, eliminate customer pain points • Issuing a Telstra Smart Modem™ to plan with no excess data charges, giving and create seamless, all-digital experiences all new customers, most customers customers the freedom to use their as part of our T22 strategy. migrating to the nbn and all customers smartphones without having to worry T22 will see a fundamental change to the about paying for exceeding their data moving home. The modem includes a way we bring products and services to limits. This plan provides 40GB of data mobile back-up so customers can get market and provide customers with support. at uncapped speeds, followed by peace connected via the mobile network while Leveraging our investment in digitisation, of mind data capped at 1.5Mbps for the they wait for their fixed service to be we will simplify our products by retiring more remainder of the month. To mark the launch activated. It also switches to the mobile than 1,800 consumer and small business of our T22 strategy, we also introduced network if there’s an interruption to their plans and replacing them with 20 core plans. peace of mind data across a range of fixed service. We also launched a Telstra These plans will provide customers with cost new post-paid plans in July this year. Smart Modem for small business certainty and be supported by an effortless • Providing faster internet at no extra cost Over the past year, customers on our fixed digital service experience. Rollout will begin to almost one million Telstra home and network increased their data use by around in FY19, and all customers will be moved to small business customers 40 per cent. To help meet this increased our new product range by 30 June 2021. • Supporting nbn co’s launch of Fibre to the demand for data, we at least doubled existing plan allowances, and introduced unlimited Curb (FTTC) and helping our customers data for new and existing customers on our to connect to the network simply and $99 and above monthly plans. Small business quickly, we developed an intuitive FTTC broadband customers on $99 and above self-install kit. plans were also upgraded to unlimited data. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 6 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our customers Australia’s best mobile network We have also launched Concierge Tech • We launched Promise, a cloud based Customer advocacy In this digital age, our customers are more Support for our small business customers, management system that provides our We measure customer experience using reliant than ever before on the breadth, a service initiative that provides them with scheduling teams and field staff with the Net Promoter Score (NPS) system. speed and reliability of our network. We a dedicated agent, committed to resolving improved planning systems, appointment NPS enables us to measure our customers’ are investing billions of dollars each year their enquiries. Since its launch, Concierge bookings, work optimisation, and scheduling experiences and respond to their feedback. to deliver the best networks in Australia Tech Support has delivered a 20 point and dispatch capabilities. Promise is We measure NPS in two ways: Strategic NPS with the largest coverage footprint and improvement on our Episode NPS results improving lead times for our services, and Episode NPS. Strategic NPS is a measure faster speeds in more places. for Small Business nbn and Telstra Business and giving our field team greater flexibility that obtains customer feedback on their Broadband customers. to respond to customer requests on the go overall perceptions of and experiences with For more information on our network • We introduced a two-way SMS service Creating brilliant digital Telstra, and is relative to experiences they have investments and performance, including to manage appointment times and help with other organisations including competitors. our recent network outages and impact experiences customers keep in contact when having Episode NPS directly measures feedback on Triple Zero emergency calls, see the We are working to improve the digital a complaint resolved from customers in relation to a specific service Networks section of this report. experience for our customers. We are • We made changes to our Next Available experience our customers have with Telstra, investing approximately one billion dollars such as moving home or connecting a service. Providing help whenever it is Connection process, which provides in accelerating the digitisation of our customers with the earliest possible needed business, creating a suite of intuitive In a year of transformation and considerable connection date for a service, or the option change, our Strategic NPS remained steady, We are committed to making it easier and digital platforms, products and services to request a date that better suits them. more efficient for our customers to get the that are making it quicker and easier to yet fell short of our FY18 improvement target. This has reduced the average amount Our Episode NPS delivered a positive result, up help they need, when they need it, through engage with us. As part of this investment, of time it takes to connect a service by whichever platform suits them best. we made several improvements to our five points this year, exceeding our FY18 target. two days. customers’ digital experience this year: This year we continued to improve the This year we also built a new technology connection and service experience for our • We launched a Virtual Assistant, Codi, to respond to customer queries within our live stack for mid-sized business and Enterprise Product responsibility customers – focusing on getting things right customers. The stack will enable us to chat channel. Codi resolved 24 per cent of It is important that we provide our first time, eliminating customer pain points, simplify our product offering, and migrate all customer queries it is trained to respond customers with services they can trust, and creating a customer-centric culture. customers to a new product suite over the to this year, helping to reduce contact centre and products that are safe and easy These initiatives have made an impact. next three years. As part of this project we call volumes and free up our online service to understand. For information about Along with achieving a seven point increase launched the first iteration of the Telstra team to focus on more complex enquiries our approach to product responsibility, in Episode NPS this year for our Consumer Connect App. The app is now being used by including agreements reached this and Small Business customers, we saw a • We improved the look and feel of our Telstra more than 20 Enterprise customers to log and year with the Australian Competition 15 per cent decrease in inbound calls to our 24X7®1 App. Four million Telstra customers track the progress of incidents. We are also and Consumer Commission regarding Global Contact Centre, the largest single year use the App to manage their accounts and redesigning our Enterprise service model to product marketing, see the Product reduction we have seen in the past four years. services, and 91 per cent of queries raised ensure our customers receive a consistent, responsibility section of this report. through the App are resolved without high-quality experience. further escalation 1 ® Registered Trade mark of Telstra Corporation Limited Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 7 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise 17 goals and 169 targets aimed at addressing the world’s most We are committed to achieving We believe that the more connected people are, significant development challenges. Working gender equality at Telstra and have the more opportunities they have. We are making with government and civil society, businesses implemented a range of policies, significant investments in our network infrastructure have an important role to play in achieving programs and engagement initiatives to extend our coverage across rural and regional these goals. to help us achieve this goal. Telstra is Australia, improve network resilience, and ensure also a signatory to the UN Women’s we are able to meet the rising demand for data and At Telstra, our purpose is to create a brilliant Empowerment Principles. content, while also minimising our environmental connected future for everyone®, and we see impacts. We also help around one million vulnerable technology as an enabler of action on the customers each year to stay connected, and help our SDGs. This is reflected in the focus of our communities to build digital skills and capabilities, Sustainability Strategy. through our Everyone Connected programs. We are committed to creating a Our strategy is aimed at helping people to workplace where all our people can thrive in a digital world. It includes initiatives thrive. Our approach focuses on living and targets to address our impacts and our values, sustainable engagement opportunities in relation to the four priority and building capability. We strive to We believe businesses, and technology companies SDGs listed below. Our SDG priorities build a diverse and inclusive workforce in particular, have a critical role to play in assisting reflect the areas we believe Telstra is best that reflects our customers and the our customers, and society more generally, to move placed to contribute to, given our role as a countries in which we operate. We also towards a low carbon future and become more major Australian employer and a leading help build STEAM (Science, Technology, resilient to a changing climate. We continue to reduce telecommunications and technology company. Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics) our emissions intensity across our business and work capability in future generations of with our customers to develop communications and For more information on how our SDG digital innovators and problem solvers. technology solutions that help them reduce their own priorities are reflected in our Sustainability environmental impacts. Strategy, our FY18 performance highlights, and the stages across our value chain where we can make the greatest impact, please see our reporting website at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. 2016 2017 2018 We undertook an assessment to determine We developed and launched our First year of reporting on our progress which SDGs best reflect our business Sustainability Strategy, incorporating against our Strategy targets. For more context and strategy, our ICT capabilities, as initiatives and targets linked to our four information on how these targets align well as our key risks and impacts across our priority SDGs. to our four priority SDGs, see our FY18 value chain. We identified four priority SDGs performance table on page 10. for Telstra to contribute towards. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 8 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Thriving in a digital world Our sustainability approach and Ethic s an ment ciency dg n f ov iro e e er Thriving in a digital world Digital futures: nv urc o na re E s In an increasingly inter-connected world, We will foster strong, inclusive ns Re sp nce digital technology is disrupting traditional communities that are empowered tio o Environm ess operating models and helping society to to thrive in a digital world. ent usin eb respond to major issues in a more agile and Environmental solutions: al scalable way – from managing the impacts ibl Climate change so of climate change to making healthcare and We will use technology to address ns education more universally accessible. As a environmental challenges and lu and energy large telecommunications and technology help our suppliers, customers company, Telstra has a role to play in and communities do the same. helping our customers and society adapt to For a comprehensive overview of our technological change and the opportunities approach and progress in relation to each it brings. We want everyone to thrive in a of these three strategic pillars, please refer digital world. to their corresponding chapters throughout e Ev n r Digit od n e y on co al futures go r Our Sustainability Strategy (Strategy) reflects this report. A high level overview of the key ct e ed h fo our most material topics, our SDG priorities, elements of each pillar, as well as how we T ec the areas in which we have the expertise to are progressing against our targets can be N e t w or k s make a meaningful impact, and where we see found overleaf. opportunities to use innovative, tech-based solutions to help address major societal Sustainability governance challenges and opportunities. The Telstra Board is responsible for overseeing, and monitoring the effectiveness of, our The Strategy was developed in consultation Sustainability Strategy and policies. The Board with key stakeholders, both internal and receives updates on Telstra’s sustainability external, and represents a more holistic progress twice a year, with further updates approach to sustainability that is informed provided as appropriate or required during to current and emerging sustainability issues, the Telstra Group Code of Conduct, and our by, and integrated with our core business the year. The Board also approves our annual and working with the business to deliver social Diversity and Inclusion, Health and Safety, activities. Launched in FY17, the Strategy Modern Slavery Act Statement, and plays a role and environmental programs and outcomes Privacy, Human Rights, Environment and includes three pillars: in identifying our list of material sustainability for our customers and communities. Disability Services policies. The Supplier Responsible business: topics, which in turn informs our program Code of Conduct sets out our expectations The CSO also oversees the implementation development and annual reporting. of business partners and suppliers. We will be a sustainable, globally trusted of the Sustainability Strategy, working closely company that people want to work for The Chief Sustainability Office (CSO) is with the business to ensure key targets and For more information regarding our and with. responsible for championing and embedding performance indicators are met. governance of climate-related risks sustainability principles across Telstra, and opportunities, see the Climate Our sustainability approach is supported by managing the risks and opportunities related change and energy section of this report. a number of Telstra Group policies, including Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 9 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY18 performance Strategic focus area 2020 target SDG priority Progress More info Responsible business Ethics and governance 100 per cent completion of our new Goal 8 Rolled out updated business-wide ethics and See page 17 Being ethical, responsible and transparent in enterprise-wide values-based conduct training compliance training, which was completed by how we do business 88% of Telstra Group employees and contractors. Culture and capabilities Achieve a sustainable engagement score that is in Goal 52 Achieved a sustainable engagement score See page 29 Creating a world-class workplace where our line with the global high performing norm by 20221 Goal 8 of 74 per cent, up three per cent from FY17 people can thrive Digital futures Networks Achieve commercial deployment of 5G in all Goal 9 Conducted a number of Australian See page 40 Delivering leading telecommunications networks major cities and high demand regional centres3 and world-first 5G trials Everyone Connected4 Provide tailored support, products and Goal 9 Helped around one million vulnerable See page 43 Ensuring everyone can enjoy the benefits services to enable 1.5 million people to customers to stay connected of being connected connect or thrive online Tech for good Invest $18 million over three years in Telstra Goal 8 Invested $6 million in Telstra Foundation See page 52 Using the power of technology to enable Foundation funded initiatives designed to support Goal 9 funded initiatives to help young people to all young people to thrive young people to thrive in a digital world thrive in a digital world Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Reduce carbon emissions intensity Goal 13 Reduced carbon emissions intensity See page 59 Mitigating climate change impacts and helping (tCO2e per petabyte) by 50 per cent by (tC02e per petabyte) by 24 per cent, our customers and communities to do the same 2020, from a baseline year of FY17 from a baseline year of FY17 Environment and resource efficiency Reuse or recycle 60 tonnes of mobile phones and Goal 9 Collected 23.7 tonnes of mobile phones See page 64 Using resources efficiently and minimising accessories over the next three years and accessories for reuse or recycling environmental impacts across our value chain 1  he timeline for achieving this target has been restated in FY18. Our T 2  or further targets relating F 3 T  his target has been restated in FY18. Our previous target was ‘to extend 4  his target comprises our efforts to support vulnerable T original aim was to achieve a sustainable engagement score that is in to Goal 5 please see 4G coverage towards 99.4 per cent of the Australian population by 2020’. customers (including programs such as our Access for Everyone line with the global high performing norm by 2020. This timeline has been Telstra’s 2018 Corporate While we continued our progress towards this target in FY18, we have program, the Disability Equipment program, etc); our digital extended due to the introduction of our T22 strategy, which will involve Governance Statement increased our level of ambition in relation to network performance and literacy capability programs (including programs such as our significant amounts of change for the organisation. As the global high innovation. Our new 5G target reflects our aim to extend our network Tech Savvy Seniors, Digital Ambassador, Cyber safety training, performing norm changes year-on-year, we cannot provide an absolute leadership as a core enabler of our T22 strategy, and is subject to acquisition downloads, etc) and our Telstra Foundation programs (including target for 2022. The global high performing norm for FY18 was 84 per cent. of required spectrum (and 5G compatible devices being available). programs such as Code Club, IDX, e-smart libraries, etc). Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 10 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Material topics Each year we conduct a materiality assessment and environmental impacts of technology, High Priority > Privacy and data security to ensure we are responding to the issues, risks including on the future of work; and increasing Sustainability at Telstra Customer experience and opportunities that have the greatest impact stakeholder interest in corporate responsibility, Responsible business on our business, stakeholders and society. including product responsibility – driven Digital futures by a global decline in trust in business, and We undertake our assessment in accordance Environmental solutions heightened expectations of companies to with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Social and Business resilience profit responsibly. Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). We environmental innovation identify topics by reviewing a broad range Our annual assessment represents the Digital inclusion of primary and secondary sources, including materiality of topics at a point in time. The direct stakeholder engagement and feedback. impact of subsequent events, such as the Industry disruption and competition This year we increased the scope of our announcement of our T22 strategy, is not Network investment direct engagement by reaching out to 80 reflected in the placement of topics in the Community Workplace relations New growth and Diversity and inclusion business expansion Importance to stakeholders of our key community stakeholders, as well matrix, but is detailed throughout this report. investment Ethics, values and governance as over 40 ESG and institutional investment All high and medium priority topics identified Supply Energy and emissions analysts to get their view of our most material chain are included in our reporting and are listed in Product responsibility sustainability topics. We also surveyed 2,500 Cyber safety the following matrix. Detailed information on Telstra employees, along with the Telstra these topics, as well as how we are managing Human rights Executive Leadership Group and Telstra Regulatory change them, can be found throughout this Bigger Stakeholder trust in business Board to get an internal view of the key Product stewardship Picture 2018 Sustainability Report. Where Climate change resilience topics on the horizon for Telstra and our Health, safety applicable, more information may also be industry more broadly. Corporate Employee and wellbeing found within our 2018 Annual Report. Political and taxation capability social advocacy Each year we consider materiality in the context For definitions of our material topics, of emerging global trends, the UN Sustainable Environmental risk please see our Report Glossary, available and compliance Development Goals and our overall corporate in the data and downloads section of our context. We prioritise topics according to their < Medium Priority reporting website. For more information Employee engagement impact on our stakeholders, the communities on how we have measured Telstra’s Talent attraction in which we operate, and our ability to influence impact in relation to each of these topics, or address related impacts. They inform our please also see our reporting website at sustainability agenda and programs, as well www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. as our reporting. < Medium Priority Importance to Telstra High Priority > Our materiality assessment has also This year, our most material topics remain highlighted a number of emerging topics Only our medium and high priority topics are reflected in the matrix above, and in largely unchanged. Key shifts include an our reporting. We continue to monitor the trajectory of emerging and low priority with the potential to become more significant topics and ensure we are managing any related impacts and opportunities. increase in media and investor interest over time. We continue to monitor the trajectory regarding corporate taxation; increasing of these topics and ensure we are managing stakeholder concerns regarding the social any related impacts and opportunities. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing material impacts across our value chain Telstra’s influence extends beyond our Supply chain Telstra Customers and community own operations and as a result, so do our economic, social and environmental Our purpose, vision and values impacts. We therefore hold a broad view of how we create value for our business and stakeholders. In accordance with the GRI Standards, the infographic below identifies the key stages of Telstra’s value chain, including our supply chain, our direct operations, our customers and communities, and product end of life. Manufactured products Products and solutions Customer We purchase products, including We offer a broad suite of Delivering brilliant experiences As part of our annual materiality connectivity products and for our customers is our electronics and network process, we determine where along equipment that we provide to our services, media and content to number one priority. We aim our value chain each of our material customers or use in our networks customers in Australia, as well to achieve this through the topics are of greatest impact. An overview and business operations. as connectivity and enterprise products, capabilities and services globally. customer service we provide. of our impacts across our value chain can be found in the GRI and UNGC Index of this End of life report, which is available on the data and We apply integrated and collaborative approaches downloads page of our reporting website to increase the recovery, at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. re-use and recycling of our products when they reach For an interactive view of the key stages their end of life. and structure of our value chain, including our key stakeholders, SDG priority targets Service providers Network and operations Community and material topics, please refer to the We procure services including Our networks underpin Telstra’s Our Sustainability Strategy Value Chain page of our reporting website those relating to customer support, global operations, including our is aimed at enabling at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. professional services, network products, services and overall everyone in our communities installation and maintenance, and customer experience. to thrive in a digital world. property management as well as other non-core services. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 12 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is the foundation of Our stakeholders Our stakeholders our approach to sustainability. We consider Telstra is a signatory our stakeholders to be any group or individual to, or participant in who influences or is impacted by our business. We regularly engage with our key stakeholder the following voluntary Customers Shareholders and investment community groups to ensure we understand their sustainability initiatives Our customers are residential consumers, Our investment community comprises expectations of us, and respond to their • Australian Packaging Covenant small to medium enterprises, large companies institutional investors, buy and sell-side varied interests and concerns. and organisations, as well as government. analysts, as well as around 1.3 million • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure shareholders, some of whom invest with We want our stakeholders to be advocates Project) social and environmental preferences. for Telstra, and are focused on developing • FTSE4Good Communities meaningful relationships through regular • Global e-Sustainability Initiative We engage with our communities wherever we engagement and dialogue. This helps Media • Global Reporting Initiative operate, including non-profit organisations and us to keep abreast of evolving social and program partners, as well as community We regularly engage with representatives environmental expectations, and to use • Joint Audit Cooperation groups and individuals local to our operations. from print, radio, TV, social and online media stakeholder insights to develop targeted • MobileMuster at a local, national and international level. products, services and programs, and • Supply Nation ultimately improve our customers’ experience. Employees • Sustainable Development Goals Our approach to stakeholder engagement is Our workforce is large and diverse – we have Unions • Telco Together Foundation more than 32,000 employees located in over guided by the Telstra values. Our engagement We work closely with the relevant employee takes many forms, including face-to-face • Transparency International Australia 20 countries. trade unions including Community and Public interactions, surveys and market research. • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Sector Union, Communications Electrical and We are active in industry groups, participate Plumbing Union and Professionals Australia. in industry networks and forums, and have Government teams across the company that manage We engage with government ministers and staff relationships with specific stakeholder groups. at local, state and federal levels in Australia, and Suppliers internationally. We engage with more than 6,000 suppliers, We aim to build stakeholder trust by being located across 45 countries around the world. transparent, responsive and accountable. The following table includes a list of our Industry key stakeholder groups. For information Regulators We regularly engage with our sector peers and on how we engage with our stakeholders, competitors, as well as ICT and We work closely with industry regulators in all and their key areas of interest, please see telecommunications specific associations. our markets. the GRI Index to this report, available at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 13 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About this report Our reporting against set targets, with the aim of providing Our 2018 Annual Reporting Suite comprises readers with a clear view of how we are this Bigger Picture Sustainability Report, addressing our most material impacts. the Telstra Annual Report, and our 2018 Reporting standards Corporate Governance Statement. All of these documents are available to download Our sustainability reporting is prepared in via our sustainability reporting website, accordance with the Core Global Reporting at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. Initiative (GRI) Reporting Standards (GRI Our reporting website features infographics, Standards); the UNGC Communication videos and performance highlights tables on Progress and AccountAbility’s AA1000 that detail our FY18 performance, more Principles Standard 2008. information regarding our impacts across The GRI topics and disclosures we have our value chain, and a number of documents reported on throughout this report and on to download – such as detailed data tables, our website have been determined through our FY18 Assurance Statement, report our materiality process. The GRI Content Glossary and GRI & United Nations Global Index accompanying this report contains a Compact (UNGC) Index. full list of disclosures, including their internal our operations across the Telstra Group, as This provides readers with comfort that The structure of our Bigger Picture 2018 and external boundaries and scope, and well as a discussion of any broader impacts we have identified our material topics Sustainability Report is aligned to the their alignment with the UNGC and the across our value chain. and reported on them. three pillars and corresponding focus UN Sustainable Development Goals. Information regarding the controlled We also obtain reasonable assurance areas of our Sustainability Strategy. Material In instances where aspect boundaries entities in the Telstra Group can be found in accordance with ASAE 3000 and 3410 topics identified through our materiality extend beyond the scope of our reporting, on our website. assurance standards over greenhouse assessment have been aligned to these areas we are working to increase our disclosures. and energy performance information as where relevant. Some topics represent global Assurance disclosed each year over the greenhouse challenges, such as responding to the threat Reporting scope and energy metrics that form part of our Ernst & Young (EY) provides limited of climate change and respecting human Our sustainability reporting covers the assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 regulatory National Greenhouse and Energy rights. Others are key challenges for our financial year 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 over a selection of performance disclosures Reporting (NGER). industry, such as protecting our customers’ (FY18) for Telstra Corporation Limited, unless in our Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability privacy and data security, and ensuring otherwise stated. For an overview of the metrics that Report. From FY18-FY20 these performance all vulnerable customers can access underwent assurance this year, We are working to extend our data collection disclosures will align with the targets set in the benefits enabled by modern please see EY’s Assurance Statement, to include our international operations, with our Sustainability Strategy. communications technologies. available via our reporting website, a view to broadening the overall scope of our Additionally, we obtained limited assurance at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. For each topic we have provided an overview reporting over time. Wherever possible and over our application of the principle of our approach and progress across the relevant under the GRI Standards we have of materiality, as outlined in the GRI reporting period, including our performance extended the scope of this report to include Reporting Standards. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 14 Responsible Highlights business New global $1.5 billion 400 websites ethics and compliance paid in Australian pro-actively scanned by training rolled out, income tax cyber security every month in line with 2020 Target for new vulnerabilities Ethics and governance The way we do business is important to us. We are committed to acting responsibly and being transparent and accountable, wherever we operate. The social, economic and environmental expectations placed on us continue to evolve as the world in which we operate changes. While technological innovation and digital disruption have opened up new opportunities, they have 800 specialists $2 million also highlighted our need to be transparent and accountable in procurement and in goods and services with emerging concerns such as how customer information purchasing trained in purchased from is generated, stored, used and shared via our products supplier risk assessment Indigenous suppliers and services. We recognise that the long-term success of our company depends on how we respond to changing expectations; not just within our own operations but into our supply chain and relationships with our business partners. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Ethics, values and governance Approach Living our values1 Telstra is committed to excellence in corporate governance, accountability and ethical behaviour in all countries in Show you care which we operate. We believe in creating and promoting a strong, values-based Better together culture and maintaining transparency in our activities. Above all, we recognise Trust each other to deliver that long-term success depends largely on how we do business. Make the complex simple Across our operations, we promote a fair and equitable culture through our Code of Find your courage Conduct, mandatory compliance training, and support and incentives for employees who demonstrate our values. We have Our values describe who we are and what we arrangements, to reflect developments in Working ethically strict guidelines to help employees pursue stand for; they should shape our decisions market practice, expectations and regulation Telstra’s Code of Conduct and our Values high ethical standards, avoid corruption and actions and guide how we work together. as appropriate. set the behavioural standards for everyone and bribes, and speak out if they have In FY18 we continued to focus on bringing who works for, or on behalf of, Telstra. The Our governance framework plays an integral any concerns about improper behaviour. our values to life in everything we do and Code of Conduct helps us take a consistent, role in supporting our business and helping continued to encourage our people to global approach to important ethical and us deliver on our strategy. It provides the recognise others who were doing this. compliance issues. Progress structure through which our strategy and Governance at Telstra business objectives are set, our performance All Telstra employees are responsible for In pursuit of our vision We are committed to excellence in is monitored, and the risks we face knowing and following the ethical, legal, and purpose are managed. and policy requirements that apply to corporate governance, transparency and Our purpose is to create a brilliant accountability. This is essential for the long It includes a clear framework for decision their jobs and for reporting any suspected connected future for everyone. Our Telstra term performance and sustainability of making and accountability across our violations of law or our Code of Conduct. Values, together with our Telstra Group our company, and to protect and enhance business and provides guidance on the Our Executives and managers are accountable Code of Conduct and policy framework, the interests of our shareholders and other standards of behaviour we expect of for creating and promoting a culture in which define the standards of behaviour we stakeholders. each other. compliance and ethical business conduct are expect of each other as we deliver on our expected and encouraged. We comply with the third edition of the For more information about governance at purpose and achieve our strategy. ASX Corporate Governance Council’s Telstra, please refer to our 2018 Corporate Corporate Governance Principles and Governance Statement. Recommendations (ASX Recommendations). 1  he Telstra Values are registered T We regularly review our governance trademarks of Telstra Corporation Limited Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 16 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Understanding and reporting risk employees who fail to complete mandatory Whistleblowing It is vital that our people understand compliance training without a valid reason. We encourage our people across the Telstra Political donations how to identify, assess and manage risk As at 30 June 2018, 88 per cent of Group to take action if they have concerns Telstra does not make political in our business, and that our Board is fully Telstra Group employees and contractors about unethical, illegal or improper behaviour. donations. However, like many other aware of the risks we are facing and what have completed this year’s mandatory Our Whistleblowing Policy is supported by publicly-listed companies, we do pay we are doing to monitor and mitigate them. refresher course1. a confidential, anonymous process that fees to attend events organised by For more information, please refer to our provides appropriate protections for our political parties where those events FY18 Corporate Governance Statement. We are following up with employees who people and members of the public (including allow for discussion on major policy did not complete the training by the required those in our supply chain) to report their issues with opinion leaders and Compliance training date to determine whether disciplinary action concerns. This process is supported by an policy makers. Training is an essential component of is required. independent service provider specialising our risk management, governance and in handling sensitive reports and disclosures. Commitment to anti-bribery compliance framework. and anti-corruption Telstra’s Group Whistleblowing Committee Our compliance training approach ensures consists of senior executives and is chaired We prohibit corruption and payment all employees are aware of their obligations by the Company Secretary. It monitors of bribes or kickbacks of any kind. Our under our compliance policies and have disclosures, investigations, recommendations mandatory compliance training is designed access to further information about these and, where appropriate, the implementation to educate our employees and contractors when required. of actions. Our Audit and Risk Committee on recognising the many forms bribes can oversees the whistleblowing process. In FY18 we implemented updated enterprisetake and how to avoid them, even at the wide induction and refresher ethics and risk of losing business opportunities. As at 1 July 2017, there were 18 compliance training across the Telstra whistleblowing alerts in progress We expect that our suppliers and business Group. This mandatory, induction and within the Telstra Group. During FY18, partners acting on our behalf comply with refresher training, aligned to the Code 101 whistleblowing alerts were opened our minimum standards in relation to ethical of Conduct, covers our values and group and 77 were closed. As at June 30 2018, dealings which are described in our Supplier policies on issues such as fraud and ethical 42 alerts remain in progress. Code of Conduct. behaviour, health, safety and environment, For whistleblowing contact details, discrimination and bullying, accessibility and We seek to ensure gifts and hospitality visit our website. inclusion, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, are not given or accepted in inappropriate privacy and the Structural Separation circumstances, including where the offering Undertaking (SSU). As part of our training or acceptance may compromise (or be governance framework we monitor, report perceived to compromise) independence, and manage mandatory training completion or be construed as a bribe. 1 C  ompletion rate lower than in previous years as rates. We may take disciplinary action against some business units had an extension on their deadline for completion. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Managing our tax affairs We regularly provide tax training and During FY18, we: During FY18, our material transactions seminars to relevant personnel and keep • paid $1.5 billion in Australian income tax1, with our offshore subsidiaries included: Our approach to tax strategy up to date with the latest tax developments $0.2 billion in state payroll taxes and $0.1 • paying and receiving fees for and governance and tax law changes. billion in other Australian federal, state and international connectivity We are committed to the highest standards local government taxes We are committed to full transparency • paying for customer and network of tax governance and compliance with the and disclosure in our dealings with revenue • remitted $1.1 billion in net GST support services tax laws and obligations in the jurisdictions authorities. This open and cooperative (after claiming input tax credits) • paying and charging interest on cash in which we operate. We pay tax consistent with our business presence and operations. approach includes regular interactions • remitted $1.0 billion in Pay As You Go balances used to fund our subsidiaries’ with the Australian Tax Office (ATO) pursuant withholding tax deducted from salaries day to day operations. Our Tax Risk Management and Assurance to its annual Pre-lodgement Compliance paid to employees. Policy is reviewed and approved on a threeReview process. The ATO categorises Telstra Our international related party transactions On average our annual payment of corporate are based on commercial considerations year cycle by the Audit and Risk Committee Corporation Limited as a key taxpayer for income tax accounts for approximately 2.6 per and are undertaken in accordance with the of the Board. It is also reviewed annually both income tax and GST within the ATO’s cent of total corporate income tax collected by Organisation for Economic Co-operation by the Policy Governance Committee as risk-differentiation framework. the ATO2. We ranked fifth in corporate income and Development’s (OECD’s) arm’s part of Telstra’s group-level suite of policies. We were one of the first companies to tax paid in the ATO’s latest Report of Entity Tax length principles, supported by regular In accordance with this policy, we maintain receive a Tax Assurance Report (TAR) from Information (for FY16). benchmarking. a conservative tax risk profile. All transactions we enter into are based the ATO (for FY16) as part of its “Justified Trust” The Telstra Group’s effective income tax rate We seek to comply with Australian and on commercial considerations. initiative. Our TAR resulted in no adjustments was 30.8 per cent, which is in line with the foreign transfer pricing tax laws and have and reflects our positive approach towards Australian corporate tax rate of 30 per cent3. met our filing obligations to the ATO, including We do not take positions that are tax-driven, tax compliance and our willingness to engage artificial or contrived, or that interpret a tax and provide sufficient evidence to enable Our international related Australia’s revised standards for transfer law beyond its spirit and intent. In keeping the ATO to undertake its assurance work. pricing and country-by-country reporting. party dealings with this approach, we may contest tax rulings or interpretations of tax law where we believe We have adopted the Board of Taxation’s Australia’s domestic and international we are correct (even if a revenue authority Voluntary Tax Transparency Code, providing tax laws are among the strongest in the expresses a different view). Where appropriate, the recommended disclosures in this report developed world, resulting in high levels we minimise tax risk and uncertainty by and in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements of tax compliance. obtaining sign-offs from revenue authorities. in the 2018 Annual Report. 1 Income tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited on behalf of We utilise our international telethe Australian tax consolidated group (Telstra Corporation Material tax matters are regularly reported Our Australian tax contribution communications network (including Limited and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries). to the Audit and Risk Committee. submarine cables) to deliver teleTelstra makes a significant contribution to 2  verage percentage calculated using our net Australian A communications connectivity services We seek to undertake real-time reviews Australian federal, state and local government tax consolidated group cash tax paid divided by ATO net and solutions to customers in over corporate income tax collections for the past three years of tax risks on all material transactions and tax revenues. 20 countries. Our substantial overseas (i.e. FY15 to FY17) based on the Commissioner of Taxation’s are committed to continuous improvement operations are located in Hong Kong, Annual Report 2016/17. of our tax compliance systems, processes Singapore, the Philippines, the UK 3 See Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2018 and practices. and the US. Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 18 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Protecting our customers’ data and privacy Approach This may include assessing how infrastructure and public spaces are used and what future As digital technologies become increasingly development may be required, as well as integrated in people’s lives, generating movement across road and rail routes to greater quantities of data, protecting the understand what investment is needed to privacy and security of our customers’ data meet future demand. is more important than ever. Our customers and community are concerned about who The Australian Notifiable Data Breach has access to their data and how it is used. Scheme commenced on 22 February 2018. We understand these concerns and are We have implemented a formal Notifiable committed to being transparent about Data Breach reporting plan across Telstra how we handle customer information. to reflect the requirements of the legislation. This includes formal guidelines to manage We manage privacy and data access through a suspected privacy breach. In FY18 we had codes of practice, policies and security five privacy incidents requiring notification controls, which protect data from intrusions to the Office of the Australian Information and unauthorised access, and commit our Commissioner (OAIC) two of which involved employees to strict standards of privacy significant numbers of people. One related and confidentiality. Compliance is closely to customers who requested silent line monitored. Telstra also has processes and them to treat the personal and confidential Our customers’ personal information facilities and had their data published in operational guidelines in place for managing information of others with respect at all We are firmly committed to protecting and times. In addition, we take steps to reduce White Pages directories due to a processing privacy-related issues such as metadata securing our customers’ personal information error. All customers impacted were contacted retention, copyright infringements, and any risk of unauthorised access to our and we comply with relevant privacy facilities, information, data or other assets. directly and their listing preferences were information requests from government legislation. We do not share with third parties updated. Our default position is now that all and law enforcement agencies. We continue to adapt our framework any information that identifies, or could new numbers are unlisted unless customers by expanding existing practices to reflect reasonably identify, a customer unless specifically request listing. Another incident Progress new ways of working and by continuing we have their appropriate informed consent related to unauthorised access to the thirdto implement ‘privacy by design’ principles or are required or permitted by law to share party PageUp recruitment tool used by Telstra Protecting our customers’ privacy when assessing new products and services. the information. for internal and external job applicants. Again As part of our approach to protecting Our Privacy Statement remains our most Some of the data we collect can provide all impacted individuals were contacted. customers’ personal information and our prominent instrument for providing our insight and intelligence to assist in planning A further three incidents impacted very small networks from unauthorised access, we customers with transparency about what and forecasting. For example, we provide numbers of customers. use a combination of technical solutions, happens with the personal information aggregated and anonymised location-based entrusted to us. The Statement is reviewed The European Union’s General Data security controls and internal processes. insights to governments and organisations Protection Regime (GDPR) commenced twice per year. to help solve planning challenges and deliver Our employees and contractors are subject operation on 25 May 2018. We have For more information about our privacy policy, other benefits for local communities. implemented a suite of new processes to the Telstra Code of Conduct, which requires visit www.telstra.com/privacystatement. to meet the requirements of the GDPR. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Being transparent with our Managing cyber security Process People customers The threat represented by cybercrime is We employ an information asset-focused Cyber security is as much about people Telstra’s annual Transparency Report aims not new. What is new is society’s increased approach to cyber security risk management, as it is about technology. We deliver to give our customers more information about cyber-dependency, which allows crime, ensuring appropriate ownership and programs designed to foster a strong our legal obligations as a carrier and carriage protest, espionage and errors to happen oversight of systems, data and risks. Our cyber security culture. service provider. at an unprecedented pace, scale and reach. security governance framework ensures We invest in our people to prepare them This makes it critical for Telstra to identify that information and asset owners undertake Like all telecommunications companies against a range of different cyber threats. and manage threats. ongoing risk management. Cyber security operating in Australia, we are required by law We have mandatory annual training for all subject matter experts provide oversight, to assist a range of Government agencies who We take protecting the security of our employees and contractors, and run drills and our risk and internal audit functions request customer information for purposes customers’ data and networks very seriously. on our employees to test its effectiveness. independently assure the process. such as enforcing criminal law and laws We have over 500 security specialists imposing financial penalties, protecting public globally, devoted to providing network We also have security processes that include revenue and safeguarding national security. security solutions to our customers. technical reviews of projects and solutions, and due diligence of third parties to ensure Telstra only discloses customer information We design, build and manage the security the presence and assess the effectiveness if the request is in accordance with the law. for our global network in three main ways: of security controls at critical points. We also provide assistance to emergency Technology services organisations in life-threatening and time-critical situations. We use a range of technologies and security controls to minimise the threat, likelihood and impact of unauthorised Types of law enforcement requests FY18 access to our networks and systems. Such Telstra customer information, 66,671 technologies and controls include logging carrier service records and and monitoring capabilities to pre-empt pre-warrant checks and proactively prepare for internal and external threats and industry-standard Life threatening situations and 4,214 infrastructure configuration. Triple Zero emergency calls We continuously invest in our security Court orders 505 capabilities, including maintaining and enhancing our existing technologies to Copyright DNS Blocking 370 continue to stay ahead of new security threats. We also deploy new technologies Warrants for interception or 2,329 to ensure we can adapt to the range of access to stored communications changing security threats. Total 74,089 Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 20 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Managing our supply chain Approach for the workers we are seeking to protect, the community and the environment. Our supply chain Telstra direct supplier spend by country Our scale gives us the opportunity to work This year, we joined the Joint Audit with our suppliers to positively influence As a major telecommunications and Cooperation (JAC), an association of technology company, we have a large their environmental, social and ethical 16 global telecommunications operators performance. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and complex supply chain. In FY18, that pools results of site audits of common we engaged with more than 6,000 sets out the minimum standards we expect suppliers to further support this work. from our suppliers and forms part of our suppliers across over 45 countries standard purchasing terms. Many of our suppliers have processes in and 80 per cent of our total spend place for managing their own risks and are was with 110 suppliers. We work continuously with our suppliers open to working with us to meet our minimum to assess whether they are meeting these Our largest category of spend is standards. In instances where suppliers on information and communications standards. Where we identify concerns are not willing to improve their performance about supplier performance, we engage technology (ICT) (66 per cent). despite our attempts at engagement, These items are provided directly constructively with the supplier, driving we may withdraw from contracts or switch improvement to deliver the best outcomes to customers, used to provide and to alternate suppliers. manage our network and data services, or used by Telstra employees. It also includes services that relate to developing and programming software, and providing technology 84% Australia and NZ support to our customers and people. 1% Europe excl UK and Ireland Construction and physical network 4% Hong Kong infrastructure maintenance represents 2% UK and Ireland 11 per cent of our total spend. 3% USA and Canada 6% Asia excl Hong Kong The remaining 23 per cent of procurement spend is on non-core activities, such as professional services, travel and uniforms. Ninety per cent of what we spend directly is with suppliers based in low-risk countries, as defined by the OECD. Many of our suppliers have Australian-based subsidiaries with whom we deal directly. As a result, a high percentage of our direct spend is within Australia. However, geography is only one factor we use in assessing the overall risk of a supplier and we do look beyond our first tier of suppliers in making these assessments. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Progress Industry cooperation Supplier Governance Framework on supply chain This year to help us make more informed Supply chain sustainability, particularly purchasing decisions, we implemented in the ICT sector where there are complex a Supplier Governance Framework supply chains, is an area that requires which assesses suppliers against twelve cross-sector collaboration. We work categories of risk (see diagram). Of with ICT industry bodies such as the these risks, we include labour practices, Joint Audit Committee (JAC) and Global environmental, health and safety, and e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) to drive bribery and corruption risks in our improvements in sustainability practice definition of sustainability risks. throughout the global supply chain. This year, training on the Framework was This year, we joined the Joint Audit provided to over 800 procurement employees Cooperation (JAC), an association and business specialists with ongoing of 16 global telecommunications responsibility for managing suppliers. As operators that pools results of site part of our ongoing commitment to training, audits of common suppliers. JAC’s we have developed an online training tool, Supplier risk types audits aim to verify that suppliers which will be rolled out across the business comply with internationally-recognised in FY19. sustainability standards within global Operational Commercial Business Continuity supply chains. The audit scope is based on 10 sustainability criteria that align with our areas of risk. Information Since 2010, JAC has conducted 366 Privacy Fraud Security audits in 27 countries, covering more than 817,000 workers. Since 2016, 42 Telstra suppliers have participated Health Anti-Bribery Trade in JAC-appointed audits. Twenty-five & Safety Anti-Corruption Sanctions of these audits were carried out in FY18. We expect more than 20 of our suppliers to be subject to JAC audits Export Labour Environmantal in FY19. Controls Practice Practices Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 22 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Supplier risk management Construction and physical network Remediation Through the Indigenous Workforce We have adopted a category-based approach infrastructure maintenance While we are still working through the detail Program (IWP) we partner with local to supplier risk management. Sustainability of the questionnaire responses and audits, Indigenous groups to undertake grounds Within construction and physical network risks are more likely in the ICT products initial findings in both ICT and apparel maintenance at regional and remote sites infrastructure maintenance, health and and services, and construction and physical manufacturing suggest working hours across Queensland, the Northern Territory safety is a significant risk area. Our Contractor network infrastructure maintenance are an issue of concern. Addressing this and Western Australia. In FY18 we began Management Centre of Excellence (CMCoE) categories, which are also our two largest issue will form part of the corrective actions developing an industry-certified pest in the Telstra Operations team works closely categories of spend. Within the remaining identified in the remediation plans drawn up control training program for IWP participants, with suppliers to identify best practice and categories of spend, we have identified for suppliers where problems are identified. building on their existing maintenance improve their management practices. contract cleaning, apparel manufacturing, skills. The IWP supports the employment Regular audits are carried out with results Labour and human rights represent a of more than 67 people at over 550 sites. promotional merchandise production and recorded in a centralised database, where particular area of supply chain risk for waste management as categories warranting Choosing Indigenous suppliers incidents are also reported. In FY18, over our business. To better manage this risk, specific attention. 3,000 health, safety and environment audits we have undertaken assessment and As part of our Reconciliation Action Plan ICT products and services were undertaken. prioritisation of suppliers in relation to (RAP), we committed to increase our annual human rights risks. Please refer to the spend with Indigenous suppliers, creating a In the ICT sector, we assess suppliers’ Other categories in focus for FY18 Human rights section of this chapter more inclusive and sustainable supply chain. sustainability risks as part of the selection In FY18, we assessed selected suppliers for more detail. In FY18, through a range of programs focused and contract renewal process using questionnaires, documentary review in the apparel, cleaning, promotional on increasing engagement, we spent over merchandise, Telstra-branded consumer Supplier social impact $2 million with Indigenous businesses. and, where warranted, onsite audits. equipment, and waste management Our supported and Indigenous In FY18 we selected 24 ICT suppliers to Our Indigenous Labour Program was launched categories against our sustainability risks. workforce complete sustainability questionnaires in September 2017, with the aim of maximising Our assessment identified six suppliers and 25 onsite audits were completed We are proud to continue our partnership our opportunities to increase contracting of potential higher risk. These six suppliers on ICT suppliers. We are working with with 13 non-profit groups around Australia opportunities for Indigenous workers through were asked to complete sustainability these suppliers to evaluate the results to create employment opportunities the introduction of a three per cent target for questionnaires, and four site audits were of questionnaires and audits. Where for people living with disability or from workforce placement included in Temporary undertaken. For some suppliers we audit suppliers are unable to satisfy us that disadvantaged backgrounds. At 30 June and Contract Labour hire agreements. only their site (i.e. tier one), and in other they have appropriate risk management this year, 522 people with disability and cases we audit as far as two tiers down Initial results from the program are controls in place, or are unwilling to share people from disadvantaged backgrounds the supply chain. encouraging. In seven months, Telstra this information, we may take further action, were accessing employment through has made a total of 20 Indigenous permanent such as engaging senior management, the program. placements, of which nine were sourced implementing a remediation plan, or through Indigenous recruitment suppliers. suspending the contract. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Human rights Approach labour rights, environmental protection, Understanding our human We prioritise our assessments of our and measures to fight corruption. Our rights risks suppliers’ human rights performance Across our value chain, we aim to ensure that commitment to respect and support based on risk. In FY17, we identified we and our business partners operate with human rights is aligned to the UN Guiding We are a diversified, international business suppliers with higher potential human respect for human rights. Since 2011, we Principles on Business and Human Rights, with a large workforce and contractor base. rights risks. In FY18, we refined our have been a signatory to the United Nations and is outlined in our Code of Conduct and We have examined the human rights risks to understanding of this risk by engaging Global Compact, which commits companies Human Rights Policy. identify our seven most salient human rights an external third party to further review to 10 guiding principles on human rights, risks, which are detailed in the box below left. these suppliers. Based on this additional review, we Progress prioritised suppliers with higher human Labour rights (human rights) including: Reported in this section rights risks, and engaged directly with of the report Managing human rights • forced or compulsory labour them to understand how they are managing In FY18 we made our second annual them. This work commenced in April 2018, • wages and benefits statement under the UK Modern Slavery and we are reviewing the information • work hours Act 2015 (MSA), which requires companies • child labour provided to determine which suppliers operating in the UK with annual global require further engagement. turnover exceeding £36 million to publish Refer to Employment an annual ‘slavery and human trafficking As outlined in the Managing our supply chain Freedom of association section of this chapter, our audit activities and workplace relations statement’. Our Modern Slavery Statement 2017 is available on our website and we will in FY18 identified concerns about working continue to publish our Statement annually hours with some suppliers. We are still Refer to Promoting health, Health and safety as well as provide updates on our progress working through the detail and remediation safety and wellbeing in this report. plans will be developed in FY19. Refer to Protecting our We have continued to embed our human rights As part of broader supplier governance Privacy and data protection training in FY18, we completed human rights customers’ data and privacy compliance plan to manage and mitigate our seven salient human rights risks. risk training for 800 employees who interact with suppliers. In FY19 we will extend this Refer to Employment Anti-discrimination Human rights in our supply chain training to all employees who purchase and workplace relations As our supply chain is one of our areas products and services, develop labour of greatest potential human rights risk, contracts or manage third parties. Refer to Ethics, values Anti-bribery and corruption we devoted significant effort this year to and governance deepening our understanding of the specific types of human rights risks associated with Refer to Ethics, values different types of products, source countries Access to grievance mechanisms and governance and sectors. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 24 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Product responsibility Approach The number of complaints received about PDB over time shows there were issues with It is important that we provide our customers the service that needed to be addressed. with services they can trust, and products that are safe and easy to understand. We Telstra took a number of steps to improve are working to improve our communication our processes, but we acknowledge we could with customers, by providing clear, simple have done more and done it faster. We exited product information with transparent terms this service entirely on 3 March 2018. and conditions. Feedback from customers In March 2018, we agreed with the Australian and regulators indicates that sometimes we Competition and Consumer Commission do not meet expectations in this area. We (ACCC) to jointly submit to the Federal take seriously our responsibilities to keep Court that Telstra pay a penalty relating our customers and the community informed to the management of our PDB service. about our products and to maintain an open and honest dialogue on issues of concern. We have apologised to customers who were We have implemented several changes in charged unexpectedly under our PDB service FY18 to improve our customers’ experience for these subscription content services of our products and services. and to those who may have experienced difficulty when trying to opt out from them. While the following list of product We acknowledge that customers may have responsibility disclosures is not exhaustive, raised concerns and understand that the it includes the most significant legal steps we took in response were not effective We took the industry lead in proactively whose nbn connection was not capable and regulatory findings from FY18. enough or put in place fast enough. We have providing refunds to a small sub-set of of delivering the top speeds and we have identified impacted customers and proactively customers who were sold certain nbn contacted affected customers, providing Progress contacted them and offered to refund any services where their nbn fixed-line service them with options. charges that should not have been applied. was not capable of delivering their chosen Transparency in communications We have changed our advertising, marketing speed tier. The remedial action applied to Internet speeds and sales processes. We now use the standard Premium Direct Billing services fewer than 5 per cent of our nbn customers. ACCC Speed Tier Label naming convention to Internet speeds are a key issue for our The steps we took positioned us as one of the Premium Direct Billing (PDB) enabled mobile describe our speed plans and quote the typical customers as they migrate to the nbn™ first nbn RSPs to adopt the ACCC’s Industry customers to buy content such as games, apps minimum speeds a customer can expect, for network. Not all homes can receive the Guidance issued in August 2017, following or videos from third parties by subscribing or the peak period in which most people tend to maximum speed of a customer’s chosen an industry-wide investigation. In November purchasing online and have it charged to their use the internet. Since October 2017, new nbn speed tier, especially on the higher speed 2017, the ACCC accepted an undertaking mobile phone bill or Pre-Paid credit balance. customers are contacted post-connection if tiers sold by nbn co to Retail Service Providers from Telstra following that investigation. These services had been introduced by a their maximum speed is lower the advertised (RSPs), due to the underlying technology number of mobile providers to give customers The majority of our customers had a service minimum speed and offered remediation being rolled out by nbn co and other factors. a convenient way of paying for certain types of that could deliver the speeds of the plan they options in accordance with ACCC guidelines. online services. had chosen, but there were a small group Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Mobile plan advertising Since February 2018 customers are no Disappointingly, we experienced a number Managing and minimising In May 2018 we launched a mobile plan longer charged a monthly fee to keep their of network disruptions during May 2018, TIO complaints with an unlimited amount of data, but with details out of the White Pages and online which impacted our customers and the directories. All Telstra customers can now broader community. The most significant In FY18 year our first stage (Level 1) speed restrictions which applied after a complaints to the Telecommunications certain amount of data was consumed. manage their Directory Listing and Caller ID of these was a fibre cut caused by a fire, (whether their number is displayed to other which triggered a disruption to Triple Zero Industry Ombudsman (TIO) increased Our advertising of this plan was a mix of by eight per cent compared to last year. detailed advertisements which included callers) preferences through the Telstra emergency services. For more information, detail about the speed restrictions, and 24×7 App® or My Account. Telstra contacted please see the Networks section of We want our customers to be completely also short form advertising making the existing Silent Line customers to reassure this report. satisfied with the level of service we claim “One word you’ve been waiting for them their details remain private and detail provide. Our aim is to ensure our customers from Australia’s best mobile network – what to expect on their bill. feel valued and understood every time Unlimited”. We were challenged in Court they interact with us and any increase about this short form advertising, with the in complaints to the TIO indicates we still Court finding that the advertisements were have some work to do to resolve customer misleading. As a result, we have ceased issues quickly. using the claim and have committed to We continue to work on ways to improve our not using the claim in the future. customers’ experience, including employee Importantly, any customer who responded training, simplifying or removing fees and to our advertising will have been informed improving the Telstra 24x7® App to give about the existence of the speed restriction customers greater visibility and control of prior to purchase. There is detail about the their services with us. We have also made speed restriction in our pre-sale materials, it easier for customers to understand their including the Critical Information Summary bill, and the information provided at point we provide to each customer. of sale. Responding to customer needs For more information, please see the Customer experience section We understand that for some of our of this report. customers, keeping their telephone contact details confidential is important. To respond to this, we made changes in FY18 to our Silent Line product for home phone services. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 26 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics and governance Mobile phones, base stations station proposals across the country. ACMA confirmed that it received six National and international standards and health (EME) The RFNSA received more than 369,000 objections regarding three Telstra proposals Telstra continues to contribute to the visits in FY18 to access information about in FY18, compared to one in FY17 and ongoing development of international EME network deployment activities, including four in FY16. ACMA also undertook six We acknowledge that some EME and site safety, for all mobile base preliminary investigations in relation to standards through chairing the International Electrotechnical Commission TC106 people are concerned about stations nationally. Telstra proposals. Two investigations have committee, which is charged with developing been concluded and found that Telstra standards for the assessment of EME possible health effects from All our base stations are assessed for EME complied with the Code requirements compliance of mobile devices, base stations compliance, and the ARPANSA Environmental electromagnetic energy EME reports and compliance certificates for and the remaining four are ongoing. and wireless communications systems. (EME). all sites are published on the RFNSA. Every We published 253 community consultation Within Australia, The Mobile Phone Base mobile handset we sold in FY18 was certified pages on the RFNSA. A small number Station Deployment Code (C564:2018) was We are proactive, transparent and factby the manufacturer as compliant with the of communities, including West Hobart revised this year and is currently out for based in our communications regarding mandatory ACMA Radio Communications (Tas), Moffat Beach (Qld), and Lillian Rock, public comment. EME and comply with the standards set (Electromagnetic Radiation – Human Nymboida, Newbridge, Burringbar and by regulators. Exposure) Standard 2014. Northbridge (New South Wales), expressed concern about EME through the consultation We rely on the expert advice of national and Communicating with our customers process. We responded to these concerns international health authorities including This year, we continued our mobile safety through extended community consultation, the Australian Radiation Protection and information SMS campaign, sending out over individual meetings and proactive Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) and the 17 million messages referring customers to community engagement. World Health Organisation (WHO), and we www.telstra.com.au/mobiletips, where we actively contribute to scientific research have information on mobile use, EME and New 5G mobile technology on EME and health. tips to reduce exposure. We also updated We commenced our EME assessment of our website with new information videos the new mobile technology and published We continue to provide information about on EME and health. customer information regarding 5G on EME on our website as well as our EME Telstra.com. We have also contributed in help desk. We also invite customers to go In FY18, we completed 1,828 mobile base the production of 5G Explained. directly to the WHO, ARPANSA, Australian station consultation projects. 660 of these Communications Authority (ACMA) and ‘EMF projects were for new sites (including Working safely around antennas Explained’ websites for further information. small cells). 204 required development We continue to focus on our processes and applications (of which 200 were approved) education around working safely near radio The Radio Frequency National Site Archive and 1,168 were for proposals to upgrade frequency emitting equipment including (RFNSA) is the consultation web portal we existing sites, where we consulted in promotion of the RadioWorkSafe application. use to provide the community with access accordance with the Communications to up-to-date information about new base Alliance Mobile Phone Base Station Deployment Industry Code. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 27 Responsible Highlights business 74% $23.5 million 6,952 days sustainable engagement invested in employee of volunteering by our score achieved, towards learning and development people in their communities our target of matching the global high-performing Culture and capabilities norm by 2022 The culture and capability of our workforce is an essential part of delivering on our T22 corporate strategy. We are focused on ensuring we have the right culture to deliver on our objectives in line with our values, and the right capabilities to ensure we can provide our customers with brilliant experiences. We know that the nature of work is changing and we need to help our people adapt. Rather than a single role or career, most workers will have several different careers, involving a range of skills they will learn continuously throughout their working life. Advancing technologies including automation, robotics, and machine and cognitive learning are changing the way services are delivered. The global telecommunications industry is facing 52.5% 3.6% major challenges and Telstra must transform radically as a of graduate recruits selected reduction in Lost Time result. As we announced in June 2018, this will mean a transition in FY18 were female Injury Frequency Rate to a smaller organisation. (LTIFR) Some of the skills our employees will need to have in the future do not yet exist in our organisation. To meet this challenge, we are helping equip our existing workforce to learn new skills and positioning ourselves as an employer of choice to attract and retain the talent we will need to deliver on our strategic objectives. A Transitions Program for those leaving Telstra will provide enhanced outplacement support. For those remaining, Telstra will provide support to upskill and transition to new ways of working in a leaner and more agile organisation. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Building culture and engagement Approach Progress Sustainable engagement This positive change is largely attributable The Employee Engagement Survey (EES) to employees feeling better enabled to We are committed to creating a workplace meet work challenges, as well as to our where our people can thrive personally and provides an opportunity for our people to investments in systems, digitisation and professionally. Our approach focuses on a Living our values share their experiences of working at Telstra simplicity. Although we are moving in the values-led approach to how we behave and Our values describe who we are and to highlight what we are doing well and where we need to improve to enhance their right direction, we have more work to do to work and building a culture that is highly and what we stand for; they shape shift how we think and what we do to achieve engaged, customer-focused, collaborative our decisions and actions and guide experience and that of our customers. The survey measures our employees’ sustainable the global high performing norm, which is and innovative. how we work together. currently 84 per cent. To address areas for engagement, which tells us how engaged, We empower and enable employees to own improvement, our EES action plan continues Our five core values1 are: enabled and energised our people are to their career, learn and develop, encourage perform. Employees who rate highly on all to focus on making the complex simple, enabling our people, leadership impact open conversations between employees and Show you care three elements are more likely to create and removing the impediments to getting leaders, and recognise and reward employees value and be a positive impact for the things done quickly and effectively for our who create positive outcomes and impact Better together business and our customers. customers. The results also reflect that local for the business and customers. Trust each other to deliver In FY18, our sustainable engagement score leadership is instrumental in improving our The execution of T22 will involve significant increased significantly to 74 per cent, up people’s experience and a key influencer of amounts of change for the organisation, which will impact our people. Make the complex simple from 71 per cent in FY17. sustainable engagement. We expect this is likely to impact sustainable Find your courage engagement in the short term. We are confident the employee engagement and development initiatives we are introducing as part of T22, including initial funding up of up to $50 million to support our employees through the transition to the new organisational model, will help to rebuild sustainable engagement. Team members from Melbourne supporting Habitat for Humanity in Yea, Victoria. Pictured 1 The Telstra Values are a registered trade from left Mark, Majid, Darnesh, Nate, Mehmud and mark of Telstra Corporation Limited Nick. Centre: Zlatko and front: Cindy and Elise. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Managing performance Telstra employees supported families on low Throughout the year our employees set incomes gain home ownership with Habitat performance objectives with their leader for Humanity, helped provide nutritious that, along with our customer advocacy meals to domestic violence refuges and and financial results, form our short term people sleeping rough with Two Good, and incentive plan. assisted with restoration, conservation and improvement of local environments with Our approach to performance encourages Landcare Australia. our people to have ongoing conversations with their leaders throughout the year Additionally, 958 Telstra employees gave about their development priorities, progress blood with the Red Cross, helping nearly and how they can contribute to achieving 11,000 patients in need. We also support our key priorities. emergency services in their response to critical incidents, enabling our employees The Telstra Alumni program is a professional social network for former and current This year we developed a consistent who volunteer with these agencies to take Telstra employees, so they can stay connected to one another and Telstra. Here, approach for all employees to provide Alumni members enjoy a presentation at our 5G Innovation Centre on the Gold Coast. emergency response leave. feedback on leaders’ performance relative to our Telstra Leadership capabilities and Our international employees contributed values. The results have been used to over 900 additional volunteering days Changing the way we work Our All Roles Flex policy applies to new and inform conversations about development through events held in the UK, US and existing employees and all our markets Creating a positive work environment and performance. throughout Asia this year. and locations. Any employee has the right is as much about where and how we work as what we do. We continued to roll out to request flexibility for any reason, and Payroll giving Volunteering and giving Future Ways of Working (FWOW) spaces managers must provide written reasons With the support of the Telstra Foundation, relating to significant business impact if Telstra employees are encouraged to at our major offices. This is an important we provide dollar-for-dollar matched payroll they decide to refuse such a request. get involved with the issues and causes part of our commitment to creating a giving (up to $1,000 per employee per year they are passionate about by using their flexible workplace, giving our people Jules Scarlett, Acting Group Executive and $750,000 overall), enabling employees annual day of paid volunteering leave or the tools and technologies to collaborate Telstra Wholesale, is one employee to give to any registered charity in Australia. payroll giving. wherever they are located, including away benefitting from our flexible working This provides an incentive for our people to from the traditional office environment. arrangements: “I have felt a real sense of Volunteering donate and the freedom to choose causes they care about. Throughout FY18, 5.4 per All Roles Flex is the starting point for all privilege to work in an organisation that so This year, our Australian employees strongly supports flexible working. It has cent of our employees made donations jobs and means flexibility is something we contributed 6,952 volunteer days to a enabled me to use location flexibility to via payroll giving, up from 4.9 per cent are open to discussing for all roles. We have variety of causes, representing a total work from the Hobart office and our shack the previous year. Nearly $1.5 million was deliberately adopted a very broad definition value of $1.7 million of employee time in Tasmania, to be where I was needed when donated to 320 charities this year through of ‘flexibility’, recognising that it will mean donated to the community. my mum needed my support most.” matched giving and matched fundraising. different things for different people and different work types. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 30 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Developing our people In FY18 we rolled out MyCareer, a digital To deliver our T22 strategy, we need to be a platform empowering our people to map more nimble, responsive organisation with their current skills, identify future career a flatter management structure that better paths and develop tailored learning empowers our people to make decisions in programs to help them reach their goals. the best interests of customers. To do this, As part of this, we made available new we need a diverse mix of people with a wide learning pathways: each one is a curated range of skills, capabilities and experiences. curriculum matching skill development to particular capabilities we need our people Some of the skills we require do not exist to have. in our business today and some of the skills we currently have in our business Leadership is another essential will no longer be needed as our organisation development area to help us navigate becomes smaller. At the same time, we the uncertain times ahead and create will continue to invest in the capabilities an environment where our people thrive. we need for the future with approximately Our future organisation will have fewer 1,500 new roles in areas such as software managers and we will need them to engineering, and information and cyberhave a common core of skills, which security. For more information about we have defined under our Leadership how we will manage forecast workforce Capability Framework. The Framework Preparing our employees for Telstra employee Richard Ord (right) has retrained as a drone pilot technician. Previously technicians reductions under T22, please refer to sets the standard we expect of leaders the future of work had to climb towers or bring in cherry pickers to assess the Approach section of this chapter across our business. This consistent our network infrastructure. Drone technology means of the report. Technology is leading to major changes set of expectations applies to leaders Richard now has a faster, safer option to assess the in the workforce. In particular, there are of every level and across every business suitability of new sites and carry out repairs, as well changes to the types of skills we will as a whole new set of skills. unit globally. More than 1,000 of our need in the future, and the new roles that people leaders completed training will emerge as a result. We conducted on the Framework in FY18. strategic workforce planning and deep capability mapping, to forecast where the changes will be most significant, and what transitions we need to make. This is providing opportunities for our people to develop skills in emerging technologies (see picture). Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace Approach For details of our measurable objectives for Representation of women in Telstra as at 30 June 2018 achieving diversity and our progress against At Telstra, diversity means difference, in them as at 30 June 2018, as well as our Role Number Percentage all its forms, both visible and not visible, objectives in respect of FY19, please refer and includes differences that relate to to our 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. Board(i) 4 40% gender, age, cultural background, disability, religion and sexual orientation, as well Executive management*(ii) 64 30.8% as differences in background and life Progress CEO 0 0% experience, and interpersonal and problem Gender equality solving skills. CEO-1 5 50% This year we saw a 0.9 percentage point The diversity of our people should reflect increase in female representation across CEO-2 14 25% our diverse, global customers and the Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly CEO-3 45 32% countries where we operate. Diversity owned subsidiaries. While the target of 32 of thought drives innovation which is per cent was not achieved it was positive Middle management*(iii) 3,028 29% essential to achieve our business strategy, to see an upward trajectory after noting a and also supports our values around decline in the prior year. Operational*(iv) 6,386 32% fairness and corporate social responsibility. We are committed to achieving gender Telstra Total* 9,488 31% Everyone has a part to play in actively equality at Telstra and have a broad range and intentionally behaving with inclusion of policies, programs and engagement Telstra Group Total** 10,026 29.8% in mind. We are committed to flexible ways initiatives in place to help us achieve of working and the use of technology to this goal. For details of these initiatives, enable flexibility. please refer to the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement. Diversity and Inclusion is a key driver of employee engagement at Telstra. All Telstra During the year, we were named as a leaders are accountable for leading inclusively, 2018 Employer of Choice for Gender * Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Notes: this is built into our leadership framework Equality by the Australian Government’s Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, (i) N  umber and percentage relates to and measured annually. Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not non-executive Directors. include staff in any other controlled entities within for the fourth time. We are required by (ii) E  xecutive management comprises persons holding Our diversity policy provides the framework the Telstra Group. the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. for the Board to set our measurable ** Includes full time, part time and casual staff to report our workforce gender profile CEO is also included in the executive management total objectives for achieving diversity. in controlled entities within the Telstra Group, each year. Our 2018 report is available excluding contractors and agency staff. (iii) M  iddle management comprises persons holding on our website at telstra.com/governance. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra roles within Telstra designated as Bands 1 or 2, or equivalent. For information about Board diversity, Group can be found on our website at telstra.com.au/ aboutus/investors/financial-information/financial-results (iv) O perational comprises persons holding roles within please refer to our 2018 Corporate Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. Governance Statement. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 32 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Employee diversity and inclusion Employment for people with During the year, our initiatives to enhance a disability diversity and inclusion at Telstra included: During FY18, we have hired 13 new employees who identify as living with a Indigenous employment disability, and this year we continued to In FY18 we made significant progress toward be the largest corporate provider of the our 2015-2018 Reconciliation Action Plan Australian Network on Disability Stepping employment target of doubling the number Into internship program, for university of employees who identify as Indigenous students with a disability. We hosted 24 at Telstra. students in FY18, and five have secured ongoing work at Telstra. In our most recent To attract and retain more Indigenous graduate intake 11.7 per cent of those employees to Telstra, this year we created selected identified as living with disability. 25 Indigenous traineeships and internships. This year, we also recruited five new LGBT+ inclusion Indigenous graduates representing Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and 3.2 per cent of our total graduate intake. Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion is important As a provider of the Career Trackers to us. We want our people to bring their Indigenous internship program, we were whole selves to work and to feel comfortable proud to be recognised at the 2017 Career doing so. We have long shown our support Trackers Gala Event, with our Indigenous for LGBTI inclusion by supporting events Members of the 2018 Telstra graduate intake listen to CEO Andrew Penn Employment Coordinator awarded the like Wear it Purple Day, International Business Co-ordinator of the Year, and day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and one of our interns named the winner of Transphobia and the Midsumma queer the Intern Community Spirit Award. arts and entertainment festival. Within our business, this year we grew our LGBT+ employees and allies network to over 2,000 members. “It’s heartening to know that Telstra actively shows support for the LGBT+ community by partnering with Midsumma. Many can say they value and strive for diversity and inclusion, but actions speak louder than words” says Elana from Telstra’s Knowledge Team, who was a Citizen Report at Midsumma 2018. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Gender pay equity Percentage of fixed remuneration Gender pay equity remains a key priority and (FR) – female to male* we are continuously looking to identify, target and reduce any sizeable gender pay gaps that Level Comparison exist within the organisation. Executive management(i) 100% The adjacent table compares the average salaries across three levels of our Australian Middle management(ii) 97% based employees, reflecting over 90 per cent of our employee population. The overall pay Operational(iii) 88% gap is seven per cent which is marginally lower than the prior year, and on a like for Overall % comparison 93% like basis the gap is around two per cent. Similar to last year, the larger pay gap exists at the operational level and is predominantly driven by a significant portion of operational employees being managed against fixed pay rates under our Enterprise Agreement. Career Connect After an extended maternity leave break, Donna These fixed pay rates, which are typically Papworth (pictured) took up a role as Program Manager We know that the transition back to work of Procurement and Supply Chain Transformation in male-dominated professions, are notably after an extended break can come with its through the Career Connect program. Donna says higher when compared to the pay of peers challenges, so this year we established the “the support since I started has been nothing short at the same level not aligned to these of incredible, providing me with a safe space to be Telstra Career Connect pilot as a way of pay rates. When removing this population curious about the organisation and what teams and * Includes full time and part time staff in Telstra ensuring women returning to work are set on fixed pay rates from the analysis and individuals do, which has helped me navigate this Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, up for success. comparing like for like roles there is no pay return journey”. excluding casuals, contractors and agency staff. It does gap. This is encouraging as it shows that not include staff in any other controlled entities within Thirteen professional women have joined where discretion can be applied to salaries the Telstra Group. Ratio calculated as base salary plus the pilot program, which commenced in our operational level, males and females superannuation (female FR as % of male FR). March 2018. The successful candidates are paid equitably. Notes: have been offered permanent, senior roles (i) Executive management comprises persons holding and are receiving dedicated support for roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. the first 24 weeks to help them make a CEO is included in the executive management total. smooth transition back into the workforce. (ii) Middle management comprises persons holding roles This includes coaching, access to a range within Telstra designated as Bands 1 or 2, or equivalent of training options and introduction to a (iii) Operational comprise persons holding roles within support network. Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 34 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Promoting health, safety and wellbeing Approach Preventive programs Timely reporting allows us to implement LTIFR Supporting our employees to improve their our early intervention model which includes Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Managing safety and supporting the health in-house specialists and a 24/7 Nurse Triage physical and emotional wellbeing is a key has steadily decreased since 2014. The and wellbeing of our people helps create call service. Our team of injury management pillar of our approach to preventative health primary driver is our proactive Injury Assist an environment in which our people can specialists provides tailored support to and safety. We provide access to evidenceprogram which provides employees with be resilient in times of change. Through employees and their leaders, helping them based best practice health information immediate access to free medical care our global health, safety, wellbeing and manage injury and illness and remain at that allows our employees to manage and and rehabilitation treatment. This program environment (HSWE) management system, or return to employment. prioritise their own health and wellbeing. ensures our employees receive the care they we strive to embed the latest HSWE TRIFR need to return to work as soon as they are strategies and processes to eliminate Throughout FY18 we implemented fit to do so. or minimise risks. important preventive health, safety In FY17 we introduced Total Recordable Injury Our initiatives aim to build a high-performing and wellbeing initiatives including modifying Frequency Rate (TRIFR) as a key reporting HSWE culture. We encourage all employees our field workforce uniform to provide metric, in line with global best practice. LTIFR2 and contractors to report issues, incidents improved protection against UV exposure, The increase for FY18 is reflective of a change and hazards, and use data and analytics to and developing a big data model to identify in the methodology for calculating total 2015 CALENDAR YEAR 0.89 support managers to make sound decisions and address causes of driver distraction and recordable injuries (which is now inclusive on corrective actions and controls. other indicators of increased risk such as of lost time injuries) rather than an actual 2016 CALENDAR YEAR 0.84 harsh braking or cornering. We also continued increase in incident numbers. Established HSWE governance to promote our Good Drivers Program, which 2017 CALENDAR YEAR 0.81 forums embedded in the business proactively rewards safe driving. help manage progress. TRIFR 1 Key health and safety performance Progress indicators FY16 7.5 Early incident reporting and Licences, accreditations and FY17 8.1 rehabilitation compliance We encourage our people to report injuries FY18 9.6 Telstra holds a self-insurance licence and illnesses as soon as they occur. As well as under Commonwealth jurisdiction, ensuring our people receive the support they with direct oversight by both the need, when they need it, this also enables us Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation to address hazards in a timely manner Commission (SRCC) and Comcare. and provides an important source of data We are also accredited by the Office of the to highlight the main causes and impacts 1 T  RIFR is the reported number per million hours worked 2  TIFR measures the reported number of accepted L of incidents. Our reporting culture continues of all work-related injuries or diseases that require workers’ compensation claims per million hours worked Federal Safety Commissioner for all Federal medical treatment beyond simple first aid1. Currently for work-related injury or disease that result in one or Government building contracts, including to improve with our same day reporting rate the metric does not include contractor incidents or more days’ lost time2. the nbn. Our HSWE management system is increasing to 86 per cent from 82 per cent incidents internationally, but we continue to review how certified to AS/NZS4801 and ISO 14001: 2015. in FY17. this may be measured for inclusion in future reporting. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities Employment and workplace relations Approach When structural changes are required, our Engaging with our workforce In 2018, we commenced negotiations for aim is to mitigate the adverse effects of We consult with our workforce before we a replacement Enterprise Agreement with We have a large and diverse mix of employees these changes on our employees by making nominated bargaining representatives at Telstra, who vary in the work they perform, implement any significant changes to the all reasonable efforts to appoint affected way we work. Telstra regularly engages with and the three unions which represent our the hours they work and their employment employees to other suitable roles within workers. Telstra is committed to negotiating contracts or instruments. We carefully manage the Community and Public Sector Union Telstra. When this is not possible we provide (CPSU), the Communications, Electrical for a simple, fair enterprise agreement which our workforce requirements, in line with our a comprehensive redeployment and career delivers on the needs of our customers, values, paying particular attention to the mix and Plumbing Union of Australia (CEPU) transition program for employees whose and Professionals Australia (APESMA). Our shareholders and employees. Approximately of skills required as the strategic direction of roles are affected by redundancy. 25,000 employees are in scope for enterprise our business evolves. aim is to maintain an open and constructive relationship with the representatives of bargaining and had the opportunity to vote Given the scale of the reductions forecast these unions. This year, we conducted more on the proposed new Enterprise Agreement in the next three years and the impact this Progress will have on our people, we have created an than 20 formal consultation meetings with in August 2018. Employees voted to reject unions and Telstra employees. Telstra’s initial proposal. Telstra remains initial fund of up to $50 million to assist our Key changes within our workforce committed to bargaining in good faith people. We will provide a transition program This included consultation on changes to our Changes in our workforce in 2018 were with employees and their representatives. with enhanced outplacement support Long Service Leave (LSL) Policy, to introduce predominantly related to the evolving mix for those leaving us. We will also provide All other employees in Telstra Corporation of skills we need to deliver our strategy the ability for Telstra to require employees support to those remaining to upskill and with excessive LSL balances to take a period are covered by individual contracts. of transforming Telstra into a company transition to new ways of working in a leaner capable of consistently delivering brilliant of leave to reduce their balance. After four and more agile organisation. In addition, weeks of consultation, including hundreds experiences to our customers. These all employees and their families are structural changes will be accelerated of employee submissions, we made a final provided access to professional support decision on the changes. In making the with the bold transformation of our services, funded by Telstra, through our organisation we announced in June decision, we took on board the feedback Work Life Coaching (formerly the Employee received, and sought to balance the needs 2018, which will see 1,500 new roles Assistance Program). created and a net loss of 8,000 positions of the business to reduce its overall financial over three years. In FY19, these changes As at June 30 2018, Telstra Corporation’s liability, with the needs of our people and will flatten layers and consolidate and total workforce was 26,001 employees, their individual circumstances. streamline back office functions. Over a decrease of three per cent, or 805 roles, compared to last year. Telstra Group’s total Employment instruments the course of the coming year, we also expect to see a decline in work volumes global workforce was 32,293 (full-time In Australia, Telstra has a single Enterprise associated with the nbn roll-out, which equivalent), stable compared to last year. Agreement in place covering our workforce will lead to job reductions. We employ 4,489 people outside of Australia – the Telstra Enterprise Agreement across 13 countries, equating to 14 per cent 2015-2018 (EA) – which will expire on of our total workforce. 30 September 2018. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 36 Digital futures Highlights 99.5% of Launched Australia’s first Switched on the Australian 5G Innovation over 300 population Centre base stations and 200 4G small cells covered by our mobile network Networks The digital world is transforming the way we live. The benefits of being online are immense – we are empowered to learn in new ways, to communicate differently, and take greater control of our health, finances and learning. Having access to a reliable network delivers these benefits across demographic boundaries, underpins economic growth, and provides tremendous opportunities in developing innovative solutions to social and environmental challenges. Activated Maintained over Over the five years from 2016 and 2020 inclusive, we anticipate that our network traffic will grow fivefold, driven by increasing consumption of video, and emerging technologies including virtual Australia’s 400,000 reality, artificial intelligence, connected machines, and even drone largest IoT kilometres of subsea cable technologies, which when combined, will place unprecedented demands on our network. network Since November 2016, we have been implementing a major capital expenditure program to reinforce our network leadership position by investing in the next generation of mobile and fixed network services, expanding coverage and resilience, digitising our systems and processes, and making major improvements to our customers’ experience with us. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks Networks Approach Progress Our Networks for the Future program involves Telstra has a long history of investing in investments of around $1.6 billion over three regional Australia. In FY18 we expanded Every day, our networks connect millions Investing in our networks years (FY17 – FY19) over and above our our mobile network in regional areas across of people. Our customers rely on our business as usual network spend to transform Australia through upgrades to existing base We are committed to making significant networks around the clock and around our networks to support the connected stations, new small cells for 4G coverage, as investments to build capability for the the world. Having access to a reliable world of the future. Our investment will build well as Telstra’s contribution to the Federal future and strengthen our network network underpins economic growth improved network resilience, usher in 5G, Government’s Mobile Black Spot Program. leadership. In addition to routine network and social interaction, and provides make the Internet of Things (IoT) a reality This investment further strengthens Telstra’s investments, we are also building networks opportunities to address societal and and move to a world where our network is regional mobile network, which has been that underpin the way our customers will environmental challenges. As technology software-defined and virtualised. We have a core focus for the company for decades. work, learn and play for years to come. becomes more integrated into daily life, also invested significantly in accelerating the Over the previous three financial years alone, our customers are more dependent than digitisation of our business, and making other Telstra has invested $2.2 billion in its regional ever before on the breadth, speed and improvements to our customers’ experience mobile network so more Australians can reliability of our networks. with us. experience a connected world. With growth underway in the number and variety of smart devices, online services and digital applications, our network traffic continues to increase. We offer our customers an unrivalled 2.5 million square kilometres of mobile network coverage. Our 4G coverage spans over 99 per cent of the Australian population and more than 1.6 million square kilometres. Internationally, we are helping businesses with the connectivity and technology solutions they need to compete on the world stage. We own and operate the largest subsea cable network in the Asia Pacific region and continue to invest to meet the increasing demand for capacity. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 38 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks Building network resilience No large network is immune to the potential Creation of a standalone for service disruptions and in FY18 Telstra infrastructure business unit did experience some network related issues On 1 July 2018, we created Telstra that impacted our customers. These included InfraCo, a standalone infrastructure an issue in May where a fire in regional New business unit within Telstra, to provide South Wales damaged a main interstate greater visibility to the market of the fibre route and this, combined with software value of this business and create more and hardware issues, caused a disruption optionality for the period after the nbnTM to some Triple Zero emergency services. We rollout is complete. Telstra InfraCo will take our responsibility to connect people very be responsible for key fixed network seriously, particularly to Triple Zero services, infrastructure assets including data and deeply regret the impact this caused. centres and exchange buildings, nonWe are committed to operating our network mobile related fibre network, the copper to the highest global standards and will be and hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) networks, taking steps to learn from these incidents to make sure they do not happen again. international subsea cables, exchanges, poles, ducts and pipes. It will not include We have made significant investment in a mobile network assets such as spectrum Jimmy Lee, Manager Hong Kong Stanley Earth Station two-year network resiliency program focused and base stations, which support our on minimising the likelihood and the impact mobile services. of network disruptions. This investment International investment We have also invested in new Points of included implementing more than 40 targeted In FY18 we invested in two new international Presence (PoPs) in the US (Atlanta, Dallas, Telstra InfraCo’s key customers will initiatives that have built additional capacity subsea cable systems that will connect Hong Denver and Seattle), Europe (Copenhagen, be wholesale customers in Australia, and redundancy into our network, provided us Kong and the west coast of the United States, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt and Paris) and Dubai. nbn co and Telstra internally. with more data and real time analytics about which will provide lower latency and a more These PoPs help businesses connect to more how our network is performing, and improved direct route from the US to Asia. The first places globally by providing physical access our ability to respond quickly if things do go investment will see us partner to build points to the internet at overseas sites, wrong. This has helped us achieve a 60 per the new Hong Kong Americas (HKA) cable. increasing the reliability of data to and from cent reduction in the number of lost service Additionally we will invest in capacity on the these locations. hours on our mobile network since 2016, Pacific Light Cable Network (PLCN). We also expanded our world-first ‘Always On’ although we know we still have some way service to provide more bandwidth options to go to deliver on our aim of providing an Work continues on the INDIGO subsea cable system which will strengthen links between along the Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan ‘always on’ service for our customers. triangle. This service utilises the scale and Australia and the fast-growing South East Asian markets, providing faster speeds and diversity of our subsea cable network to reroute 40 times more capacity than the existing cable. traffic to another path with minimal downtime It is expected to be operational by mid-2019. even in the event of a cut or damaged cable. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks New technology We are preparing for the launch of 5G in 2019 5G Innovation Centre launch which will see even faster speeds, ultra-low on Gold Coast latency, and connection of IoT devices on a In February 2018, we opened our new mass scale. Throughout FY18 we conducted a 5G Innovation Centre on the Gold Coast. number of Australian and world-first 5G trials The centre is home to testing of the to ensure the country remains at the forefront next generation of mobile technologies of wireless technology. in Australian conditions to support the We activated our Category M1 (Cat M1) early commercial deployment of 5G. capability across our 4G coverage footprint The Centre will ensure Australia in August 2017, becoming the first remains at the forefront of mobile telecommunications provider in Australia technology and has been the location to offer this technology, and accelerated of a number of Australian firsts, the growth of Australia’s IoT ecosystem. including a 5G Connected Car using The activation of Cat M1 enabled a coverage the 5G Automotive Trial Platform and footprint of around three million square an eGaming demonstration over 5G. kilometres for compatible Cat M1 devices. We also introduced the world first 5G This is the largest coverage footprint of backhauled Wi-Fi hotspot precinct on its type in Australia, the first on APT700 the Gold Coast. spectrum, and one of the largest in the world. This work will help ensure Australia In January 2018 we announced the successful is among the first countries in the deployment of Narrow Band IoT (NB IoT) world to gain access to 5G, and is a technology on our mobile network. NB IoT tangible example of our commitment technology is expected to further accelerate to build networks for the future for IoT deployment in Australia by opening up the our customers. opportunity to connect millions of new IoT devices sending small volumes of data at very low power levels over Telstra’s mobile network. NB IoT can be used to connect a range of devices to the internet, from irrigation systems for commercial farming all the way to home pool filters. Telstra is one of the first carriers in the world to offer both NB IoT and Cat M1 IoT capabilities. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 40 Digital futures Highlights Around Launched $130 million 1 million the ‘Talking 2030’ discussion paper, in partnership with the of value provided through our social and community vulnerable customers National Farmers Federation, investment programs helped to stay connected exploring agricultural growth and innovation opportunities Everyone connected As digital technologies play an increasingly important and empowering role in our lives, there remains a significant gap between those who are connected and those who are not. Digital inclusion is based on the premise that everyone should be able to make full use of digital technologies and the benefits they bring – whether it be managing health and wellbeing, accessing education and services, organising finances, or simply connecting with family, friends and the world beyond. We are focused on supporting those in our community most Launched Produced at risk of digital exclusion. This includes people with disability, a co-investment program the 2018 Australian Digital older Australians, remote Indigenous communities, those on low to provide between $100 Inclusion Index incomes, regional communities, and people who are unemployed million and $200 million or homeless. Our approach is to integrate digital inclusion over four years for regional into our core business and to partner with government and infrastructure projects community organisations to achieve genuine results. In June 2018 we announced a fundamental change to the way we take products and services to market and provide customers with support. In implementing T22 we are acutely aware of the role we play in connecting all Australians and remain committed to serving the needs of the broader community, regional Australians and our vulnerable and low-income customers. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Digital inclusion Approach We also meet regularly with key consumer organisations in Australia to help ensure Australian Digital Inclusion Index Our digital inclusion priorities are focussed our digital inclusion programs meet our on affordability, accessibility and ability. This We are partnering with RMIT University, In 2018, the Australian Digital Inclusion diverse communities’ needs. This includes the Centre for Social Impact at Swinburne means keeping people connected, especially Index found that: regular meetings with the Australian University, and Roy Morgan to produce the when they’re doing it tough; ensuring our Communications Consumer Action Network, • Nationally, access has steadily improved products, services and information are Australian Digital Inclusion Index. We have quarterly meetings with the Low Income published three reports to date, in 2016, • Evidence is emerging that the nbn™ accessible and easy to use; and, building Measures Assessment Committee, and a rollout is starting to improve access. the digital skills and confidence of our 2017 and 2018. bi-annual CEO Consumer Roundtable, which This can be seen in Tasmania, where vulnerable and diverse customers and provides a regular forum for peak consumer The Index provides important insights on the nbn rollout is largely complete communities. We are also investing in the organisations to meet with our CEO and the barriers to digital inclusion across • Affordability remains a challenge for future of regional Australia through our senior leaders. three areas accessibility, affordability some excluded groups, though value mobile base station network, co-investment and digital ability and is designed as an Our digital inclusion programs support our has improved arrangements and partnerships. information tool to help policy-makers, target to provide tailored support, products businesses and community organisations • Although improving, digital ability Together with leading Australian universities and services to enable 1.5 million people to remains an important area for attention. and research agencies we produce the take action on digital exclusion. connect or thrive online by 2020. We regularly Australians are finding it hard to keep Australian Digital Inclusion Index an annual review our approach to identify groups Using five years’ of data (2014-2018), the up with new technologies and less than information tool to help policy-makers, most in need, changing technologies and Index shows that overall digital inclusion in half the population consider digital businesses and community organisations consumer preferences. Australia is improving, and that Australians technologies to be empowering take action on digital exclusion. are spending more time, and doing more • Indigenous Australians, people with online. However it also shows that the gaps disabilities, and Australians aged over between digitally included and excluded 65 continue to score below the digital Australians are substantial and in some inclusion national average cases widening. Those with low levels of income, education and employment are • Mobile-only users, linked closely significantly less digitally included. to socio-economic factors, are less digitally included • Geographical disparities exist across Australia, with substantial differences between aal and urban areas. For more information, refer to the Digital Inclusion Index website. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 42 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Progress We provided home phone line rental relief Crisis support for about 42,000 households and distributed Telstra continues to provide access to We are committed to providing tailored around 48,000 pre-paid calling cards support, products and services to enable national crisis lines so that the cost of (including Phonecards) and mobile phone calling is not a barrier to seeking help. We 1.5 million people to connect or thrive recharge cards. We provided rebates on online by 2020. We are on track to meet provide free calls from Telstra mobile phones Telstra bills for around 1,180 customers to essential community support services our target through a range of digital inclusion each month seeking emergency relief. activities to enhance customer affordability, including Lifeline, SES, Family Drug Support, accessibility and ability. We also developed a video for financial Mensline Australia, beyondblue and Suicide counsellors about our financial hardship Call Back Service. Over 600,000 TelstraVulnerable customers and low income programs. originated calls were made to these crisis We partner with the government and lines from fixed, mobile and payphones In partnership with The Smith Family and in FY18. community sector to develop and deliver The Salvation Army, a new Telstra Internet a wide range of digital inclusion programs for Kids’ Education (TIKE) program was We continued to support the Ask Izzy mobile to assist our most vulnerable customers piloted in Tasmania this year. TIKE aims to website this year, providing unmetered and communities. support families’ access to online education access to the support service for those on Our Access for Everyone program helps resources, providing affordable home internet the Telstra mobile network. More than one people on low incomes or facing financial services for low-income households with million searches have been made on Ask Izzy hardship to stay connected. Since its school age children who are supported by since its launch in early 2016, connecting inception in 2002, we have provided benefits our community partners. Australians in need with nation-wide to the value of more than $2 billion. We support services for housing, meals, support We are a Founding Member of the Thriving and counselling. work with more than 2,000 local community Communities Partnership, a cross-sector organisations across Australia that assist collaboration that aims to ensure that every Access for Everyone people in crisis to deliver these programs. Australian has fair access to the essential Salvation Army Major Brendan Nottle and Telstra Foundation General Manager Jackie Coates at In FY18, Access for Everyone provided services they need to thrive in contemporary one of over 16,000 Telstra payphones allowing benefits totalling $72 million, a reduction of Australia, such as utilities, financial services, vulnerable people to connect with loved ones 18 per cent compared to FY17 ($87 million), internet services and transport. This year we around Australia at no cost through our free largely reflecting a lower take-up of our supported research to understand the impact calls for Christmas program pensioner discount on fixed-line home of impaired decision-making by vulnerable phone services as more customers move to consumers with cognitive or psychosocial bundles. Around 765,000 pensioners received (mental health-related) disabilities. The a discount in FY18 to the value of $57 million, project will assist key service provides to on par with the FY17 customer take-up. meet their obligations, and increase access to services for this consumer group. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 43 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Telstra Safe Connections® Supporting people living Telstra Safe Connections assists women with disability impacted by domestic violence by providing This year our Disability Enquiry Hotline access to safe and secure communications took more than 15,000 calls and processed – a smart phone, $30 pre-paid starter kit more than 5,000 successful applications for and information to help them stay safely products as part of our Disability Equipment connected. Delivered in partnership with Program. We continue to see a decline in the Women’s Services Network (WESNET), Safe provision of TTYs (Tele-Typewriters for deaf Connections has supported more than 11,500 and speech impaired customers), supplying women since its inception in 2016. 103 in FY18, down from 476 in FY16, This year we trialled a dedicated customer with digital communications options service entry point with trained agents and a now increasingly preferred by customers. ‘high care’ approach to customers impacted Around 89,000 calls were made to our by domestic violence. The service was rolled Directory Assistance Helpline by around out to our Safe Connections agencies during 10,000 customers who are not able to use the reporting period and we envisage opening printed or online telephone directories. Telstra product developers participate in an immersive workshop Rory, a member of our supported workforce, this service to all customers impacted by We received six complaints of disability to help them understand digital accessibility challenges cleaning our Bendigo offices in Victoria. domestic violence in FY19. discrimination from the Australian An independent evaluation of Safe Human Rights Commission or state antiConnections by Curtin University this year discrimination bodies this year. One of the Now in the second year of our Accessibility • Create a fully inclusive workforce – 11.7 described the program as empowering and six complaints was substantiated, as it and Inclusion Plan, we continue to make per cent of graduates recruited in FY18 ‘an outstanding example of multi-sectoral was found that Telstra staff failed to follow progress against our three strategic pillars: identified as living with a disability, our collaboration that is highly effective and established processes to provide information • Improve customer experience – we have Executive Leadership and more than 900 much needed’, effectively reaching women in an alternative format. In previous years enhanced the online accessibility of employees participated in diversity and who are marginalised and vulnerable we have also reported disability related our customer platforms and refreshed inclusion training, we employed more than complaints to the Telecommunications We also partnered for a second year with our inclusion training for frontline 500 people across 13 Disability Enterprises Industry Ombudsman (TIO) in this report, WESNET to deliver the Technology Safety customer service employees. Our new and updated our product testing systems however the TIO no longer collects this data. Summit, bringing together 150 front line All In Accessibility & Inclusion @ Telstra to consider accessibility family violence workers, law enforcement newsletter provides customers with • Innovate for the future our Smart Home agencies, technology companies, legal information on affordability options platforms were tested with customers professionals and policy makers to build for accessible products and services living with disability, we launched awareness of the safe use of technology www.appsforall.com.au in partnership in family violence situations. with Transpire and we continued to support disability and accessibility organisations and programs through the Telstra Foundation. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 44 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Regional and remote communities more than 27,000 older Australians in local Telstra’s longstanding commitment libraries and community colleges this year. to regional Australians is unwavering. We launched the program in South Australia We are planning and investing in a digital in FY18, engaging around 900 seniors in future that champions the needs of local library workshops across the Riverland regional and remote communities. region. Our Tech Savvy Seniors Regional Roadshow also visited Sutherland, Nowra, Through the Federal Government’s Mobile Bega, Broken Hill, Orange, Mudgee and Black Spot Program, Telstra is investing Tamworth in NSW. This year we completed more than $260 million to build more than social return on investment (SROI) studies 650 new mobile base stations across on the NSW and Victorian Tech Savvy Seniors Australia. This year, we launched our coprograms delivered predominantly for investment program which will provide culturally and linguistically diverse older between $100 million and $200 million over Australians. Both achieved SROIs of more four years to fund regional infrastructure in than $3.60 for every $1 invested and found areas that have high community value, but that complete beginners felt their confidence would otherwise be uneconomical to build. in using technology increased by over This is in addition to the $2.2 billion we have 40 per cent after taking part in the program. spent over the last three financial years to improve the network in regional areas. Partnering with the NSW Government and CommBank, we introduced an Online Telstra is listening to regional and remote Banking module this year. We also launched communities. In addition to the many an ‘Introduction to NSW Transport Apps’ forums we hold we have established A new mobile base station connected Sheringa on the Eyre Peninsula in module with the NSW Government to help Regional Advisory Councils in New South South Australia as part of Telstra’s Mobile Black Spot co-investment program make getting around on the State’s public Wales, Western Australia and Queensland, transport easier. composed of key regional leaders helping gate output by 2030. We are investigating Older Australians us to identify and address local challenges opportunities with state and federal This year we continued to support Australian This year we reached more than 1,000 and opportunities. In the last year, we have governments to co-invest in key agricultural seniors through our digital literacy programs, older Australians through Telstra Digital formed partnerships with the National growth regions, to help the industry meet giving older people, particularly those in Ambassadors, an employee volunteering Farmers Federation (NFF) and five state this 2030 target. regional areas, the opportunity to develop program that delivers simple coaching for farming organisations. Recently, 16 the skills and confidence to embrace seniors with minimal or no digital literacy We are investing in our mobile network roundtable discussions were held with digital technology. skills. Designed to help people access and working with our farming partners to the NFF across Australia to helping grow the internet to explore topics of interest, deliver a digital future that helps regional We partner with state governments to deliver the agri-industry into $100 billion farm sessions were held at local community communities thrive. our Tech Savvy Seniors program and provided groups, retirement homes and Telstra face-to-face digital literacy training for stores across Australia. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 45 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Indigenous communities people were not necessarily using device and Our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) sets out platform settings in ways that might help them our commitment to support reconciliation and avoid online harm. The report also identified create social, economic and cultural change. the need for more straightforward and accessible education material. In response, One of our key RAP commitments is a we worked with our community partners $30 million infrastructure co-investment and stakeholders to produce and distribute with the Northern Territory Government to relevant and straightforward consumer expand telecommunications infrastructure information to address key Indigenous to remote communities. In FY18 we delivered consumer issues, such as privacy, billing mobile and/or fixed broadband services to and data usage. Kaltukatjara, Manyallaluk, Minyerri, Santa Teresa, Umbakumba, Burunga, Titjikala, As part of our Reconciliation Action Plan Timber Creek and Ali Curung. This is in (RAP), we committed to increase our annual inDigiMOB Digital Mentor, Pamela, steps some interested participants addition to our broader investment program spend with Indigenous suppliers, creating a through a digital activity at Larapinta Valley Community Centre. in regional and remote areas of Australia. more inclusive and sustainable supply chain. For more information about our approach In FY18 our RAP commitment to build digital to Indigenous supplier engagement, see Extending mobile coverage capability in remote Indigenous communities the Managing our supply chain section of included taking inDigiMOB, a community In FY18 we extended mobile coverage this report. digital capability program, from pilot to being to several Indigenous communities in fully operational in 13 remote locations in the Deadly Digital Communities the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Northern Territory. To date around 900 people Deadly Digital Communities is providing (APY) Lands in South Australia. Six have benefited from this program, which community-based digital literacy and locations across the nearly 103,000 facilitates exposure to technology and skills technology training over two years in 26 square km’s have received mobile development through on-the-ground partner remote and regional Aboriginal and Torres coverage this year thanks to our organisations. inDigiMOB has also established Strait Islander communities in Queensland. involvement in the Federal Government’s a pathway to transition digital learners to paid Participants are learning a range of digital Mobile Black Spot Program. Mobile digital mentors. The program will continue to skills, including sending an email, using social coverage is invaluable to these areas, operate in FY19. media, paying bills online and promoting new bringing everything from internet banking Amata in the APY Lands is now connected business ideas. Deadly Digital Communities is and social media, to peace of mind when This year we published the final Cyber Safety travelling long distances. Working closely an initiative of the State Library of Queensland in Remote Aboriginal Communities research with local leaders and schools, we have and Telstra in partnership with Indigenous report, highlighting the unique cyber safety run a series of educational sessions Knowledge Centres and local councils. issues facing many remote Indigenous across local radio covering cyber security, In FY18, more than 300 people participated communities. Researchers from RMIT social media and bullying, understanding in the program. University found that social obligations can data limits and usage costs. influence how people use devices and that Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 46 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Disaster relief and recovery In times of declared disaster, we provide We know how important our network is for telecommunications services such as the community, especially in times of crisis. temporary internet and loan handsets We work extensively to prepare for severe to evacuation centres and set up phone weather seasons, our priorities being to recharging stations. All residents in a disaster protect and maintain our infrastructure to relief area are provided with free access to keep our customers connected. Where possible our public pay phones and free Wi-Fi data at we assist emergency and essential services Telstra Air® hotspots, regardless of whether organisations with their telecommunications they are a Telstra customer or not. requirements and work to restore services Our Community Recovery Vehicles are for our customers by providing equipment deployed to arrange customer disaster such as temporary mobile base stations and relief packages, including diverting home repeaters to boost coverage. Satellite Cells and business phones to mobiles and, in on Wheels, or SatCOWs, provide satellitesome cases, the distribution of free devices assisted mobile coverage in remote areas. with prepaid credit. Depending on our access We also use drones (unmanned aerial to affected areas, we also set up temporary vehicles, or UAVs) to provide rapid Telstra shops to support customers. assessments of our infrastructure. We also provide emergency response leave for our people who volunteer with emergency services. For more information about our employee volunteering programs, please refer to the Culture and capabilities section of this report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 47 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected Community investment Approach Community investment data The total value of our social and community Social and community investment Our community investment programs support people to thrive in a connected world. From investment programs, including contributions Millions of dollars promoting digital inclusion to keeping people from Telstra, employees and the Telstra connected in times of disaster, our community Foundation® equalled $130.7 million in FY16 175.4 investments help ensure that everyone has FY18. Our focus for these programs has access to the benefits digital technology can been on digital inclusion initiatives. For more FY17 157.4 bring. We also encourage our people to get information about these initiatives refer to the Digital inclusion and Tech for good FY18 130.7 involved in their communities and the issues that matter to them. sections of this report. For details of our social and community investments, please see our data tables available online. Progress Social and community Social and community investment Telstra Kids Digital Futures investment by focus by form of contribution We encourage our people to support their Millions of dollars Millions of dollars local communities through our Telstra Kids Digital Futures program. In FY18 we introduced a curated digital employee offer designed to encourage kids to be digital citizens, explorers and change agents. 579 Telstra employees received a Telstra Kids Digital Futures grant for a project in their local community, school or library this year. Employees were able to design their own project or apply for a digital experience we curated for local schools and kindergartens. Girls at Carlton North Primary School engaged in coding their robot, thanks to a grant from Telstra 111.5 Everyone Connected 91.9 Revenue foregone 4.5 Employee volunteering and giving 20.8 Cash 14.6 Sponsorship 5.7 In-kind Notes: 0.0 Disaster relief 1.2 Time Management costs associated with each program are 130.7 Total 8.7 Management costs included in the amounts invested. Total differs due 2.3 Leverage to rounding. There were no major natural disasters in 130.7 Total Australia in FY18, significantly reducing the number of customer requests received for disaster relief packages. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 48 Digital futures Highlights $6 million 80% 4,147 Tech for good committed to Telstra Foundation funded initiatives, of public libraries across Australia supplied with community focussed organisations equipped in line with our 2020 target eSmart Libraries program to connect with learning In an increasingly dynamic and inter-connected world, technology to invest $18 million over opportunities in digital has an enormous capacity to create social and environmental three years citizenship, STEAM and change. Digital technology is disrupting traditional operating digital making models and helping society to respond to major issues in a more agile and scalable way – from managing the threat of climate change to making healthcare and education more universally accessible. But while the pace of digital change brings great opportunity, it also brings challenges in terms of online privacy and safety, as well as the impacts of digital exclusion. We want to empower people to connect and thrive in a digital world – enhancing access, overcoming barriers and enabling a future generation with the skills and support to navigate the online world confidently and safely. Along with our specific Tech for good programs, Telstra’s 40+ 17 investments in cloud storage, the Internet of Things (IoT), and startups accelerated by smart devices offered under applications give us new tools to support accessibility and inclusion Telstra muru-D® Telstra Smart Home® for vulnerable customers and communities. They are also helping us to create a more sustainable environment, promising major dividends in energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reductions. The agriculture sector is a great example of where digital technologies have the potential to provide significant social, economic and environmental benefit. Our ‘Talking 2030’ discussion paper, released this year in partnership with the National Farmers Federation (NFF), is triggering a national dialogue on agricultural growth and innovation opportunities whilst allowing the sector to grow sustainably. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Social and environmental innovation Approach Progress We believe in the power of technology to Nurturing innovation deliver innovative solutions to social and Telstra Labs continues to provide environmental challenges. We have created an important platform for innovation, an innovation eco-system at Telstra that is collaboration and exploration. Our helping us to address the issues that matter – unique environment allows for rapid from reducing carbon emissions, to improving experimentation, validation and the healthcare outcomes, to developing more implementation of new ideas. sustainable farming techniques. In Melbourne at Australia’s first publiclyThrough the Telstra Foundation, we support accessible GSMA Open Internet of Things non-profits that enable young people to (IoT) Lab, we continued to open up our thrive in their connected world. This year networks and infrastructure expertise we invested in digital learning experiences and resources to startups, customers, in schools, public libraries and remote partners and the broader IoT community. Indigenous communities, as well as inclusive High-tech agriculture irrigation strategies, harvesting strategies technologies to support people living Our muru-D startup accelerator continued and to more accurately predict what their with disability. to empower ambitious entrepreneurs to Smart farming technology is revolutionising the Australian agricultural sector. yield will be. Smart agricultural solutions solve challenging global problems using can considerably reduce agriculturetechnology. Over 40 start-ups participated Technology advancements are offering generated carbon emissions and help in our programs in Sydney, Melbourne, new ways to collect rich data about every reduce resource consumption. Brisbane, Perth and Singapore this year. aspect of farm operations to help farmers make informed, data-driven decisions Telstra is the first operator in Australia to Telstra’s annual Innovation Challenge brings deploy both Narrow Band IoT (NB IoT) and together university students and the general reducing food and energy waste, increasing productivity and profits, and improving safety. Category M1 (Cat M1) networks, which enable public to develop technology-based solutions a digitised, data-driven agriculture sector. for real-life problems. This year our finalists Using smart farming technology, livestock This innovation, coupled with our increasing showcased how IoT technologies could be can be accurately tracked and their health network footprint and extension devices, such used to improve the lives of patients and can be monitored. Drones can be used to as the Telstra Go Repeater, enables Telstra to assist those who work in the healthcare gather data about livestock movements, offer a more diversified product and solution industry in providing the best care. crop health and water availability. Ground offering for our rural and regional customers. This year also marked the launch of SheEOTM sensors can measure hundreds of variables We have made significant investment in Australia. Supported locally by Telstra and such as soil moisture, local weather, soil pH in areas such as IoT, drones, virtual and CommBank’s Women in Focus program, the and even how plants are transpiring. All of augmented reality solutions, and platforms initiative supports female entrepreneurs with this data can be analysed using techniques that will digitise the agriculture supply chain financial assistance and mentoring. such as machine learning to advise farmers domestically and globally. how to optimise planting strategies, Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 50 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good IoT supports export markets for Businesses are already using the technology businesses could save between $4,100 Australian produce for asset inspection, public safety and and $10,300 per year per server in energy agricultural purposes. costs by shifting to Telstra’s cloud services. The Internet of Things (IoT) is helping Australian producers connect to rapidly AMSL Aero, a member of our latest muru-D We continue to scale up our cloud expanding markets for imported premium cohort in Sydney, is developing world-leading capabilities, expanding our international foods in Asia. In partnership with Peloris autonomous aircraft technology. The Verticapability to make it easier and more Global Sourcing and M2M Connectivity, we plane autonomous two-seat aircraft will take efficient for our customers to manage have created tailored IoT solutions to ensure off and land vertically and fly horizontally their multiple cloud environments. the integrity and traceability of Australian at 300km/h, an innovation potentially paving For more information, please see fresh milk supplied to China. Temperature the way for the future of human mobility. our website. information can be monitored in realThe Verti-plane is designed to be safer, faster, time all the way from Australian farms to quieter and less expensive than helicopters. arrival in China. Food producers, exporters, quarantine officials and consumers can Cloud technology for a low Australian businesses all access the same information, enhancing carbon economy could save $1 billion per The Verti-plane prototype developed by AMSL consumer confidence in and demand for Many organisations are migrating to Australian produce. cloud-based infrastructure as they year in energy costs and Aero, a member of the muru-D SYD5 cohort. The future is in the skies look to digitise their businesses and reduce carbon emissions set themselves up for future growth. Drone technology has broad applications Our cloud-based customers are reducing by 4.5 million tonnes if all for remote access, autonomous flight and their carbon emissions and electricity organisations moved to crisis support. costs while realising the productivity gains that come from moving their data the cloud. Across Australia, drones assist life-guards in ocean rescue situations, using video and workloads off their own premises. analytics to recognise people and objects Our Connecting with the cloud discussion in the water. Soon, enhanced network paper helps businesses quantify the connectivity will allow drones and rescue benefits of moving to Telstra’s cloud. helicopters to safely share the same Launched at the Australian Green Cities air space – a key advancement in conference this year, our research estimates rescue situations. that Australian businesses could collectively This year Telstra Ventures invested in Cape, save $1 billion per year in energy costs and a company that enables their users to reduce carbon emissions by 4.5 million control drones remotely over the internet tonnes if all organisations moved to the and capture live high-resolution video. cloud. Australian small and medium sized IoT technology makes it possible to export fresh Australian milk to China. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 51 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Creating smarter homes Connecting at home for a Telstra Foundation® Voice-control technology is opening up healthy future The Telstra Foundation’s purpose is to enable new opportunities for older customers and Telstra Health’s MyCareManager Client young people to thrive in a connected world. Australians with mobility issues, enabling App is helping to improve the lives of people We proudly support non-profits that help them to control appliances, lights, heating living with chronic conditions. Nearly half young people understand, create and safely and cooling without needing to move around of all Australians develop one or more engage with technology; and also those that their house or wait for help. chronic conditions in their lifetime. Research use technology to positively change the lives suggests that for many health conditions, of young people. This year we worked with Google on a first in market carrier integration to allow Telstra supporting patients in their own home can be This year we partnered with 22 charity Smart Home® customers to seamlessly as effective as being admitted to hospital, but and social enterprise partners, committing control lighting and smart plugs by talking with less expense and greater satisfaction $6 million through the Telstra Foundation to their Google Home. We also launched a with care. to support community programs and Telstra Smart Home integration with Amazon MyCareManager helps individuals track and partnerships, in addition to facilitating when Alexa arrived in Australia at the monitor their progress against a personalised over $1.3 million in charitable donations beginning of 2018. care plan and communicate with their virtual from Telstra employees and Telstra Kash demonstrates Telstra Smart Home care team from home. The App can deliver shareholders. We also have foundations technology instore We now offer 17 smart devices to help targeted reminders to a person’s mobile device in the Philippines and Hong Kong, focussed customers monitor their homes, and control to prompt them to take their medication, on employee volunteering and empowering lighting and appliances. Telstra Smart Home exercise and conduct self-assessments. young people through education devices also help customers to optimise and technology. their energy efficiency by enabling them to The App can also collect a variety of clinical set a timer for their lights and manage their data, such as blood pressure, temperature, Through these efforts we are on track to thermostat remotely through a central app. blood oxygen saturation, body weight and meet our 2020 target to invest $18 million These devices have great potential to be life blood glucose levels through manual data over three years in Telstra Foundation funded changing for people in aged, disability and entry or Bluetooth device integration. The initiatives designed to support young people community care and we are continuing to App is able to notify the individual’s care to thrive in a digital world. explore more smart home applications for team when tasks are missed or where clinical these sectors. data indicates further action is required, For more information on Telstra Smart Home allowing them to easily identify and intervene technology, please refer to our website. if patients are at ‘high risk’ of deterioration and hospitalisation. Young coders get excited about their space coding projects at Moonhack 2018 (Code Club Australia / Telstra Foundation) Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 52 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Digital Futures Program We worked with the following partners in 2018: Our Digital Futures program supports • Code Club Australia – we funded 2,000 Digital workshops for remote young people to create with technology. Code Clubs and train-the-trainer programs communities We partner to deliver digital learning for 500 teachers as Code Club Australia’s Among the ancient landscapes of the experiences including coding, flying drones, founding philanthropic investor. Over Pilbara, the Roebourne community in 3D printing, robotics, cyber safety and 28,000 children from around Australia Western Australia is embracing cutting encouraging creativity in digital content participated in Code Club’s Moonhack edge technology to engage their young production and problem solving. Telstra’s computer coding event. people and preserve culture. Digital Futures partners work in schools, • The National Centre of Indigenous Over five days this year, the Telstra libraries and community groups across Excellence (NCIE) Nine Indigenous Foundation supported the Indigenous Australia, with a particular focus on community groups in remote and regional Digital Excellence (IDX) Flint team to regional, remote and other locations locations participated in IDX Flint trainteach students from Wickham and with low levels of digital inclusion. the-trainer programs this year. We were Participants at a Project ROCKIT and Telstra Roebourne Schools how to use 3D This year our investments supported: also pleased to support the inaugural Foundation Play Smart™ workshop in Darwin printers, fly a drone, as well as how National IDX Awards. to program and make their own robots. •1  54,615 young people to experience creating with technology safely • PROJECT ROCKIT more than 5,000 The IDX Flint team partners with secondary school students engaged in organisations and individuals working •4  ,147 community organisations (non-profits, workshops across Australia, sharing and libraries, schools and community groups) in communities across Australia to learning about positive online behaviour. train students and local facilitators to provide learning opportunities in digital Telstra and PROJECT ROCKIT also created citizenship and digital making and provide a tech kit so communities Play Smart™, a program for 12-16 year can continue to build on the skills they • The upskilling of 4,748 digital guides – a mix olds that links cyber safety and playing have learnt during their workshops. of Telstra employees, librarians, teachers, team sports. Indigenous Elders and other community Flint Manager Grant Cameron said the • eSmart Libraries – we partner with the leaders – to support young people to explore Indigenous-led program offers Aboriginal Alannah & Madeline Foundation to equip the positive benefits of being connected. and Torres Strait Islander communities libraries, staff and library users with across Australia new ways to spark the the skills they need for smart, safe and interest, talents and ideas of young responsible use of digital technology. IDX Flint WA workshops teach students from Wickham Indigenous people in digital technology. eSmart is in 80 per cent of public libraries and Roebourne how to use drones, robotics and virtual around Australia. reality (VR) technologies “The mob here can really see the potential • Young Change Agents After a successful of these technologies to engage their pilot program in FY16, we funded the young people, explore and preserve Young Change Agents program to engage culture and country, and connect these students to solve social challenges using new technologies to storytelling,” design thinking and enterprise skills. Grant said. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 53 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Supporting at-risk youth with Tech for good Supporting people living with The Telstra Foundation’s Tech for good Machado-Joseph disease investment program supports non-profits using MJD is a neuro-degenerative disease digital technology to change the lives of young that is particularly prevalent in the people at risk of social exclusion. We focus on Aboriginal population of North East partners and projects that improve the health Arnhem Land. The disease causes and wellbeing of young people – particularly progressive loss of speech, movement diverse and vulnerable young people such and eventually, body control. It occurs in as those living with disability, at risk of families, with each child of an affected mental illness, living in regional or remote person at a 50 per cent risk of developing communities, and with Aboriginal and Torres the disease themselves, almost always Strait Islander heritage. at an earlier age than their parent. We are investing in new ways to leverage One of the many challenges for people The Equal Reality VR App, part of the 2017 Remarkable MJDF clients test paper prototypes technology to treat youth mental health cohort, can recreate the experience of living with disability of the Yolŋu Matha keyboard with MJD is communication. Telstra issues, from awareness and prevention to promote better understanding of accessibility requirements partner, the MJD Foundation, is through to e-health tools for clinicians. supporting their clients to trial using In the area of disability, we are looking for students, teachers and parents •C erebral Palsy Australia – we are supporting digital tablets for improved access to at new ways to connect people living with designed to support young people and Remarkable, the world’s first accessible medical and therapeutic treatment as complex communication needs to life improve their understanding of skills and inclusive maker space and accelerator well as for social inclusion. changing technology solutions. that promote wellbeing where digital technology is used to develop This year, the Telstra Foundation funded In FY18, we continued our multi-year • Orygen (National Centre of Excellence for life changing solutions for people with the development of a keyboard prototype partnerships and launched our Tech for good Youth Mental Health) we are supporting a disability that enables clients to communicate Challenge incubator program to encourage the design and development of the world’s •M JD Foundation – we are supporting in both English and their primary Yolŋu new participants and fresh thinking. Seventeen first virtual clinic designed for young people programs for people living with Machadolanguages, allowing them to touch type challenge participants are being supported suffering from severe and complex mental Joseph disease (MJD), a motor neurone words to communicate with family, to scope, research and test new ideas, with health conditions disease impacting many Indigenous friends, medical and disability support promising projects funded for piloting and • Assistive Technology Australia we people living in remote regions. staff and carers. potential development to scale. partnered to deliver workshops for carers, Telstra shareholders also donated over The project was co-designed and Progress with our Tech for good investments medical staff and people living with complex $448,000 through the Telstra Shareholder developed with MJD Foundation clients in FY18 includes: disability to understand technology options Dividend Reinvestment Plan to our partner from Elcho Island. Lessons from the that can improve wellbeing ReachOut this year. The donations and prototype will be used to develop and • ReachOut – we are supporting ReachOut’s School Engagement and Orb programs, unclaimed monies helped to develop a scale the communication tool for including online resources and an App new digital platform to improve access broader application. to mental health services for young people. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 54 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Keeping safe in a digital world Approach The product blocks around one billion queries to malicious sites and content Digital technology provides access to a that may infect devices or steal customers’ world of information and communication information every month. This year more but it can also leave us exposed to new risks than 80 per cent of our home Internet users such as cyberbullying, privacy breaches are protected by Telstra Broadband Protect, and fraud. Through our programs, we work a 50 per cent increase from FY17. to build the skills and confidence needed to help understand these risks and promote Thousands of families have also added safe and positive digital experiences. parental controls to their Telstra Broadband Protect service, so that parents can block Online safety is more than protecting people inappropriate content or restrict internet from online danger and personal risk. It is access on every device in the home. Parental also about creating a sense of belonging and Controls block around 100,000 requests standards of behaviour that enable us all to from each protected service every month have a positive experience online. At Telstra for websites, applications, and other content. we want to empower people to participate safely in the online world and provide Telstra Mobile Protect helps protect families the infrastructure and support that make when they’re using their mobile devices on this possible. the Telstra mobile network, and lets parents restrict mobiles and tablets usage. The service offers parents family-friendly webProgress blocking features, allows parents to keep an eye on their children’s social networking and Helping customers stay safe online protect them from un-wanted calls and SMS Telstra offers its customers a range of ways messages. The service is available to postto stay safe online. Our Telstra Broadband paid Telstra customers at no extra cost. Protect™ and Telstra Mobile Protect™ solutions help parents to better protect Safer internet for our people their families from cyber risks, tailoring and customers connectivity to the needs and maturity of Celebrating ‘Safer Internet Day’ this year, we family members and helping bring balance ran competitions, launched a training video to screen time. and shared information to engage our Sales Telstra Broadband Protect helps more and Assurance teams about online safety. than two million customers and their family We also produced ‘How to’ videos to help our members to stay safe online via any device customers to manage time spent online and connected to their home broadband service. to manage the sites their families can visit. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good Cyber safety in our communities people and technology, including cyberPublic libraries are the most heavily used libraries and communities can develop smart, At Telstra, we are committed to safety, mental health and digital skills. community centres in Australia, connecting safe and responsible digital behaviours. championing cyber safety in our We also support the Office’s Women with many disadvantaged members of A recent independent evaluation of the communities. We fund digital citizenship Influencing Technology Spaces program society. More than half of the population program shows it to be one of the most highlyprograms through the Telstra Foundation, which uses women’s voices to raise are public library members, who make over rated programs ever undertaken in libraries, such as PROJECT ROCKIT and eSmart awareness of the impacts of cyber abuse. 110 million visits a year to 1,500 public with 100 per cent of surveyed library managers Libraries, which promote positive online libraries across Australia. We also champion cyber safety through recommending the program and 93 per cent behaviours for people of all ages and our digital inclusion programs. This year Developed from a holistic and evidence-based of library staff reporting improved knowledge experiences, including taking action marked the completion of a two-year approach, eSmart Libraries focuses on ways on how to assist community members to stay on cyberbullying and online safety. research project into cyber safety in safe online. We also provide parents and carers with remote Indigenous communities. Funded practical tips and advice on staying safe by Telstra in partnership with RMIT, the in the digital world. For example, our study explores cyber safety challenges SmartPhone Safety Hub provides support faced by Indigenous adults and school for parents who are bringing a smartphone students in central Australia and Cape into their child’s life, and we support York (far-north Queensland). internal and external awareness campaigns Australian libraries are including the National Day of Action Against eSmart libraries Bullying and Safer Internet Day. The Telstra Foundation and the Alannah We collaborate on cyber safety through & Madeline Foundation launched eSmart our active participation in key industry Libraries in 2012 – one of most ambitious programs. Telstra is a member of the Family cyber safety initiatives undertaken in Online Safety Institute (FOSI) Board, the Australia to equip libraries, staff and Office of the eSafety Commissioner’s Online library users with the skills they need for Safety Consultative Working Group and smart, safe and responsible use of digital Co-founder of the Technology for Wellbeing technology. Backed by an $8 million Telstra Round Table a thought leadership forum Foundation grant, 80 per cent of libraries of experts and practitioners that meets are now participating in the free program. quarterly to discuss issues relating to young Nuriootpa young people after a PROJECT ROCKIT workshop Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 56 Environmental Highlights solutions 24% reduction 3.9% reduction Launched in carbon emissions intensity in total carbon emissions, our refreshed Environment in FY18, on track to meet our compared to FY17 Strategy, including 2020 goals 50 per cent reduction target by 2020 Climate change and energy Technology is an essential enabler of low-carbon economic growth, and our investment in technological innovation is helping us to prepare for a more energy-focused, climate-conscious future. Our efforts to innovate and leverage technology are helping our business, our customers and our communities to respond $4.5 million 226 MW Aleadership to climate change. invested in energy reduction projects, saving 22,762 tCO2e of renewable wind energy committed rating While advances in digital technologies have the potential and more than 23,000 MWh through a consortium achieved for CDP (formerly to mitigate our contribution to climate change, we must also of electricity per annum power purchasing Carbon Disclosure Project) ensure our infrastructure is also resilient to climate impacts. agreement 2017 As Australia’s leading telecommunications and technology provider, we facilitate many millions of calls and data connections across our network each day. Given the breadth and complexity of our underlying infrastructure, we expect our exposure to climate change-related risk will increase in line with the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Energy and emissions Approach Our commitment to transparency Our Environment Strategy For more information on how we are We calculate our GHG emissions according Our refreshed Environment Strategy, bringing this strategy to life, and our specific We are committed to mitigating our climate performance targets, please visit our website, to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World launched in June this year, is focused change impacts and helping our customers at www.telstra.com.au/environment. Business Council for Sustainable Development on embracing innovation and technology and communities to do the same. With the and World Resources Institute as well as the to help address environmental challenges. launch of our updated Environment Strategy this year, we are working to enhance energy Australian National Greenhouse and Energy The revised Strategy goes beyond simply Climate change governance and emissions performance across our Reporting (Measurement) Determination managing our own environmental footprint. operations and broader value chain. 2008 (as amended). Our GHG emissions Maintaining clear oversight of It also encourages innovation in digital data includes relevant Australian subsidiaries, our climate change-related risks products and services that create Energy efficiency and climate resilience joint ventures and partnerships as set and opportunities is one of our environmental solutions to monitor, are also factored in to our Networks for out in the National Greenhouse and Energy sustainability governance priorities. protect and improve the environment. the Future investment program. We are Reporting Act 2007. We report Scope 1 and The Chief Sustainability Office is considering future climate forecasts, as 2 GHG emissions from Telstra’s operations The Strategy has five pillars, supported by responsible for implementing Telstra’s well as energy efficiency requirements when and selected Scope 3 GHG emissions. goals, commitments and targets to 2020: Environment Strategy, and provides bimaking decisions on asset location, design • Managing Carbon Emissions continue annual updates to the Telstra Board on and network equipment. While we anticipate For a detailed breakdown of our environmental performance data, to invest in energy efficiency and increase progress against targets and objectives. a short term increase in our greenhouse gas our support of Australia’s renewable Our Health, Safety and Environment (GHG) emissions as we maintain our existing please refer to our reporting website at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. energy sector (HSE) team is responsible for providing network during the Networks for the Future updates on HSE performance and riskroll out, we aim to continue reducing our • Climate Change Resilience embed climate Since 2003 we have also disclosed our GHG management, including in relation to emissions intensity over the longer term. change resilience actions into infrastructure emissions and climate change risks annually climate risks, to the Management Risk planning, investment and operation This year we continued to expand our support through our questionnaire response to the Committee and CEO Leadership Team CDP. Our submissions are available online • Low-carbon Economic Growth use our on a quarterly basis. The Audit and for the Australian renewable energy market by technology to help address environmental investing in a major windfarm development in at www.cdp.net Risk Committee also receives quarterly challenges and help our customers reduce reporting on our GHG emissions western Victoria. Our investment allows us to To ensure stakeholder confidence in their GHG emissions lock in our energy costs for the long term at performance, trends and progress. our environmental management and well below current prices, as well as partner • Resource Efficiency reduce waste to performance, we engaged Ernst & Young with some of our enterprise customers on a landfill by embedding sustainable design (EY) to provide limited assurance over high quality regional energy project. practices, increasing re-use and recycling our FY18 environmental performance and making our packaging more sustainable For more information on how we support data. For an overview of the metrics included in assurance for this year, • Environmental Management – extend people, businesses and the community to best practice environmental management improve their environmental performance, please refer to EY’s assurance statement at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. practices across our global company. please refer to the Social and environmental innovation section of this report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 58 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Progress Greenhouse gas emissions, petabyte usage and emissions intensity1 Energy efficiency Electricity consumption accounts for Managing our energy and emissions 2m 12m around 95 per cent of our total GHG Last year we committed to reducing our GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3). We strive emissions intensity (tCO2e per petabyte) by to reduce energy consumption across every 50 per cent by 2020, from a baseline year of aspect of our business through a careful FY17. This year we reduced our emissions program of planning, equipment monitoring intensity by 24 per cent, meaning we are on 1.5m 9m and energy productivity optimisation. track to achieve our 2020 target. 423 Our network sites, including exchanges Drivers of our improved intensity performance and data centres, are our largest consumers include the continued growth in customer of electricity. This year, we continued data use, changes to state-based emission to enhance the efficiency of these sites, factors for electricity published by the 1m 6m installing new lighting and air-conditioning Australian Government and emissions controls, retiring inefficient cooling systems, reductions enabled through our energy 256 improving our approach to fault detection efficiency activities. and repair, and optimising facility design. Overall emissions have decreased by 187 Since 2011 we have invested $56.5 million 3.9 per cent from last year. The decrease 0.5m 3m 141 in improving the energy efficiency of our is largely due to a reduction in our electricity facilities. This year we invested $4.5 million consumption from energy savings derived in energy reduction projects that delivered from project initiatives (energy efficiency a collective saving 22,762 tCO2e and more and decommissioning) as well as the than 23,000 MWh of electricity per annum. increased transition of operational control tCO2e PB of infrastructure to nbn co throughout For a detailed breakdown of our GHG FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 the year. Other factors contributing to the emissions and energy consumption, decrease were a reduction in state-based please refer to our reporting website Total emissions Petabyte (PB) Emissions intensity at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. electricity emission factors, a reduction in (Scope 1, 2 and 3) tCO2e Usage tCO2e/PB2 transport fuel consumption and changes to Scope 3 emission factors for electricity transmission losses. 1 G  reenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the latest emission factors at the time of reporting. Scope 3 emission include waste, air travel, electricity transmission losses and fuel extraction and refining. 2 Emissions intensity information has previously been reported on a terabyte (TB) basis. From FY18 it is presented on a per petabyte (PB) basis to reflect our new 2020 target. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 59 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy FY18 greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) by category We de-power and decommission our This financial year we surpassed our target redundant network infrastructure to depower and decommission 830 network 1.2m to save energy and re-use, or recycle elements, completing 1,148 elements components where practicable. Network during the year. The decommissioning decommissioning projects implemented and depowering activities saved more in FY18 will save 28,614 MWh per annum. than 6,636 MWh of electricity. As our customers migrate to the nbnTM, For more information on how we recycle we are progressively reconfiguring and our infrastructure components, see the 800k Scope 2 Scope 3 decommissioning our network infrastructure Re-using customer equipment section Scope 1 1,209,274 tCO2e 180,949 tCO2e to optimise its utilisation. Even when these of this report. 50,037 tCO2e network elements have no customer services connected they still consume power and must be actively depowered and disconnected. 400k FY18 energy reduction initiatives Annual Initiative Description savings (MWh) tCO2e HVAC optimisation We conduct physical inspections of our network 8,884 sites to identify faults affecting power consumption Network sites Offices, retail, Data Vehicles Flights Waste and review equipment performance to identify (incl mobile, residential centres optimisation opportunities. exchanges, depots) Building services Our capital works program includes the installation 7,896 Electricity Fuel Waste energy efficiency of fresh air cooling systems, high efficiency chillers, upgrades electronically commutated fans and lighting controls. Upgrading rectifiers Rectifiers convert electricity from AC mains power to DC 4,069 We use smart electricity meters to improve A key energy reduction initiative this year power, which is required to run our telecommunications our measurement capabilities and help has been the upgrade of air conditioning equipment. We continue to upgrade older inefficient units us identify consumption patterns. We are controllers at 20 network sites, enabling to more modern, high efficiency rectifiers. These are now also using IoT power monitoring systems air conditioning operation to be optimised achieving efficiency levels of 96 – 98 per cent. to better understand where energy is used to meet current energy efficiency standards. in our facilities, rapidly identify issues that We have validated that this reduces energy Grid connected solar We are installing rooftop solar panels at some of our 2,302 adversely impact energy efficiency or are photovoltaics exchange buildings to power our telecommunications consumption from air conditioning systems not compliant with Telstra’s operational equipment and reduce the amount the energy we by up to 26 per cent. The control system standards, and validate energy reduction consume from the electricity grid. upgrade at Woodville Exchange in South initiatives. This year we upgraded electricity Australia alone saves approximately TOTAL 23,151 meters at 368 facilities, increasing the total 64,000 kWh per annum. number of facilities with smart meters to over 1,800. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 60 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Managing our transport emissions Renewable energy We continue to advocate for and share our Our use of transport fuels is the second This year we led a consortium including experience in PPAs for renewables, leading largest contributor to our emissions profile. ANZ, Coca-Cola Amatil and the University discussions as Gold Sponsor of the 2018 GHG emissions from our operational fleet of Melbourne which entered into a power Australasian Emissions Reduction Summit reduced by seven per cent this year as we purchasing agreement (PPA) covering in Melbourne this year. continue to transition to more fuel-efficient the 226 MW first stage of the Murra Warra Telstra’s participation in the Murra Warra vehicles. We are progressively removing Wind Farm near Horsham in western consortium builds on our investment large six-cylinder wagons from our fleet Victoria. We recently announced the support for RES Australia’s 70MW Emerald and replacing them with fourcylinder addition of Monash University to this solar farm in Queensland in FY17, currently models, increasing our average fuel consortium, and we continue to look under construction and due to start efficiencies this year. for ways to use our expertise in this area generation next year. to help more of Australia’s businesses We participate in the GreenFleet carbon We continue to implement grid-connected and organisations meet their energy offset program for all our salary packaged solar PV at our exchange buildings. This and sustainability challenges. vehicles and novated lease arrangements. year our total grid-connected solar capacity Since 2003, Telstra employees have funded The consortium arrangement is one of increased to 2.1MW, up from 424kW in FY17. the planting of over 1.45 million trees the first of its kind in Australia. Installations were completed at 24 of our around Australia. On World Environment large network exchanges with an average Day this year we partnered with GreenFleet Murra Warra will generate up to 429MW when fully constructed; more energy than system size of around 70kW. In addition, to plant over 1,000 trees in the Kowanyama we also have over 3.8MW of off-grid solar Indigenous community in Far North any other wind farm currently operating in the southern hemisphere. Stage 1 of the capacity, which has grown slightly this year Queensland. Kowanyama was impacted in line with our participation in the Mobile by Cyclone Nora in March 2018 and the project will generate enough electricity to power almost 220,000 Victorian homes and Black Spot Program. planting of biodiverse native plants as well as fruit trees revitalised the access to fresh reduce Australia’s CO2e emissions by around produce which can otherwise be hard to 900,000 tonnes each year. Construction of come by. The initiative was in addition to our Stage 1 started this year and the project established reforestation agreement with is expected to create around 150 jobs and Greenfleet and supports our commitment to other opportunities for businesses in the working with Indigenous Australia, outlined local area. in our Reconciliation Action Plan. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 61 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Climate change resilience Approach Progress With over 25,000 physical assets around Building resilience the world, we understand our exposure to Our adaptation framework guides how we climate change and have identified business manage our climate and extreme-weather resilience as one of our key climate-change risks. This year we completed a scoping risks. We are working to anticipate and assessment to identify our priority areas reduce the impact of future climate-related for embedding resilience planning in our disruptions as part of our current program business, operations and future decision of work to upgrade and expand our networks. making processes. Our focus areas are: Beyond managing our own operations, we are • Employee capacity – building the capacity also aware of the critical role that ICT can play of our people through training, collaboration in helping our customers and communities and integrating the consideration of to move towards a low-carbon future. Our climate risks into existing processes response to climate change is therefore and frameworks focused on addressing both the risks and • Portfolio wide strategy – developing our opportunities it presents. approach across a group of Telstra assets Our response to climate change is focused on: or works so that actions can be made • Minimising our emissions – identifying replicable and scalable Our assessment findings form the basis for opportunities to improve the energy • Site acquisition and due diligence – our Climate Resilience Action Plan, providing Telstra achieves efficiency of our networks and the use of influencing decision making frameworks to a framework against which we will measure CDP Leadership rating renewable energy sources plan for and reduce exposure to climate risk our performance. The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure • Enabling low-carbon economic growth – prior to site acquisition, and demonstrate During the year we continued to engage Project) is a global disclosure framework making energy efficient technology more that due consideration of climate risks has our business teams on available climate for investors, companies, cities, states accessible across our networks been undertaken change risk assessment tools, with a view to and regions to manage and assess their • Building resilience – assessing climate risk • Asset design – enhancing asset design and embedding them into their existing asset tools. environmental impacts. CDP’s network and developing management approaches construction guidelines to address climate of investors and purchasers represent risk and enhancing resilience at an asset We were recognised as a finalist at this year’s for our own operations, and to support over $US100 trillion in assets. level, across the asset lifecycle Banksia Awards for our work with Fujitsu customers in extreme weather events. Australia to promote ICT’s role in supporting This year Telstra achieved a Leadership • Operations and management – planning and a transition to a zero emissions economy. For Arating for our disclosure in the Global preparing for risks that affect operations more information, please see our Australian Climate Change Index. The rating reflects and maintenance, reducing the costs and SMARTERer2030 Report: The role of our efforts to mitigate the risks and implications of post event recovery. Information and Communications Technology capitalise on the opportunities associated (ICT) in reducing Australia’s GHG emissions. with climate change. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 62 Environmental Highlights solutions 23.7 tonnes 2,406 devices 20,000 of mobile phones and repurposed across 297 employees reached accessories collected enterprise customers through the introduction for recycling, on track to of E-waste Recycling meet our 2020 target to Hubs in our major offices re-use or recycle 60 tonnes Environment and resource efficiency E-waste is one of the fastest growing types of waste in Australia. There are now around 23.5 million unused mobile phones sitting on shelves or in drawers across the country. As one of Australia’s leading technology companies, we have a responsibility to improve our resource efficiency and help our customers and suppliers minimise their environmental impacts. 3,871 tonnes 9% reduction 16 tonnes We are identifying new circular opportunities to support the of e-waste collected, with a in paper use of plastic and eight tonnes reuse or recycling of electronic products. Resource efficiency recycling rate of 99.9 per cent of cardboard saved each creates opportunity, including new revenue streams from reused year through the optimisation materials, innovative products with enhanced sustainability of packaging credentials, and cost savings from reducing packaging materials. Telstra will continue to pursue these opportunities as we adopt more ambitious re-use, recycling and efficiency initiatives. We advocate for environmental stewardship across our industry and offer options that help our customers improve their environmental performance. We also work to ensure we comply with our environmental obligations, monitoring and managing the increasing complexity of our environmental risks. Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Resource efficiency Total e-waste recycled (tonnes) FY16 5,549 FY17 4,353 Approach Progress FY18 3,871 We rely on large volumes of electronic E-waste equipment to operate our network. The rapid evolution of technology requires us Working together – MobileMuster to continuously upgrade our network and As a founding member of MobileMuster has also increased customer demand for – Australia’s only voluntary, governmentRaising awareness and advocating We continue to work with our panel of prethe latest devices, resulting in increasing accredited mobile phone recycling scheme for change qualified e-waste recycling vendors that meet quantities of equipment becoming e-waste. – we have supported responsible electronics Australian Standards for the responsible We are working to raise awareness about how Responsible e-waste management has recycling programs for 20 years. management, storage, handling and disposal to securely and responsibly manage retired become one of our most significant product of e-waste. Pre-qualification streamlines our In FY18 we collected 23.7 tonnes of mobile electronics. According to MobileMuster, stewardship issues. procurement process and bolsters our ability phones and accessories, which puts us on 77 per cent of Australian consumers are to responsibly and securely reuse and recycle In line with our refreshed Environment track to meet our three-year target to reuse aware of mobile phone recycling. This year this resource. Strategy, we are committed to expanding the or recycle 60 tonnes of mobile phones and we continued to contribute to policy forums circular economy for electronic equipment. accessories by the end of FY20. In total, and policy development on electronics Telstra eCycleTM is our collection and recycling We contribute to sector-wide initiatives, and we collected 3,871 tonnes of e-waste, with stewardship. We contributed a submission program for eligible, unwanted electronic seek to improve our own practices through a recycling rate of 99.9 per cent. The total to the Victorian government on their goods. In our retail stores, this service effective product design, productivity, reuse volume of e-waste collected has decreased proposed approach to managing e-waste and leverages the MobileMuster collection and repurposing. Our employees share this by 11 per cent compared to FY17 due to a presented at the Australasian ‘Powering the network to provide customers with the journey with us. They contribute directly to reduction in battery lifecycle replacements. Change to a Circular Economy’ conference, option to responsibly and safely recycle our recycling campaigns and are advocates as well as the Global Product Stewardship their mobile phones and accessories. For a detailed breakdown of our Council’s International Stewardship Forum. for effective stewardship in our workplaces, resource consumption, please Engaging our people businesses and communities. refer to our reporting website, at Working with our value chain E-waste recycling hubs have been introduced We aim to protect the environment by www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. Our Electronics Reuse and Recycling Strategy, in our major offices, offering a central cultivating a strong risk management Unlocking Hidden Value, is gaining traction in collection point for common types of e-waste culture and maintaining effective systems and processes. We monitor and assess We want to accelerate change, its second year to systematically manage and including household batteries, redundant reduce our e-waste impact across our value Remote Network Access tokens, old mobile our compliance to ensure we meet the treating e-waste as a circular chain. Our efforts to offer employees and handsets and accessories as well as general requirements of industry regulation and expectations of our stakeholders. economy opportunity. customers convenient collection options for e-waste. The service now reaches more than mobile handsets and accessories has directly 20,000 of our employees throughout Australia. For more information on our refreshed contributed to increased recovery rates for Environment Strategy, please see the Climate recycling and reuse. change and energy section of this report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 64 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Extending the life of smartphones Employee involvement Other materials efficiency Customers have shown strong interest in This year our people were invited to initiatives our Go Mobile Swap lease plans, designed participate in initiatives to transform This year we reduced the thickness of the for smartphone users to obtain the latest their redundant mobile phones and plastic used in our satchels used for retail generation technology each year, manage tablets, and provide social benefits: products, saving an estimated 15 tonnes their monthly spend and upgrade damaged • The Able Australia workplace campaign was of plastic each year while halving our phones. We have seen an increase in a one-month initiative to collect unwanted packaging cost. We also reduced the size customers leasing handsets compared working smartphones for reuse by deafblind of our Starter Kit and SIM card satchels to last year, with phones returned at end Australians. The reuse campaign helps to saving an additional 1.22 tonnes of plastic of the lease period being refurbished for educate deafblind people on how to use annually. Our SIM dispatch wallets are now re-use or recycled. mobile technology to communicate and made from lighter, 99 per cent recycled Re-using customer equipment stay connected. cardboard, saving an estimated 8.5 tonnes • In partnership with Mobile Muster of virgin cardboard each year. When we upgrade our business and enterprise customers’ equipment we collect redundant and OzHarvest, Telstra customers and We have significantly reduced our paper equipment for reuse, repurposing, recycling or employees were invited to recycle their use for office, printing and billing activities sale. This year we worked with 297 Enterprise old mobile phones, with each phone over the last five years. This year we further customers to collect and reuse 2,406 devices. collected contributing a meal for someone reduced paper use by nine per cent due We worked with National Australia Bank to in need. Of the 70,000 meals donated to the use of thinner paper stock for billing keep 486 kilograms of old video conferencing through the campaign, 20,590 were and efforts to reduce office printing. equipment out of landfill, reusing 86 per cent attributed to Telstra’s recycling efforts. • Celebrating World Environment Day, As Australia makes the switch from copper of the collected equipment (by weight). The Telstra employees in Melbourne were cable network to the nbn, we are seeking ways value of the reused material was donated invited to bring their unwanted electronics to responsibly and cost-effectively recycle our to Australia’s largest fresh food charity, to work for collection and recycling. recovered cable materials. In a multi-state trial SecondBite, contributing over 4,000 meals Telstra partnered with SecondBite to this year we recovered 93 tonnes of copper for vulnerable Australians. donate a meal for every kilogram of mains cable for local recycling. e-waste recycled throughout June 2018. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 65 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency Environmental risk and compliance Approach Progress The nature, scale and geographical spread Telstra, as a minimum, seeks to of our activities bring inherent environmental be compliant with all applicable challenges. Protecting the environment environmental laws and regulatory is our priority, and we seek to achieve this permissions relevant to our operations. by cultivating a strong risk management We also comply with notices issued by culture and maintaining our environmental government authorities. We have not management system which is accredited been prosecuted for, or convicted of, any to ISO 14001:2015. significant breaches of environmental regulation during the financial year. Our most important environmental issues are defined by our global Health, Safety and Each year we conduct an enterpriseEnvironment (HSE) management system. wide review of our environment program Telstra has outlined a number of minimum and plan compliance activities for the performance requirements to manage coming period. This year, we digitised and compliance for these issues, including: strengthened our existing environment • Resource use compliance program to better drive business unit accountability for best • Pollution practice environmental compliance. • Waste Awareness training and procedural • Biodiversity updates continue to be rolled out across • Land management, heritage and access. the company in response to current and emerging environmental requirements. Telstra’s Executive Leadership team maintains strong governance over our environmental compliance activities, ensuring that our key environmental compliance risks and controls are understood and promoted across the organisation. For more information on our approach to sustainability governance, please refer the Climate change governance section of this report. Bigger Picture 2018 Sustainability Report 66 For further enquiries, email us at sustainability@team.telstra.com
