SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENERGY FOR HAPPINESS Happy Life Making with Warm Energy ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS 04 CEO Message 06 FOCUS REPORT #1 EWP, the green power plant for a clean environment 08 FOCUS REPORT #2 EWP, the eco-friendly energy company to enrich the world 10 FOCUS REPORT #3 EWP for the realization of higher social ENERGY FOR values HAPPINESS 12 EWP OVERVIEW 14 About EWP 16 Business Portfolio 20 Value Creation Process 22 Vision and Strategy PURPOSE since the last year's report are included in this report to help better understanding. The scope of the report is economic, 24 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Korea East-West Power (EWP) Co., Ltd. strives to grow into 26 Stakeholder Participation an energy company that creates the best values under the social and environmental activities and outcomes of the 28 Key Sustainability Issues vision of an eco-friendly energy company that enriches head office of EWP and five business units (Dangjin CoalCREATING ECONOMIC VALUE the world. EWP considers not only economic values but fired Power Complex, Ulsan Oil-fired & C. C. Power Complex, 31 Stable Supply of Power also social values and environmental values throughout the Honam Coal-fired Power Plant, Donghae Coal-fired Power 34 Create Growth Engines for the Future decision-making processes and publishes the sustainability Plant, and Ilsan Combined Heat and Power Plant). 38 Management with Safety First report each year to disclose its efforts and outcome in terms CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE of corporate sustainability to all its stakeholders in the most 41 Response to Climate Change transparent way. This report is the twelfth sustainability REPORT ASSURANCE 43 Minimization of Environmental Impact report published by EWP. Financial information in this report was prepared through an CREATING SOCIAL VALUE accounting audit by an independent audit corporation. We 49 Creation of Pleasant Workplaces had it verified by a third party verification body to assure the 53 Building of a Sound Industrial Ecosystem REPORTING GUIDELINE 57 Creation of Good Jobs accuracy, reliability, and fairness of the contents of the report, This report is based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the verification results are included in the assurance 59 Sharing with Local Community Standards and ISO 26000 and complies with the Core options statement. 62 of the GRI Standards. This report focuses on key issues derived from materiality assessment from the economic, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM environmental, and social viewpoints which are three pillars ADDITIONAL INFORMATION of sustainability management. 64 Corporate Governance This report is published in both Korean and English versions 66 Ethical Management and can be viewed at any time on the website of EWP. Please 69 Risk Management contact us if you have any comments or questions about the 70 REPORTING PERIOD AND SCOPE report. The reporting period for this report is from January 1 to APPENDIX December 31, 2017. The quantitative results reflect the Climate & Environment Team 71 Summary of Sustainability Outcomes three-year performance from 2015 to 2017 to help readers understand the change trend, and some of the qualitative Address_ 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan (44543) 75 UN Global Compact Advanced Level results include the achievements for 2018 for timely reports. TEL_ 070-5000-1546 76 Support of UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Website_ www.ewp.co.kr 78 Diagnostic Report of Level of Implementation of ISO 26000 Moreover, some of the contents that have not been changed 80 Third Party Assurance Statement 82 GRI Content Index 85 Participating Associations 86 Subsidiaries and Affiliat SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCING EWP 04 /05 CEO MESSAGE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER CEO MESSAGE Dear stakeholders, MSP (management service provider), and response to changing demand. First of all, I sincerely appreciate your unwavering support and attention for the sustainable management efforts of We will take the lead in realizing social values. Korea East-West Power (EWP). EWP is preparing to take As a public energy enterprise, we will not only faithfully a leap forward as an “eco-friendly energy company that carry out our main duty, which is supplying electric enriches the world.” This year’s twelfth sustainability report power economically and reliably, but also take the lead contains our willingness to go on this journey toward an in realizing social values such as seeking mutual growth eco-friendly energy company with all of our stakeholders with small and medium-sized par tner companies, by disclosing our economic, environmental and social fulfilling our responsibilities as a member of the local activities in a transparent and balanced manner. community, and creating quality jobs. To this end, we are actively promoting preferential policies for the In recent years, interests in climate change have socially disadvantaged including disabled people risen across the world due to unprecedented levels of and women as well as social enterprises. We are extreme weather conditions such as heat wave, heavy also running a consultative body on shipbuilding rain, and drought. In Korea, the energy industry is equipment intended to support SMEs in Ulsan, which are facing more calls for rapid change than ever since the experiencing difficulties due to the sluggish shipbuilding public is considering worsening fine dust problems as industry. In addition, EWP is making various efforts a quality of life issue. Thus, EWP vows to continue to to create quality jobs including establishing the four implement the following activities in order to secure implementation directions (increasing the number sustainable grow th engines and to produce clean of jobs, heightening the quality of jobs, sharing, and energy that meets the expectations of the people. infrastruc ture innovation), f inding ideas through contests, and supporting in-house startups. We will actively respond to the energy paradigm shift and the new climate system. We will create a culture of communication. As the energy paradigm is shif ting to low-carbon eco-friendly energy, the government has announced E WP will ac tively communicate with internal and a polic y to increase the propor tion of renewable external stakeholders and share the goals of the energy generation to 20% by 2030. In line with this, organization for sustainable growth. Internally, we EWP has established an aggressive goal of increasing will aggressively promote RESPECT 7, a new corporate its renewable energy generation to 25% by 2030. In culture based on a horizontal organization and mutual particular, we are concentrating our efforts on generating respect, so that we can improve how we work and environmentally friendly power by expanding pure maintain a balance between work and personal life. renewable energy such as solar power utilizing land and From outside stakeholders, we will fully accommodate offshore wind power as well as unused land. In addition, critical opinions and suggestions through ac tive we plan to invest KRW 2.785 trillion won by 2026 in efforts t wo way communic at ion rat her t han one side d to drastically reduce fine dust, including adopting highinformation delivery as well as broaden consensus efficiency environmental facilities using new technology. regarding company operation. We will continue to By supplying clean energy and realizing social values, We will continue to strive to enhance the environmental performance of our entire power generation process. actively communicate with stakeholders by establishing a variety of open communication channels. we will become an eco-friendly energy company that We will secure future growth engines by developing We fully acknowledge that the driving force that propels EWP to grow continuously is the genuine trust and new businesses in tandem with the Fourth unstinting support of our stakeholders. EWP pledges enriches the world. Industrial Revolution. to live up to the expectations of stakeholders with an open-minded and innovative mindset. We ask for your In a bid to lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the energy industry, EWP established the e-Brain center continued support and encouragement for our endeavors which incorporates key technologies of the Fourth toward sustainable growth. Thank you. Industrial Revolution, such as big data and artificial Chief of EWP Park Il-jun intelligence in January 2018, based on its experience of November 11. 2018 building Dangjin Power Plant Units 9 and 10 as smart Chief of EWP power plants through convergence of the company’s accumulated operational capabilities and intelligent Park Il-jun assets. With advanced Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies at the e-Brain center, we will continue to seek opportunities to develop new energy businesses through ef f icient operation of power generation facilities, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, ESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCING EWP 06 /07 FOCUS REPORT #1 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER Green House Gas Reduction Roadmap % Reduce 9.78 million tons compared to the emission by 2030 FOCUS REPORT #1 EWP, the green power plant for a clean environment The policies and regulations of the international communities and governments are becoming stricter, and people’s concerns are growing as the environmental threat of greenhouse gas and others have become stronger. In contrast to the previous electricity supply and demand plans, which had focused on supply-demand stability and economic efficiency, the 8th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand emphasize the environment and safety.” Coalfired power plants are cheap and efficient, but they emit more greenhouse gases than other power plants. EWP also produces a significant amount of greenhouse gases and generates PM during the fuel combustion process due to the nature of the coal-fired power industry. EWP established the roadmap to lower greenhouse gas by 9.78 million tons, or 20% of the projected emission levels, by 2030 to reduce greenhouse gas and PM. As part of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, EWP replaced existing fuels with lowcarbon renewable fuels such as wood chips and bio-heavy oil and is gradually introducing efficient power generation facilities. It is also continuing its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing power consumption at power plants and securing CDM* carbon credits for Dangjin small hydropower. Moreover, EWP has developed and commercialized the CO2 separator technology which filters out the carbon dioxide generated when coal is burned and has been helping about 37 vendors save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emission by participating in the government cooperative project with small and medium enterprises. As a public energy enterprise responsible for the happiness of the citizens, EWP is committed to continuing to strengthen its carbon management and expanding its renewable energy and low carbon power sources to become a green power plant for a clean environment. * CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) : A system that allows a country with an emission-reduction or emission-limitation commitment under Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol to implement an emission-reduction project in developing countries SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCING EWP 08 /09 FOCUS REPORT #2 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER Renewable Energy Master Plan % Increase the portion of Renewable Energy operation to 25% by 2030 FOCUS REPORT #2 EWP, the eco-friendly energy company to enrich the world EWP is taking a new leap forward as the innovation leader in the era of energy transformation. The new climate scheme emphasizes the reduction of greenhouse gas emission as the concern on the environment has increased worldwide, and the Korean Government has also enacted the energy conversion policies such as the Renewable Energy 3020 implementation plan. EWP’s coal-fired power management policy has focused on the efficiency of power generation facilities and the competitiveness of fuel supply and demand until now. However, it is now preparing to expand its business as an integrated energy company by actively developing new and renewable energy to be ready for the energy paradigm shift. As such, EWP established a master plan to expand the proportion of new & renewable energy capacity by investing KRW 15 trillion by 2030. First of all, EWP is striving to secure wind power generation by installing 1,800 MW wind power generation facilities by 2030. Moreover, it plans to expand various renewable energy sources such as 1600 MW solar power generation facility and 500 MW fuel cell gradually to become a leading company in the future energy industry. At the same time, EWP is developing a cutting-edge power plant operation system that combines the fourth-generation industrial technologies with various new & renewable energy businesses. EWP formed the Power Generation Technology Development Center in 2017 and is aiming to transform itself into “smart power plant” by converting the power plant operation system, intellectual property, and database with the ICT, IoT, big data, and AI. EWP plans to commercialize and sell power generation solutions in 17 areas with the target of KRW 200 billion in sales of solutions by 2030. EWP will actively develop new & renewable energy for sustainable development and converge it with the fourth industrial technologies to become an eco-friendly, integrated energy company. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCING EWP 10 /11 FOCUS REPORT #3 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER Mutual Respect and Cooperation based company culture RESPECT Renovation, Ethic, Social value, Pride, Equality, Care, Trust FOCUS REPORT #3 EWP, for the realization of higher social values As a public enterprise, EWP does its best to fulfill its responsibility to support the happiness of the people. In April 2018, EWP declared “RESPECT7 (Renovation, Ethics, Social value, Pride, Equality, Care, Trust)” which states EWP’s intention to establish the corporate culture of mutual respect and cooperation to fulfill social values. EWP is carrying out social contribution activities reflecting the characteristics of the industry to realize energy welfare that does not neglect any communities and groups facing difficulties. We distribute warm energy to neighbors by various activities such as the assistance in fuel cost and heating tent and electrical safety inspection of welfare facilities. Moreover, EWP is carrying out social voluntary service activities such as Blood Donation Relay of Love, volunteer service for senior citizens, the establishment of the living environment for disabled people, and the establishment of the eco-friendly energy facility in the local community. It also plans the social voluntary service programs specific to communities to lead the development and growth of local society. Dangjin e-Dream Park built an eco-friendly aquaculture system using hot discharge water. Ulsan e-Clean City formed a dedicated agency for energy new industry to increase energy efficiency using ESS(Energy Storage System). Gangwon e-Eco City constructed a large-scale floating solar system using the water resources of Soyanggang Dam. Another important social responsibility EWP is to create high-quality, sustainable jobs. To this end, EWP has formed the Jobs Committee led by the CEOs and the trade union leader to create jobs by introducing the first flexible job quota scheme (sharing jobs by improving long work hours) for public institutions, linking overseas employment through overseas employment support programs, converting contracted employees into regular employees, and supporting venture and startup enterprises. The Job Sharing Model, in particular, is regarded as the best practice of “flexible job quota scheme.” In recognition of its efforts to create jobs, EWP was awarded the “Job Committee Award” in the field of job sharing. EWP will actively develop new & renewable energy for sustainable development and converge it with the fourth industrial technologies to become an eco-friendly, integrated energy company. EWP operates five domestic facilities: Dangjin Coal-Fired Power Plant, Ulsan Oil-Fired & C.C Power Plant, Honam Coal-Fired Power Plant, Donghae Coal-Fired Power Plant, and Ilsan Combined Heat&Plant, and are also spurring overseas operations and construction projects in Jamaica, USA, Chile, Guam etc. About EWP_14 Business Portfolio_16 VERVIEW Value Creation Process_20 Vision and Strategy_22 “ENERGY FOR HAPPINESS” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 14 /15 ABOUT EWP KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX About EWP 3. History EWP has its root in Hanseong Electricity established in January 1898 as Korea’s first power company. On July 1, 1961, KEPCO was established by the merging of Gyeongseong Electricity, Joseon Electricity, and Namseon Electricity for efficient power supply through the vertical integration of power distribution. The Korea power industry was restructured by the Korean government in 2001. EWP was spun off from the power monopoly KEPCO, along with four thermal and one nuclear power generation companies. EWP was established in 2001 with the head office in Samseong-dong, Seoul. 1. Company Profile EWP is one of the six power generation subsidiaries spun off from KEPCO in 2001 by the Korean government in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Restructuring Electric Power Industry and has the responsibility to enhance the Established Moved the 1898. Established 1943. Established 1961. Korea Electric 2001. head office competitiveness of the Korean power industry through the development of the electric power resources and industry. Gyeongseong Namseon Power to Ulsan 01 08 07 04 It has been leading the improvement of the quality of life of the people and the sound growth of the electric power Electricity Electricity Corporation as a Innovation public enterprise City industry by enhancing the service level for electricity users. Company Name Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. CEO Park Il-jun Power generation 51,117GWh Date of establishment April 2, 2001 Power sales 48,372GWh Established Merged three Established the first power Established companies into Korea EastAddress of head office 395 Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan. Korea Income from power sales KRW 4.46 Trillion company, 1915. Joseon 1946. 1982. 2014. Korea Electric West Power Hanseong 09 Electricity 05 01 06 Article 1 of the Act on Promotion of Power Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Electricity Restructuring Electric Power Industry Ground for establishment Capital KRW 4.65 Trillion (Article 530-2 of the Commercial Act, 2000.12.23.) Managing agency Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy Total assets KRW 8.86 Trillion Shareholders Operating profits / KRW 432.6 Billion / KEPCO 100% Net profits KRW 217.6 Billion 4. Milestone for Sustainability * Financial Information: As of December 31, 2017 (K-IFRS consolidated) 2. Organization EWP reorganized its existing two-headquarters system into a three-headquarters system consisting of the Planning Division, the Technology Division, and the Business Division. We have actively reflected the will to implement new Economy Environment Society business development, such as responding to the energy conversion policy, in the organizational restructuring. CDM business for photovoltaic power Won the Presidential Award at the 2007 Won the award at BSC Hall of Fame registered at UN 32nd National Quality Competition CEO Executive Auditor Won the grand prize at the 2007 Korea Acquired eco-friendly business and ISO Won the grand prize at the Labor2008 Technological Innovation Awards 14001 certification Management Culture Awards Audit & Inspection Office Won the grand prize at the 2008 Korea Government Agenda Office Won the first prize for the longest CDM business for hydropower Audit & General Upright 2009 Technology Innovation Management Performance Inspection Inspection accident-free operations registered at UN Open Awards Job Creation Team Team Team Innovation Won the grand prize at the 8th Digital Team Won the grand prize at the 2009 Korea Team 2010 Innovation Award Won the 8th Korea Safety Grand Prize Green Awards Public Relations Team (3 consecutive years) Won the Outstanding Business Award Won the Longest Run Award Won the Grand Prize at the 2nd Green 2011 hosted by the Ministry of Patriots and (Hosted by EUCG) Technology Awards Planning Division Engineering Division Business Division Veterans Affairs The Unit of the Year Award Won the grand prize of UN Global Won the Minister of Gender Equality & 2012 (Hosted by Guam Power Authority) Compact for eco-friendliness Family Award Human Information Safety & New Growth Overseas Certified as an outstanding business Won the Prime Minister Award for Planning Resources Generation Construction Supply Renewable 2013 The EUCG Best Performer Award Management Security Quality Business Business for the response to climate change family-friendly policies Department Department Department Department Department Energy Office Department Office Department Office Won the grand prize at the Korea New Won the 2013 Transparent Won the Minister Award for the Planning Team General Affairs Information Generation Mechanical Disaster & Business Fuel Resources General Overseas 2014 Growth Management Awards for green Management Grand Prize cultivation of local technical talents Team Security Team Operation and Electrical Safety Team Development Team Renewable Business Team technologies Finance Team Office Engineering & Team Engergy Team 1 Human Emergency Quality Eco Resources Ethics & Resources Planning Team Climate Procurement Management New Energy Team Solar Power Overseas 2015 Won the Korea Economic Leader Grand Won the special award at the Carbon Won the Presidential Award for the Law-abiding Developmnet Change & Team Team Business Team Energy Team Business Team Prize for win-win cooperation Disclosure Project (2 consecutive years) cultivation of SMEs Team ICT New Fuel Team Management Environment Civil & Business Business Wind Power 2 Ranked the 1st in Climate Change Performance Labor & Team Office Architectural Administration Combustion Energy Team New Overseas Certified as an outstanding Competitiveness Index for six years, Acquired Grade S at Safe Korea Management Welfare Team Power Engineering Team Buseness Team 2016 organization for quality Team Team Strategy Team and won the special award at CDP for Training (4 consecutive years) Accounting Generation New Generation Accounting competitiveness (7 consecutive years) Planning Team Corporate three consecutive years Team Promotion Team Strategic Trade Partnership Team Was the only power company to particiTeam Center Won the Presidential Award for Received the highest rating in the pate at the Carbon Disclosure Project for General R&D 2017 Government 3.0 Outcomes of Public national infrastructure disaster five years voluntarily and received the Team Enterprises management assessment (Grade A) Outstanding Company Award SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 16 /17 BUSINESS PORTFOLIO KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Business Portfolio 2. Overseas Business Based on the experience, technology, and competitiveness in the domestic power generation market, EWP is pursuing the power operation projects with the total capacity of about 796 MW in the United States and Jamaica, and the power development projects with the total capacity of about 675 MW in Indonesia, Jamaica, and Chile to ensure sustainable growth. EWP plans to secure new growth engines by developing new overseas markets. 1. Domestic Business USA EWP operates five power complexes (Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex, Ulsan Oil-fired & C. C. Power Complex, Honam Coal-fired Power Plant, Donghae Coal-fired Power Plant, and Ilsan Combined Heat and Power Plant) to develop power EWP RC Operation resources, generate power, and supply stable power. The total installed capacity of EWP’s power plants is 11,182 MW and • The installed capacity of accounts for 9.6 % of the total domestic power generation. The total installed capacity of new & renewable energy such as biomass plant: the small hydro, solar, fuel cell, wind power, and biomass is 68.3MW and accounts for 0.61% of the total installed capacity. 58 MW • The installed Operation Project capacity of natural Dangjin Coal-fired Ulsan Oil-fired & C. C. gas plant: 94 MW Construction Project Power Complex Power Complex Project in Development · Location: Dangjin-si, · Location: Nam-gu, Ulsan Chungcheongnam-do · Main fuel: Low sulfur-heavy Guam · Main fuel: Bituminous coal oil, BC oil, and LNG · Installed capacity: · Installed capacity: Guam New 6,040MW 3,271.9MW Bidding Installed capacity: 180MW Honam Coal-fired Donghae Coal-fired Power Complex Power Complex · Location: Yeosu-si, · Location: Donghae-si, Jeollanam-do Gangwon-do · Main fuel: Bituminous coal · Main fuel: Anthracite coal · Installed capacity: · Installed capacity: 500MW 400MW Indonesia JAMAICA Chile Ilsan Combined Heat Indonesia Kalsel-1 Jamaica Public Chile distributed and Power Plant Coal-fired Power Service (JPS) Solar Power Plant · Location: Goyang-si, Plant Operation Installed capacity: Gyeonggi-do Installed capacity: Installed capacity: 105MW · Main fuel: LNG 200MW 644MW · Installed capacity: 900MW Jamaica Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Installed capacity: Installed Capacity for Each Fuel 190MW Fuel Type Power Complex Installed capacity (MW) Share (%) Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex 6,040 Operation Projects Coal-fired thermal Honam Coal-fired Power Plant 500 62.08 Project Capacity Equity Share Donghae Coal-fired Power Plant 400 Power generation: 644MW EWP: 40%, Marubeni: 40% Jamaica Power Service (JPS) Operation Power transmission and distribution: 100% Jamaican Government: 20% Heavy oil Ulsan Oil-fired Power Complex 1,200 10.73 EWP RC Operation Biomass: 58 MW, Natural gas: 94 MW EWP: 100% Ilsan Combined Heat and Power Plant 900 LNG Ulsan Combined Cycle 2,072 26.58 Development Projects Type Project Capacity Equity Share Small Hydro 8.2 Solar Energy 16.3 Indonesia Kalsel-1 Coal-fired Power Plant 200MW EWP: 35%, Adaro: 65% New & Renewable Energy Fuel Cell 10.8 0.61 Construction Project EWP: 20%, Marubeni: 20%, Jamaica Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 190MW Wind Power 3 Jamaican Government: 10%, JPS: 50% Biomass 30 Projects in Guam New Bidding 180MW EWP, KEPCO Development Chile distributed Solar Power Plant 105MW EWP, Daelim Energy Total 11,180 100 * by self-operation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 18 /19 BUSINESS PORTFOLIO KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX 3. Green Energy Business Wind Power Generation Yeonggwang Honam Wind EWP tries to diversify its energy businesses such as new & renewable energy convergence and eco-friendly energy EWP is building the East Coast Wind Belt Jisan Wind Power Farm Phase 1 town to ensure stable power supply, environmental conservation, and sustainable development. It has separated the and West Coast Wind Farm to develop Generation 20MW New & Renewable Energy Team into the Solar Power Business Team and Wind Power Business Team to strengthen large-capacity onshore and offshore wind 3.0MW the organization for the development of new & renewable energy. As a result, EWP we achieved 314 GWh in power power generation in areas with favorable Gyeongju Wind generation, which was 105% above the target for renewable energy generation in 2017. EWP will leap forward to become wind resources. It also develops the ESS Farm Phase 1 the integrated energy company leading the low carbon green management. convergence technology to promote the wind power industr y. Beginning with 16.8MW 100.5MW Yeonggwang Gyeongju Wind Farm (16.8 MW) in 2012, Gyeongju Wind Baeksu Wind New & Renewable Energy Business EWP has completed construc tion of Farm Phase 2 Farm Phase 2 New & Renewable Energy Implementation Strategy Gyeongju Wind Farm Phase 2 (20.7 MW) 20.7MW 40MW and is currently generating power. ImplemenDevelopment of new & renewable energy source as the core business to create the future growth engine tation Fuel Cell Power Generation Goal EWP focuses on O&M technology for fuel The configuration of Selection and focus with Securing and distribution of Development of new Implementation cell business using surplus hydrogen to optimal new & renewable consideration to the technology competitiveness of business models Ilsan Fuel Cell Ilsan Fuel Cell Strategy energy portfolio and economic feasibility, high-efficiency, new & renewable to resolve regional expand and promote the domestic fuel (Ⅰ) (Ⅱ) diversification of energy applicability, and suitability energy conforming to the new & 2.4MW conflicts in the power resources of scale of business implementation renewable energy convergence policy plant area cell business. A fuel cell is a device that directly converts the chemical energy 2.8MW generated when hydrogen (H2) in LNG bonds with oxygen (O2) in the air into the 1. Preparation Stage 2. Growth Stage 3. Maturity Stage Ilsan Fuel Ulsan Fuel Cell 10.8MW Implementation Cell(Ⅲ) electric energy. EWP is currently operating Stages (~2017) 36.3 378.9 (2018~2022) 400 (2023~2030) 13.2MW fuel cell power generators in 2.8MW 2.8MW 378.9 Phases 1-4 at Ilsan Combined Cycle Power 268.9 100.5 8.2 761.1 407.2 1601 Plant and 2.8MW fuel cell power generator in 424.7 272.6 2169.4 5063.6 Ulsan Oil-fired & C. C. Power Complex. MW MW 512.3 MW 10.8 141 8.2 607.6 791.6 972.6 Small Hydropower Generation EWP is currently operating a total of 8.2MW Solar Energy Onshore Wind Power Offshore Wind Power Fuel Cell Marine Energy Biomass IGCC offshore energy generation facilities by completing construction of Phase 1 with 5MW and Phase 2 with 3.2MW of Dangjin Dangjin Small Dangjin Small Solar Power Generation Hydro (Ⅰ) Hydro (Ⅱ) Busan Shinho Solar Dangjin Material small hydropower generators, which use EWP is developing various solar Power Plant Warehouse Solar the discharged water from the Dangjin 5.0MW 3.2MW 20MW Power Plant 8.2MW power projec t s such as eco Coal-fired Power Complex and the head friendly solar power generation 0.7MW drop, in 2009 and 2014, respectively. It is facilities, which redef ined the Dangjin Floating Solar Power Plant Suwon Sewage currently developing the offshore energy meaning of the waste landfill site, 1MW Treatment Center business that utilizes tidal power to utilize roof-top solar power generation Solar Power Plant various marine energy resources. facilities, and floating solar power Donghae Solar 1.5MW generation facilities. Beginning Power Plant Dangjin Solar Biomass Power Generation with 1 MW solar power generator 1MW Power Plant Donghae Sewage Sludge (mixed fuel) Ⅱ at Donghae Thermal Power Plant in 1MW EWP has completed the construction Biomass 20MW September 2006, EWP is currently Honam Solar (single firing) of the country’s largest 30MW woody operating the solar power plants Power Plant 0.1MW Gwangyang Port Hwanggeum Logistics biomass power plant in the Donghae 30MW with the total capacit y of 36.3 Center Solar Power Thermal Power Plant site in July 2013 and Seokmun 36.3MW MW including the solar power Ulsan Solar Power Plant Biomass is currently operating it. It is developing generator at the Suwon Sewage Plant 1.1MW the 10MW biomass power generation (single firing) Dangjin Wood Treatment Center (1.5 MW) 0.5MW Ulsan Solar Power project using vow dung in cooperation of 38.9MW Pellet Dangjin Solar Plant: 0.5 MW Dangjin Waste Landfill the local municipality for the first time in 70MW 268.9MW Donghae Power Plant Solar Power Plant Korea. (mixed fuel) 3.4MW 1.3MW 60MW Yeosu Gwangyang Donghae Sewage Sewage Sludge Ulsan Bio Heavy Port Industrial ComTreatment Center (mixed fuel)Ⅰ Oil plex Solar Power Plant Solar Power Plant 2.3MW 2.4MW 10MW 40MW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 20 /21 /21 VALUE CREATION PROCESS KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Value Creation Process EWP is building a value creation process in line with its strategic direction to realize sustainable growth by leading the four major mega-trends in the energy industry: decarbonization, digitization, decentralization, and electrification. EWP intends to lead the industrial trend in Korea to realize sustainable value creation. MISSION VISION EWP Strategic Direction VALUES CREATED CREATING ˙15.4 % increase of operating margin (as of March 2018) ECONOMIC VALUE ˙The installed capacity of new & renewable energy: 424.7MW ˙Investment in R&D: KRW 17.7billion ˙Equity capacity for overseas projects: 410 MW STEP 1 ˙Generator failure shutdown rate: 0.039% R&D and Strategy Strengthening of Competitiveness Planning STEP 2 of Power New business development, power source Construction CREATING ˙Secured surplus emission right: 4.71million tons ENVIRONMENTAL ˙The economic value of secured surplus emission right: 2030 Generation development, and power source planning VALUE Business Construction of KRW 103.6 billion We make 19.8% thermal power plants ˙Atmospheric pollutant reduction rate: The and new & renewable energy plants energy for eco-friendly Creating A HAPPY WORLD ˙Job creation: 869 energy CREATING happiness future growing MADE OF SOCIAL VALUE ˙Sustainable Management Index: Grade AAA company to business enrich the WARM ENERGY STEP 3 ˙Introduction of the first flexible employment quota scheme among public enterprises Fuel ˙Shared growth assessment of public institutions: world Procurement Strengthening Outstanding 5 4.05 points Procurement of Core of power ˙Overall rating of safety culture maturity: STEP generation Competency fuel such as Equipment coal, oil, and Management biomass Prediction and Four Megatrends of the Energy Industry Fulfilling social prevention of failures and reinforcement STEP 4 values Power Plant DecarbonizaDigitalization DecentralizaElectrification of old equipment Operation tion The Fourth tion Production of power Increased supply Industrial User-oriented from the new & Environmental, stable, of low-carbon power renewable energy Revolution based source and response and economical operation energy source on cuttinggeneration of power generators to the new climate edge ICT technology change scheme SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 22 /23 VISION AND STRATEGY KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Vision and Strategy 2. Performance Management EWP has segmented the steps of strategic management and strengthened execution activities for each step to achieve the midto long-term management strategies systematically and effectively. In addition, we have set up performance indicators optimized for strategic tasks and established performance-based accountability management systems. Performance 1. Midto Long-term Management Strategy Management Position Strategic Action to Implement Strategic Task Review System Management Step EWP declared the “2030 Vision and Management Strategy” to grow into the eco-friendly energy company that opens up System by Meetings with each position and briefing in plant Performance the prosperous world based on the government’s policy direction and awareness of changes in the internal and external Position CEO Management goal complexes to share and internalize the vision, Management environment. Executives, project managers, and labor union officials actively participated in the process of establishing strategy, and management targets Committee a management strategy to enhance practicality and competitiveness. It resulted in eight management targets and 12 Four strategic Establishment and finalization of business plan Management directions linked with the strategic direction for each sector performance strategic tasks in the core business, future business, social value, and agency operation areas. Director and distribution and management of performance analysis 12 strategic tasks goal for each unit organization (quarterly) Department Establishment of the business plan and reporting it Management Depart42 tasks Manager to executives, distribution of organizational perforstrategy meeting mental mance goal to each member, and management of (monthly), Weekly Head Director 112 key tasks the implementation business meeting Internal review Members Implementation task Establishment and implementation of each task and management Mission We make energy for happiness Performance Strategy Achievement Management direction Strategic task KPI (Unit) in 2017 Goal in 2023 System by Forced outage rate (%) 0.039 0.027 Vision 2030 The eco-friendly energy company to enrich the world Performance Advancement of the generation 105 100 Emplementation rate of emmission trading (%) Index operation Reduction rate of air pollutant (%) 19.8 56 Pursuing Continuous Communication Trust and Strengtheningthe comImprovement rate of sulfur content (%) 0.53 0.50 Core petition of fuel supply the best innovation and cooperation respect Progress rate of business promotion (%) 92 Value Strengthening Pre-emptive Technology diagnosis (case) 5 18 Leading Industry 4.0 development field Advancement of the system and 7 30 Managedevelopment (case) ment EWP for hope EWP for innovation EWP for happiness Expansion Implementation rate of RPS goals (%) 100 100 Principles of renewable Business agreement for collaborative ⓔ business cooperation (case) 5 7 • Total installed • Power genera• Jobs created: • Integrity Sales of energy demand management Expansion 197 business (KRW 100 million) capacity: tion from New 27,000 people rating: Grade 1 Securing the of development of new 20GW & renewable energy business Establishment of the ground for future pot Implementation Manage• Shared growth • E-GWP: 95 future ecoential industry (quantitative) of VPP business ment • PM reduction energy: 25% assessment: points friendly growth engine Expansion of Cumulative capacity of acquire permission goal rate: 70% • A portion of sales Highest rating 4,500 new business home for generation business (MW) in new business: and abroad Equity capacity for overseas projects (MW) 410 1,040 10% High-quality job Job creation (person) 3,050 creation In-house venture team (team) 6 Establishment of the Shared growth assessment of public Excellent Excellent Strengthening the Securing eco-friendly Fulfillment of social Advancement corporate ecosystem institutions (rate) Centered on for collaborative Strategic competitiveness in future growth engine value centered on of innovation Satisfaction of local community (point) 84.5 95 national trust cooperation Direction the sustainable power public trust management system Implementageneration busines Strategic Tasks Reinforcement of preDeath per 10,000 people (‱) 0 0 tion of social value empitive disaster and Government disaster safety management safety system Excellent Excellent assessment (rank) • Advancement of power • Expanding e-business in • Creating good-quality jobs • Advancement of the Measuring rate of infrastructure 86 94.5 vulnerability analysis assessment (%) plant operation new & renewable energy • The building of corporate management system Strategic Points from government security • Strengthening the • Expanding new energy eco-system for shared • Training core personnel Enhancement 16.4 7 Tasks of management assessment point (%) competitiveness of fuel business growth in convergence system Debt ratio (%) 92.8 163.6 procurement • Expanding new domestic • Strengthening preemptive • Strengthening the Computerization ratio (%) 0.78 0.91 • Leading Industry4.0 in and overseas businesses disaster and safety organization for trust power generation management systems and communication EWP Q-Index (point) 763 830 Advansement Core job training completion time (H) 48 Fostering core of innovative competent personnel Competency Diagnosis Index (point) 4.8/5 6.05 management system Righteous assessment of the Anti Corruption 3 1 & Civil Rights Commission (Rank) Enhancement of communication Internal assessment satisfaction (%) 83.87 88 system E-GWP (point) 88 WLB index (point) 8.5 EWP is pursuing growth that takes both economic, environmental and social values into consideration for sustainable development. We will leap to become the best company that meets future generations beyond Stakeholder Participation_26 the stakeholders by achieving sustainability. USTAINABILITY Key Sustainability Issues_28 Creating Economic Value_30 Stable Supply of Power_31 ANAGEMENT Create Growth Engines for the Future_34 Management with Safety First_38 Creating Environmental Value_40 Value_42 Response to Climate Change_41 Minimization of Environmental Impact_43 ERFORMANCE Creating Social Value_48 Creation of Pleasant Workplaces_49 Building of a Sound Industrial Ecosystem_53 Creation of Good Jobs_57 Sharing with Local Community_59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 26 /27 STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Stakeholder Participation Interview with Stakeholder EWP interviewed stakeholders to gather the expectations and concerns of various stakeholders. The interviews were conducted in the form of questions and answers about the elements that the EWP should manage to fulfill its social responsibilities and become a sustainable corperation. EWP will continue to strive to implement successful sustainability management by actively Stakeholder Participation and Communication collecting stakeholder opinions through various channels in the future. Stakeholder Classification EWP classifies stakeholders into subjects who affect value creation, internal and external employees who directly participate “ We need to invest for EWP is a public corporation that operates power generation business, and has operated the in value creation, and outside customers who share created values from the power resource development, power plant power generation business in accordance with the government’s power policy and greenhouse stable power supply gas reduction policy to cope with climate change. Considering the implementation of the national construction, power plant operation, and strategic sales aspect with consideration to the value flow in the power industry. and actively reduction target in 2030, since it is expected that the government’s reduction policy will be strive to advance strengthened, as well as the reduction of emission trading system will increase, a strategy that can Definition of Stakeholder in Each Value Chain cope with climate change response policy is needed. In order to respond to the policy and supply into overseas electricity stably, it is necessary to have the analyzing ability for fuel market and maintenance markets. ” ability for power generation facilities. In the end, EWP’s employees are at the forefront of competitiveness, so investing in human resources is important. Furthermore, in order to minimize Stakeholder Value Chain the impact on the environment and increase cost competitiveness, we will invest in power Classification Definition Major players Areas of interest generation facilities equipped with the latest technologies such as Dangjin Power Plant. Korea Energy Economics Institute Meanwhile, EWP’s power plants are rooted in the community. Therefore, it is necessary to establish • Securing the competitiveness of the power Research Engineer and maintain friendly relationships with the local community as well as ever. In this regard, I look Power resource •G  overnment agencies Subject affecting industry Yu Dong-heon forward to contributing to the revitalization of the local economy through mutual cooperation • Municipalities and value creation development Power Value impact • L ocal development and environmental protection and cooperation with the local community. In addition, efforts are needed to actively advance into residents overseas markets in order to continuously expand the business area. We are actively developing plant construction • Interest in current issues, and competition& • Press and power plants overseas projects such as the Jamaica Electric Power Corporation Operation Project, US EWP RC cooperation Operation Project, and Kalsel-1 Coal Thermal Power Plant Project in Indonesia. However, since Korea EWP is evaluated as having excellent power plant operation capability in overseas market, If Internal employees • A new corporate culture based on trust and we make efforts to expand our reach, we will be able to demonstrate our competitiveness. Value • Employees participating in communication production • Labor union Power Plant value creation •E  nhancement of corporate competitiveness Operation • Joint participation and cooperation in External employees Value • Vendors power generation business participating in cooperation • Local enterprises • Diversification of power generation-related value creation businesses and cost reduction EWP has been in business for a large portion of the thermal power generation including “W  e need to strive coal power generation. However, with the recent public interest in fine dust issues, the government’s decentral coal development trend, and the 2030 energy new industry policy, together for the Korea’s eco-friendly development requires sustainable growth. As a public corporation, future business Outside customers • A stable supply of high-quality, economical Power sales Value • Shareholders we are committed to working together to operate an eco-friendly power plant that meets competitiveness who share electricity the eye of the public. In particular, this year, we achieved a visible achievement in the consumption • Citizens created values • Information disclosure to the public construction of a LNG combined cycle power plant in Chungbuk province with the efforts and strive for job of all our members. We have achieved a grade of A in management evaluation, and our safety” employees are rewarding. Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Channel In terms of creating social value, Ulsan city is actively promoting recruitment of local EWP pursues a flexible and smart organizational culture for effective communication with stakeholders and is continuing talent to solve social problems of Ulsan city where the corporation is located. Ulsan public Chairperson of corporation has the highest employment performance and contributes to solving youth EWP Labor Union communication and collaboration by establishing communication channels that meet the characteristics of key stakeholder. It unemployment problem. However, it is also necessary to listen attentively to the employees’ Pil Seung-heon does its best to share creative values of openness, sharing, communication, and collaboration by managing key performance voice. The operation of the Honam and Ulsan Power Plants is scheduled to end in 2020, and indicators (KPIs) for each communication channel. the domestic and external employment environment is changing, including 52 hours per week. Accordingly, EWP is required to grasp the needs of its employees and to establish a system for stable employment from the midto long-term perspective through deep Communication and Delivery Plan for Each Stakeholder anxieties. Communication Classification Key message Delivery method KPI Monitoring purpose • CEO briefing on manage• Enhancing corporate Smart orgament status “ Internal communication The evaluation of social values such as job creation and social integration has increased in the public competitiveness • Vision sharing Vision sharing and institution management evaluation from this year. As a result, performance management in the social Inter• Employees nizational • Value suggestion system of sustainability managevalue sector has become a challenge in public institutions. However, it is important to internalize • Cooperative • Communicacommunication nal • Labor union culture innoand discussion ment and active sustainability management issues through improvement of governance from a long-term perspective labor-management tion index survey vation • L abor-Management Council rather than managing only the achievement of social value creation. In the case of EWP, we believe relations and workshop communication with that if they improve the governance structure by improving the diversity of the board, such as the public about gender balance, they will be able to create more social values in the future. What is most important • Vendors Cooperation • SME Collaborative Cooperaenvironmental for sustainable development is the internalization of sustainability management issues through Consensus on shared • Local and shared tion Council improvement of system and organizational culture. enterprises growth growth • Naver Band and SNS Integrity rating Investigation of issues are • Government • Cooperation with (Outside integintegrity by the necessary ” Recently, as the fine dust has become serious problem, there are considerable public concerns • Inspection of government rity / CustomAnti-Corruption & about environmental problems. As a power plant operating corporation, EWP must actively respond agencies national policies offices and business ers’ assessment Civil Rights to environmental issues. At the same time, it must demonstrate our resolve to actively improve • Residents • Social contribution Sharing netcontact network of policy) Commission UN Global environmental issues through active communication with the public. Although it is important to Exter• Municipalities and local developwork • Resident Council Compact Korea respond to environmental issues and manage performance, if we communicate with the public actively nal • Press ment • PR division at power plants Branch Senior through various channels and show our will to improve, they will be able to alleviate the public’s worries • Power plants • Shared growth Research Engineer about environmental problems. Although it is important to respond to environmental issues and Zero insincere Alio (All Public Inmanage performance, if EWP communicate with the public actively through various channels and show • Stable power supply Lee Eun-gyeong Transparent • Information portals disclosure in formation In One) our will to improve, they will be able to alleviate the public’s worries about environmental problems. • Shareholders and demand information • Open Management Alio (All Public evaluation by the • Citizens •E  nhanced communidisclosure website, etc. Information In Ministry of Econocation with the public One) my and Finance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 28 /29 KEY SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Key Sustainability Issues Selection of Key Issues Of economic, environmental, and social issues that are affected by the management activities, the issues that were important to the internal stakeholders were plotted on the X-axis, and the issues that were important to the external stakeholders were plotted on the Y-axis. As a result, the top 17 issues out of a total of 41 related issues were identified as critical issues. Materiality Assessment Process Materiality Assessment Matrix EWP considers economic, environmental, and social values, which affect the management activities for sustainable growth, in balance. It identified the critical issues according to the framework of materiality assessment presented by GRI to select and report key issues with a high level of importance and interest among stakeholders regarding EWP’s activities for sustainability. Signigicance to stakeholders 1 New & renewable energy development Materiality Assessment Process 2 Atmospheric emissions management 3 Transparent decision-making structure building and operation (governance) STEP STEP STEP Compliance with environmental 5 4 Ethical management system and 1 2 3 1 regulations operation (ethics and integrity) 2 Emphasis on public interest and social value creation 3 of public institutions Vendor pool organization Prioritization Feasibility Validation 5 4 7 6 Occupational health and safety • Analysis of government policy direction • Survey of stakeholders • Validity verification • Analysis of media coverage • Relevance analysis (Verification of the suitability 7 6 • Global benchmarking • Significance analysis of the scope, boundary, and 9 • Diagnosis of ISO26000 period) Environmental issue implementation level General issue • Interview with stakeholders 8 11 Social issue 14 10 Step1 Formation of issue pool 15 12 EWP conducted the analysis of government policy direction, the analysis of media coverage, the global benchmarking, the diagnosis of 16 13 ISO26000 implementation level, and the interview with stakeholders. It also organized the potential issue pool from the general, economic, 17 social, and environmental aspect of sustainability using the analysis result. Significance to EWP Analysis of Government EWP identified the new response issues by reviewing and analyzing the Framework Policy Direction Act on Social Vale (draft), 100 national agendas, and management evaluation criteria. Boundary of Key Issues and Report EWP examined the type and contents of media coverage from January 1, 2017, to Ranking Key Issues GRI Topic Analysis of Media December 31, 2017, to analyze and review the internal and external perception of Coverage EWP’s sustainability issues. 1 New & renewable energy development GRI 302: Energy 2 Atmospheric emissions management GRI 305: Emissions Global E WP analy zed the key issues and ac tivities of the companies with excellent Benchmarking Transparent decision-making structure building and operation sustainability practice in the same industry to review the sustainability trend. 3 (governance) 4 Ethical management system and operation (ethics and integrity) GRI 205: Anti-corruption EWP identified the priority programs by assessing its level of social value fulfillment Diagnosis of ISO26000 based on the ISO26000 diagnosis too which is the international standard on social 5 Compliance with environmental regulations GRI 307: Environmental compliance Implementation Level responsibility. 6 Occupational health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety EWP conducted the in-depth interview of representatives of each key stakeholder Emphasis on public interest and social value creation of public Interview with 7 group to gather stakeholders’ expectations and interests about the management institutions Stakeholders activities of EWP. 8 Expenditure and investment in the environment GRI 303: Water and effluents 9 Wastewater and waste effluents GRI 306: Effluents and waste Step 2 Prioritization 10 Compliance with socioeconomic regulations GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance EWP surveyed outside stakeholders including the customers, local communities, and government agencies based on the potential issue 11 Education and training GRI 404: Training and Education pool identified through the multidimensional analysis. It examined the impact of the identified issue on decision-making by stakeholders and identified 17 final key issues. 12 Customers’ personal information protection GRI 418: Customer Privacy Participation by stakeholders (Strengthening of communication 13 with customers, local communities, and citizens) Step 3 Feasibility validation 14 Environmental impact of products and services EWP conducted an internal review to validate the feasibility and effectiveness of the identified 17 key issues and then planned and organized 15 Customer health and safety GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety the report with consideration to the scope, boundary, period, and suitability. EWP then finalized the contents of this report in connection 16 Issues on human rights (sexual harassment, etc.) GRI 412: Human rights assessment with EWP’s strategic system. 17 Vendor environmental assessment GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 30 /31 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creating Economic Value 1. Stable Power Supply Stable operation of power generation facilities With the goal of achieving the best facility reliability, EWP is continuously improving the reliability of its facilities by continually expanding the excellent factors and 1. Stable Power Supply continuously analyzing and improving the risk factors. As a result of its efforts to 2. Securing Future Growth Engine operate stable generation facilities centered on equipment, people, and ICT, EWP 3. Management with Safety First achieved the lowest forced outage rate of 0.039% since its foundation. Forced Outrage Rate Stable power generation facility operation centered on equipment (Unit : %) Improving Facilities Causing Long-term Breakdown 2015 2016 2017 Eliminating risks by conducting intensive inspections of facilities such as generators and 0.556 0.062 0.039 fluidized bed boilers that are vulnerable to long-term breakdowns is crucial for power generation facilities. As such, EWP has carried out a facility inspection with consideration ※ Portion of time for unexpected shut down of to the aging and remaining life of power generation facilities to cope with large-scale the plant during normal operation (1 year) breakdowns due to turbine damage and long restoration period. It divided the power generation facilities into periods as, “At the initial stage,” “Less than 20 years,” and “20 years Failure per Generator (Unit : Case/Generator) or longer” and deduced the risk factors at each step and applied upgrades according to the results. As a result, EWP saved the purchasing cost by KRW 10.1 billion, reduced the 2015 2016 2017 restoration period by about two years, and achieved the zero long-term breakdowns by turbine damage. EWP will continue to reinforce its facilities to ensure facility stability. 0.53 0.46 0.29 ※ Total number of failures/Total number of Reinforcement of Power Generation Facilities at Each Step after Construction generators (New) The initial stage after Type Less than 20 years (Aged) 20 years or longer Equivalent Forced Outage Rate construction (Unit : %) Targets Dangjin #9 and 10 and Ulsan #4CC Dangjin #1-8 Ulsan Steam #4-6 Damage of the final blade of Aged deterioration due to Risk of fracture due to 2015 2016 2017 Problem 50” turbine long-term use micro-cracking 1.98 0.79 0.61 CounterReplacement with a stable Securing common spare Repair and inspection of measures turbine parts for all power plants fractured areas ※ Failure time/(Operating+Failure time)x100 Preventive Treatment of Power Generation Facilities Inspecting the facilities with records of breakdown and the vulnerable facilities at each power plant is crucial to prevent breakdowns which can violate stable power generation and supplies. As part of the “Health Care Project,” EWP inspects the power generation facilities in all power plants before the power peak periods during the summer and winter to avoid unforeseen failures and risks. It organizes the expert groups formed of technical experts and field experts for each facility and has developed the standard facility checklist for the inspection. Optimal Response to External Risks Natural disasters can lead to plant shutdown due to the structural damage, rotator vibration, or inflow of foreign substances. EWP strengthened the countermeasures against earthquake by segmenting the disaster situation into five levels, and improved the performance of foreign substance filters and replaced hinges of rotating units (18 cases) to prevent damage from typhoon. It is also maintaining the cooperation with related institutions such as the Korea Power Exchange, and Korea Gas Corporation to cope with the potential interruption of gas supply and established “Joint Crisis Response System of Relevant Agencies to Respond to Unstable Gas Supply” in October 2017. As the result of such efforts, EWP recorded zero cases of ripple shutdown in 31 2017. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 32 /33 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Stable Power Supply Stable power generation facility operation centered on people Training of Facility Specialists Stable Fuel Procurement The education of facility workers is crucial for proper operation of power generation facilities EWP strives to increase the stability of fuel procurement through economic since a generator consists of 50,000 parts, 500 sensors, and hundreds of CCTV. EWP holds procurement by reducing the cost and stable power supply and demand through risk the weekly meetings with remote technical support group formed of head office personnel, minimization. Last year, it reduced KRW 8.87 billion compared to existing purchasing facility workers, and specialists for the training of facility workers and the emergency technique through the continuous arbitrage trading among the regions for the first meetings at the time of equipment failure. Moreover, it is building the emergency response time in the industry. system for immediate response by sharing all power plant situations in real-time to improve the emergency response capability to equipment failure. Reduction Rate of Economic power supply and demand through cost reduction Planned Preventive Maintenance (OH)* Centered on People Bituminous Coal Price Compared to Market Condition (Unit : %) Reduction of Bituminous Coal Cost EWP has introduced the Safe Construction Period** among the power plant operating EWP has been expanding the purchase competitive edge strategy by diversifying the companies to build the facility management system based on human respect. EWP built arbitrage trading structure, expanding the use of coal from high-quality mines, and 2015 2016 2017 the planned preventive maintenance system centered on people by institutionalizing the enhancing market information to procure the eco-friendly and high-quality coals, which are OH management standard with the worker safety as the highest priority to conform to the 2.2 6.2 8.7 relatively expensive, economically to be in line with the paradigm shift to eco-friendliness revision of the Planned Preventive Maintenance Guidelines by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and economic efficiency simultaneously. In 2016, it developed the industry’s first arbitrage and Energy. It also adopted the Safety Construction Period to all power generators subject Commodity Charter trading system that takes advantage of price differentials between Europe and Asia and the to OH in 2017 after verifying its effect on prevention of accidents and improvement of OH Securing Rate (Unit : %) weak commodity market conditions to save the fuel cost by KRW 8.87 billion and received the maintenance quality through the pilot testing in the second half of 2016. The innovation of Presidential Award for National Productivity in recognition of the achievement. Moreover, OH management standard resulted in no breakdown due to maintenance quality before and 2015 2016 2017 it saved the transport cost by KRW 3.3 billion through the strategic bidding of commodity after OH in 2017. EWP will continue improving the stable power supply and the quality of life chartering. EWP will continue its efforts for stable fuel procurement with the cost-saving 22 31 44 of its employees by establishing the culture that puts the priority to people. strategy utilizing pioneering purchasing techniques. *  Planned preventive maintenance (Overhaul): Regular inspection and maintenance to maintain the generator performance, prevent the equipment failure, and improve the equipment reliability and Reduction of Anthracite Fuel Cost performance Reducing fuel cost in the domestic power plants using anthracite fuel is a crucial factor ** Safe Construction Period: A construction period of 3 to 6 days is added to the standard work period for for stable fuel procurement since EWP expects the deterioration of cost competitiveness plan preventive maintenance to enhance safety management activities. of anthracite coal-fired power plants due to the increased quota of expensive domestic anthracite coal. As such, EWP deduced the strategy to strengthen cost competitiveness Stable power generation facility operation centered on technology using imported coal for each stage and improved the cost competitiveness through strategic Power Generation Facility Management Using ICT bidding expanded to all coals from the existing limited bidding centered on imported anthracite coal. Moreover, it expanded the use of low-ash, high-calorie coals for economic EWP attempts to combine various information and communications technologies to power efficiency within the equipment stability range. As a result, it restrained the total fuel cost generation facility management which were centered on equipment and people in the increasing factor by about 45% compared to the previous year. past. It created the Data Analysis Team at its Power Generation Technology Development Center for the first time among the power plant operating companies to develop the databased power generation facility management system for objective and systematic power Bituminous Coal Stable power supply and demand through risk minimization generation facility operation. The best power experts share the field situation in real-time to Inventory Days (Unit : Days) Improvement of Fuel Supply Stability transfer know-how through the video conference using wearable cameras. It also conducts 2015 2016 2017 Based on its know-how of purchasing the best-quality bituminous coal, EWP configured the the regular emergency simulated training using virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) optimal portfolio by country and calorie balance to eliminate the supply and demand risk by and began the development of smart glasses as the industry’s first AR platform for the power Average 23.6 16.6 19.6 increasing the accuracy of inventory operation. Moreover, it develops the LNG Direct Import generation facilities in April 2018. In recognition of such efforts, EWP received the Ministerial inventory InvestValue Chain to enhance the stability of supply and demand and the economic efficiency of Award for the Fourth Industrial Revolution Management Award. ment 3.7 3.6 3.3 procurement since the stability of LNG fuel procurement was not assured as all LNG used as deviation Establishment of e-Brain Center as Control Tower for Power Generation Facilities the fuel by gas combined cycle power plants is imported through Korea Gas Corporation. For EWP opened e-Brain Center as the control tower to remotely manage the power generation it, it increased the staff for direct import and combustion of LNG from 87 peo0le in 2016 to 93 facilities in real-time based on the 4th industrial technologies in January 2017. e-Brain in 2017 and proclaimed its intention to import LNG directly. Center converges PreVision (early warning system) jointly developed by EWP and Doosan Heav y Industries & construction. It has the role of the control tower to monitor and Strengthening Value Chain Stability of Fuel Procurement EWP strengthened the supply and demand stability by better managing the value chain for manage the power generation facilities by detecting abnormal signs early, presenting the the purchasing step, transport step, and combustion step. It expanded the participation optimal operating condition through the analysis of the operation and maintenance, and range of bidding for imported coal to diversify the concentration of the portfolio and expand comprehensive diagnosis of the maintenance power system. EWP expect the e-Brain Center the suppliers at the same at the purchasing stage. It increased the stability of long-term service will improve the operating capability of all power plants and plans to develop new transportation by upgrading the low price-based bidding system to a comprehensive bidding overseas markets aggressively by developing online and offline services linked to the e-Brain system that considers the price, execution capability, and social responsibility to select the Center. shipping company. EWP strengthened the combustion stability in the combustion step by the response specific to the situation of plant shutdown due to fuel. As a result, it achieved zero plant shutdown due to fuel in 2017. EWP will continue to strengthen the supply and demand stability by the company-wide management of fuel procurement. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 34 /35 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Securing Future 2. Growth Engine Development of New Energy Business Securing future energy competitiveness Technology Convergent New Energy Business Securing The necessit y to secure the future energy competitiveness and technology competitiveness has increased as the government is implementing the energy The power generation business faces the limited growth as the energy paradigm has shifted from supply management centered to demand management centered and from large power Future Growth conversion policy to reduce greenhouse gas and PM, and the paradigm of the energy industry is shifting to the new & renewable energy power generation business. EWP source to distributed power source and as the ICT convergence market has expanded. Engine has secured the future energy competitiveness by establishing the large-scale new & EWP has considered the utilization of new energy business and expansion of the business domain to secure the future growth engine in the rapidly changing market environment. It renewable energy development plan, implementing the technology convergent new achieved the drastic reduction of peak power consumption by developed the consumption energy business, and implementing the region-specific new energy business. pattern analysis program utilizing big data in power and integrating it with energy storage system (ESS) to distribute and equalize power demand by charging during the period when RPS Implementation Rate (Unit : %) New and Renewable Energy Business the demand for power is low and discharging during the period when the demand is high. In addition, it distributed ESS to seven enterprises in Ulsan and achieved the energy cost of KRW 2015 2016 2017 New & Renewable Energy Implementation Roadmap 18.4 billion based on the seven enterprises that adopted 20MWh ESS in the past 14 years. EWP raised its target for the portion of the installed capacity of new & renewable energy in 100 100 100 EWP expects the creation of about 800 new jobs if 500MW ESS is implemented by 2019. 2030 from 20% to 27% to overcome the stagnation of growth centered on thermal power generation and to be in line with the government’s energy conversion policy to reduce Energy Efficiency Business Model Using ESS greenhouse gas and PM. It is planning and implementing the floating solar power business, New & Renewable Energy large-scale wind power business, and fuel cell business to achieve its target for the new & Performance Contribution to renewable energy business. It has also separated the New & Renewable Energy Team into Local Communities National Demand the Solar Power Business Team and Wind Power Business Team to strengthen the new & Energy Efficiency Management Policy renewable energy development organization. Energy Demand Management Large-Scale New & Renewable Energy Development Plan Government Using ESS Business (Demand (High Energy Biz Model Development/ Management) Consumption) Installed capacity of new Construction Under preparation for Demonstration Under construction & renewable energy (Unit : MW) completed in 2017 construction Ulsan Korea ESS Gyeongju Wind Yeonggwang Daesan Lake Daeho Ilsan Contribution to Metropolitan East-West InstalPower 2, Seokmun Wind Power Hydrogen Floating Solar CollaboEnergy Cost 2015 2016 2017 Fuel Cell National Power City Power Co., lation Bio, etc. (Yeonggwang 3) Fuel Cell Power ration Reduction Peak Reduction (Industrial Ltd. Support 91 91 129 Capacity Complex) (Portion*) 65.4MW(14.0%) 79.6MW(18.7%) 5MW(1.2%) 50MW(11.8%) 80MW(18.8%) REC 482,000 REC 182,000 REC 70,000 REC 700,000 REC 153,000 REC New & renewable power (Portion) (18.5%) (6.9%) (2.7%) (26.7%) (5.8%) generation (Unit : MWh) Region-Specific New Energy Business * Portion: Based on EWP’s new & renewable energy installed capacity of 425MW in 2017 and RPS implementation of 2,617,000 REC Developing the new energy business models optimized to regional characteristics can 2015 2016 2017 achieve higher income and promote the local economy. EWP has implemented Dangjin 309,658 318,520 388,208 Wind Power Business e-Dream Park, Ulsan e-Clean City, and Gangwon e-Eco City as the region-specific new energy EWP improved its competitiveness in wind power business by constructing 810MW East business. Dangjin e-Dream Park carried out the fish farming project using warm discharged Coast & West Coast Wind Farm complexes which is the largest wind farm complex in Korea. water and edutainment program development project jointly with local municipality and In December 2017, it completed the construction of 20.7MW Gyeongju Wind Farm Phase fishing villages. Ulsan e-Clean City established an organization for the regional new energy 2 as part of East Coast Wind Farm project and received the license to built 13 wind farms business for energy efficiency utilizing ESS. Gangwon e-Eco City carried out the project to with the plant to begin construction in 2018. The construction of Yeonggwang Wind Farm is utilize water resources of Soyanggang Dam by constructing a large-scale floating solar power scheduled for completion in December 2018 as part of West Coast Wind Farm project. EWP complex for the Gangwon region which lags in economic development despite its abundant constructed scenery observatory, outdoor reaction room, natural healing forest, and water natural resources. It will continue carrying out the new efficient energy businesses by park to turn the wind farms into tourist attractions and help to promote local economy in developing business models optimized for each region. order to increase the public acceptance of the wind power business. It will create various social values and secure future growth engine at the same time by helping the local economy and continuing the business innovation. Floating Solar Power Business EWP proposed the public institution cooperative business model and implemented the 100MW solar power project at the Lake Daeho to maximize the utility of the solar power business. EWP that has the know-how for construction and operation of power generation facilities obtained the license for an 80MW floating solar power plant on Lake Daeho in Dangjin by leasing the water surface of the Lake Daeho from Korea Rural Community Corporation with the condition of building a 100MW solar power plant and providing 20MW of it as the rent. In addition, it is supporting the eco-friendly fish farm and agricultural businesses to improve the income of local farmers and fishers to improve public acceptance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 36 /37 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Securing Future Growth Engine Securing future competitiveness Overseas Business Development EWP is actively carrying out overseas development and operation projects to build New R&D Programs (Unit : Case) Midto Long-term R&D Strategic Direction the revenue base from overseas business to achieve stable and sustainable growth. With the R&D goal, “Ensuring future growth engines by developing higher valueIts target is 2,180MW equity capacity from the overseas business by 2030. 2015 2016 2017 added core technologies,” EWP established three midto long-term R&D strategies 39 45 41 to secure the future competitiveness and growth engine. EWP will create sustainable, Overseas Business Strategy high value-added values by securing advanced technologies according to its stepEWP has established 2030 midto long-term roadmap to secure the future growth engine by by-step roadmap of securing root technologies, advancing technologies, and Investment in R&D (Unit : KRW 100 million) building the revenue base from overseas business and has the target of securing 2,180MW in commercializing core technologies. equity capacity from the overseas business by 2030. The key tasks for achieving the target 2015 2016 2017 Three Midto Long-term R&D Strategic Directions are to secure future growth engines, establish a stable earnings base, and fulfill social values. 123.5 109.6 177.5 Overseas Business Roadmap Strategy To Secure Future Growth Engine by Developing High Added Value Goal Creating Core Technologies Purchase of R&D Overseas Establishing a foundation for overseas revenue Products (Unit : KRW 100 million) Business through sustainable business Goal 2015 2016 2017 Strategic Overseas 2020 2023 2030 Direction Clean Power Plant Smart Power Plant Open Power Plant Business 195 265 316 Roadmap Capacity (MW) 670 1,130 2,180 ˙Fine Dust Generation ˙Leadership in the ˙Industry-AcademiaReduction Fourth Industrial Research-Government ˙To Cope with New Revolution Collaboration ˙Leadership in the ˙Localization of Climate Scheme Vision Expanding the social value of EWP to the World-wide scale New Energy Business Core Parts through Collaboration with SMEs Supply of clean Contribute to underApply of coRoadmap Project energy developed countries growth strategy Core Technology Strategy To Secure Original Technology AdvanceCommercialization Technologies (~2016) ment (2017~18) (2019~21) -Stable supplement of electricity Boosting of Supply of renewable to operating businesses ˙Infrastructure ˙Core Technology  reation of High ˙C energy -Development of customized employment Building Demonstration Added Value through Task (Solar, wind, business strategy for underConveying of co˙Core Technology ˙R&D Profit Model Commercialization hydropower, biomass) development countries in an growth Selection and Development ˙T echnology Transfer and aim of co-growth Development Licensing Fee Overseas Development Business Smart R&D Development of new overseas business is the critical challenge to realize continued growth EWP is creating high added values by converging VR, AI, and IoT platform technologies with by overcoming the limitation of the domestic market and securing the future growth engine. the power generation industry to lead the new energy business and the Fourth Industrial EWP achieved 100% process progress rate to the pre-construction target by overcoming Revolution. It has constructed a smart power plant based on super-intelligent ICT platform the problems such as prolonged wet season, the difficulty of securing the ground for power that overcomes limitations of existing R&D technologies and developed 3D modelingtransmission line, and lack of a stable path for transport of heavy objects that are the main based smart plant VR contents, AI-based facility prediction system, and convergent IoT causes of delayed construction for Kalsel Power Plant in Indonesia. As a result, it received diagnosis system. Moreover, it developed the pilot original ESS technology using seawater by ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Marketing Summit “Korea Champion” developing the world’s first seawater cell ESS technology. It also developed the metallic 3D Award in 2017. Moreover, it built the foundation for the expansion of overseas business by printer and IoT-based monitoring system. EWP will continue leading the development of the successfully launching Jamaica’s first gas combined cycle plant through stable funding. After 4th industrial power generation technologies by researching and developing various new the completion of construction in June 2019, EWP expects the annual average income of power generation technologies. about KRW 227.9 billion and dividend to EWP of KRW 87.9 billion for 20 years. Eco-friendly R&D JPS Net Profit to Sales Ratio (Unit : %) EWP is actively implementing policies to expand the investment in mission innovation* R&D Overseas Operation Business to respond to future social changes through the pioneering R&D in areas where demand is 2015 2016 2017 EWP signed an agreement with Jamaica Public Service ( JPS) for technical support in power high. With the PM and greenhouse gas reduction as the goal for eco-friendly R&D business, it generation and power transmission and distribution with the goal to lead the changes for 3.5 3.1 2.6 established the plan to reduce PM at Dangjin Thermal Power and developed the PM dispersion new climate scheme, reduce the cost of power generation, and improve the power grid impact model to quantify the contribution to PM and deduce the mechanism of secondary PM reliability to build the stable revenue basis. JPS is Jamaica’s only power utility operator and generation in the atmosphere. Moreover, it developed 10MW wet CO2 capture technology and Improvement of Loss Rate of owns and operates 62% of total power generation facilities and 100% of power transmission CO2 capture technology using silicon membranes. In recognition of its R&D achievements in Power Transmission and Distribution Network Operated by JPS (Unit : %) and distribution network. EWP implements the performance monitoring system utilizing the eco-friendly, new industry, and the 4th industry sectors, EWP was awarded the First Public its internally developed power plant operation and maintenance management system Institution Global R&D Award from the Korean Society of Public Enterprise in June 2017. and provides the company-wide consulting such as the power system diagnosis under the 2015 2016 2017 * Mission innovation: Doubling of R&D investment in clean energy in the public sector for the next five provisions of the agreement. EWP expects the stable revenue creation of about KRW 12.5 years according to the Paris Climate Convention in December 2005 27 26.8 26.4 billion for five years through the agreement. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 38 /39 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Management with 3. Safety First Disaster Rate of Preemptive Preparation to Disaster (Unit : %) Safety and Health Activities Outsourced Works In order to preemptively prepare for the power plant’s own accident, the company built an integrated anti-disaster center and disaster facilities such as special fire fighting equipment Management Communication of Safety Management 2015 1.04 2016 0.19 2017 0.16 were installed in the field to enable on-site response in the Golden Time. To be detected early. In addition, we built a joint hot-line for accidents around the power plant, strengthened the EWP is building the multifaceted communication system of executives, outside safety with Safety experts, employees, and vendors to spread the voluntary and autonomous safety culture in coordination system by conducting pre-role sharing and regular joint training. On the other hand, for the first time as a generation company, it assisted SMEs to build a disaster recovery First the field. The executives and high-level managers stay in the field for about 20 days after the groundbreaking, during which the high-risk works are concentrated, to supervise the work management system (BCM) to help SMEs to improve their disaster capabilities, and the and participate in vendor workshop and toolbox meeting as part of active communication. accident rate of construction contracts declined 0.03% to 0.16%. EWP also extended the on-site safety audit period by outside experts three days a week to 5 days a week. The activities such as supervision and advice on safety standard and unsafe activities resulted in the identification and improvement of a total of 2,386 risk points. As the results of its active communication for safety management, EWP achieved 4.05 points in Safety Management safety culture comprehensive grade and 4.33 points in safety activity participation grade. The highest rating in the privacy Safety Management protection level diagnosis Safety Awareness Preventive Safety Management The safety of employees is the highest value that EWP must fulfill. EWP held “Declaration and Safety Activity for Priority to Safety in Management and Practice” in July 2018 to create a safe workplace EWP operates the preventive safety management system to create a safe workplace without Participation through innovation in safety. It stipulates “ABC (Always Be Careful) 3-Stop, 3-Go Safe Practice an accident. EWP introduced Job Safety Analysis ( JSA)*, which is more advantageous in Campaign” to establish the safety culture by creating a safe workplace where all employees identifying the detailed risks at each step, to upgrade the existing risk assessment system can work with peace of mind. 3-Stop is the action guidelines for the supervisors, workers, 4M**, which is vulnerable to detailed risks because its assessment scope is too broad. and operators. It prohibits supervisors from ordering work before checking the site and Moreover, it improved the process safety management (PSM) level by evaluating and supplementing the accident scenarios, revising the safe operation procedure, and adding the two years eliminating risks, prohibits workers from working before eliminating the risk factors and in a row the supervisor’s work order, and prohibits operators from operating the equipment before hazardous and risky materials to ensure the safety of its employees and residents by assuring Overall rating checking the site and returning the tag. 3-Go is the practice guideline for workers. It includes (Unit : Point) the process safety. the safety education and TBM before and after work, the inspection of risk factors before * JSA (Job Safety Analysis): Act of segmenting a work into key steps and assessing the risk at each step The highest rating in fieldwork, and the report after terminating work if there is a risk. 2015 2016 2017 ** 4M (Man, Machine, Media, Management): Risk assessment in human, mechanical, material/ infrastructure security measure environmental, and managerial aspects inspection and evaluation 3.97 4.03 4.05 Information Security Employee Safety and Health Activities EWP is implementing the security management system with the goal of “zero cyber-security Safety activity participation (Unit : Point) EWP supports various programs to improve the safety and health of its employees. It assigns intrusion”. It has established and is executing four strategic directions: to strengthen the the dedicated health personnel in each site to carry out the healthcare programs specific to ability to respond to crises, personal information protection, security of vendors, and to lead 2015 2016 2017 each disease and conducts the CPR education to be ready in the possible emergency during a the Fourth Industrial Revolution. In addition, EWP reinforced the infrastructure to secure job. It also holds “Oops Accident Case Presentation Contest” to share the unforeseen accidents the highest level of security capability by adding the information security staff by four, 3.51 4.21 4.33 in the field and prevent occurrences of similar accidents. Moreover, EWP holds the Safety and assigning the accident response experts, and increasing the budget by 27%. Moreover, EWP Health Council (formed of the head of the site, vendors, safety managers, and health managers) two years is monitoring cyber threats 24/7 using the AI and big data technology, regularly conducting in a row specialized education to protect valuable personal information, implementing the PC meetings for each site to listen to difficulties and improve the risk factors. In addition, it is carrying out “Creating 3-Zero Workplace” to support the basic health examination, mental virtualization system, and integrating all records before processing of personal information. healthcare, and exercise programs to create the workplace without smoking, obesity, and stress. The full score in In recognition of these efforts, EWP received the full score in information security policy for information security policy two years by the National Intelligent Service’s security assessment and the highest rating for for security evaluation the second consecutive year in the privacy protection level diagnosis by the Ministry of Public Administration and Security. It has also achieved zero personal information leakage. Disaster Response Information Security Management System 2017 Disaster Safety Management Received Outstanding EWP is building the disaster safety management activity system with the goal of “Operating safe Zero cyber-security intrusions Institution from Disaster Safety Management power plants trusted by the public.” It establishes the disaster management plan, reinforces the two years Goal Assessment managed facilities, conducts the education and training for disaster response, and keeps disaster in a row ~ 2019 2020 ~ Midto prevention resources to prevent and prepare for disasters. EWP was awarded the Ministerial Award long-term • The building of the security platform • Support for energy and new for Excellence in 2017 Disaster Safety Management Evaluation for its efforts to respond to disasters. roadmap for Power Generation Industry 4.0 industrial environment privacy leakage accidents • A I/IoT convergent • Security in new energy Disaster Management Activity System (cyber+physical) security technologies To strengthen To strengthen To strengthen To lead the Normal period Disaster situation Strategic the crisis privacy vendor security Fourth Industrial direction response ability protection Revolution Prevention Preparation Response Recovery •T o strengthen •T  o encrypt • To strengthen • To utilize the • Establishment of the disaster • Education and training on disaster • Operation of the integrating situation room • Disaster Safety Control Division Zero Implemenpractical training against cyber attacks of personal information security inspection and education AI and big data technologies management plan response • BCM(Business tation • To innovate the •T  o build the • To build a cloud • To provide a • Support of and • Reinforcement of • Securing disaster cooperation with Continuity Manresponse system leakage preventive environment smart business managed facilities prevention resources relevant agencies agement) system against hacking system environment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 40 /41 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creating Environmental Value 1. Response to Climate Change Greenhouse Gas Reduction Midto Long-term Strategy to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Concentration of Carbon Emission (Emission Compared As the new climate scheme focusing on greenhouse gas reduction is in effect, the to Power Generation government has proposed a 37% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the (Unit : tCO2/MWh of power transmitted) 2030 emission estimate (BAU). It includes a reduction of 57.8 million tons, or 17.3%, in power generation. EWP proposed the reduction target of 9.78 million tons, which is equivalent to 2015 2016 2017 20% of the 2030 emission target, to participate in the greenhouse gas and has established 0.784 0.784 0.776 the midto long-term reduction strategy to reduce about 83% of the total greenhouse gas 1. Response to Climate Change emissions by replacing fuel with low carbon source and expanding new & renewable energy. Greenhouse 2. Minimization of Environmental Impact 2030 Midto Long-term Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy Gas Emission (Unit : 10,000 tCO2-eq) Strategy Goal 20% Reduction of BAU in 2030 2015 2016 2017 Strategic 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 3,795 3,973 3,858 Tasks Equipment Conversion to Expansion of Carbon To Secure Improvement Low Carbon New & Renew Capture Emission Power Source -able Energy Rights ImplemenDangjin Replacement To Secure CCS and CCU GHG Reduction tation Task Retrofit of Old Power 20% of the Technology Project, Emission and Station Plants with Total Installed Development Right Purchase, Power High-Efficiency Capacity in and Commerand Strengthening Reduction Power Plants 2030 cialization Response Capability Reduction 720,000 tons 3.35 million tons 4.78 million tons 80,000 tons 850,000 tons in 2030 Greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Reduction Activities Carbon-Free Power Generation Ecosystem EWP has developed the carbon-free power generation ecosystem model by expanding low-carbon 2017 sources, introducing highly efficient facilities, and securing emission rights. It has maximized the Received the “Special Carbon Management Award” reduction of greenhouse gas by burning organic fuel and biofuel oil, which are eco-friendly fuels, in by CDP Dangjin, Donghae, and Ulsan power plants, which were burning coal and heavy oil that generated a large amount of greenhouse gas emission. In addition, EWP increased the emission rights by the additional allocation of early greenhouse gas reduction and converting the overseas reduction into the domestic emission right. It secured the surplus emission rights of 4.71 million tons by exceeding the three-year allocation target for the first emission right trading scheme. Shared Reduction through Collaborative Cooperation four years EWP and its in-house specialized advisory group support the energy efficiency improvement in a row efforts of the vendors to contribute to the promotion of greenhouse gas reduction through collaboration with vendors and local small companies. It assisted the replacement of the process air compressor at an automobile part manufacturer in Ulsan to reduce 100 tons of greenhouse gas annually. As a result of reduction campaign conducted by small and medium sized manufacturers in Ulsan, Busan and Jincheon Chungbuk, cumulative greenhouse gas reduction performance has reached 249 tons. It has also participated voluntarily in the UK’s Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for six consecutive years to disclose information related to its response to climate change and carbon management to strengthen communication with various stakeholders. It is part of EWP’s efforts to enhance transparency in carbon management. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 42 /43 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Response to 2. Climate Change Development of Carbon Conversion Technology Environment Management System Minimization of Not resting on the reduction of greenhouse gas, EWP has developed the CO2 membrane technology to build the new business model by converting carbon into energy. The CO2 EWP installs and operates the high-efficiency environmental facilities to minimize Environmental membrane is used to filter CO2 generated by burning of coal using the size difference with other environmental pollutants generated during electricity production. It has established molecules. After completing the technology demonstration, it builds the world’s largest 1MW the environmental management system with the internal environmental standards Impact testbed in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant in October 2017. EWP commercialized the CO2 membrane that are stricter than the related regulation to manage the environmental impact in technology and exported to the Philippines to realize the income of KRW 40.5 billion. all areas of power plant operation. The system is used for atmospheric environment Commercial Greenhouse Gas Technology Strategy management , water qualit y management , was te management , chemical management, and noise and soil management. Development and StepDevelopment of Commercialization demonstration of Environmental Pollutant Processing Diagram by-step CO2 capture and storof carbon conversion next-generation CO2 strategy age technologies business model capture technology (2010 2021) (2018 2020) (2016 2018) Flue Gas SOx Removal Dust Removal NOx Removal Soundproofing Household ˙Development of wet ˙Commercialization of • Production of the high Monitoring and Factory R&D CO2 capture after CO2 capture technology value-added comFlue Gas Flue Gas Indoor Turbine Electric outcomes combustion technology using silicon membrane pound using CO2 in the Desulfurization Denitrification Turbine and Generator Collector ˙Construction of 1MW Equipment Equipment and interface to middischarge gas from sized storage testbed in Dangjin Therpower plants ˙10MW wet CO2 mal Power Plant and • Development of a capture, compression, export of the commerSOx Dust NOx business model for liquefaction, and storage cialized technology to localization of importinterface technology the Philippines ed bicarbonate soda Resource Integrated Wastewater Gypsum Ash Ash Recycling Treatment Center Water Temperature WasteMonitoring Prevention of water Ash Treatment Scattering Coal Response to Climate Change Center Unloading Drainage Coal Yard Water Quality Climate Change Response Plan Inspection Preventing damages from climate change has been emphasizing globally. In response, EWP has set up a midto long-term plan to protect facilities, ensure the safety of citizens, and prevent service interruptions from climate change. The plan contains the assessment and diagnosis of vulnerability to climate change, assessment and diagnosis of climate change risks, trainings Environment Management Performance for enhancing organizational competence against climate change, and development of climate change risk assessment software. It allows us to estimate possible climate change risks for the next two decades and will be renewed every five years along with detailed execution plans. Air Pollutant Atmospheric Environmental Management Emission Goal EWP has the target of reducing 70% of the atmospheric pollutant by 2030. To this end, we Process of Establishing Climate Change Response Measures have installed efficient air pollution reduction facilities such as the desulfurization facilities, denitrification facilities, and dust collecting facilities and are implementing the atmospheric Step Means Details environmental management with the internal standards which are higher than the legal air • Characteristic analysis of each plant (geography, Analysis and Climate change climate, etc.) pollution emission limits. prediction of climate scenario • Analysis of climate change trend and prediction of change status Atmospheric Environmental Facility Installation future climate change Assessment of • Collection of vulnerability analysis data, assessment, Vulnerability vulnerability to and result identification Desulfurization facility Denitrification facility Dust collection facility current climate assessment tool •S  election of facilities and fields for adaptation measures Achieves 70% Power Plant No. of No. of No. of Assessment of future • Setup of the exposure level to climate Installation Installation Installation Risk assessment tool reduction by 2030 installations installations installations climate change and risks •D  eduction and assessment of climate change risk items type type type (EA) (EA) (EA) • Case study on adaptation measures at home and Wet Detailed execution Adaptation option DB Dangjin Coalabroad and cost analysis limestone Electrostatic planning at home and abroad fired Power 10 10 SCR 10 • Prioritization and setup of detailed execution plans precipitator Complex Gypsum method Wet Inspection of Climate Change Adaptation Measures at Each Plant Ulsan Coallimestone 5 SCR Electrostatic fired Power 3 3 EWP checks the practice of climate change response activities and improves execution Gypsum precipitator Complex 3 SNCR method plans every year by setting up criteria needed for self-inspection. It is carried out in four steps of establishment of inspection plan, intermediate inspection, internal assessment, and Honam CoalHydroxide SCR Electrostatic fired Power 2 Magnesium 2 2 feedback of assessment results. We inspect the operation status of coal handling facilities, SNCR precipitator Plant method fire monitoring facilities, and working environment against the intense heat, old water intake Donghae facilities and reuse of process water against the drought, and anti-freeze facilities against Coal-fired 2 Desulfurization 2 Electrostatic in the furnace precipitator heavy snow. EWP will continue to actively respond to possible risks and social and economic Power Plant impacts from climate change through strict inspections and feedbacks. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 44 /45 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Minimization of Environmental Impact Atmospheric Pollutant Air pollutant effluent quality standard per plants and emission record of year 2017 Waste Management Discharge SOx NOx Dust EWP strives to treat about 30 types of wastes generated by power plants and reduce the Discharge Discharge Discharge Discharge Discharge Discharge discharge and recycles some of them such as properly and reduce the discharge of fly ash, Power Plant allowance concentraallowance concentraallowance concentration waste oil, and desulfurized gypsum. It tries to increase the recycling rate by continuously (ppm) tion (ppm) (ppm) tion (ppm) (mg/Sm3) (mg/Sm3) identify ways to recycle waste resources and contracts the specialized companies to handle Dangjin (#1~8) 100 21 140 37 25 5 the materials that cannot be recycled. SOx Dangjin (#9~10) 80 19 70 33 20 1 Waste Generation and Recycling (Unit: ton) Ulsan Steam 150 38 150 118 20 3 2015 2016 2017 Ulsan C.C. 1 35 80 63 15 Type 2015 2016 2017 12,514 12,741 12,082 Ulsan C.C. 2 35 50 35 15 Discharge (1,000 tons) 1,824 1,965 2,055 Honam 100 63 140 107 25 4 Unit level (ton/GWh) 38 40 42 NOx (Unit: ton) Donghae 150 83 140 61 25 2 Recycled (1,000 tons) 1,635 1,706 1,560 Donghae Bio 30 1 70 21 20 2 Recycling rate (%) 90 87 76 2015 2016 2017 Ilsan 35 80 36 15 22,447 21,965 15,988 Recycling of Desulfurized Gypsum and Fly Ash Dust (Unit: ton) Water Quality Environmental Management Type 2015 2016 2017 EWP uses water to produce pure water for power generation, washing water, and drinking water. Recycled (10,000 tons) 48.0 50.7 41.1 2015 2016 2017 Since the wastewater contains water pollutants, EWP sends the wastewater to the treatment Gypsum Recycling rate (%) 97.0 99.6 96.3 649 612 480 center through the water collection facility to remove the impurities physically, chemically, and Usage Gypsum board, the raw material for cement, etc. biologically to recycle it as the process water or discharge. EWP manages its water quality with its strict water quality management standards which are stricter than legal standards. Recycled (10,000 tons) 161.6 169.9 153.1 Recycling rate (%) 89.7 90.3 75.8 Wastewater Treatment Facilities (Unit : ㎥/hr) Fly ash Concrete mixing agent, the raw material for concrete, Usage fill material, etc. Power plant Installation type Treatment capacity General wastewater treatment 293 Desulfurization wastewater Chemical Management Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex 136 treatment EWP safely and systematically manages the harmful chemicals used for the production of pure Total nitrogen removal facility 40 water for power generation and treatment of wastewater according to the regulation. It is General wastewater treatment 190 managing chemical substances thoroughly through the safety diagnosis of chemical substances Ulsan Coal-fired Power Complex Total nitrogen removal facility 8.4 and dangerous substances in power plants, prevention of atmospheric diffusion at the time of leakage accident, and the establishment of an emergency response process. It also operates General wastewater treatment 120 the chemical substance management system which is the integrated management system Desulfurization wastewater Honam Coal-fired Power Plant treatment 150 to prevent and respond to accidents. It will create a living environment safe for everyone by minimizing the risk of accidents through thorough chemical substance management. Total nitrogen removal facility 16 Donghae Coal-fired Power Plant General wastewater treatment 30 Use of Harmful Chemical Substance in 2017 (Unit : ton) Ilsan Combined Heat and Power Plant General wastewater treatment 60 Substance Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Donghae Total Anhydrous ammonia 7,384 325 1,592 9,301 Water Pollutant Discharge Allowance Standard at Each Power Plant (Unit : ㎎/ℓ) Hydrochloric acid 1,784 378 63 40 2,265 Total Region COD SS Total nitrogen Power phosphorous Sodium hydroxide 1,958 627 1,323 14 62 3,984 (ClassifiPlant cation) RegulaDisRegulaDisRegulaDisRegulaDisAmmonia 203 203 tion charge tion charge tion charge tion charge Hydrazine 0 Dangjin B (Class 1) 90 9 80 8 60 22 8 0.209 Methanol 0 Ulsan B (Class 1) 90 4 80 2 60 5 8 Exception Chlorine dioxide 0 Honam 40 5 30 4 60 9 8 0.002 (Class 1) Triethylamine 0 Exception Donghae 130 3 120 1 60 2 8 0.005 (Class 3) ※ EWP does not use hydrazine, methanol, chlorine dioxide, and triethylamine currently. Ilsan B (Class 1) 40 3 10 2 60 8 0.5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 46 /47 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Minimization of Environmental Impact Noise and Soil Management EWP operates the noise monitoring system to manage the noise in real-time by reducing Environmental Risk Management generated by the turbines and transformers in power plants. A text message is sent to the person in charge at the same time at the same time as the noise alarm, and the person Development of Environmental Risk Management System in charge contacts the central control room at the power plant immediately to notify the For stronger response to changes in environmental regulations and more systematic situation. The central control room then takes measures to reduce noise by reducing the environmental risk control, EWP has developed the environmental risk management system noise of steam discharge and opening the safety vent based on the notification. EWP also aimed at realizing zero regulation violations and advancing the company-wide environmental conduct the soil pollution and leakage inspection to prevent soil pollution that can occur near management system. This system has a process to accurately understand the level of a power plant. EWP’s annual soil pollution test helps to maintain a pleasant environment by environmental risks at each plant and conduct self-diagnosis on the impacts of environmental inspecting oil contamination of soil caused by storage and handling of power generation fuel. regulations, allowing us to help to manage the environment preemptively and systematically. Based on this system, EWP will achieve zero regulation violations by regularly conducting environmental risk diagnosis with outside experts. Ecosystem Protection Environmental Risk Management System Cleaning Movement, One River per One Enterprise Management of Environments around Power Plants Goal Zero regulation violations and advancement of a company-wide environmental management system EWP actively participates in events held by the government such as the Environment Day, ˙Sharing and utilization of similar ˙Prevention of legal violations with awareness ˙Prevention of missed work Water Day, and Sea Day to minimize the change of the ecosystem such as the sea, river, and Effect cases in advance ˙Systemization of accumulated mountain near power plants. It also carries out the voluntary cleaning programs such as ˙Real-time risk monitoring ˙Preemptive response based on impact analysis know-how “1-Company and 1-Shore, 1-Company and 1-River, 1-Company and 1-Street, and 1-Company and 1-Wetland” to preserve environments in local communities. ImpleChecking of current risk level Impact analysis of environmental regulation Self-diagnosis of legal compliance mentation ˙Risk at each plant ˙Legal monitoring in eacharea ˙Identifying legal compliance Details ˙Risk improvement status ˙Awareness of upcoming legal enactment and regulation Clean Sea and Beaches Movement Indoor Coal Yard ˙Current company-wide risk diagram amendment ˙Generationof the specialized checklist ˙Impact analysis of enactment and amendment ˙Self-diagnosis EWP places coal yards indoors to block the impact of flying dust on residents near power plants. It completed the construction of the industry’s largest 3.4MW roof-top solar power in indoor coal yard of the Dangjin Coal-fired Power Complex on June 03, 2017 to minimize Post-Project Environmental Management the impact of PM and flying dust from coal-fired thermal power plants. EWP plans to invest We systematically manage environmental impacts at each plant throughout the life of power about KRW 800.0 billion by 2020 to move all carbon yards indoors in the Dangjin Coal-fired plant by performing both pre-project and post-project (for five years after the construction) Power Complex to reduce SOx and NOx discharge. It will resolve the environmental burden of environmental impact assessments. To assure the expertise and objectivity of assessments, we Protecting the environment of residents near power plants by placing the carbon yards indoors. investigate and analyze the impacts on water quality, atmosphere, noise, and soil around power nearby tour sites plants with professional agencies. Results are reported to the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Indoor Coal Yard Implementation Roadmap Energy, Ministry of Environment, and Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries. Post-Project Environmental Management Procedure STEP STEP STEP STEP 1 2 3 4 Generation of Plan forPost-Project Environmental Impact Analysis Power Plant 2015 2016 2017 2020 Clean Environment Movement · Construction of · Basic study to place · Preliminary · Begin construction Items for Internal Investigation Items for External Investigation indoor coal yard for existing coal yards 1 feasibility study of 1st stage inIn-house Investigation Generation of Investigation Report Consignment, Outsourcing, and Consultation Dangjin Coal Yard 3 and 2 indoors house coal storage Power Plant (August 2015) · Formation of indoor shed coal yard TF Report to Regional Office of Environment Aggregation of Reports Climate & Environment Team Grassland Construction Project Report to Approval Agency Using coal as fuel generates ash in the amount of 10%. EWP has carried out the “Grassland Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Construction Project” to mitigate the PM issue and to collaborate with nearby dairy farmers. For the project, EWP restores the ash treatment ground and provides it to Dangjin Dairy Cooperative and livestock farmers who cultivate the crops on the land With the license by Post Project Environment Impact Assessment Dangjin City. The project sowed rye on 20,000 m2 land to prevent flying dust and promote Power Plant Investigation Period Inspected items the local economy. The Grassland Construction Project is expected to bring KRW 200 million Dangjin Thermal #1 8 July 1994 December 2017 Diffusion of warm discharge in profits to local farmers, and EWP will save KRW 47 million which is the cost of greening the water, air quality, noise, soil, ash treatment ground. Dangjin Thermal #9 10 October 2009 June 2021 marine water quality, marine Donghae Biomass Power Plant December 2011 July 2018 ecosystem, crops, land plants, and environment-friendly Ulsan C.C. #4 June 2012 July 2019 resource circulation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 48 /49 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creating Social Value 1. Creation of Pleasant Workplaces Open Recruitment EWP has adopted Employment Without Prejudice that evaluates potential recruits 2017 Recruitment without impartially after a fair competition to secure human resources that lead future prejudice · Competition of Outstanding Agencies for Blind changes and realize human-centered sustainable management. Employment 1. Creation of Pleasant Workplaces Open Recruitment 2. Building of a Sound Industrial Ecosystem EWP selects candidates fairly through the job capability and competency evaluation based 3. Creation of Good Jobs on the national competency standard (NCS). EWP has adopted the recruitment system that 4. Sharing with Local Community assures the equality of opportunity, the fairness of the process, and fulfillment of social value by finding all blind spots of fairness that can exist during the recruitment process. It was the first public enterprise to provide the uniform for an interview to avoid any change Minister of of prejudice even to the last step of interviews. Moreover, it has been improving the Employment and recruitment process by conducting the satisfaction and fairness survey of applicants at Labor Award each recruitment step and actively reflecting their opinions to create the applicant-center recruitment culture. In recognition of the results of its efforts for fair recruitment, EWP 2017 cases of claim for received the Minister of Employment and Labor Award at the Competition of Outstanding information disclosure Agencies for Blind Employment in 2017. related to hiring Expansion of Socially Balanced Employment ZERO EWP has adopted a hiring target system to expand socially balanced employment by hiring a diverse range of human talents including women, high school graduates, local talents, people with disabilities, and people of national merit. In 2017, EWP exceeded its socially balanced employment target, ensuring diversity of human resources while implementing the government-recommended policies. Moreover, EWP has made efforts to local talents such as increasing extra credit for written test, creating an extra credit for an internship of the local college graduate, adopting a recruitment quota system, and the visiting workshop 0 (Zero) for recruitment. As a result of these efforts, EWP achieved the highest local employment rate of 20.6% among public institutions that have moved to Ulsan won the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Award. Hiring Target System for Socially Balanced Recruitment (Unit : %) People with High school Local Moved The Female national Youth graduate talent region disabled Type merit 9.3 20 35 18 3.2 9 3 Government recommendation Goal 15 20 35 18 3.2 9 3 Actual 29.3 22.2 55.6 20.6 3.6 9.4 4.2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 50 /51 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creation of Pleasant Workplaces Fair Performance Evaluation and Rational Compensation Human resource development The rational compensation system based on fair and objective performance 2017 Human Resource EWP carries out the systematic human resources development strategy to train the evaluation is a critical factor of motivation for employees to concentrate on their Development by Korea market-leading-talents. As of 2017, the training period per employee is 220 hours, work. EWP expanded the portion of job skill, ability, and performance in wage to HRD Association the satisfaction is 90.6%, and the overall employee competence index score is 4.8. In 52.4% to establish the performance-centered fair compensation system. recognition of providing the training, EWP received the Management Grand Award in Human Resource Development by Korea HRD Association in 2017. Satisfaction with HR System (Unit : Point) Fair performance evaluation Establishment of human resource development strategy There can be unintended prejudice since humans, not computers, conduct the performance Under the HRD mission of “fostering the Energy World Pioneer as the innovation leader to make 2015 2016 2017 evaluation. EWP conducts the evaluator education, evaluator tendency analysis, evaluator Great Company”, EWP has established the systematic and innovative education and training plan 4.32 4.38 4.46 pool management, and mutual cross evaluation to assure the professionalism and objectivity after selecting “To develop innovative capabilities for the future,” “To strengthen human resources of evaluation and secure trust of employees. It also appoints the consultants, scholars, and Grand Management Award capacity,” and “To strengthen organizational communication and harmony” as the three strategies. performance management experts for consulting and advisory throughout the performance evaluation process and conducts the workshop, briefing, town meeting, and sur vey EWP’s Human Resource Development Strategy participated by employees. It discloses all evaluation results and operates the objection Education Budget HRD Mission Training of Innovation Leader and Energy World Pioneer to Create Great Company scheme to prevent possible disadvantage to its employees in advance. per Employee (Unit : KRW 1,000) Creative Convergent Human Talent to Lead the Global Energy Market Objection to Performance Evaluation 2015 2016 2017 EWP’s Ideal Talent Inside 1,261 1,104 1,335 Within seven days Outside 1,278 1,593 2,137 Three HRD 1.Cultivation of FutureOriented Innovative 2.Strengthening Human Resource of 3.Strengthening of Organization CommuStrategies Capability Competency nication and Unity 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step Total 2,539 2,697 3,472 26 course including 430 courses including team 970 courses including internal activation education, healing Training future convergence and external job education education, and reading manDisclosure of Receipt of Verification by Employee Education (Unit : persons) Program technology program and leadership education agement Performance Objection Department in Evaluation Result Charge 2015 2016 2017 Performance Education time per person, education satisfaction (survey), 29,735 38,586 48,224 Index and competency improvement index of each person (CB-HRD) Taget for Female Managers Education and Training 4 (Unit : %) Follow-up 5 Step Step 2015 2016 2017 EWP analyzed the needs for competency and education needed by its employees and established 2017 HRD Education and Training Plan with “To develop innovative capabilities for the future, to Goal 4.2 4.6 5.1 strengthen human resources capacity, and to strengthen organizational communication and Fair Evaluation Head Office ComPlant Committee Committee (Reward mittee (Reevaluated (Tabled or Rejected) Actual 4.3 4.9 5.6 harmony” as three axes. It carried out the programs such as invited expert lecture on the 4th or Punishment) or Rejected) Industrial Revolution, dispatching employees to Silicon Valley, GE GCS CEO leadership training, and education on new & renewable energy to developed Edu-Cycle. Moreover, it has adopted Rate of Female Employees and Qualified Promotion the mandatory job training program to improve the work specialization of rotational positions The portion of basic salary type based Candidates (Unit : %, persons) and carries out new employee mentoring, shift working, and healing education + reading on job performance ability (Unit : %) Rational compensation management to encourage harmony. 2015 2016 2017 EWP established the compensation system based on job skill, ability, and performance Rate of 2015 2016 2017 Edu-Cycle New Female 10.7 11.2 to ensure rational compensation without compromising performance based on a fair 36.3 39.8 52.4 11.7 performance system. It reduced the basic salary based on tenure years by 20% and increased Employees Joining 1st 3rd Promotion 5th Promotion 2nd 4th Promotion 2nd EWP year ~ year (junior입사 입사 (mid-level 입사man(senior Rate of Female the portion of basic salary type based on job performance ability by 50%. It also adjusted the manager) year ~ management) year year ~ agement) year existing promotion scheme from automatic promotion according to tenure years regardless Promotion 26 30 69 of ability to enable promotion based on job execution ability. Moreover, it operates the job Candidates IntroRefresh Promoted emLeadership Leadership Management comLeadership Leadership Execductory MentoEducaployee leadereducation of exeducation petency enhanceeducation of exeducation utive Education ring tion ship education isting managers 1:1 coaching ment education isting managers 1:1 coaching course skill evaluation to improve the effectiveness of compensation. The job skill evaluation consists of the performance evaluation that judges the contribution through job execution and excellence of job process and the ability evaluation that judges the knowledge, experience, Female Manager Fostering Program creativity, and planning ability needed for job performance. EWP has adopted the female manager target scheme to increase female representation by establishing the environment that encourages the female talents to demonstrate their ability. EWP carries out various programs such as the female leader candidate pool, protection of maternity, and establishment of family-friendly culture to prevent discrimination against women in recruitment, promotion, appointment, and work and life balance. It also operates the 3R (Re-Start, Retention, and Representation) system to increase utilization of female human resources. As a result of its efforts to cultivate female managers, it promoted five female managers and exceeded its target for three years in a row. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 52 /53 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creation of Pleasant Workplaces Labor-management cooperation index Win-Win Labor-Management Culture Labor-management relations strategy Creation of 2. Shared Growth Implementation System Shared growth implementation system An enterprise will lose its golden time for continued growth if there is a conflict between the labor and management. To encourage the role of trade unions as a management EWP selected five labor-management relations programs of “To establish a labor-management culture based Sound Industrial EWP carries out the shared growth programs centered on five strategic tasks of “To establish the foundation for Shared Growth Industry 4.0,” “To cultivate ventures and small-but-strong on fair accountability, To build the strategic partnership for the future, To strengthen labor Ecosystem enterprises,” “To strengthen the support for growth of vendors,” “To establish the performance sharing system,” and “To enter the overseas markets jointly and expand export.” and management trust based on dignity and maturity, To advance the labor-management 4.08 points relation management system, and the Pride in EWP” by analyzing the internal and external Shared Growth Strategic System environments to encourage the role of the labor as the management partner. It will do its best to advance the labor-management relations with the goal of creating the value of mutual Strategic Strengthening of business comSecuring future growth opporStrengthening capabiliSustainable management through Direction petitiveness through cooperation tunity through cooperation ty of vendors collaboration Labor-management joint growth by building the labor-management relations based on trust and responsibility. voluntary social services Labor union operation 2017 Strategic Building industry 4.0 for shared Cultivating ventures, startups, Strengthening of the Establishment of perforJoint entry into overand small-but-strong entersupport for the growth of seas markets and tasks growth mance sharing scheme prises vendors expansion of export EWP operates the Labor-Management Council as the formal consultative body to achieve the common goals of labor and management. It also operates the Future Committee and Jobs ˙Support of regional industries ˙Development of outcome ˙Support for the iden˙Construction of the smart factory ˙EWP-Startup Support ˙E xpansion of convergence R&D for ˙Support of ventures and startups Implementain crisis sharing model tification of potential Committee as the multilayer labor-management cooperative system to promote participation ˙Customized resolution of diffi˙E xpansion of pilot installation 43 cases and cooperation by discussing the issues of EAP. Moreover, EWP has continued its active tion the Fourth Industrial Revolution ˙Commercialization of new technologies ˙Cultivation of small-but-strong culties faced by regional SMEs ˙Sharing of future outcome exporting companies ˙Cultivation of export˙Strengthening of competitive˙Support for converting Task enterprises ˙Training of core human resources ˙Creation of new jobs ing companies at communication for labor-management communication between its head office and the ness of maintenance vendors tasks into business each growth phase power plants through the workshop for labor-management leaders ( July 2017), a laborLabor-management communication index management introductory meeting and a declaration for mutual prosperity and growth (April, Monitoring Establishment of Selection of Identification of Execution of Performance 17) the joint labor-management workshop (July 2017), and labor-management joint value-up system and management policy strategic direction strategic tasks tasks Analysis internal group working committee (December 2017). inspection Reflection of opinions for improvement in policies Issue Council Status 4.09 points Role Outcome Shared Growth Committee Future Labor-management · Improvement of specialized technical Committee joint innovation organization and human resource operation EWP has formed and is operating the company-wide organization for shared growth through (April 2016 ~) council to overcome · Restructuring of organization and personnel Role of Shared the cooperation of CEO, headquarters, power plants, vendors, and relevant agencies centered Satisfaction of management crisis to secure future growth engine Growth Support on the Shared Growth Center and Shared Growth Committee to identify and execute the labor education Organization strategic shared growth support projects by establishing the effective governance for shared Job Committee Job policy to implement · Creation of jobs by restructuring shift work growth. The Shared Growth Center is staffed with nine persons, one more than the previous (May 2017) human-center growth · Conversion of temporary jobs into regular year, while the Shared Growth Committee is organized of 113 persons. The budget for shared economy jobs, etc. growth projects in 2017 was KRW 34.8 billion, an increase of about KRW 7.3 billion from 2016. Shared Growth Support Organization 6.7 points Labor-management communication Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. Vendors and relevant agencies The communication system to reflect the opinions of employees is necessary to continue the Shared Growth Committee Head Office CEO Small and medium-sized labor-management relations based on cooperation and participation and fulfill the various • Company-wide shared • Conference enterprises growth management • Listening to difficulties interests. EWP operates the composite communication channel that includes all employees [R&D Management Team] Confer• Policy decision and advice Public-private joint R&D ence to [Korea Council of Medium Industry] including the representatives and minority unions to establish the communication system Formed in 2008, 86 companies Shared Growth Center [Engineering Team] Strategic listen to that reflects its organizational characteristics. It will establish the win-win labor-management New technology, new proddiscussion difficul[Win-Win Council of Shipbuilding monitoring Korea Commission for ties relations by building mutual trust through transparent and active communication between • Implementation and sup• Planning and establishuct, and new process Corporate Partnership Material Manufacturers] port of shared growth ment of strategies [New Growth Business Office] (Policy decision and advice) Formed in 2016, 35 companies labor and management. • Feedback of support project [2ndand 3rd-tier Vendor Council] Support of sales channels Feedfor new & renewable enerback of Formed in 2011, 48 companies Support Organization (HQ) Labor-Management Communication System gy and new business Feedback coopera[Work-level council in each area] [Planning and Strategy for policy Corporate Partnership tion and · Productivity innovation partnership · Ventures and maintenance compaCommunication • Joint R&D • Maintenance qualification support Type Communication channel Department] sharing Center • Joint purchase and bidding • Sales channel support target Strategy, budgeting, and (Organization dedicated for ny council [Online] CEO letter, column, and management message · Market development group and Support Organization (Power Plant) institutional improvement shared growth) Labor union and all technology interchange group CEO communication [Off-line] CEO’s briefing on company management status, employees [Procurement Department] discussion of management issues • Identification of tasks • Purchase workshop and Purchase, bidding, contractDecision-making The collective agreement, Labor-Management Council, and ComRepresentative • Support of testbed exhibition ing, and fuel procurement Relevant agency • Joint purchase of products Five power plants mechanism mittee for Deliberation of Conversion to Regular Position (new) labor from SMEs [Power Generation Depart· Ulsan Metropolitan City Labor-management The labor-management workshop, joint briefing, Open Representative and ment] ˙Purchase workshop · Ulsan TechnoPark Relevant Agency ˙Joint purchase of products Ordinary maintenance and communication Labor-Management Committee, Future Committee, Job Commitminority labor · Ministry of SMEs and Startups maintenance qualification · Corporate Partnership Foundation mechanism tee (new), and Labor-Management Expert Council (new) unions from SMEs • Policy sharing and • Support for domestic and [Overseas Business Office] ˙Identification of R&D Open Meeting with management, meeting with vendors (new), and Minority labor union collaboration for SME overseas sales channels Support for overseas sales projects · UNIST and University of Ulsan · KORTA, etc. communication and vulnerable groups ˙Support for testbed support projects • Identification of R&D projects meeting of labor-management relation managers channels mechanism (vendors, etc.) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 54 /55 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creation of Sound Industrial Ecosystem Win-win Growth 4.0 Model Establishment of Fair Social Foundation for SMEs Establishment of Win-Win 4.0 Model Effect of Smart Factory Distribution Securing the competitiveness of SMEs EWP named its newly developed Win-win Growth 4.0 model as “Value Enhancement with Distribution of Smart Factory EWP,” which includes the meaning, “EWP makes you happy.” The Win-win Growth 4.0 model consists of four core tasks of “Fostering total solution providers, Expansion of performanceThird-tier vendors KRW 930 million EWP is providing support to its first-tier, second-tier, and third-tier vendors customized to their size and characteristics to expand smart factory for SMEs. It is carrying out “Industrial oriented R&D, Establishment of the EWP Win-win Growth Energy Valley, and Operation of the new export platform led by SMEs” and 16 implementation strategies. The model for the Second-tier vendors KRW 400 million Innovation Campaign 3.0” for its third-tier vendors to help them increase productivity, reduce delivery period, and improve quality to support production innovation. It also operates the advancement of shared growth to lead the growth of global small-but-strong enterprises is the platform for SMEs to grow in the global markets. First-tier vendors KRW 530 million productivity improvement program to improve the process, reduce the processing time, and increase the efficiency of material management through customized growth support for the Core Tasks and Implementation Strategies of Win-Win 4.0 Model second-tier vendors. It built the collaborative manufacturing innovation ecosystem for the first-tier vendors by expanding the smart factory for maximized operating efficiency. Fostering total Expansion of Establishment of Operation of Resolution of Difficulties Faced by Local SMEs Core the EWP Win-win the new export Tasks solution performance-oriplatform led by SMEs in provincial regions are facing many difficulties as the provincial industries are in providers ented R&D Growth Energy Valley SMEs crisis. EWP supports its small vendors to strengthen competitiveness and promote growth to spread the collaborative cooperation culture and strengthen the competitiveness of · Nurturing 30 World· E xpansion of · Development of · Operation of a Implem class companies performancenew future energy consultative body on local SMEs. EWP has investigated the difficulties faced by local SDEs and is carrying out the entation · Nurturing solution oriented R&D industry export support projects such as support of R&D in the new energy industry, expansion of R&D Strategy companies in power · Support for · Strengthening · Support for domestic plant service demonstrations of external and overseas sales cooperative fund, operation of credit fund for cash flow, promotion of SME business, support · Nurturing core power in domestic competitiveness of channels for electricity saving, and support for the win-win energy credit for nine consecutive years. generation facility and overseas power SMEs · Support for market companies plants · Fostering of local pioneering by target It helped the local SMEs realize the revenue increase of KRW 10.3 billion and KRW 27.0 billion · Operating a council · Enhancement venture and start-up countries for resolving current of vendors’ R&D businesses · Advancement into by supporting the local ship part vendors, which are in regional economic crisis, to enter the issues capacity · Support for power overseas markets power market and strengthening the growth foundation for maintenance vendors near the · E xpansion of R&D generation starter in connection with product purchasing enterprises’ overseas businesses power plants, respectively. capability enhancement Enhancement of competency of SMEs Midto Long-term Roadmap for Win-Win Growth 4.0 Training of Core Human Training of Core Talents for the Fourth Industry Pursuing the Win-win Grow th 4.0 model, EWP is implementing a roadmap for the Resources for the Fourth As the fourth industrial age has arrived, training core talents with the fourth industrial globalization and independence of its business partners, after the process of building the Industrial SMEs (Unit : persons) technology have become the critical factor of corporate competitiveness. EWP is operating foundation and enhancing their capacity by 2030. EWP plans to carry out 250 R&D projects; the core human resource training program for the fourth industry to support the continued discover 80 R&D companies; and accomplish KRW 1 trillion in exports of partner SMEs by 2015 2016 2017 growth of SMEs. It is conducting the education of new power generation technology and 2030, to ultimately create 100 total solution provider companies EWP will continue its support 383 392 491 visiting of O/H disassembly sites to improve the understanding of smart power plant systems for SMEs to secure global competitiveness for entry into global markets by expanding the and conducts the training of maintenance staff and operates the know-how research group global shared growth offices, identifying customized projects to enter overseas markets, and to strengthen the capability to participate in smart power generation area. It also has opened executing the joint overseas market entry projects. and is operating the courses to strengthen CEO spirit and to study the corporate innovation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution to strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Roadmap for Win-Win Growth 4.0 Cultivation of Ventures, Business Startups, and Small-but-Strong Enterprises 1 2 3 Job Creation (Unit : persons) Core Tasks STEP STEP STEP EWP helps cultivation of innovative venture enterprises and small-but-strong enterprises with 2016-2020 2021-2025 2026-2030 Type Jobs four implementation programs of improvement of job creation system, support of startups, 7 Fostering total solution providers 10 affiliate 50 affiliate 100 affiliate operation of Win-Win Supporters, and cultivation of small-but-strong enterprises to create EWP-Startup enterprise good-quality jobs in the private sector. As part of the improvement of the scheme for jobExpansion of performance-oriented R&D 180 cases 200 cases 250 cases Ventures 75 creating enterprises, EWP has abolished the performance limitations of the qualification 26 Global small-but-strong examination of startups at the early stage to secure a growth foundation by expanding the Establishment of the EWP Win-win Growth enterprises 40 affiliate 60 affiliate 80 affiliate possibility of public procurement and is actively supporting the startups by running the Energy Valley Operation of the new export platform led EWP-startup support program. Moreover, it cooperates with the Corporate Partnership KRW 250.0 billion KRW 500.0 billion KRW 1 trillion by SMEs Foundation and KOTRA to operate the Win-Win Supporters to help SMEs enter global markets and execute the small-but-strong enterprise cultivations projects to help them secure the global technologies and strengthen the global capability. EWP created a total of 108 new jobs as the results of such efforts. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 56 /57 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creation of Sound Industrial Ecosystem Exporting Company Support Cultivation of Exporting Companies EWP categorizes the exporting companies into initial exporting companies, silk road companies, and power silk road company according to the growth stage to provide the support for each growth stage. Since initial exporting companies require the base to enter 3. Creation of Job Creation Job creation implementation system global markets, EWP provides the reference with domestic power plants needed for vendor Good Jobs Investment in people and creating good-quality jobs is a critical factor for enhancing national registration and overseas authentication in the target country and supports funding for competitiveness. At this time of decreasing jobs and polarizing society as a result of the investment in production facility needed to secure large export orders. Silk road companies growth without employment and continued economic slump, the most important social role Initial export have entered the overseas markets but face difficulties because of low presence in global and value are to create good jobs. EWP has established and is carrying out the job creation companies (Unit : KRW 100 million, persons) markets. As such, EWP provides the supports them to participate in exhibits and R&D strategy and midand long-term roadmap to create good-quality, sustainable jobs with the projects linked to export. For the power silk road companies, EWP provides support for the goal of “creating jobs for people to have good dinner with family and to respect each other 2015 2016 2017 education of export professionals, investigation of the overseas power industry trend, market for mutual prosperity.” Export 78.4 107.7 export support projects. 143.6 Mid-Term Roadmap for Job Creation Employment 415 432 494 Communication Channels with Vendors Initial stage (~ 2018) Growth stage (2019 ~ 2020) Take-off stage (2021 ~ 2022) Road Map Silk road Communication channel Description Count Sharing jobs Creating jobs Adding jobs companies · Real-time opinion exchange using the SME Council (Unit : KRW 100 million, persons) Council YearSNS • Generation of the conversion • Improvement of discrimination Band discussion room round • Zero temporary jobs Conversion of plan and formation of the and treatment of converted · Announcement for participation in the support 2015 2016 2017 • Establishment of measures temporary jobs implementation organization employees Export 522 for neglected groups and 381.8 633.8 projects • Finalization of conversion targets •A  dvancement of the HR system · Introduction of purchasing and bidding information EWP Yearoutsourcing to the private sector and completion of the conversion and the establishment of principles Employment 1,226 · Development and operation of the value proposal ewp.co.kr round 1,180 1,347 system • Continued development of jobs • Creation of brand new future jobs Creation of jobs in Web• Improvement of the prolonged Online · Participation in overseas sales channel support site suitable for flexible working (an innovation of main business the public sector working of shift jobs (72 persons) Power silk road • Development of eco-friendly LNG and utilization of the fourth SME Council projects • Systematic management of quota · Introduction of SMEs and products companies Yearbusiness industrial technologies) (Unit : KRW 100 million, persons) ewpsmba. · Posting of ideas related to difficulties and round or.kr • Strengthening of eco-friendly and • Creation of eco-friendly jobs in • Expansion of jobs by applying the 2015 2016 2017 suggestions Creation of jobs in future technical capability the private sector fourth industrial technologies · Managing By Wandering Around (MBWA) by SMEs the private sector • Building of the ground to fulfill • Creation of 10 social, economic • Creation of 50 social, economic Export 522.7 606.2 835.9 Site visit by · Listening to difficulties in the field social values enterprise models enterprise models · Sharing of support system and support of sales Monthly Employment 789 management 769 889 channel Job-creating organization ※ A nalysis targets: 70 EWP vendors ·Policy establishment and system improvements (25 initial exporting companies, 30 silk road Shared Growth · I dentification of joint R&D projects EWP formed the Job Committee co-chaired by the CEO and labor union leader with the goal of · Establishment of measures to resolve difficulties of Quarterly companies, and 15 power silk road companies) Committee SMEs increasing quality jobs, reducing working hours, and improving quality of employment in line with the joint labor-management declaration of May 22, 2017, to create jobs jointly with the labor union. ·Guide of EWP’s support programs Offline Briefing and ·Presentation of outcomes and sharing of excellent Eight Joint Labor-Management Declaration to Create Quality Jobs (May 22, 2017) workshop cases times ·Policy suggestion and the joint proposal ·Support of business startup • L abor-Management Joint Job Committee to increase quality jobs, reduce working hours, Business ·Support job creation Ten and improve the quality of employment agreement ·Support of business startup and venture by young times • Creation of new jobs by leading the fourth industry and energy conversion people • Development of public enterprise-led job creation model through labor-management cooperation for job sharing • Prohibition of discrimination by converting full-time and continual temporary jobs into regular jobs and switching of indirect employment into direct employment • Innovation of schemes jointly with labor union for building the human-center and laborrespecting society Job creation activities and outcomes Expansion of jobs in the public sector Flexible Quota System EWP is expanding good jobs in the public sector through the rational and f lexible management of the quota system EWP has introduced a flexible quota system to voluntarily hire the maximum human resources within the total labor cost budget through the step-bystep management of the difference between the quota and the current employment. As a result of its continued effort to reduce the difference by securing the maximum acceptable human resources, it hired 65 additional people. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 58 /59 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Creation of Good Jobs Improvement of Prolonged Working Improvement of Prolonged Work Practice Long working hours break down the biorhythms of workers, leading to lower productivity and deteriorated the quality of life. It results in a vicious circle in which an enterprise experiences excess cost due to lower labor productivity. EWP has considered measures to Sharing 4. Social Contribution Implementation System Implementation strategy improve the prolonged working environment and created the Job Sharing Group to link it with job creation. EWP received the consensus of its employees through briefing sessions with Local Under the vision of becoming “a trusted energy company that fulfills its social responsibilities through the practice of sharing,” EWP is carrying out various social contribution programs Overtime work (Unit : hr/month) and opinion gathering to improve the awareness on prolonged working practices and secured the fund for the Job Sharing Groups without increasing the total labor cost through Community based on three strategic tasks of “Social contribution linked to the main business, Fulfillment 2015 2016 2017 of social responsibility, and Spread of a culture of sharing.” Moreover, it organized “EWP Social employee’s voluntary efforts such as the return of annual bonus, leading to the improvement 11 7 6 of prolonged working practice of shift workers and creation of 72 new jobs. Volunteer Group” to strengthen its social contribution practice under the slogan of “Hands of Love and Light of Hope” to convey its hope to its neighbors and communities. Overtime pay (Unit : KRW 100 million) Job Sharing Group Status Social Contribution Implementation Strategy 2015 2016 2017 Type Before introduction Expansion of 0.5 group Creation of 1 group 26.5 16.9 16.5 Shift system 3 shifting of 4 groups 3 shifting of 4 groups 3 shifting of 4 groups + 0.5 groups +1 group A trusted energy company that fulfills its social responsibilities through the practice of sharing 42 hours/week + 40 hours/week + substitute 40 hours/week Vision Annual bonus (Unit : KRW 100 million) Work hours substitute working working Required persons 44 persons 116 persons Happiness Energy Dream 2015 2016 2017 Slogan Overtime work 11.9 12.1 0 24 hours/person/month 7 hours/month 0 hours Vacation days 12.5 13.8 24 Maturing period Establishment period Expansion period (~ 2016) (2017 ~ 2018) (2019 ~ 2021) Roadmap ˙Strengthening of energy ˙Establishment of energy ˙Spread of leading model for Job Creation Creation of jobs in the private sector welfare projects welfare projects social contribution ˙Promotion of projects to ˙E xpansion of social problem˙Establishment of public value resolve regional conflicts solving projects and social contribution Job Creation through Innovation in Main Business Creating jobs by constructing and operating large-capacity coal-fired thermal power plants has reached its limit, and EWP must build the system of creating jobs through organizational Social Contribution related Strategic Fulfilling social demands Spread of a Culture of Sharing Conversion of temporary jobs (Unit : persons) innovation to ensure continued growth. As such, EWP has created sustainable jobs by to Business and Task task ˙Reinforcement on Energy Welfare ˙Establishment of ground for constructing eco-friendly power resources and developing the new & renewable energy ˙Life-Time Social Contribution Fixed-term workers 5 ˙Social Contribution based on ˙Support of local communities job creation business and new energy business to develop future power generation technologies linked CSV(Creating Shared Value) ˙Economic promotion Outsourcing workers 7 to its main business. Construction of eco-friendly power generation resource resulted in Contract workers 177 the inflow of residents and the creation of 1,400 construction jobs. It led to promote local economy and employment of 21,000 people and KRW 4.4 trillion in additional production. Moreover, the new & renewable energy business and the new energy business led to the Execution Organization and Management System Job creation in the public sector (Unit : persons, hours) creation of jobs for 120 residents and 20 residents, respectively. EWP operates a social contribution volunteer group consisting of 6 branch offices, 110 Symbol Mark for Strengthening of Competitiveness of Vendors voluntary social service Group volunteer teams, and more than 2,300 employees for systematic and strategic social New employment 196 contribution activities. The group carries out customized voluntary social services reflecting EWP has supported the technology development for strengthening the competitiveness Difference between quota and 65 the needs of each region where the power plant is located. It encourages its employees to current level of small vendors and contractors by collecting the requirements such as training of volunteer for social contribution activities through object evaluation and rewards for their Working hours 1,870 technical personnel, shared growth programs, technical competitiveness and network, and contribution activities. As a result of these efforts, the rate of employees participating in improvement of the working environment. The effort has led to the sales increase of KRW social contribution activities in 2017 increased by 4% from the previous year to 98%. Creation of jobs in 33.1 billion, cost saving of KRW 1.86 billion, and creation of jobs for 30 people. In addition, the private sector (Unit : persons, companies) EWP supported the development of overseas sales channels to help 70 companies increase Social Contribution Execution Organization and Management System the export by KRW 161.3 billion and create 238 new jobs. EWP will continue creating good, Direct creation 72 sustainable jobs through shared growth with its vendors. Execution organization Management system Indirect effect 11,192 Conversion of temporary jobs into regular jobs • Company-wide organization • Evaluation Business startup support 35 Voluntary social service Group (2,300 Internal evaluation index (service period persons in 110 teams) and participation level) EWP carried out the “Zero temporary jobs” program by reflecting the management’s Voluntary service period reflected in the • Regional organizations commitment, the status of agencies, and the guidelines for the conversion to regular jobs (Ulsan) Hanbit Group and one other evaluation of promotion candidates Conversion to Operation • Rewards Regular Position by 2021 to create a workplace free of discrimination. It set up the implementation system jointly with Infrastruc(Dangjin) Eoulim Voluntary Service Group Rewarding excellent departments and stakeholders and five power generation companies and formed the Regular Job Conversion ture (Honam) Pulverizer individuals Deliberation Committee organized of 10 members including the HR and labor relations experts, • Collaboration with public institutions Social contribution mileage and NGOs lawyers, and outside experts. As a result, 189 positions in security and outsourcing were converted to regular positions. Moreover, EWP is leading the efforts for the rational redesign Plan Do Check Action of wage level, improvement of discriminating factors of welfare and working environment, A total of Monitoring Establishment of the Activities of the Satisfaction Workshop and and elimination of discrimination in promotion and capability development by diagnosing and feedplan to reflect needs voluntary social 6,754 persons discriminatory factors and improving the treatment of neglected groups in workplaces to back service Group survey private council (Conversion rate of 97.1%) eliminate discrimination in wage and welfare of those converted to regular positions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 60 /61 CREATING SOCIAL VALUE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Sharing with Local Community Funding for Social Sharing with Local Community Voluntary Activities EWP’s employees voluntarily donate a portion of their wage to a social contribution fund each Spread of a Culture of Sharing month to raise fund for social contribution activities, and EWP operates the matching grant system that donates the same amount of money raised by its employees to the social contribution Social contribution customized to lifecycle fund. In 2017, EWP donated about 130 million won for the happiness of its neighbors. EWP is carrying out the social voluntary programs customized to lifecycle provide social services optimized to the beneficiaries. It divides the life into three stages of childhood Donation to Love of period, adolescence period, and old age period. It carried out the traffic accident prevention Neighbors (Unit : KRW million) Win-win Development with Local Communities programs such as the improvement of crosswalk and distribution of transparent umbrella and supported the treatment of leukemia and pediatric cancer for the childhood period. 2015 2016 2017 Promoting regional energy welfare For the adolescence period, EWP carried out the programs such as the sponsorship for 263 257 255 the education of students from low-income families and free-semester linked programs to EWP has considered the most effective measures to fulfill its responsibility as a public provide educational opportunities for young people’s dreams and goals. For the old age Matching grant (Unit : KRW million) institution and share the growth with local communities and is carrying out various social period, it carried out the programs such as the support to prevent abuse of the elderly and voluntary activities by increasing energy welfare that reflects the characteristics of its main the campaign to overcome Alzheimer’s disease by sponsoring the treatment centers to 2015 2016 2017 business. It collaborates with local municipalities and relevant enterprises for energy welfare overcome the social problems related to the aging society. 318 313 317 that does not neglect any people. It distributes solar power generators to the neglected Support of Vulnerable Groups near Power Plants groups and social welfare facilities to improve the living environment of residents and Participating provides support for fuel cost and heating tent to the needy groups that are not entitled Area Sponsorship Activities persons Fund to the energy voucher support by the government. In addition, it contributes to energy Helping households 34 persons 936 times 2,154 persons KRW 37 million saving and living standard improvement by helping the inspection of electric equipment and headed by adolescents replacement of old LED in the welfare facilities. Helping senior citizens 90 persons 1,245 times 2,883 persons KRW 95 million without support Helping caregivers 27 persons KRW 24 million Development of regionally specific new energy business Total 151 persons 2,181 times 5,037 persons KRW 156 million EWP creates social values by leading local development and growth through the development of customized new & renewable energy and new energy business that contribute to the Support of Welfare Facilities near Power Plants local communities. It helps residents increase income by developing new business models Area Activities Participating persons Fund to create local jobs and local economy such as smart farms utilizing technology resources in General welfare facilities 84 times 920 persons KRW 91 million the agricultural and fisheries sectors, eco-friendly fish farming through collaboration with Children’s facilities 135 times 1,218 persons KRW 52 million municipalities and residents using warm discharge water, green village to share profits with residents through participation, Free Economic Zone, and development of new & renewable Facilities for senior citizens 74 times 504 persons KRW 15 million energy using the water resources of Soyanggang Dam. Facilities for the disabled 49 times 356 persons KRW 23 million Purchase of Onnuri Gift Certificates (Unit : KRW KRW 100 million) Total 342 times 2,998 persons KRW 181 million Promotion of traditional markets 2015 2016 2017 The head office and five power plant complexes of EWP fulfill their roles as the responsible Voluntary Social Service 7.9 6.1 8.5 EWP’s social contribution programs are based on the voluntary participation of its employees. It members of local communities by supporting the revitalization of traditional markets through the sisterhood ties with local traditional markets. EWP designated the “Day of visiting carries out programs such as “Forest and River Beautification to Offset Carbon Campaign” and traditional markets” every month to encourage the use of domestic agricultural products and “Local River and Sea Revitalization Campaign” to practice its love for nature and “Silver Birthday promote traditional markets and purchased Onnuri Gift Certificates worth KRW 850 million Party” and “Blood Donation Relay of Love” to practice its love for neighbors each year and “Safety in 2017 to encourage its employees to purchase goods in traditional Markets. It set up the Inspection and House Repair in Regions Vulnerable to Fire” and “Revitalization of Traditional Recovery Support Center on the accident site to help those who suffered from the fire in Markets” to practice its love for local communities. EWP is also creating the voluntary donation the Yeosu East Fishery Market in 2017 and donated KRW 100 million to support residents to culture by operating the online donation channel for the employees who want to help local return to their daily lives. communities but have the difficulty of directly participating in voluntary social services. Employee Participation in Social Contribution Programs Description Love for • Planting of 4,500 sun trees and 1,000 asters nature • Releasing young fish and removal of starfish Love for • Delivery and serving of free meal for 400 people in 2017 neighbors • Blood donation by more than 3,500 employees each year Love • Installation of 318 fire sensors and repair of 10 old houses for local • Upgrading of facilities in traditional markets and purchase of communiOnnuri Gift Certificates (KRW 4.5 billion) ties USTAINABILITY ANAGEMENT YSTEM EWP is establishing sustainability management system to realize mature and systematic sustainable management. We will leap into sustainable growth through a structural system and become a leading energy corporation in Korea. Governance_64 Ethical Management_66 Risk Management_69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 64 / 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Corporate Governance 2. Operation of the BOD Holding BOD meetings BOD Operation Through a BOD meeting, the Directors decide major issues such as management goals, operational plans, midand long-term financial management plans, social issues, and environmental issue. The regular BOD meetings are held once a month to strengthen its check and balance of management and internalization of 1. Composition of the Board of Directors policy decisions. The BOD meeting is also held when the Chairperson of the BOD Meetings Composition of the Board of Directors 13 13 or the demand by over one-third of the registered directors. In 2017, the BOD 11 members recorded xx% attendance rate. The Board of Directors (BOD) of EWP is the highest decision-making body for management support and supervision related to key management strategies and policies. The BOD consists of 4 inside directors and 5 outside directors. To guarantee the independence (Unit : Count) BOD Operation (Unit : Cases) of the BOD, the senior non-executive director (outside) presides over the BOD meetings as a chairperson. 2015 2016 2017 Agenda 47 2015 2016 2017 The Board of Directors (As of September 2018) 36 31 Decisions 2 1 1 Name Gender Affiliation and position Career Term in office Reports 15 6 11 (Unit : Cases) • (Former) Director General for Industrial Policy, Ministry of Trade, 2015 2016 2017 Industry and Energy 2018.02.13 ~ Park Il-jun Male CEO • (Former) Deputy Director General for Energy Resource Policy, 2021.02.12 Attendance 92.9 90.83 Strengthening expertise and role of non-executive directors Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy rate 88.8 Seong • (Former) Executive Auditor, Korea Asset Investment Trust 2018.06.25 ~ We are strengthening the expertise and role of non-standing directors to ensure Male Standing Executive Auditor Shik-gyeong • (Former) Policy Researcher, National Assembly 2020.06.24 (Unit : %) professionalism and transparency in corporate governance. In selecting the nonDirector •(Former) Head of Construction Technology Division, Engineering & 2015 2016 2017 standing directors, we evaluate the ethical consciousness of morality and integrity, Kwon Head of Engineer2018.05.31 ~ Male Safety Group, EWP neutral and independent decision-making ability, and present the results of EWP’s Oh-cheol ing Group 2020.05.30 • (Former) Machine Team Manager, Construction Division, EWP participation, and other activities are performed on a quarterly basis. Pyo Head of Strategy & • (Former) Head of Overseas Business Division, EWP 2018.05.31 ~ Male Participation of Nonexecutive Yeong-jun Management Group • (Former) Head of Miami Office of EWP USA 2020.05.30 Directors on Management (Unit : times, cases) Lee Jae-guk Male • (Former) Non-executive Director of KOTRA 2016.09.27 ~ Communication with Stakeholders • (Former) Head of Overseas Business at Booyoung Housing 2018.09.26 2015 2016 2017 EWP ’s CEO and executives are doing their best for communicating with • (Current) Professor at Industry-University Cooperation Foundation of Kyonggi University 2016.09.27 ~ Management advice 28 57 47 stakeholders via a variety of online and offline communication channels to collect Lee Sang-gi Male various opinions. EWP continues informal and immediate communication by • (Former) Director of KEPCO at Seoul Office Foundation of Kyonggi University 2018.09.26 Management • (Former) Director of KEPCO at Seoul Office 34 48 42 suggestions utilizing the strength of online communication and face-to-face communication Non-executive • (Former) Full-time Vice-chairman of Korea Smart Grid Association 2017.01.11 ~ Reflected manage19 25 22 using the offline channel. It will actively listen to difficulties and opinions of its Mun Ho Male Director • (Former) Vice-president of KEPCO Association 2019.01.10 ment suggestions employees using various channels to reflect it in its organizational operation. • (Former) Vice-president of KEPCO Park • (Current) Director of Institute for Climate Change Action 2018.03.22 ~ Stakeholder Communication Channel Male Kyeong-ho • (Current) Ombudsman for Gangdong-gu Residents 2020.03.21 • (Current) Head of Ulsan branch, Chubb Life Insurance Stakeholder Type Communication channel Purpose Lee Gyeong2018.03.22 ~ Communication Status (Unit : times) Male • (Current) Advisor of Ulsan Provincial Assembly, The National weon 2020.03.21 Unification Advisory Council CEO letter and management Sharing of management issues and 2015 2016 2017 message motivation for employees MBWA by CEO 37 31 27 Collection of opinions through Director appointment process Forum 1 3 2 SNS informal communications EWP appoints Directors in accordance with Article 25 (Appointment or Removal of Executive Officers of Public Corporations)of Online Collaboration through quick channel Communication through the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, internal executive recommendation committee, and deliberation of general information sharing and messenger communications shareholders’ meeting. The CEO is appointed with the final approval of the President of the Republic of Korea. Inside and outside directors except CEO are appointed by the CEO and the Minister of Strategy and Finance, respectively. Appreciation of employees’ efforts MBWA by CEO and encouragement for safety Procedure for director appointment Discussion with relevant employees Offline Forum on specific issues (new technology channel and business, IPO, etc.) Requested by the Public Institution Minister of Trade, CEO Recommended by Operating Committee Industry and Energy Appointed by the Nominating and the decision by President Committee shareholders’ Requested by the Standing Director meeting Minister of Strategy and Finance Decision by the Shareholders’ Meeting Appointed by the CEO Inside Directors Recommended by Nominating Public Institution Operating Committee Appointed by the Non-executive Minister of Strategy Committee and the decision by shareholders’ meeting and Finance Director SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 66 / 67 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Ethical Management 2. Internalization of Ethics Culture Strengthening awareness of ethics through ethics education EWP is strengthening the ethical practice programs and education to firmly establish the commitment to ethical management by internalizing ethics culture. It continuously conducts ethics education customized for each duty and position to internalize the awareness for integrity through the online and offline ethics education, preventive education to prevent sexual violence, etc., and 1. Ethical Management System internal departmental education on anti-corruption. It also conducts the face-to-face education for new employee group, customer contact points group, and executive groups through the ethics education customized for each duty and position and the customized Implementation System education for the departments that are vulnerable to exposure to corruption to prevent corruption in advance. EWP has made ethics the top management value for transparent, ethical, and rational management and strives to grow into the energy company that creates the best values by seeking the common interests of all stakeholders including customers, employees, Spread of ethical culture vendors, shareholders, and local communities. It is establishing the foundation for practicing ethical management with the goal of EWP developed “game-type ethics education” to increase ethics officer’s understanding of ethical management through voluntary “Grade 1 in integrity evaluation and Grade 1 in anti-corruption measures evaluation” under the ethics vision of “To become an ethical participation in education rather than teaching by rote to expand the social ethical culture. The game-type ethics education corporation, growing and earning respect out of integrity ethics.” combines a board game and quiz and has contributed to improving the educational effect as the subject learn the ethical culture naturally by playing games. It developed four game-type ethics education courses and educated about 740 people in 19 educations Implementation System for Ethical Management and posted them on EWP’s website for any visitor to access it. It is also carrying out the “Mom and Dad are the ethics guard” program in which the employees become the instructors to educate the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act to their children and spouses to create the environment for the stable establishment and social practice of the law. To become an ethical corporation, growing and earning respect out of clean ethics Ethics Game-type Ethics Education Process vision Ethics Grade 1 in integrity evaluation and Grade 1 in anti-corruption measures evaluation goal Impleme Building infrastructure for global integrity ethics Strengthening participatory ethical practice Social diffusion of ethical integrity culture ˙ Game 1 “I am the ethical practice leader!” :  ˙ Game 3 “Board game for integrity strategy!” :  ntation Introduction of EWP’s ethical management system and EWP’s guidelines on ethics (Code of Conduct, etc.) and strategy ethical practice program (for new employees) how to judge the violation of the law (for all employees) 2 “Battle to keep integrity!” : 4 “Strange jury!” : Strengthening anti-corruption Ethical actions to show Diffusion of social values management system by example ˙ Game  ˙ Game  Tasks • Building anti-corruption network Understanding the law and attraction of interest before Education on cases of the court decisions and • Self-diagnosis of ethical • Integrity mileage and reward of in public-private partnership the law goes into effect (for all employees) interpretation of the law (for all employees) management (EMDEX) departments that excel in ethics • I dentification of programs linking • Establishment of midto long-term • Fun ethics education and familyethical management and social roadmap for ethical management participating education contribution • Introduction of ISO37001 to • Identification of ethical nudge • Support for ethics education vendors contents linked to local communities Internal control system Internal Reports (Unit : cases) EWP has an active audit and internal reporting system to help employees to raise their ethical awareness in daily routine and operates an internal control system. Implementation organization 8 It operates the Audit & Inspection Office as a separate organization to ensure 7 the independence of auditors and conducts the auditor job training and mentorEWP operates the ethics organizations centered on the Ethics Committee, Ethical Management Practice Office, and Code of Conduct Officer and operates the Audit & Inspection Office to establish the institutional measures to prevent corruption and carry out 3 mentee system with the excellent auditors to improve the professionalism. It auditing. Moreover, it appointed 17 Code of Conduct Officers, 27 Compliance Officers, and 172 Ethical Practice Leaders to practice runs the Audit Committee and auditor candidate pool internally and the honorary and spread ethical management through active implementation auditor, Audit Advisory Committee, and outsourced organization externally to 2015 2016 2017 secure audit specialists. It also operates the Voice of People (name disclosed) and Ethical Management Implementation Organizations Red Whistle (anonymous) for internal reporting. As a result, EWP received the ISO 37001 certification for the anti-corruption management system in August 2017. Ethics Ethical Management Code of Conduct Audit & Committee Practice Office Officer Inspection Office • Key policy making for • Supervision of company-wide • Education and counseling on • Establishment of institutional implementation of ethical ethical management practice Code of Conduct measures to prevent corruption management work • Inspection of compliance of • E ducation and monitoring to prevent • Decision on matters related to • Generation of practice plan, Code of Conduct responsible corruption and improper conduct ethical management rules and education, PR, etc. team and head of ethics office • Receipt and processing of implementation in power plants reported irrationality SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 68 / 69 RISK MANAGEMENT KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX Risk Management 3. Internal and External Evaluation and Monitoring Internal and external evaluation EWP received the ISO 37001 certification for the anti-corruption management system Internal and External Assessment of Ethical for all power plants in August 2017. It has carried out all steps from the preparation Management of manuals and procedures to internal audits, and certification audited internally and received the ISO 37001 certification for the anti-corruption management system. The ISO Overall Integrity Level 1. Company-Wide Risk Management System by the Anti-Corruption & (Unit: Points, 37001 certification recognizes that EWP operates the anti-corruption management system Civil Rights Commission EWP is building the systematic risk management system in line with the three implementation directions of corruption (Grade)) that encompasses all areas of anti-corruption target setting, monitoring, and improvement risk management, business risk management, and preventive risk management by building the management risk measures. It received Grade 2 in the integrity/anticorruption assessment by the Anti2015 2016 2017 prevention system with the vision of “Open management partner for anti-corruption and sustainable growth.” It Corruption & Civil Rights Commission and Grade 3 with 8.28 points in overall integrity. operates the internal control system formed of the auditor with expertise and independence to strengthen the 8.8(2) 8.35(3) 8.28(3) EWP will create integrated organizational culture to become an ethical corporation. implementation of the risk management system and carries out the audit programs such as monitoring, routine audit, and special audit and the internal report programs such as the Voice of People and Red Whistle. EWP will continue the Monitoring Assessment of Anti-corruption sustainable growth through the systematic risk management using the advanced internal control system. Measures by the Anti-Corruption EWP manages the implementation level of the practice program in six areas of scheme Risk Management System & Civil Rights Commission (Unit: Grade) and system, governance, fair trade, human rights and labor practices, local communities, and environment with EMDEX*. EMDEX in 2017 was 91.8 points which were 1.5 points 2015 2016 2017 lower than the previous year. EWP performed the cause analysis and identified three 1 2 2 Audit vision Open management partner for anti-corruption and sustainable growth core causes: inadequate practices such as anticipated waste and abuse of authority, insufficient punishment for whom commit corruption, and remaining military-like Audit goal Preventive audit through corruption risk management and business risk management culture. It then executed the implementation tasks such as the system improvement to EMDEX (Unit: Points) resolve the corruption, the awareness innovation through the strengthening of integrity Implement Corruption risk management Business risk management Preventive audit ˙Advancement of corruption ˙New business and new education, and launch of corruption watchdog and zero-tolerant punishment. 2015 2016 2017 ation direction and ˙T-based monitoring Routine * EMDEX (Ethic Management InDEX) : The ethical diagnosis indices developed by EWP on the basis risk management system & renewable business ˙Establishment of public of global standards such as ISO 26000 and GRI sustainability reporting guidelines 93.6 93.3 91.8 Implement implementation status ˙Overseas development busiation task audit of main business ˙Minimization of repetition of discipline and reinforcement Ethical Management Monitoring and Feedback Process of on-site inspection ness implementation status ˙Activation of the insider ˙Fiscal management status similar cases Audit Plan report system and efficiency Plan Do Check Action • Ethics knowledge • Practices of ethical • Inspection of ethical • Reflection of the assessment model management management evaluation of power Resource allocation for each audit type Audit • Basic plan to implement • Strategy and weak implementation plants (routine, performance, financial, special, work, and comprehensive) ethical management program management • EMDEX measurement • Improvement of • Measures to improve anti• Integrity TF and • A ssessment of integrity inadequacy identified Performance Performance measurement Performance sharing management and evaluation Follow-up and diffusion corruption and integrity dedicated organization and anti-corruption by the assessment (Board of Audit and Assessment (Anti-Corruption & Civil (Internal auditor) Inspection) (Audited department) Rights Commission) Individual Inspection of internal EASI* Integrity performance audit Selection of risk-based Reflection in the annual Execution, Feedback Risk assessment new risk and audit target audit plan 4. Human Rights Management assessment, EWP Chart for Human Rights Management Charter and feedback We strive to create stable and economic eco-friendly energy that makes people’s lives Principles of human rights management happier under the mission “We make energy for happiness.” ※ E ASI (EWP Audit Satisfaction Index): Development of the first audit satisfaction index among public institutions (response rate of 45.9% and overall EWP continuously identifies and improves the human We declare the following “EWP Charter for Human Rights Management” to make the index of 87.6 points in 2017) human respect the highest priority in management activities to achieve this mission rights violation factors to protect human rights of all and to create the corporate culture of respecting human rights. stakeholders include employees and proclaimed the We respect international standards and norms including the UN Universal Declaration Charter of Human Rights Management in May 2016 of Human Rights and make people the top priority in all management activities. 2. Risk Management Activities and Outcome to spread the human-centered culture by declaring We guarantee the freedom of association and collective bargaining of employees. We do not allow child labor in any form or for any reason. its commitment to human rights management. It We strive for shared growth with vendors and support them to practice human right EWP has carried out programs to strengthen corruption risk management, field-specific audit, and enhancement internal operates the Employee Human Rights Protection management. report system as part of the risk-based internal control system. It also executed the activities such as the investment Committee and Sexual Harassment Review Committee We strive to protect environment and prevent environmental disasters. risk management of new projects, minimization of power plant operation risk, and advance resolution of conflicts to We do not discriminate stakeholders including employees for the reason of gender, as the supporting organizations for human rights religion, disability, age, social status, or area of origin. create the sound corporate ecosystem. It also carried out the preventive audit with the IT-based real-time monitoring management and has appointed an in-house lawyer We prohibit forced labor of any kind and aim to create a free working environment for system and routine audit to minimize the management risk. EWP was able to decrease the financial measures such as employees. to conduct counseling on human rights infringement. We ensure that workers work in a safe and sanitary environment and strive to protect budget reduction by KRW 2.6 billion to KRW 10 billion as a result of systematic risk management activities and increase Moreover, it continuously monitors human rights workers’ health. the number of disciplined employees by 49 persons to 195 persons through the improved accessibility to the reporting infringement using the human rights checklist. It We strive to prevent infringement of people’s human rights in the course of management activities and prevent any harm to public health and safety. channels. will create a clean and ethical culture in which all employees are valued based on respect for human We strive to protect the human rights of all stakeholders including employees and rights and ethics. pledge to do our best for the establishment and spread of human rights management. Employees of Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 70 / 71 SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABILITY OUTCOMES KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES Financial Performance Summary of Separate Financial Statements Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Current assets KRW 100 million 9,380 9,374 10,615 Fixed assets KRW 100 million 78,906 80,306 77,940 Total Assets KRW 100 million 88,286 89,680 88,555 Current liabilities KRW 100 million 10,211 17,473 14,114 Summary of Sustainability Outcomes 71 Fixed liabilities KRW 100 million 38,158 27,417 27,928 Total Liabilities KRW 100 million 48,369 44,889 42,042 UN Global Compact Advanced Level 75 Paid-in capital KRW 100 million 21,381 22,186 22,186 UN Sustainable Development Goal 76 Retained earnings KRW 100 million 19,539 23,634 24,969 Other capital components KRW 100 million △1,003 △1,029 △642 Diagnostic Report of Level of Implementation of ISO 26000 78 Total Stockholders’ Equity KRW 100 million 39,917 44,790 46,513 Third Party Assurance Statement 80 GRI Content Index 82 Participating Associations 85 Subsidiaries and Affiliates 86 Summary of Separate Profit and Loss Statements Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Sales KRW 100 million 40,477 42,109 46,443 Cost of sales KRW 100 million 33,548 34,474 40,922 Gross profit on sales KRW 100 million 6,928 7,635 5,521 Selling and administrative expenses KRW 100 million 766 828 1,195 Operating Profit KRW 100 million 6,162 6,807 4,326 Other income KRW 100 million 297 254 218 PPENDIX Other expenses KRW 100 million 32 62 148 Financial return KRW 100 million 1,370 705 2,153 Financial cost KRW 100 million 1,530 1,337 3,263 Net income (loss) before income tax expense KRW 100 million 6,096 6,212 3,267 Corporate tax KRW 100 million 1,546 1,536 1,091 Net Profit KRW 100 million 4,549 4,676 2,176 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 72 / 73 SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABILITY OUTCOMES KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES Economic Performance Environmental Performance Item Unit Type 2015 2016 2017 Item Unit Type 2015 2016 2017 Installed Capacity MW 9,139.4 11,169.9 11,182.6 Greenhouse gas emission 1,000 37,951 39,742 38,575 (Scope 1+2) Coal 39,252 38,785 41,189 Greenhouse gas tons CO2-eq Greenhouse gas emission 8,742 9,487 11,029 (Scope 3) LNG 6,873 7,296 7,527 Fossil fuel TJ Energy consumption 457,227 481,624 463,403 Oil 3,114 5,730 2,086 Energy consumption GJ/MWh Energy base unit 9.29 9.30 9.12 Power generation GWh Subtotal 49,239 51,810 50,802 10,000 New & Coal 1,500 1,452 1,659 tons Renewable Total 286 293 315 Energy Fuel consumption 1,000 KL Oil 660 1,186 363 Company Total 49,525 52,104 51,117 1,000 LNG 960 1,038 1,080 tons Sales volume GWh 45,840 46,620 48,372 SOx 12,514 12,741 12,082 Unit price Won/kWh 85.09 85.88 91.92 Atmospheric pollutant emission ton NOx 22,447 21,965 15,988 Failure Rate 0.556 0.062 0.039 Dust 649 612 480 Unplanned Loss Rate 0.743 0.163 0.069 SOx 0.2604 0.2602 0.2379 Operating rate 91.44 85.60 90.36 Atmospheric pollutant base unit ton/GWh NOx 0.4671 0.4487 0.3148 % emission Utilization rate 60.38 57.08 52.22 Dust 0.0135 0.0125 0.0095 Thermal efficiency 39.5 39.02 39.36 COD 27 21 14 Station power rate 5.46 5.74 5.69 SS 12 10 7 Water Pollutant Emission ton Employees 2,054 1,942 2,304 T-N 47 33 20 Shareholders 679 944 614 T-P 0.4 0.3 0.053 Creditor KRW 100 296 684 982 COD 0.55 0.41 0.28 Government million 1,643 1,901 1,864 SS 0.24 0.19 0.14 Wastewater base unit emission Kg/GWh Local Communities 40 39 39 T-N 0.95 0.64 0.40 Reinvestment 3,957 3,765 1,596 T-P 0.01 0.01 0.001 Water Usage 10,267 12,763 12,226 Wastewater generation 3,416 4,006 4,090 Waste Generation 1,824 1,965 2,054 Waste Recycling 1,635 1,706 1,559 1,000 tons Desulfurized gypsum generation 495 509 472 Recycled desulfurized gypsum 480 507 411 Coal ash generation 1,801 1,881 2,021 Recycled coal ash 1,616 1,699 1,531 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 74 / 75 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADVANCED LEVEL KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABLE OUTCOMES UN GLOBAL COMPACT ADVANCED LEVEL Social Performance Index Item Unit Type 2015 2016 2017 Subject Principles Page GRI Disclosure Total 2,300 2,330 2,407 Conversion of Top management and BOD level discussion from the strategic aspect of Employees persons Male 2,064 2,069 2,125 1 4,5 GRI 102-14 temporary jobs global compact implementation Female 236 261 282 Governance GRI 102-18 % Rate of the disabled 3.4 3.4 3.6 2 Decision-making process and governance system for sustainability 64 GRI 102-21 % Rate of Female Employees 10.7 11.2 11.7 Minority Status 3 Engagement of all important stakeholders 26 GRI 102-43 persons Female manager 28 32 37 % Female manager rate 4.3 4.9 5.6 UN goal and issues 4 Activities to support broad UN goal and issues 76,77 GRI 102-12 Year Average service years 15.7 15.7 16.1 Employment stability 5 Commitment, strategy, and policy on human rights GRI 103-1 % Turnover rate 0.78 0.69 0.58 Newly hired 16 151 99 6 Effective management system to integrate principles on human rights GRI 103-2 Human rights 66-68 Human resources from the non-capital region 10 77 55 7 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles on human rights GRI 103-3 People with national merit 0 10 9 Socially balanced hiring points 8 Application of standardized performance indices (including GRI) related to human rights GRI 412-2 High school graduates 5 27 22 The disabled 0 4 8 9 Commitment, strategy, and policy on labor relations 49-58 GRI 103-1 Female 0 33 29 10 Effective management system to integrate principles on labor relations GRI 103-2 Total 41 54 62 Labor relations 49-52 Persons in parental 11 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles on labor relations GRI 103-3 persons Male 5 1 8 leave Female 36 53 54 12 Application of standardized performance indices (including GRI) related to labor relations 74 GRI 401-1~3 Family-friendly % Rate of returning from parental leave 100 100 98.4 Management persons Female workers in flexible working 15 20 22 13 Commitment, strategy, and policy on environmental management 41 GRI 403-2~4 persons Persons using flexible working 699 812 983 14 Effective management system to integrate principles on environment 41 GRI 103-1 days Number of vacation days 14.1 14.8 17.4 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles on environmental persons Users in long-term vacation 554 603 606 15 43-47 GRI 103-2 Environment management hours Average education time per person 188 211 220 GRI 301-2 KRW 1,000 Education Expense per Person 2,540 2,697 3,472 GRI 302-1 Human resource 16 Application of standardized performance indices related to environmental management 73 GRI 303-3 KRW 100 million Education Budget 58.4 63 82.5 development GRI 305-1~7 persons Educated Personnel 29,735 38,586 48,378 GRI 306-1, 24 points Female employee competency index 4.57 4.71 4.76 17 Commitment, strategy, and policy on anti-corruption GRI 103-1 KRW 100 million Donation 6 9 12 18 Effective management system to integrate principles on anti-corruption GRI 103-2 Social contribution hours Voluntary service hours 58,482 60,035 63,284 Anti-corruption 66-68 hours Average voluntary service time per person 26.6 26.7 28.76 19 Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanism of principles on anti-corruption GRI 205-1 Result of investigation by the Integrity assessment points 8.80 8.35 8.28 20 Application of standardized performance indices related to anti-corruption GRI 205-2 Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Anti-corruption Policy Result of investigation by the Rating 1 2 2 Strategy, governance and Assessment Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission 21 Implementation of a global compact principle in the value chain engagement Stakeholder participation % Labor union enrollment rate 98.5 97.39 96.6 % Death per 10,000 persons 0 9.28 0 22 Company profile and operation environment 14-23 GRI 102-1~11 Verification and Cases Safety accidents 10 3 3 transparency Employee Safety 23 High-level transparency and disclosure 2, 80-84 GRI 102-50~56 points Maturity of safety culture 3.97 (Level 3) 4.03 (Level 4) 4.05 (Level 4) points Participation in safety culture 3.51 4.21 4.33 Legal ground for projects to support regions Shared Growth KRW 100 million 34 30 27 near power plants Household Energy welfare for neglected groups 103 1,613 622 KRW 100 million Purchase of Onnuri Gift Certificates 7.5 7.6 8.8 Regional support projects Purchase of products Social enterprise 46.9 61.6 98.3 KRW 100 million from social economic enterprises Cooperative 0.89 1.35 8.27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 76 / 77 SUPPORT OF UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG) KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX SUPPORT OF UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the goals established by UN and international communities to mitigate polarization of global society and other risk factors of sustainability. They consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. EWP wholeheartedly supports SDGs and are participating in fulfilling nine SDGs. In addition, EWP is focused on SDG 7, SDG 8, SDG 13 this year. SDGs EWP’s Response Report Page Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food • New energy business 35, 46, 60 GOAL 7 GOAL 13 security and improved • Eco-friendly fish farming using warm discharge water from power nutrition and promote plants EWP supports SDG 7 to “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, EWP has established the countermeasures to climate change sustainable agriculture • Grassland construction project using the ash treatment plant sustainable and modern energy for all.” It strives to provide to fulfill the SDG 13 to “ Take urgent action to combat climate sustainable energy by operating eco-friendly power generation change and its impacts.” In addition, it is building the no-carbon business using new & renewable energy and biofuel. In addition power generation ecosystem model by expanding low carbon Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and • HR system without gender discrimination • Prevention of career break and training of female employees 49-51 to the total installed capacity of new & renewable energy is sources, securing emission rights, and introducing highly girls • The female talent development system 424.7MW currently, EWP is expanding the large-scale new & efficient facilities. It secured the surplus emission right for 4.71 • Female leader training renewable energy projects including 80MW floating solar power million tons by exceeding the three-year allocation target in generation project and 810MW wind farm project. It also saved the first emissions trading system, leading to the economic the energy cost by a total of KRW 18.4 billion through the higher benefits of KRW 103.6 billion. It is also participating in the CDP Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and • Development of new & renewable energy • ESS business linked with new & renewable energy 34-35 energy efficiency using ESS. Moreover, it has developed the voluntarily and discloses the information related to response modern energy for all • Construction of large-scale floating solar power complexes region-specific new energy business models such as Dangjin to climate change and carbon management to increase the • Large-scale wind power and fuel cell projects e-Dream Park, Ulsan e-Clean City, and Gangwon transparency of the organization. Furthermore, EWP is carrying e-Eco City to promote the local economy. out energy efficiency improvement programs to help its vendors reduce greenhouse gas emission. Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic • Promotion of flexible working systems • The innovation of organizational culture for work-family balance 50-52 growth, full and productive • Improvement of the welfare system employment and decent • Promotion of using vacation Ensure work for all • Fair compensation and rewarding for performance access to Take urgent affordable, action to reliable, combat climate Goal 9 Build a resilient infrastructure, promote • Development of new & renewable energy • Development of technologies to recycle waste resources such as coal 35, 43-45 sustainable change and and modern its impacts inclusive and sustainable ash and heavy oil ash energy for all industrialization and foster innovation Promote sustained, Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries • Expansion of open employment and socially balanced employment • Proclamation of Human Rights Management Charter 49, 66-68 inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 11 GOAL 8 Make cities and human • Recycling of resources such as fuel ash and waste 41-45 settlements inclusive, safe, • Reduction of greenhouse gas and fine dust resilient and sustainable • Management and reduction of atmospheric/water environmental pollutants and chemicals EWP actively support SDG 9 to “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all” and has established various Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat • Emission reduction surpassing the emissions trading system target climate change and its • Establishment of climate change response measures 41-43 programs for participation. The number of employees taking advantage of flexible work impacts • Reduction of greenhouse gas emission through replacement with schemes such as time selection system, flexible schedule system, and remote working system low carbon source and expansion of new & renewable energy increased by 21.5%, and EWP was the first public company to introduce smart office. It is also • Voluntary participation in the global Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) enforcing the mandatory early light-off and PC-off program and operating the designated space for nighttime and holiday duty. Moreover, the job-sharing shift working system has Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and • Operation of the comprehensive wastewater treatment plant • Preand post-project environmental impact assessment 43-47 reduced the forced overtime work and created quality jobs. In recognition of its achievements, marine resources for • Investigation and analysis of the environmental impact on project EWP was the only public company to receive the Prime Minister’s Award for excellent businesssustainable development areas life balance and selected as the best case by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 78 / 79 DIAGNOSTIC REPORT OF LEVEL OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ISO 26000 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX DIAGNOSTIC REPORT OF LEVEL OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ISO 26000 Environment | We confirmed that EWP has the environmental management organization at each power plant to minimize environmental pollutants generated during electricity generating process. EWP also strives to minimize environmental pollution company-wide by installing the high-efficiency environmental systems and operating the environmental management system. We regard it highly that EWP is actively responding to the related issues by continuously measuring and managing the factors such as greenhouse gas and fine dust that have become the key environmental issue. Assessment Standard We expect EWP will continue to develop into the low-carbon and eco-friendly power plants by the fact that it is expanding its investment in the As part of the service provided to the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards, Korea Standard Association (“We”) developed an environment and new & renewable energy facilities to meet the government regulation and outside demands for the environment. assessment checklist for the evaluation of performance on social responsibility for Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. (EWP). This assessment Fair Operating Practices | EWP is carrying out voluntary anti-corruption programs by operating the ethical management system with the report provides the results of performance assessment of EWP’s sustainability process and each of seven core subjects. vision of “Achieving the Integrity rating of Grade 1” and evaluates the ethical integrity activities of individuals and departments and reflects Assessment Scope it to the organizational performance to internalize the ethical management system. Moreover, EWP launched the Shared Growth Committee and Shared Growth Center to expand the shared growth culture. We regard it highly that EWP monitors fairness and transparency by We assessed EWP’s processes and performance related to social responsibility. More specifically, we assessed EWP’s long-term strategy and operating the voluntary compliance of fair trade program and integrity call to prevent unfair practices that can occur during the bidding and execution, stakeholder engagement, social responsibility activities, etc. contracting stages. We advise EWP to continue to strengthen CSR management so that all stakeholders in the supply chain will practice fairly. Assessment Method Consumer Issues | EWP uses its website, the public institution information disclosure system (ALIO), management assessment report, and information disclosure system to provide the objective information to its customers. Moreover, it assures that it does not enter into unfair We performed the following activities to collect the necessary data and information based on the assessment criteria of the ISO 26000. contracts according to related laws and procedures such as enforcing legal review before concluding contracts. However, due to the nature Review of EWP’s midto long-term strategy and management performance report of the business, it has received a low score in the failure to build the system to protect health and safety of the individual consumer, the Interviews with EWP’s personnel in charge of each corporate social responsibility subject and review of performance documents complaint and conflict resolution channel, and the consumer data protection and privacy system. We recommend the establishment of the Identification of sustainability issues that can affect EWP’s stakeholders related regulation and scheme including the customer domain in the future. ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Results by Process Community Involvement and Development | We regard it highly that EWP carries out the SCR programs based on its five local power plants and continues to expand the investment and purchase within local communities. Also, it is actively hiring residents for supplementation In response to growing social demands for corporate social responsibility and to share its activities and performance in sustainable of cleaning and renewable maintenance personnel. It is also contributing to the promotion of local economy through the local human management, EWP conducted a performance assessment based on ISO 26000, which is the international standard for social responsibility, in resource training projects including the local school specialization project and scholarship support, the environmental projects such as the process of publishing its sustainability report. It is encouraging that EWP regularly inspects its CSR process and that EWP’s ability to fulfill mountain and river cleaning programs, and the resident welfare projects such as the support of resident events and Happy Energy voucher CSR is steadily improving. More specifically, we regard very highly the fact that EWP establishes and operates the management strategy with program. We advise EWP to continue its activities to contribute to the local economy through the regionally specific social service programs. the priority on public interest and social values and that the Ethical Management Committee led by the CEO discusses CSR policy. Labor Practices Practices that comply with the principles of social Awareness of Social Examination of the current level of organizational Organizational Analysis of Core Topics and Issues at Stake responsibility principles and incorporate those principles to Responsibility awareness based on the management’s commitment Governance existing systems, policies, and practices Identification and Examination of stakeholders’ interests and demands Human Rights Engagement of and formulation of strategies to promote their Environment Practices that protect and have respect for human rights within Identification and Human Rights Prioritization and Stakeholders participation the organization and the area where its influence reaches Formulation of Engagement of Strategies and Stakeholders Analysis of Core Topics Generation of a list of core topics through examination Labor Labor policies and practices that have effects on employees’ Plans and Issues at Stake of issues and analysis of internal competencies Practices labor conditions, within EWP and its vendors Prioritization and Establishment of priorities of issues to be improved, Fair Formulation of Strategoal, and execution plan based on the organizational A comprehensive approach to minimizing the environmental Operating Environment Implementation Awareness of gies and Plans competency Practices impact of the decision and practices of the organization Social Organizational Execution of the strategies, vision, goal, and Responsibility Implementation implementation plans and regular monitoring of Governance Fair Operating Practices that are interested in maintaining ethical social responsibility performance Practices transactions among EWP, its partners, and suppliers Communication with stakeholders through Activities for protecting consumer rights such as consumer Communication Consumer Issues education, the disclosure of fair and transparent marketing performance reports Improvement information and promotion of sustainable consumption Communication Activities and reporting for enhancing the reliability Consumer Verification Community of the performance Issues Involvement and Community Recognizing and having respect for communities’ rights and Periodical evaluation of performance for continued Development Involvement and maximizing the support and opportunities towards ensuring Verification Improvement Development those rights improvements ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Results by Seven Core Subjects Conclusion Organizational Governance | The Board of Directors, which is the highest decision-making body, evaluates EWP’s efforts for CSR. The According to the ISO 26000 Performance Assessment, EWP was found to be at SR performance level IV, Scoring 354 out of 360 for the Subcommittees organized of some Directors review and deliberated the quarterly budget expenditure report to encourage EWP to fulfill its process, 570 out of 640 for performance and a total of 924 points. The score means that EWP’s employees have a high awareness level of CSR. Moreover, we regard it highly that EWP encourages its employees to fulfill CSR by reflecting voluntary social activities in departmental social responsibilities, and the company has established the organizational system, policy, and practice. The score level indicates the need to KPI is making important decisions on CSR. We expect that EWP will be able to continue to enhance its CSR activities by the fact that it four promote the social responsibility within the influence zone of EWP as the sustainability leading organization in the value chain and to maintain strategies of “Strengthening competitiveness of sustainable power generation business, Securing the eco-friendly future growth engine, it through the strengthened partnership with local communities. There are more improvement opportunities in the process than the Fulfilling social value centered on public trust, and Strategic programs to advance the innovative management system.” performance for EWP to move a step forward from the current level. In the process aspect, EWP needs to select the key sustainability issues and manage them strategically. In the performance aspect, we advise EWP to strengthen the customer area which scored relatively low. Human Rights | We confirmed that EWP had established its due diligence standards for human rights impact based on the survey of the integrity of public institutions by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission. We regard it highly that EWP utilizes the internal Audit November 2018 Council and Integrity Ombudsman to assure the expertise and independence of human rights investigators. We also note EWP’s programs Lee, Sang-jin CEO Korea Standard Association promoting human rights awareness such as the “One Strike” policy, whistle-blowing system, designation of the Honorary Code of Conduct Officer, and conducting periodic human rights training. We advise EWP to carry out human rights impact assessments with all of its vendors and personnel and to continue expanding activities that promote human rights awareness. Labor Practices | EWP’s labor practices throughout all areas were considered to be excellent. EWP is operating various programs to create the organizational culture in which all employees are happy. They include hiring for regular positions first, compliance with legal work hours, compliance with legal vacation scheme, flexible working system, early Friday leave, shortened work hours for pregnant employees, guarantee for labor union enrollment and activities, and medical examination of all employees. We advise EWP to strengthen its activities for Korea Standard Association (KSA) is a special public corporation founded in 1962 under Article 32 of the Industrial Standardization Act, and it is a knowledge service providing an organization that promotes and provides industrial standardization, quality management, sustainable management, and KS & ISO certifications to industries. KSA contributes to safety and health management such as the walk-around inspection of work sites to prevent occupational and safety accidents. We expect the sustainable development of our society as the official advisory organization in Korea for ISO 26000, GRI designated educational institution, AA1000 qualification agency, Korean that EWP will expand its good labor practice to its vendors. Sustainability Index (KSI)-operating organization, UN CDM operating organization, and the organization for certifying Greenhouse Gas Target Management System. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 80 / 81 THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX THIRD PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT To stakeholders of Korea East-West Power Generation Co., Ltd. Application of AA1000AS(2008) principles The CSR (“the verifier” hereinafter) has been requested by Korea East-West Power to verify its sustainability report for 2018 (“the report). The The verifier has confirmed that the report follows the three major AA1000AS(2008) verification principles. verifier provides the management team and stakeholders of Korea East-West with the outcome of its review of all the processes for publishing the report and its contents. The verifier has checked the Korea East-West Power processes for selecting stakeholders. Verification Standards Inclusivity Has Korea East-West promoted activities The verifier has not found any important stakeholder groups Principle participated by its stakeholders? The verifier reviewed the sustainability report focusing on its compliance with the reporting principles under AA1000AS (2008) Verification that have been excluded intentionally from the stakeholders’ Standards and GRI Standards which are international standards widely used for verification. participation processes performed by individual departments. Whether the AA1000AS(2008) principles concerning the inclusion of stakeholders, materiality, and responsiveness have been applied Whether the GRI Standards principles concerning report contents and quality assurance have been satisfied The verifier has checked the Korea East-West Power procedure for Whether the GRI Standards Core Options have been satisfied Materiality Does Korea East-West Power report key issues to extracting key report issues. The verifier has not discovered any Principle its stakeholders? problems in its application of the procedure based on the verifier’s Verification Level review of the materiality assessment procedure. Moderate Assurance Level verification is performed focusing on the application of the AA1000AS(2008) principles while data sampling and site interviews were performed at a limited level. The below-listed key activities were performed during the verification: The verifier has surveyed key items that affect the performance of Inspection of the viability of materiality assessment processes Responsiveness Does Korea East-West Power duly respond to the Inspection of the report based on the standards for key topics selected the stakeholders. The verifier has confirmed that key sustainability Principle demands and expectations of its stakeholders? Inspection of the stakeholders’ participation issues are duly described in the report. Inspection of the agreement with the business assessment report Limits of Verification Recommendation for Managerial Improvement Although the verifier secured the reliability level of the report through interviews and document review in a limited extent, this does not mean 100% accuracy. The verifier affirmatively evaluates the policies and efforts by which Korea East-West intends to create social values as an environmentallyfriendly energy business in compliance with the launch of the new climate system and the government policy for switching of energy Independence of Verification sources. The discharge of greenhouse gases from thermal power generation and reduction of fine dust are sustainability issues at the government or state level, which require strict performance management and transparent communication with the public. In particular, Being an independent third-party verification service provider, the verifier presents this verification opinion while his ethics and independent it is recommended Korea East-West Power should unify its indicators for social value performance in its midand long-term management status are duly secured. strategies to realize its social values and a management system considering the social impact should be deployed to increase the affirmative influences. Verification Opinion The verifier submits the following verification opinion after undergoing a series of processes in order to certify the compliance with the Adequacy of Verification Agency AA1000AS(2008) verification standards and reporting guidelines internationally accepted. The CSR that has been requested by Korea East-West to verify its sustainability report is a global sustainability service provider that Satisfaction of the inclusive agreement approach of GRI Standards possesses AA1000AS(2008) verification license officially accredited by Accountability Ltd., UK. It has acquired the Gold Community Membership of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Multinational CSR experts who possess CSR research records in USA, UK, and Germany The verifier reviewed whether the report satisfies the international guidelines on publishing sustainability reports and the inclusive as well as Korea serve as the CSR Expert Committee members. agreement approach of GRI Standards. The verifier confirmed that the report satisfies the general requirements for disclosing business details and reporting requirements for 14 key topics. The verification indicators of key topics checked through the verification procedure are as follows: December 2018 Se-wu Jeong, CEO, The CSR ˙ Economic performance_201-1 ˙ Indirect economic effect_203-1, 2 ˙ Anti-corruption_205-1, 2 Economy ˙ Raw materials_301-2 ˙ Energy_302-2 Environment ˙ Service water_303-3 ˙ Exhaust or emission_305-1~5 ˙ Wastewater and solid wastes_306-1, 2, 4 ˙ Employment_01-1~3 ˙ Occupational safety and health_403-2, 3 Society ˙ Training and education_404-1, 2 ˙ Diversity and equal opportunities_405-1 ˙ Assessment of human rights_412-2 ˙ Local community_413-1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 82 / 83 GRI CONTENT INDEX KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI 102: General Disclosure GRI 200: Economy Topic Disclosure ISO26000 Page Assurance Topic Disclosure ISO26000 Page Assurance 102-1 Name of the organization 14 V Economic Performance GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16, 17 V :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 37, 38, 39 V 102-3 Location of headquarters 14 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-4 Location of operations 16, 17 V Economic 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.3/ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 14, 15 V 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 71, 72 V Performance 6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.10/ 102-6 Markets served 6.4.1-6.4.2/ 14, 16, 17 V Indirect Economic Impact Organizational profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 6.4.3/6.4.4/ 14 V GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6.4.5/6.8.5/ 74 V :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 37, 38, 39 V 7.8 Approach 2017 102-9 Supply chain 20, 21 V 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None V 6.3.9/6.8.1-6.8.2/ 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 34 V 6.8.7/6.8.9 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 69 V Indirect Economic Impact 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ 102-12 External initiatives 76, 77, 80, 81 V 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 6.7.8/6.8.1-6.8.2/ 53, 54, 55, 56 V 102-13 Membership of associations 85 V 6.8.5/6.8.7/6.8.9 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4, 5 V Anti-corruption GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 4.4/6.6.3 66 V :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 66, 68 V 102-18 Governance structure 64 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 26 V 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 66, 67, 68 V 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 64 V Anti-corruption Governance 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 66, 67 V 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 64 V 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 64 V 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 28, 29 V 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 V GRI 300: Environment 102-41 Collective Agreement 85 V Stakeholder Topic Disclosure ISO26000 Page Assurance 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 26 V engagement Materials 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26 V GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 26, 27, 28, 29 V :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 42, 43 V 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 71 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 29 V Materials 301-2 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 45, 73 V 5.2/7.3.2/ 102-47 List of material topics 29 V Energy 7.3.3/7.3.4 102-48 Restatements of information None V Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 73 V 102-49 Changes in reporting None V Water 102-50 Reporting period GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reporting practice :Management 102-51 Date of most recent report 103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 42, 43 V About this Approach 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle V report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7.5.3/7.6.2 Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 44, 73 V 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Emissions 102-55 GRI content index 82, 83, 84 V 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 102-56 External assurance 80, 81 V :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.5 41, 73 V 305-2 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.5 41, 73 V Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 6.5.5 73 V 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 6.5.5 41 V 305-5 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 43, 73 V Effluents and Waste GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 45 V Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 44 V Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 44, 45 V 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.5.3 44, 45 V SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 84 / 85 PARTICIPATING ASSOCIATIONS KOREA EAST-WEST POWER APPENDIX GRI CONTENT INDEX MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Topic-specific Standards GRI 400: Society Topic Disclosure ISO26000 Page Assurance Organization Purpose Time of Membership Employment Korea Association of Small Business Quick response to government policy and interchange of academic information with the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2011.07 GRI 103 Studies organization that is part of the government policy for shared growth :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 50, 51, 52 V Enactment and amendment of electrical industry’s technology standard and development Approach 2017 Korea Electric Association 2002.09 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach of new code for enhancement of power generator reliability Energy welfare programs such as assistance of low-income families and scholarship 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 74 V Korea Energy Foundation 2002.05 programs Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Employment 401-2 6.4.4/6.8.7 50, 51 V Building of human and technology network with international energy organizations and temporary or part-time employees World Energy Congress 2007.01 member countries 401-3 Parental Leave 6.4.4 74 V Korea Institute of Enterprise Occupational Safety and Health Gathering of information on the advancement of EA level 2013.03 Architecture 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 Korea International Trade Association Interchange of information related to international trade 2001.05 :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 38, 39 V Approach 2017 Korea Electric Association (KEPIC) Determination of KEPIC development direction and securing fund 2002.05 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Type of injury and rates of occupational diseases, lost days, and Introduction of advanced quality management technique and spread of quality Occupational Safety 403-2 absenteeism, and the total number of work-related fatalities, by region 6.4.6/6.8.8 38, 74 V Korean Standards Association 2003.01 management mind and Health and by gender 403-3 Occupational health services 6.4.6/6.8.8 38 V Korea Suggestion System Association Information on the promotion of in-house suggestions and small-group activities 2007.05 Training and education The Electric Utility Cost Group (EUCG) Acquisition of international power information and benchmarking 2006.01 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 V Business Institute for Sustainable Exchange of information on sustainability 2008.11 Approach 2017 Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Korea Carbon Capture and Storage 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 51, 74 V Exchange of information on carbon capture and storage 2010.09 Association Training and education Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 404-2 6.4.7/6.8.5 51 V Korea Smart Grid Association Exchange of information on smart grid and examination of the industry trend 2012.07 programs Diversity and Equal Opportunity Exchange of information on sustainability and participation in domestic and international UN Global Compact (UNGC) 2006.06 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary exchange events GRI 103 :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 50 V Korea Green Business Association Support of large and small greenhouse gas mentor projects 2012.03 Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach The Korean Society of Mechanical Diversity and Equal 6.2.3/6.3.7 Examination of domestic and overseas trends in machinery and exchange of information 2002.08 405-1 The diversity of governance bodies and employees 49, 50, 74 V Engineers Opportunity /6.3.10/6.4.3 The Korean Institute of Electrical Human Rights Assessment Examination of domestic and overseas trends in electricity and exchange of information 2002.06 Engineers 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 Power Generation Studies Institute Advancement of power generation industry and identification of joint research subjects 2010.07 :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 V Approach 2017 Korea Project Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Improvement of project execution capability 2008.03 Association Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 6.3.5 51 V Korea Engineering and Consulting Design and technical support through certification of engineering performance and entry Assessment 2012.07 Association into new businesses Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Korea New & Renewable Energy Exchange of information on new & renewable energy 2003.01 GRI 103 :Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 59, 60, 61 V Approach 2017 Korea New & Renewable Energy Gathering of information on entry into and development of overseas business 2004.03 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6.3.9/ Association of the Electric Supply Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Industry of East Asia and the West Gathering of information on entry into and development of overseas business 2011.02 Local Communities 413-1 6.5.1-6.5.2/ 59, 60, 61 V development programs Pacific (AESIEAP) 6.5.3/6.8 Korea Electric Engineers Association Promotion of R&D of power technologies and education/training of professionals in power 2008.03 Maritime Rescue & Salvage Private-public cooperation to prevent and respond to maritime disasters and accidents 2013.05 Association SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EWP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 86 / 87 APPENDIX People who participated in AWARDS publishing sustainability report Overall Charge Climate Change & Environment Office Baek Gang-su, the head of office lanning Team Jo Dae-geun / Seo Ji-won / Lee Jae-hong Ethics & Law-abiding Team Agency Description Date Lee Na-yeong/Lee Ho-jun Human Resources Developmnet Team Ministry of Government Administration Seo Jeong-heon/Gwak Jin-yeong/Kim Won-jun 2016 Outstanding Public Enterprise for Implementation of Government 3.0 (Highest Rating) 2017.03 and Home Affairs Accounting Team Korea Society of Public Enterprise Global R&D (GRD) Grand Award for Public Enterprises 2017.06 Yun Jun-yeong/Lee Hong-seok Generation Operation Office Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2017 Minister’s Award in Management Award for the Fourth Industrial Revolution 2017.08 Seo Gi-won/Bae Jae-hwan Climate Change & Environment Office Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Presidential Award in The 41st National Productivity Competition 2017.10 Noh Tae-min/Kim Min-ji Strategic Trade Team Ministry of SMEs and Startups Korea Kim Ga-ram Presidential Award for Outstanding Company in Performance Sharing 2017.11 Commission for Corporate Partnership Power Generation Planning Team Lee Ye-jin Ulsan City Social Workers Association Social Workers Award of the Year in The 5th Ulsan Social Workers Competition 2017.11 General R&D Team Jin Dong-gang Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Presidential Award in 2017 New Technology Commercialization Competition 2017.11 Corporate Partnership Center KMR 2018 Grand Award for Safety Management in Global Standard Management Awards (GSMA) 2017.11 Park So-yeong Disaster & Safety Team CDP Korea 2017 Special Award for CDP Carbon Management 2017.10 Kim Jong-ha Fuel Resources Team Ministry of Employment and Labor Outstanding Award for Competition in Excellence in Work and Life Balance 2017.12 Kim Dong-wan Public Relations Team Ministry of Personnel Management Prime Minister’s Award for 2017 HR Innovation Outstanding Practice Competition 2017.12 Kim Ga-rim Overseas Business Team 1 Minister of Strategy and Finance, Jobs Shin Ho-jun Deputy Chairman’s Award for Public Enterprise in Job Contest by Jobs Committee 2017.12 Committee Overseas Business Team 2 Jo Yeong-hyeok, Choi Yun-seok KORCHAM KORCHAM Chairman’s Award in the 24th Corporate Innovation Awards 2017.11 Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Prime Minister’s Award for Work and Life Balance 2017.12 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Minister’s Award in 2017 Disaster Safety Management Assessment 2017.12 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Presidential Award for Quality Control Group in the 32nd National Quality Competition 2018.11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Minister’s Commendation for Quality Management in the 43rd National Quality Competition 2018.11 For more detailed information and PDF version, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy please visit the EWP website. Please place inquiries Prime Minister’s Award in the 6th Korea’s Beloved Companies 2018.11 and Ministry of SMEs and Startups to the following contact details if you have any opinion about the activities and achievement of sustainability management on this report. Publishment Climate Change & Environment Office of Generation Department, EWP Adress 44543, 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan, Republic of Korea Tel +82-70-5000-1546 Website www.ewp.co.kr SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENERGY FOR HAPPINESS Copyrightⓒ 2017 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER CO.,LTD(EWP). All rights reserved.
