Topdanmark A/S CSR report 2017 Contents Introduction Business Management 3 Preface 20 Responsible management is good management 4 Topdanmark in brief 20 Climate and environment 6 CSR – business and society 23 Human rights 8 Key figures 25 Anti-corruption and bribery Customer relations Employee conditions 10 Well-served in everyday life 26 Competent and motivated employees are crucial 11 Improved information and overview 27 Comprehensive programme for employee development 12 Looking into the future 27 Commitment and job satisfaction 13 Transparent complaint process for customers 28 Everyday health 29 Automation and employee conditions Prevention Dialogue and society 14 Everyone benefits from prevention 15 Help to return to work 30 Business and society strengthened through cooperation 16 At the cutting edge of digital prevention 30 CSR programme for suppliers 17 An alternative to traditional stress treatment 18 Security in the workday for small-business owners 31 Integration of refugees – a limited success? 18 Far too many accidents in agriculture 32 Support for humanitarian efforts 33 Tax contributions are also social contributions Responsible investment 19 UN Global Compact provides overall setting About the report 34 Transparency on our business operations Introduction 3 Introduction Preface Our main areas of focus in 2017 ●●Improve and automate our processes so that our customers experience Topdanmark as an efficient and customer-friendly company ●●Develop and adapt our insurance coverage to our customers’ needs ●●Prevent and minimise damage and accidents ●●Enhance IT security and confidence-inspiring management of personal data Our work with automation and efficiency means that some manual work is disappearing. This means that we have to let some of our employees go. We give support to these employees in their search for new positions. Prevention and minimisation of damage, illness and accident is very important for Topdanmark. There is also a societal aspect in this. In this report, we describe a number of initiatives in relation to personal injury and illness to show that our service and advice is not only beneficial to our customers and others who are covered by our insurances, but Working with CSR and sustainability also that they are a positive contribution to society has taken on greater importance in as a whole. In 2017, we entered into cooperation recent years. We see a growing interest with the Centre for Prevention at Copenhagen among our SME customers, the media, University in connection with stress prevention. and NGOs in how we as a company Topdanmark support UN Global Compact conduct business, and especially the Since 2010, we have been involved with the United non-financial aspects of our business. Nation’s Global Compact. We support the 10 principles of the Compact concerning human rights, It is a pleasure, therefore, to present Topdanmark’s workers’ rights, environment and corruption. We CSR report for 2017. The report describes how interpret the principles so that they create value we have integrated CSR and sustainability in the for us and the world around us. For example, we business operations. contribute positively to several of the principles through our work on prevention. Also in 2017, we For Topdanmark, CSR goes hand in hand with the have initiated cooperation with some of our suppliers core business. Our products and services ensure with the focus on climate, environment and social financial and social security for our customers conditions. Moreover, 2017 has been a good year for when damage has occurred, or their working life other initiatives and results. has ended, and we also help to avert damage and accidents through our prevention measures. In this I hope you enjoy reading the CSR report! way, we make a positive contribution to Danish society by conducting reliable business. Yours sincerely Lars Thykier, Group Managing Director 4 Introduction Topdanmark in brief Topdanmark is a limited non-life and life insurance company listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen A/S focusing on the Danish market. Denmark’s second largest Topdanmark creates value for its customers by insuring insurance company what we care about and by helping establish pension savings. This provides financial security. We take on responsibility for people and environment, which helps create the confidence from which our business lives. 509,000 personal customers Our products and advice help personal customers when: ●●The house is damaged by fire or the car is stolen 100,000 SME and ●●Accidents occur in the customer’s spare time or when agricultural customers travelling ●●Health fails ●●Work life ends 17% market share We help businesses and farms e.g. in the following situations: ●●Employees have an accident ●●Storehouses are flooded Denmark’s sixth largest ●●IT systems are attacked by hackers ●●Buildings are damaged by heavy storm commercial life insurance ●●The harvest is destroyed by e.g. hail, bad weather or company fire. 9% market share Brands en del af Topdanmark 50,000 personal customers 92,000 customers covered by company schemes Most important distribution partners 174,000 customers with life group life insurance schemes Introduction 5 Objectives ●●To carry out nation-wide, Danish non-life and life 2017 key ratios insurance and pension fund business ●●To be attractive to customers by being a competitive DKKm 17,235 DKKm 1,733 independent and pre-eminent insurance group Premiums earned Profit ●●To ensure that our shareholders achieve a long-term, competitive, stable return 82.0% DKKbn 77 Abstract of goals and strategy Combined investment ratio assets ●●To attract and keep profitable customers by delivering a high level of customer service ●●To develop and improve the level of customer service ●●To be able to attract and keep qualified employees Value creation model ●●To be a dynamic organisation encouraging personal and career development Distribution efficiency ●●To ensure that Topdanmark's shares are both attractive and liquid. ●●To achieve primarily organic growth, supplemented by close co-operation with alliance partners, and opportune acquisitions Main stakeholders Topdanmark has three mutually dependent Customer main stakeholders: customers, employees and satisfaction shareholders. Our starting point is that satisfied customers and qualified employees are key to ensuring satisfied shareholders by achieving a long-term, competitive and stable return. Read more about Topdanmark, e.g. about management organisation, Board of Directors and Pricing Efficiency financial reportsrapporter http://www.topdanmark.com/en/about-topdanmark/ >> Click here Organisational changes in 2017 Sampo is Topdanmark’s main shareholder with a At Topdanmark’s AGM in 2017, a switch to paying 46.6% equity interest at the 2017 Q3annousement. dividends to its shareholders instead of share In 2016, Sampo had one representative on buy-back was adopted. Buy-back had been practice Topdanmark’s Board of Directors and in 2017, since 1998. the number increased to three, including the chairmanship. Christian Sagild has resigned as CEO for Topdanmark effective 1 January 2018. Until a new CEO is In connection with the 2017 Q3 Report, Topdanmark appointed, Lars Thykier will have the role of acting was consolidated as a part-owned subsidiary in CEO as well as continuing in the position of CFO. Sampo’s Interim Report. 6 Introduction CSR – business and society Topdanmark's core business is by nature beneficial to society. The company's products, services and advice ensure financial and social security for customers when damage has occurred or their working life has ended. At the same time, Topdanmark also contributes to International principles for sustainability loss prevention and limitation of the consequence Topdanmark has joined Global Compact, the UN of injuries and accidents suffered by customers. initiative for private businesses and organisations. We Therefore, we believe that we show social work continually to integrate the principles concerning responsibility by running a good, stable business environment, labour rights, human rights and for the benefit of both customers, employees, anti-corruption in our business in co-operation with the shareholders and society. relevant suppliers. Contribution to UN’s sustainability goals As co-signer of the UN Global Goal 12: Responsible Goal 13: Climate action. Climate Compact, it is natural for consumption and production. proofing measures for homes and Topdanmark to relate to the UN’s Examples: in connection with businesses – see also goal 12. 17 sustainability goals. Through damage to cars, buildings our core business and operation of and objects, we choose repair our organisation, we contribute to instead of new purchase when Plans for 2018 three of the goals in various ways: possible; written-off cars are In 2018, we will look closer at sold for recycling; insurance how we can further integrate Goal 3: Good health and of environmentally friendly the three goals in our business, well-being. Efforts for preventing technologies such as solar cells; e.g. through health initiatives and limiting damage and illness co-operation with sustainable or efforts to reduce water after occurrence. suppliers. Internally, we use consumption. comprehensive waste separation and we have installed solar cell systems. How we work with CSR Risks Opportunities Regular identification is made of which areas To the extent possible, Topdanmark integrates the Topdanmark risks not upholding the UN Global 10 UN Global Compact principles in order to create Compact principles, thus risking negative impact financial and social value for customers, employees such as financial losses and loss of reputation or and shareholders while contributing to sustainable loss of customers. See outline of the most serious development in society. See outline of the most risks on page 7. important opportunities on page 7. Policies, goals, specific focus areas and business development The CSR report reflects the risks and opportunities which are described in the table on page 7. Read abstract of CSR goals and results for 2017. http://www.topdanmark.com/en/csr/resume-and-data/2017/activities-and-results/ >> Click here Introduction 7 Potential risks and potential adverse impact What For Topdanmark Global Compact and society Incorrect advice and product Adverse impact on reputation and thus 1 and 2 (the right to social security)* Customer sale, lack of clarity of insurance risk of financial loss relations conditions, claims handling errors, complaint handling errors Investment in companies that Adverse impact on reputation and thus Indirect adverse impact on the Investments violate the GC principles risk of financial loss principles Operation of buildings, Expenses Climate: CO2 emission company-related driving Incorrect handling of personal Dissatisfied customers and adverse 1 and 2 (the right of privacy)* Business data, customer complaints and impact on reputation and thus risk of management monitoring errors in connection financial loss with suspicion of fraud Bribery in connection with sales Adverse impact on reputation and thus Principle 10 and procurement risk of financial loss Job dissatisfaction, bullying, High rate of staff turnover and 1 and 2 (the right to work and the discrimination, stress absence due to illness right for physical and mental health)* Employee Lack of attraction and retention of conditions qualified employees Dissatisfactory job performance Violation of the GC principles Adverse impact on reputation and thus Indirect adverse impact on the External among our suppliers risk of financial loss principles factors New technology, e.g. Internet of Higher level of detail of data and 1 and 2 (the right of privacy)* Things (IoT) knowledge of customers Most significant options of favourable impact What For Topdanmark Global Compact and society Customer Satisfactory customer service Loyal customers 1 and 2 (the right to social security)* relations Limit the number of claims and Loyal customers. 1 and 2 (the right to work, the right the extent of injury or damage Reduce claims expenses to social security and the right for Prevention to people, buildings and the physical and mental health)* 7,8 and 9 environment Ensure competitive and stable Return to shareholders 1 and 2 (the right to social security)* Investments return Job satisfaction, health, Motivated and competent employees 1 and 2 (the right to work, the right Employee professional and personal providing good customer service and to social security and the right for conditions development sales physical and mental health)* Attract and retain qualified employees Environmentally-friendly Reduction of expenses 7,8 and 9 technologies Reduction of CO2 emission Business Video conferences management Reduction of paper consumption Diversity in management Increased diversity in business 1 and 2 (the right for decisions non-discrimination) Co-operation with humanitarian Employee loyalty 1 and 2 (the right to social security organisations and campaigns and the right for physical and mental health)* Contribute with direct and Compulsory Contribution to macroeconomics indirect taxes External New technology, e.g. Internet of New, business opportunities, More principles factors Things (IoT) efficiency improvement, better risk assessment Efforts with suppliers and other Improvement of customer service More principles business partners with focus on prevention, health and minimization of resource consumption *As concerns Global Compact principles 1 and 2, the specific human right will be stated in brackets. See the 10 Global Compact principles on page 35. 8 Introduction Key ratios Customer relations 48% ambassador customers Women in management 376,000 people with claims have 42% women on average – all levels of been helped management 29,300 people who have had a personal claim and have been helped Employee conditions Prevention and work 2,214 full-time employees retention DKK28.5m for competence 46% of customers returned to work development after completing an individually tailored programme. 980 employees had a health check 70 agriculture customers received advice on prevention after an accident 3% absence due to illness 14.3% employee turnover Investments 11% in return for our 'Profilpension' customers who are 30 years away from Society Environment DKKm 10,557 paid to insurance customers 6.5% tonnes CO2 reduction DKKm 502, corporation tax 1,093 mWh power production from solar cells DKK 633,400, total donation to humanitarian organisations 40% waste for recycling Indledning 9 10 Customer relations Customer relations Well served in everyday life Insurance and pension are financial and social services closely related to people’s everyday lives – not least when damage occurs or at the end of the working life. Topdanmark has high ambitions for Customer surveys: goals and results customer service, and all customers Goal 2014 2015 2016 2017 should feel well served in all Internal survey situations. We want to address our Increase in number of 44.5% 45.6% 46.2% 48.0% customers’ concerns in everyday ambassador customers* life and help them along in life. EPSI survey for We constantly work on personal customers 75.5 75.9 74.5 76.8 Increase (0-100 improving our service in all points)** situations, e.g. by: EPSI survey for SME customers ●●Securing a coverage suited to the — 72.3 73.5 73.5 Increase (0-100 customer’s needs and requests point)** ●●Providing good service both Aalund survey before, during and after a claim Maintain a ranking or illness Shared as the company with 3rd place 1st place 3rd place 2nd place ●●Giving access to self service via the most satisfied digital solutions customers ** * Customers who are so satisfied with Topdanmark that they recommend us to ●●Securing easy and fair claims others handling ** EPSI and Aalund surveys are external, independent analyses of customers’ ●●Giving the customer easy access satisfaction with Topdanmark and Topdanmark Livsforsikring (life insurance). We to a fair complaints process. monitor the results closely in order to learn from them and improve our service. We are aware that insurance Customer score on Trustpilot: overview and pension products are not 2014 2015 2016 2017 high-interest products to the Overall customer score on consumers and that the products Trustpilot Topdanmark (0 8.8 9.1 8.9 8.8 can be difficult to understand. to 10) Therefore, we work on preparing Overall customer score information on products, price and on Trustpilot Danske 9.1 9.3 9.2 9.1 coverage as easy to comprehend as Forsikring (0 to 10) possible. Wish to recommend us to others Help with claims Satisfaction with Our goal is for the customers to digital solutions be so satisfied with our products 376,400 and service that they wish to recommend Topdanmark to others. Consequently, we regularly people 80% evaluate our customers’ perception The figure indicates that out of The number of people the customers who have either of us. This takes place e.g. through reporting claims that we used our digital customer files more than 30,000 telephone have helped in 2017. 80% are either ’satisfied’ or customer replies a year, as well as systematic online surveys. ’very satisfied’ Customer relations 11 Improved information and overview Topdanmark is in the process of digital transformation. When we develop digital solutions, it is always with the customer as the first priority. Prize for digital Digitalisation should make it do not cover, in overall terms. development easier and more straightforward This gives good advice on the The jury at Danish Digital to be a Topdanmark customer products, which makes it easier Awards 2017 were impressed – both in terms of purchase, in for potential customers to make a with the changes in our everyday life and in connection decision. websites and electronic with a claim. customer files. It is an annual Easy to report claims event organised by Dansk We still attach importance It is easy and straightforward Annoncørforening (Danish to personal contact with our for customers to report claims Advertiser’s Association) which customers, but via digital directly on our website. The aims to increase the focus on solutions we wish to meet many reporting is focused on the digital craft and pay tribute to customers’ expectations of customer’s perspective. The the best businesses. an online process to be used customer must e.g. describe what when it is convenient for the has happened, rather than relate Topdanmark won the category customer. In that way, we can to which insurance policy is to be E-commerce business to use our resources for the more used for reporting, and does not consumer, of which we are very complicated inquiries. require stating a policy number. proud, but we are even more proud that an analysis indicates Re-thought customer Overview that 80% of the customers journey My Topdanmark and My Danske who have used our electronic In 2017, we finished re-thinking Forsikring are aimed at existing customer files are ‘satisfied’ or the websites and the electronic customers. The objective is to ‘very satisfied’ with our digital customer files, My Topdanmark provide an overview of insurance solutions. and My Danske Forsikring, based conditions – not least in case of a on a survey of the customers’ claim. The digital customer files At the same time, a 44% specific requirements in different have been developed and will increase in the use of customer situations. be updated regularly – in order files has occurred, compared that they contain personalised to 2016 and there has been Consequently, the information on and relevant information for the a 100% increase in online our products has been simplified individual customer. For some reporting of claims since 2015. and easier to understand than types of insurance, it is also We see that as our greatest previously – e.g. it is now clearer possible to change the insurance victory. what the products cover and policies if this is needed. 12 Customer relations Looking into the future Improvement for Partnership with SingularityU Denmark the benefit of the In the autumn of 2017, We expect that it will contribute visually impaired Topdanmark entered into a to our future development so partnership with SingularityU that, in future, we will be able to In 2017, a process was initiated Denmark. The partnership meet the customers’ expectations to improve the accessibility of will cease at the end of 2018. to digital solutions. our websites for visually impaired SingularityU Denmark is a new people and other users with innovation and training centre The partnership i.a. entails that, reading disabilities. In dialogue established in Copenhagen in in 2018, selected Topdanmark with i.a. a representative of 2017 by the American think tank, managers will attend a talent the Dansk Blindesamfund Singularity University California. and management programme (Danish Association for the focusing on an innovative Blind), relevant employees have At the cutting edge of mind-set and cultural change. received training in Web Constant development Accessibility Guidelines, a specific We want an even better Furthermore, Topdanmark has guideline related to digital understanding of how a room at SingularityU Denmark accessibility and visually impaired Topdanmark, as an insurance shared with start-up businesses people. We expect that the result company should navigate and other businesses, including of the efforts will be visible in in a society experiencing an Danske Bank, our close business 2018. increasing, and in some areas, partner. We will use the room exponential development. for development of innovative Through partnership we gain initiatives e.g. within health, IoT access to high-profile global and Machine Learning and also knowledge, education and solidify relations with the other inspiration within this exponential businesses as regards learning digital thinking. and innovation. Social perspective SingularityU Denmark considers Machine the use of exponential Learning technologies to be a force not only for businesses but also Digital as a means for handling social thinking challenges. Topdanmark supports this approach, and we want to Innovative find out how the partnership can initiatives interact with our efforts within CSR, prevention and health in a Future wider perspective. IoT Implementation of new technologies and use of IoT and Machine Learning, e.g. collection Exponential and use of customer health data may give cause for ethical development considerations. We will be able to use the partnership for discussing this. Customer relations 13 Transparent complaint process Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims annually, and it is inevitable that we receive complaints from customers about the compensation or service they have received. Insurance and pension products our decisions. We therefore use can be difficult to understand, and customer complaints to assess how Decisions by the in certain cases the compensation we can improve our communication Insurance Complaints or the help offered in a claim and advice. do not met the customer’s Board expectations. This can be due to, Correct decisions are the If the customer’s complaint is e.g. restrictions in conditions which upheld, as a rule Topdanmark goal the customer has been unaware abides by the decision. If, in private insurance cases, of, or the customer’s inability to the customer disagrees with our Only in exceptional cases, document the loss which we should decision on a claim, the customer is where we disagree in principle compensate. entitled to appeal to the Insurance with the Board’s decision, will Complaints Board (Ankenævnet for we assess whether or not to We emphasise the importance of Forsikring). accept the decision. In 2017, clearly informing customers of their complaint options as well as we have abided by every Our goal is to succeed in as decision made by the Board. If ensuring a fair and transparent many appeal cases as possible we do not accept the Board’s complaint process. brought before the Insurance decision, the customer can Complaints Board so as to bring the case before a court Customer complaints are demonstrate that our decisions of law. used constructively are correct. Regardless of the Customer complaints can also outcome of appeal cases, we be an expression of our inability always analyse how we can to communicate the terms and improve communication with our conditions of our policies or customers. Insurance Complaints Board decisions: activities and results Goal Unit 2015 2016 2017 To be successful in as Percentage of decisions in Topdanmark Forsikring 79 78 77 many cases brought and Danske Forsikring’s favour* before the Insurance Percentage of decisions in Topdanmark Complaints Board 75 88 82 Livforsikring’s favour* * In other decisions, it has been ruled against or partially ruled against Topdanmark Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk 14 Prevention Prevention Everyone benefits from prevention Customers are financially secured in many different situations with Topdanmark’s life and non-life products, e.g. fire, theft, accident, illness and old age. However, loss often has greater impact and consequences than just financial, for the customer, Topdanmark and society as a whole. For this reason, Topdanmark works with loss prevention and limitation. Customers: everyday help, e.g. ●●Personal injury and illness ●●Return to work ●●Rainstorm damage ●●Fire and storm damage ●●Theft and IT crime Society: Topdanmark: contribution to the stable business welfare state ●●Reduction of sick day costs ●●Loyal customers and transfer income costs ●●Fewer claims and lower ●●Support for local authority settelments adaptation to climate change Prevention part of our strategy Prevention and people Prevention is a part of our CSR and business strategy. In our 2017 report, we have chosen to focus on We integrate it in advice to customers and specific people. How we help to prevent personal injury, products, and we want to be in the forefront of illness and stress via customer advice and concrete developments in, i.a. digitalisation, IoT solutions and initiatives. How we contribute to the limitation of the smart data application. consequences of accident and illness post-event – delse. for the individual and for the employer. Prevention 15 Help to return to work For those who are affected by a serious illness or injury, one consequence can be loss of contact with the job market and even the worst-case scenario of having to take early retirement due to disability. With an effective and individual-specific response in Individually tailored help connection with claims handling, Topdanmark gives Individually tailored help is available to customers customers a better opportunity to get back to work. who are covered by the following insurance policies: This benefits the customers, society and Topdanmark. ●●Loss of earnings capacity Quick response ●●Workers’ compensation The key element in our response is a flexible and individually tailored programme based on ●●Liability the individual customer’s current situation and challenges. Our response can be, for example, to An individually tailored programme is only gather and coordinate links between all involved implemented if Topdanmark assesses that it is parties, and to plan a specific program of treatment. relevant from all perspectives. The individually tailored programme is primarily for people with We make a priority of responding as quickly as serious or long-term illnesses. possible, as this gives the customer a better chance to stay in the job market. Back in work 46% This figure shows the percentage of customers who have returned to work after completing an individually tailored programme. Statistic: Individually tailored programme Total number of individually tailored Percentage of individually tailored customer programmes customer programmes in relation to total number of cases 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Loss of earnings capacity 179 167 196 260 35% 40% 35% 37% insurance* Workers Compensation 139 157 151 265 <3% <3% <3% <3% and Liability Insurance *Figures for 2014, 2015 and 2016 are different than in previous CSR reports. This is due to the fact that the figures now include a larger group of cases where an individually tailored programme has been implemented. 16 Prevention At the cutting edge of digital prevention Topdanmark makes an active contribution to the prevention of illness and work-related injuries affecting companies which have taken out health insurance with us for their employees. We have a range of prevention concepts which can be Based on the health screening, each employee gets tailored to best tackle the challenges of the individual a score and an individual report with advice and company. We can offer, for example, health checks guidance on improving his or her health. Employees and health screenings via personal consultations with also have the opportunity to contact a medical a medical professional. professional associated with the project if there is a particular need for advice New possibilities in regard to health-related with digital initiatives and activities. solutions In 2017, we Overall status implemented new digital report for the initiatives in company connection with The company health screening. receives an Topdanmark overall report on Livsforsikring, as the the general health first pension company status in the company – to do so, offered a pilot based on the anonymous project to 12 companies with screening data. From this a total of 4,000 employees a the company, in cooperation new prevention concept based with Topdanmark, can better on online health screening. plan initiatives which closely align themselves with the specific Online screening alone is not challenges of the company’s health enough profile. In this way, the company gets a whole new perspective on its work on Online screening is the first step in a prevention. comprehensive prevention initiative aimed at the employee and the company as a whole. Leading health researcher has formulated the questionnaire The actual digital screening questionnaire has been produced by Just Bendix Justesen, a researcher in physical activity and health at Syddansk Universitet. The questionnaire is scientifically and empirically based, and it includes questions about welfare, working conditions, mental health, sleep and “KRAM” factors, i.e. diet, smoking, alcohol and exercise. Prevention 17 An alternative to traditional stress treatment At the end of 2017, Topdanmark joined a At the Centre for the Promotion of Mental Health, programme for handling our goal is for everyone to have access to scientifically stress in cooperation with developed and documented stress treatment. We hope the Center for Psykisk that Topdanmark will be able to contribute to a Sundhedsfremme (Centre research-based development of knowledge about for the Promotion of stress and mental health in general. Mental Health), a part of   Christian Gaden Jensen, Centre Leader, Ph.D, Post doc. Copenhagen University. in customer enquiries concerning used is examined and assessed The programme, Åben og Rolig stress, but since 2014 the continuously and has had positive (Open and Calm), is scientifically numbers have levelled off. We effects on stress and depression developed and documented, and want to contribute to a solution levels, sleep quality and mental will be offered to a selected group to the stress problem so as to health in general. Also, a study of our customers. In addition, the benefit our customers and society from 2017 has shown that anonymous data collected will in general. the programme has positively contribute to further research contributed to the participants’ and roll-out of the Open and Calm attachment to the labour market Innovation and positive programme. and also has a preventive effect in results the long term. Stress has far-reaching Open and Calm is an evidence-based alternative to consequences At the forefront of stress traditional stress treatments In Denmark, the number of involving individual talk therapy treatment people who suffer from stress with a psychologist. Open and Topdanmark is the first private has increased year by year for 20 Calm is group therapy which company in Denmark to have years. Long-term stress damages takes in physical, mental and entered into a cooperation with health on all levels, and it has social parameters, based on the the Centre for the Promotion of far-reaching consequences in most well-validated model for Mental Health. We want to be at both personal life and working promotion of health. the forefront of stress treatment, life. Furthermore, the burden of and we will strive to integrate the stress and mental health problems The development of Open and science with the more practical has considerable financial Calm began in 2009, and the work with customers suffering consequences for society. programme has been implemented from stress. The cooperation by a number of Danmark’s is scheduled to continue until In the last 10 years, Topdanmark local authorities. The method November 2018. During this has also experienced an increase time, we will refer our customers suffering with stress to six Open and Calm groups. At the forefront of stress treatmentg Topdanmark receives a complete 90 people assessment report compiled from data from effect analyses, and the Centre for the Promotion of Mental Health can use the The number of people suffering from stress who will be offered anonymous data in their research. the opportunity to participate in the science-based Open and Calm programme in 2018. 18 Prevention Security in the workday for small business owners Our experience shows that the greatest worry for accident. The result is a product containing three small business owners is that they or a key co-worker options for covering loss of profits, which provide a is taken ill. An extended period of sick leave can relevant solution for all: threaten the survival of the company due to the financial losses such circumstances will entail. ●●Loss of profit cover: Covers loss of profit during a period of sick leave This is why Topdanmark has developed an insurance ●●Temp cover: Gives a company the possibility to hire product which covers a company’s business for up a temporary worker so that business can continue, to a year, if the owner or key co-worker is sick for and loss of profit can be minimised an extended period. This insurance scheme not only provides safety but can even prevent a company from ●●Cash coverage: A cash payment to the business having to close down. owner who works extra hours to cover for the insured co-worker who is on sick leave, in order to Customer involvement in the development keep the business running. of the insurance scheme In the development of the loss of profits due to The new product has been well received by our sickness cover, we have paid close attention to what customers, and it has successfully covered a real need companies require when they are hit by sickness or for small business owners. Far too many accidents in agriculture Far too many accidents in agriculture of relevant initiatives, for the prevention of similar Farming is one of the most dangerous industries to accidents in the future. The customer can also work in. 50% of all fatal occupational accidents in receive help with practical matters in connection with Denmark occur in farming. On top of this, hundreds the accident, e.g. when The Working Environment of other serious accidents happen which result Authority and the police visit the customer. in month-long periods of sick leave. Topdanmark receives as many as 250 occupational injury claims Since the launch of Working Life, 70 customers have from the agricultural industry every year. taken advantage of the consulting service. On the whole, customers are very satisfied with the concept To reduce the all-too-high number of occupational and the motivation for better prevention is great. injuries in Danish farming, in 2017 Topdanmark together with SEGES, a professional knowledge and innovation centre under Landbrug & Fødevarer (Danish Agriculture & Food Council), produced a Advice on prevention service concept known as Arbejdsliv (Working Life). This new service gives customers with occupational injury insurance the opportunity to receive impartial 70 agriculture customers advice from a working environment consultant if the customer or a co-worker has suffered an injury at work. Consulting is provided by SEGES. The number of customers who have Satisfied with the concept received advice on prevention after an The advice is free and takes place where the accident accident. has happened. Here a plan is made, with the help Responsible investment 19 Responsible investment Global Compact provides the framework As part of Topdanmark’s business we invest, Activities and results in 2017 for example, insurance reserves and pension customers’ savings, until the funds are Goal paid in the form of compensation, pension Investment returns must be generated with payments and the like. consideration given to the Global Compact Topdanmark wishes to attain the biggest possible return Activity on investments in relation to risk, but we also wish to Screening and assessment of shares portfolio ensure that value creation is responsible and not in for positions with consideration given to the violation of the internationally recognised standards and Global Compact principles or conventions adopted by Denmark. Preparation of policy for active ownership Global Compact provides the framework based upon Recommendations on Corporate As a means to ensuring the above, Topdanmark has joined Governance as launched by the Corporate the UN’s Global Compact, which consists of 10 principles Governance Committee. concerning human rights, workers’ rights, environment and corruption. These principles provide the framework for responsible investment. This means that the principles Results are, in practice, an integrated part of investment policies. No investments which may be seen as in conflict with the UN Global Compact have been The Board of Topdanmark Asset Management has the made. chief responsibility for this policy, while Topdanmark Asset Management is responsible for implementing the policy Read Topdanmark’s overall policy and and continually monitoring and ensuring that investments procedures for responsible investment: fulfil the principles of our SRI (Socially Responsible Investment). >> Click here http://www.topdanmark.com/en/csr/responsible-business-management/ responsible-investment/ Read the policy for active ownership http://www.topdanmark.com/en/csr/ Plans for 2018 >> Click here responsible-business-management/responsible-investment/ Screening and assessment of our shares portfolio for positions in accordance with the UN Global Compact will continue. Furthermore, we will look closely at the Guidelines for Responsible Investment to be launched by Erhvervsstyrelsen (The Danish Business Authority) in 2018. Guidelines for investment in government They are as follows: bonds Topdanmark Asset Management must not deal in securities which are issued directly or indirectly by Based on the guidelines for investment in a state which is not a member of OECD or has not government bonds drawn up by The Council for ratified the ICC Statute* – unless written permission Corporate Social Responsibility, a part of The Danish has been given beforehand by Topdanmark’s Business Authority, Topdanmark has in 2015 Executive Board. established its own set of guidelines for this area. *Statute of the International Criminal Court. 20 Business Management Business Management Responsible management is good management Topdanmark is a listed company and is therefore dutybound to create financial value for our shareholders. In this value creation, we are responsible for The key areas are: complying with national legislation, meeting the recommendations for corporate governance and ●●Climate and the environment: Primary focus on meeting the expectations of the UN Global Compact. CO2 emissions In CSR terms, we are primarily focused on our work ●●Human rights: Primary focus on diversity and with the Global Compact. In practice this means that women in management, and protection of privacy in a number of policies have been developed and special relation to personal data and surveillance initiatives implemented, where there is a need or ●●Corruption and bribery: Primary focus on gifts and where it makes business sense. hospitality Climate and environment Topdanmark wishes to contribute to a In concrete terms, Topdanmark has set goals with regard to C02 emissions because we assess that this sustainable development of society in is the most relevant area for us to work on. We are a way that contributes to the business. also focussed on waste sorting. This is why we integrate climate and environment considerations into CO2 reduction activities business. We continuously implement energy optimisation of our business operations, including IT. We have a Topdanmark influences climate and the environment solar cell system at our head office in Ballerup which directly through its business activities. Activities in provides approximately 20% of our required energy our own business operations are given priority in every year. Also, in 2017 a solar cell system was relation to climate and environment as this is where installed at our Viby office, and it will help reduce our we can have the biggest influence on defining goals C02 emissions in the future. and implementing initiatives which both reduce our costs and manage our environmental footprint in a positive way. Production of Absolute CO2 emissions environment friendly energy 6.5% 1093 MWH In comparison to 2016, we reduced absolute CO2 emissions by 6.5%. This reduction is primarily due to production of CO2-neutral power from our This the amount of energy our 2 solar cell own solar cell system. systems produced in total in 2017. Business Management 21 CO2 emissions: goals and results Goal Units 2014 2015 2016 2017 Maintain 2014 level up Tons CO2 emissions 2.3 2.2 1.9 2.1* to and including 2017 per full-time employee * The increase is due to a fall in the number of full-time employees. The absolutte CO2 emission has been reduced by 6.5%. Carbon emission accounts 2014-2017 Units 2014 2015 2016 2017 Heating – natural gas Thousand m3 344 353 394 392 Use of company cars 1) 0,000 litres petrol 30 29 35 32 Use of company cars 1) 0,000 litres diesel 219 223 266 244 Heating – district heating MWH 468 481 446 468 Electricity consumption 2) MWH 6,515 6,160 5,965 5,441 Use of non-company cars for Mill. km. 10.1 10.3 10.2 9.1 business purposes Outsourced activities 0 0 0 0 Total absolute CO2 emissions Tons 5,593 5,492 5,081 4,752 1) The figures include use of company car for private purposes. Figures for business purposes driving are not registered. The split between driving for private purposes and business purposes is assessed to be approximately 50-50. 2) The figure includes electricity produced by our own solar cell system. In 2017, the amount of electricity produced was 1093 MWH. In 2016, our solar cell system was partly out of service due to reconstruction work. 3) Topdanmark’s main frame is outsourced to IBM Danmark, where power supply comes from Bergen Energy. Bergen Energy produces electricity with water power in accordance with the EU Renewables Directive. As a result, there are no CO2 emissions associated with consumption. Waste sorting and Plans for 2018 recycling Waste for We have defined a new goal for We have an extensive waste recycling the reduction of C02 emissions sorting system at our head for 2021: 5% in absolute 40% office in Ballerup, and it is reduction in relation to the 2017 being increased all the time. emissions, 4,750 tons of CO2. In 2017, sorting of metal cans Energy optimisation and C02 and plastic was introduced in reduction will, in the future, take our canteen. However, due to a place primarily in connection major rebuilding of the canteen, with new acquisitions of IT we were forced to use plastic equipment and other equipment tableware for some months, with with lower power consumption no possibility of sorting. that existing equipment, and with an increased Electronic equipment such as PCs preference for video and mobile phones are sold for Plans for 2018 meetings. recycling. We also sort paper for In 2018, we will meet recycling, but the volume of paper Ballerup local authority’s for recycling is falling in step with demand for the sorting of increasing digitalisation. food waste in our canteen at our head office. 22 Business Management Advice on climate adaptation As an insurance company, we are prepared for the ●●We have special emergency measures, which we potential consequences of climate change, e.g. more put into place in critical situations in order to give frequent rainstorms, storms and flooding: our customers optimal assistance and to minimise damage ●●Our customers receive help and guidance for the ●●We have an extensive reinsurance programme, prevention of climate-related damage which means that costs incurred in connection with ●●Customers who are especially exposed to the major weather phenomena are in the most part risk of, e.g. rainstorm, are required to implement refunded. concrete preventive measures to minimise the extent of damage Climate report Topdanmark reports to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure In 2017, the average for all responses to the CDP Project), an international environment reporting was also C-. initiative, which works for transparency and dialogue around CO2 emissions and climate Read our latest CDP report (2016) strategies in businesses, with the purpose of making >http://inv.dk.topdanmark.com/cdp. > Click here such information available to investors. cfm?mode=00732144 2014 2015 2016 2017 82C 90C C C Human rights Topdanmark respects internationally ●●Investment of insurance reserves and pension customers’ savings, where procedures and policies recognised human rights, and our aim is are in place never to infringe them. ●●Supplier chain, where a CSR programme is Topdanmark follows and complies with Danish established legislation, which incorporates internationally ●●Customer relations and the right to privacy, recognised human rights. In addition, as a rule we for which Topdanmark has clear guidelines for do not come across any challenges legally-speaking how claims are investigated if insurance fraud is in this area. suspected, and for the management of personal data Inspired by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we keep a close eye on what ●●Employee relations, where there is a wide range of human rights Topdanmark may be challenged by HR policies and a management system which meet in connection with our various business activities – the challenges of and the problems arising from aside from what is expected in purely legal terms. stress, lack of employee satisfaction and equality ●●Non-discrimination with special focus on equal The process has shown that our policies, initiatives access to management positions. and management systems are in place in relation to the human rights which potentially can be Various policies are followed up continually, and undermined. For example: potential challenges in the annual CSR report are communicated. Business Managemant 23 In 2017, Group Managing Director Marianne Wier invited a group of female leaders to a meeting to discuss future efforts regarding women in leadership. Diversity and women in management Topdanmark works on maintaining in Topdanmark’s executive process has encouraged them and developing openness in its management have been initiated. to apply for a position with even business culture, preventing any more responsibility. kind of discrimination as regards Successful mentor gender, skin colour, nationality, programme Have our efforts been social and ethnic origin, religion, successful? Since 2013, a mentor programme political view, handicaps, age and has been run for women managers Does Topdanmark meet its sexual orientation. – the latest programme ended goals? And have our efforts been in 2017. The objective of the effective? The specific numbers Since 2011, we have defined a programme has been to help do not answer those questions. number of goals and implemented women managers determine activities with the purpose of their career aspirations, focus Since 2012, Topdanmark has advancing women in management. on ambitions and at the same had between 40% to 42% It is our goal that both genders time improve relations across the female managers at all levels – should be represented by at least management hierarchy. on average. The result for 2017 40% in management (at all levels), is 42%. Consequently, our goal and that there should always be Our assessment is that the latest of 40% women managers has at least one female candidate for programme was successful. It has been met and it has been so executive positions. produced dialogue and exchange for many years. It is positive and of experience, which are essential satisfactory, and we expect the Inspiration group for the career of the participants. number to remain stable. We have established an inspiration Several participants have also group to bring up the issue for pointed out that in co-operation However, we cannot say whether discussion in Topdanmark’s with their mentor, they have the positive result is due to our executive management. Over worked on their mental barriers specific efforts, the general trend the years, various initiatives to against applying for an executive in society or other conditions. increase the number of women position at a higher level – this Women in management: overview of activities and results Goal Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 Min. 40% of both genders at all % 40 42 41 42 levels of management Min. one female candidate at job interviews for advertised % 79 81 71 76 managerial positions* *The number indicates the percentage of the total number of interviews for vacant positions where female candidates have been interviewed. When the goal has not been met, the reason was either that there were no female applicants or that the female applicants have not matched the competences of the male applicants. 24 Business Management Plans for 2018 activities we implement, and we Women in We will still have an inspiration are still aware that there is a group to promote women skewed distribution at the higher executive levels of management. in management, but our experience indicates that managemente our female managers and Topdanmark encourages its male managers to take paternity 19% employees do not want specific programmes for women. leave – and there has been an increase in the number doing Therefore, we will only have so in our organisation. We hope general development activities that this development may Level 1 includes our Executive in future, including management promote a culture where it is Board (4 people) and top level development and talent natural for both genders to have of management (17 people). development aimed at men and a career and also take care of In 2016, we got our women. The goal is to motivate their children. first female member them to apply for positions at a of the Executive higher level of management. In 2018, we will assess whether Board. The number we will need new goals for of women at level 2 However, we will still be gender distribution at upper and 3 was 33% and informed of the gender management level. 48% respectively. distribution of the development Diversity on the Board of Directors Topdanmark wants a Board of Directors consisting of Women in the best-qualified candidates. The Board comprises six management AGM-elected members and three employee-elected members. 42% Since 2014, Topdanmark has complied with the legislative definition of even gender distribution on its Board of Directors. Our goal is 40% of both genders – on average at all levels of management. Women on the Board of Directors: goals and results Goal 2014 2015 2016 2017 At least three of each Number of women 2 2 3 2 gender among the (AGM-elected) AGM-elected members Number of women 1 3 3 3 (employee-elected) Business Management 25 Personal data are protected As an insurance company, We have IT systems which with the handling of insurances, we gather a large volume of ensure that: and this primarily involves our customer information. partners and other insurance companies. Topdanmark does not ●●Customer information is This is also the case in regard sell customer information. updated to customers who have a claim on file. We use the information ●●Customer information is never In 2017, we have placed focus on exclusively for service and claims misrepresented organizational and system-related handling. ●●Customer information is deleted changes in order to be in line with when it is no longer relevant the EUs personal data regulation. We comply with current personal data legislation and ensure ●●Unauthorised persons never gain access to the information Plans for 2018 that all information is stored and handled in a way that the Implementation of the EU’s customers’ private life is never new personal data regulation We have processes which compromised. scheduled to enter into force make sure that our employees at the end of May 2018. This know how to handle customer will involve e-learning courses information. We continuously about the correct handling of check that these processes are personal data for all of our complied with. We only pass employees. on information in connection Anti-corruption and Bribery Money laundering and Topdanmark wishes to be and other partners. To support a part of a professional, this, we have drawn up a policy financing of correct and trustworthy which states when Topdanmark’s employees may give and receive terrorism business environment. We gifts and when they are allowed 600 therefore do not tolerate to hold or participate in events corruption and bribery. and arrangements. In 2016, we looked closely at our The purpose of the policy is, e-learning courses risk exposure to corruption and among other things, to prevent bribery. Our assessment was, and avoid business decisions This is the number of and still is, that we are most at being influenced by personal Topdanmark employees who, risk in connection with gifts and or non-business-related in 2017, have completed hospitality involving suppliers and considerations and interests. e-learning courses which have other partners. instructed them in how to In 2017, there have been no discover money laundering We are confident that our situations that have been in and terror financing via employees use their common conflict with our anti-corruption pension contributions. sense and good judgment when it policy. comes to gifts and hospitality in relation to customers, suppliers 26 Employee conditions Employee conditions Competent and motivated employees are crucial Topdanmark’s employees A close dialogue between the Executive Board and the employees are the most important Competence is important to us, among other resource for ensuring that things through a Cooperation our customers get the best Committee with employee development service in every situation. representatives. The committee’s As employees, we must know what the good customer experience task is to take on and discuss organisational problems and find solutions to these problems. 28.5m involves, and we must feel motivated to constantly deliver it. We also have a range of HR kroner policies and specific activities i.a. We focus our efforts on being a concerning: progressive workplace for our Plans for 2018 employees and managers where ●●Competence and talent For many years, Topdanmark it is meaningful to work. Our development has also focused on talent employees and the labour market development and has had ●●Employee commitment and job should in general experience different programmes satisfaction in the working day Topdanmark as an attractive for encouraging talented workplace characterized by a ●●Health in the working day employees to use their high level of competences, a high competences to contribute level of motivation and trustful to Topdanmark’s continued co-operation. growth and delivery of results. On the basis of newly established co-operation with SingularityU Denmark, we will give a group of our talents a unique opportunity to acquire competences within digitalisation and exponential technological development in an innovative environment in 2018. Digital mind-set Topdanmark is in the middle of a transformation with special focus on efficiency improvement and digitalisation. Consequently, we will need managers with a digital mind-set. In order to support that process, we have planned a range of special development activities in 2018 for which our co-operation with SingularityU Denmark will be a source of inspiration. Employee conditions 27 Comprehensive programme for employee development Topdanmark wants Management and talent offered a 6-month programme with specific focus on the new to support optimum development role as manager, including new performance of business Topdanmark attaches importance relations and networks. tasks in the short and in to management development as good management is crucial for long term. attracting and retaining qualified We offer experienced managers a development programme in employees. Our management Therefore, we have a co-operation with CBS Executive programme both comprises comprehensive training and comprising customer orientation newly appointed and experienced development programme and personal development. managers – regardless of whether consisting of internal and external they are recruited internally or processes within the many In addition to courses and externally. occupational groups represented training, we focus on development in the organisation. in the job, and all managers Managers recruited externally can get regular support in will get special introduction to handling managerial tasks management at Topdanmark. from experienced, internal HR Employees who are newly consultants. appointed managers will be Commitment and job satisfaction Topdanmark wants to The objectives of the new The method will be promote a motivating job satisfaction survey characterized by the and inspiring working will be: following: environment at Group level as well as in the departments. ●●Supporting employee ●●Higher frequency than commitment and motivation previously – up to twice a year For many years, Topdanmark has for performance ●●Execution when most suitable conducted a Group job satisfaction ●●Contributing to and ensuring for the individual department survey as an element of our efforts an ongoing, meaningful to promote job satisfaction and the ●●More involvement of the and current dialogue about commitment of our employees. The employees during the motivation and commitment survey has been conducted every two preparation of the dialogue years – the latest in February 2015. ●●Enhancing the trust between and during the dialogue about managers and employees and the results New methods have been between colleagues ●●Fewer questions– tested ●●Giving the executive approximately 15 per survey In 2016 and in 2017, we tested other management an indicator of ●●Quicker reporting than methods for evaluating employee the job employee satisfaction previously satisfaction and commitment, in the organization involving approximately 900 employees. On the basis of that, at the end of 2017 we decided on a Plans for 2018 new direction on and model for how The new method for evaluating employee satisfaction and we want to use job satisfaction and commitment will be implemented in 2018. commitment surveys in future – with the support of our staff association. 28 Employee conditions Everyday health Topdanmark wants to give its full support to our employees’ good health. We believe that it creates wellbeing and job satisfaction, and this in turn provides a strong platform from which we can deliver the best service to our customers. In practice, the employees are offered a range of We have previously tested similar programmes among health-related initiatives, which can be made use of our employees, and they have provided unique results when required. For example, cycling activities such as within long-term and sustainable lifestyle changes. the ‘Cycle to work’ campaign, healthy canteen food and a health check. Plans for 2018 Stress prevention Another 30 My Health programmes will be offered. In Denmark, generally speaking, the number of people who take sick leave because of stress is increasing, Absence due to illness below industry level and at Topdanmark, we experience an increase among As regards absence due to illness, Topdanmark’s our employees. Therefore, we have initiated efforts to goal is that it should be below the outline for the prevent incipient stress and take care of employees insurance business. During the period, 2011-2015, suffering from stress. Topdanmark was on par with the business, while in 2016 from which the latest statistics are provided, we All our employees have the option of anonymous were marginally below the industry level. This is very stress counselling, provided by experienced satisfactory. psychologists. This service can be used as a first step for employees or their colleagues who experience In 2017, the percentage for absence due to illness symptoms of stress. In this way, employees can get at Topdanmark was 3.0% at the finalisation of this help quickly without having to get a referral from a report, the result for the insurance business is not yet family doctor first. published. In cases of serious and long-term stress, a programme See the statistics for absence due to illness from the tailor-made for the individual is available as part of the last five years on page 35. employee health insurance scheme. My Health – offer to the employees Use of anonymous stress counselling: In 2017, employees who were at risk of getting overview lifestyle diseases were offered an individual health Number of employees who availed themselves of programme, My Health. 30 programmes were made anonymous stress counselling available to the employees for a minor self-payment – each programme lasted for 3-4 months. 2014 2015 2016 2017 33 46 46 48 Health check 980 employees All Topdanmark employees are offered a health check during working hours. In 2017, 40% of our employees accepted the offer. Employee conditions 29 Automation and employee conditions In order to be able to offer competitive products and services, over the years, Topdanmark has gradually made its business operations more efficient, i.a. by automating and making the administrative processes more efficient in order to make processes simpler, easier to use and more efficient for the customers. In 2017, we also tested and In 2018 and future years, we will outsourced some jobs. Total number of focus on efficiency improvement and outsourcing which will further As a result, some of the full-time reduce the number of employees. employees currently doing a employees number of manual tasks will no Employee turnover longer be needed. Consequently, the number of employees was reduced by 74 in 2016, compared 2,214 As a consequence of Topdanmark’s focus on improved efficiency, and outsourcing, staff to 2015 and 200 employees In 2017, the total number turnover has been a little higher in 2017. Of this number, 40% of employees fell by 9%. in recent years. Turnover has also can be attributed to collective been affected by greater mobility bargaining rounds, while 60% is in the Danish labour market. due to normal staff movements, a All other terminated employees In 2018, we expect the same limited number of appointments are offered support in moving turnover as in 2017. being the most significant factor. on with the working life in co-operation with our staff In connection with collective association. Managers of Read more about bargaining rounds, we strive to departments impacted by Topdanmark as a offer the affected employees dismissals will get support in how workplace, HR policies, alternative work in the to handle the situation. employment conditions: organisation. In 2016, 37% http://www.topdanmark. of affected employees were >> Click here com/en/jobs-and-career/ helped in this way. 30 Dialogue and society Dialogue and society Business and society strengthened through cooperation Customers, shareholders and employees are Topdanmark’s business operates, grows and develops Topdanmark’s most important stakeholders. In because of, among other things, the dialogue we addition, there are many other stakeholders who have with these stakeholders. At the same time, we play an important role in our business and with wish to be in dialogue with and contribute to the whom we want constructive dialogue – e.g. industry society we are a part of. associations, educational institutions, suppliers, the media, and NGOs. CSR programme for suppliers Topdanmark works CSR recommendation In 2017. We have outsourced a number of tasks to Cognizant with suppliers and A CSR recommendation is in Lithuania. In connection with alliance partners in attached as an appendix to this, we have conducted a risk existing and new contracts. The various situations, e.g. in analysis, and we have been CSR recommendation encourages connection with claims, suppliers to integrate the Global in dialogue with the relevant loss prevention products, Compact principles in their supplier about working conditions and human rights. We have not delivery of IT and office business. found anything which is in conflict equipment and supplies. with our CSR policy or the Global Risk analysis Compact principles. Quality, trust and credibility In 2015, a risk analysis of the are key in our cooperation with 50 most important suppliers was our suppliers, who deliver vital performed with the intention of services to our customers in identifying the risks of infringing Plans for 2018 critical situations. the Global Compact principles Implementation of the CSR in the first link of the supplier programme will continue We want to be known by our chain. The analysis showed that in 2018 with the focus on customers and shareholders as Topdanmark has no concrete dialogue with suppliers where a professional and responsible challenges in regard to current there is a risk of a violation company. Irresponsible suppliers, but that there are or an actual violation of the behaviour in the supply chain, areas of potential risk, e.g. waste Global Compact principles. for example non-compliance with management in connection with the principles of the UN Global clearing up after damage and also Compact, is not only incompatible working conditions in connection with our CSR policy, but it can with waste management. We are also damage the reputation and keeping areas under supervision. consequently our revenue. In order to counter this risk, we have established a CSR programme for suppliers. Dialogue and society 31 New cooperation with sustainable brands Topdanmark is the first purchasing department and our insurance company to enter into CSR department. cooperation with the following six sustainable brands. Plans for 2018 This arrangement will be The cooperation gives customers assessed, and we will then the opportunity to spend their decide if we want to broaden compensation in the form of a the cooperation with sustainable gift card at one of these retailers brands. with a discount included. The same discount is also available to our employees. The new arrangement with these sustainable suppliers has been brought about through cooperation between our Integration of refugees – limited success? Topdanmark wishes to contribute As an insurance company, our another company. The other four to the integration of refugees duties are very specialised and programmes ended before time or in the Danish labour market. require training. were not extended. For this reason, in 2015 we established a structured refugee We have very few duties which No on-the-job-training on-the-job-training programme of can be carried out by unskilled in 2017 in spite of our 13-weeks with a personal mentor workers or people who do not original goal and the possibility to extend. master the Danish language. Therefore, it has been hard for us We wanted to continue the In the period since 2015, we to find work for the refugees. refugee training programme in have run 5 of these training 2017, but for several reasons programmes, one of which was At the same time, it has not been this has not been possible. For implemented in cooperation with possible to find refugees with the example, organisational changes our canteen supplier, Eurest. In qualifications required to carry have made it impossible to take 2015, the first two refugees came out the above-mentioned complex on the responsibility of running to us via Dansk Flygtningehjælp, and specialised duties. For this the refugee training programme. while in 2016 the other three reason, we have only had five refugees came through Ballerup refugees with us even though Plans for 2018 local authority. we originally intended to take a larger number. We are in touch with Ballerup local authority, which On-the-job-training a The language barrier has also contacts us when suitable limited success candidates are found. If been a challenge in the working In spite of full internal support it becomes relevant to day. All but one of the refugees from our employees, the refugees implement a new training could speak very limited Danish or programme has been a difficult programme, we will use the English. task – for various reasons. Our experiences of the previous efforts have brought only limited programme to improve the One of the programmes resulted success. process. in a full-time appointment with 32 Dialogue and society Support for humanitarian efforts One of Topdanmark’s values is ”responsibility”. Our social responsibility finds its voice in, among Plans for 2018 other things, our contributions to organisations and Topdanmark will continue to contribute to Doctors campaigns with humanitarian and other purposes without Borders, Danmarks Indsamling, Fight beneficial to society. Every year, Topdanmark Cancer Campaign, Red Cross Give us your Clothes decides on which initiatives we wish to support. campaign, and the Blood Bank, and will donate bicycles to Buddha Bikes. Contributions in 201 7 Danmarks Indsamling Doctors without Borders: Red Cross Smid Tøjet (nationwide TV fundraising): Topdanmark and its (Give us your clothes Topdanmark and its employees together campaign): Employees employees together contributed donated contributed 221,540 kroner 2.1 tons of 126,090 kroner clothes Blodbanken (Blood Bank): Knæk Cancer (Fight Cancer Employees gave campaign): 753 employees, 115 corporate customers and 439 Topdanmark contributed Buddha Bikes: Topdanmark donated portions 285,788 kroner of blood at work to via a major sports event. 150 bikes Blodbanken, which to Buddha Bikes, a Topdanmark has supported socio-economic organisation since 2005. which gives marginalised young people apprenticeship and on-the-job training opportunities. In 2017, Buddha Bikes workshop had 12 young people in this programme. Topdanmark Fonden donated a total of 110,000 kroner to Ungdommens Røde Cross (Red Cross Youth) after-school homework clubs, ULF Holidays, holidays for the developmentally challenged, and Plus Picture, film and confirmation preparation. Dialogue and society 33 Tax contributions are also social contributions By operating a profitable business, Topdanmark contributes Statistic: Topdanmark’s payment of direct tax significant, annual amounts to the Danish state through direct corporation taxes and indirect taxes. The bulk of our corporation tax remains in Denmark which, taking the organisation’s size into account, is unusual since other big Danish companies pay a large part of their corporation tax abroad due to the activities in the international market. In this way, Topdanmark, relatively speaking, pays more to the Danish state than other big companies. Tax policy and investment returns Topdanmark does not participate in activities whose purpose is to evade or avoid taxation on our Topdanmark Group – taxes and duties 2017 (DKKm) pension customers’ investment Topdanmark pays Topdanmark as tax collector returns or deposits. Neither do Direct taxes: Income tax 890 we accept that others exploit the Corporation tax 502 Labour-market contribution 330 Topdanmark Group’s investments in shares, bonds, property etc. in order to minimise tax owed to the 1,227 Danish state. Selected indirect taxes: Indirect taxes Pension return 522 Pension returns are subject to Payroll tax 246 Liability duty 323 15.3% pension returns tax (PAL Property tax 30 tax), regardless of whether the Flood 44 returns are generated from Government tax 147 investments in shares, bonds, or VAT 12 property etc., and regardless of Non-life insurance duty 81 where in the world investments are made. 1,159 Total DKKm 748 Total DKKm 2,386 When pensions are paid out to our customers, these disbursements are taxed as income. 34 About the report About the report Transparency on our business operations This is Topdanmark’s annual Carbon emission accounts Data collection and data CSR Report. It is also our Topdanmark prepares annual quality for carbon emission Progress Report for the UN carbon emission accounts in accounts Global Compact, and thereby it accordance with the guidelines constitutes our mandatory report The head office consumption of the Climate Compass, an data for heating and power were on Corporate Social Responsibility application developed by the (see section 132 of Danish collected from consumption Danish Business Authority to reports made available by Executive Order on Financial calculate carbon emissions. Reports for Insurance Companies suppliers while the Viby office We have chosen to include the consumption was read manually. and Lateral Pension Funds). following elements in the carbon Power produced by our solar emission accounts which we cell system is registered by our The report covers the financial consider to be the principal year of 2017. The report applies energy management system. Data sources of our carbon emissions: dependability is considered high to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. for all data. ●●Heating consumption Objectives and target ●●Power consumption Data on driving in company group cars (leased cars) are collected The CSR report has been ●●Use of company cars from the registration of fuel prepared to create transparency ●●Use of own car for business consumption (litres of petrol on our business and its impact on purposes or diesel). Data dependability climate and environment, people is considered to be good. Data and finance. on use of own car for business Heating consumption and power purposes are collected from the consumption is only that of our It is relevant to a wide group HR department’s registration head office in Ballerup and our of stakeholders: existing and of mileage allowance. The office in Viby. It does not include potential employees, customers, number of kilometres driven is consumption in our sales centres, shareholders, business partners, calculated on the basis of the because this comprises only 5% suppliers and media, NGOs and mileage allowances paid. Data of total consumption. civil society. dependability is considered low. The report is published on See carbon emission accounts on Topdanmark’s website and the page 21. Danske Forsikring website in Danish and English. It is also forwarded to a large number of our business partners and corporate customers, and is used in sales material, when relevant. Contact Indicators If you have any questions to The indicators for working or comments on the report, conditions at Topdanmark have please contact Pernille Fogh been based on the internationally Christensen, who is responsible recognised reporting system, for CSR. If you want to enter Fotograf: Wering Global Reporting Initiative. Data into a dialogue with us about have primarily been collected our CSR efforts, you are also from our central HR payroll welcome to contact us. system, and data dependability is considered to be high. Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) E-mail: pfi@topdanmark About the report 35 Other HR key ratios Enhed 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Absence due to illness 1) % 2,9 3,1 3,0 2,9 3,0 Employee turnover 2) % 8,9 10,2 12,5 13,1 14,3 Employee turnover – industry 3) % 10 13 13 12 Cases of discrimination 4) Antal 0 0 0 0 0 Employees in flexible-jobs 5) Antal 11 11 10 14 13 Competence development of employees 6) Mio 38,6 36,2 36,7 32, 4 28,5 1) This figure indicates that, on average, every employee was sick 3.0% of the total number of working hours in 2017. The figure covers all employees. In comparison, the percentage of sick days in the insurance business is 3.0% (2016). 2) Definition: employees who have left the organisation voluntarily, have been dismissed, have resigned or have left for other reasons. The number also includes terminated temps. 3) Figures for 2017 were not available when this report was finished. However, we expect that we will be above industry level, cf. page 29. 4) Cases of discrimination refers to cases which have been reported to HR or brought to an employee organisation. 5) Flexible-jobs are offered primarily to internal employees who need other duties than those they have had previously. In 2017, all employees in flexible-jobs are internal employees. 6) The amount does not include payroll costs, but solely payment of external training activities. Since 2013, we have focused on internal training which has caused a fall in expenses. Classification of employees at Topdanmark 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Full-time employees 2,476 2,417 2,477 2,405 2,214 Part-time employees 245 236 243 241 230 Total number of employees 2,721 2,653 2,720 2,646 2,444 Employees on temporary contracts 1) 60 24 42 21 19 Employees covered by collective agreement 2,653 2,582 2,649 2,569 2,371 The employee numbers do not include hourly-paid employees, e.g. student assistants. 1) The numbers cover employees who are bound by a specific resignation date (excl. trainees and maternity cover) The Global Compact principles A business supporting UN Global Compact should: 1 support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3 uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Human rights 4 support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 support effective abolition of child labour 6 eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anticorruption 10 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
