NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 01 Information 02 86 Independent Verification Report CONTENTS Our Standing Position Strategic View Review of Business Review of Strategic Resources Reliable Governance Information Keyword for About NGK SPARK PLUG today’s NGK Commentary on strategies to Creating value in business Creating value from strategic Corporate governance Financial and Corporate Data SPARK PLUG create value resources 03152737496103 Financial and Non-financial Highlights 15 CEO Message 27 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Key Issues (1) 37 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Key Issues (3) 49 Meeting with Outside Directors 61 Financial Results Highlights for the 05 Corporate Philosophy and Long-term 21 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Plug and sensor’s future strategy Personnel Reform by the Strategic 51 Management System Past 11 Years Management Plan Value Creation Process 31 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Key Issues (2) Human Resources Department 85 Corporate Profile and Stock Information 54 Corporate Governance 07 History of our Challenges and Creation 23 Risks and Opportunities Product development derived 39 Human Resources 86 Independent Verification Report of our Strengths 25 Message from Finance Officer from ceramics 41 Research & Development / 57 CSR Management 11 NGK SPARK PLUG’s 33 Review of Business (1) Intellectual Property Management 59 Compliance Sales Structure Automotive Components group 43 Quality and Manufacturing 60 Risk Management 13 Past, Present, and Future 35 Review of Business (2) 45 Global Procurement Management Plans Technical ceramics group 46 Environment – semiconductor div. – 36 Review of Business (3) Financial and Corporate Data Technical ceramics group ceramics div. Editorial Policy This report is centered on particularly important financial and NGK SPARK PLUG Communication By proactively disclosing management plans, business results, CSR and environmental initiatives, and other information, NGK SPARK PLUG intends to foster an non-financial information. For detailed financial information, understanding of the company among all stakeholders and create opportunities for communication. As a means to achieve this objective, we issue the Integrated please refer to the Securities Report and Business Results Summary Report and CSR Report. Briefing Presentation Materials. In regard to the CSR Report and CSR website, detailed information on the company’s NGK SPARK PLUG Integrated Report Scope and Period Covered Guidelines for Reference initiatives is available on our website. Period covered: The year ended March 31, 2018 (April 1, 2017 – March 31, 2018) “The International Integrated Reporting Framework,” the International Corporate Governance Some information pertaining to activities in the year ending Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Shareholder Newsletter Report March 31, 2019 is also included. “Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Scope: The NGK SPARK PLUG Group Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation,” the Ministry of Economy, Some information reported by NGK SPARK PLUG (non-consolidated) Trade and Industry Securities Business Results Briefing CSR Report and CSR Detail is also included. Report Presentation Materials website Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements Financial information Non-financial information This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the company’s future plans, strategies, and business results. Please note that actual business results may differ from the expectations presented in this report. https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/english/ 03 About NGK SPARK PLUG Our Standing Position 04 Financial and Non-financial 16.4 % Keyword for Year ended today’s NGK Highlights March 31, 2018 SPARK PLUG Operating NGK SPARK PLUG is a “highly profitable company.” An operating income ratio of 16.4% (year ended March 31, 2018) is a high level among companies in the automotive component industry. With a target of 20% for 01 income ratio the year ending March 31, 2021, we will continue to be a highly profitable company. Financial Highlights Non-financial Highlights Performance Data related to employees Net sales/Operating income/Operating income ratio Profit attributable to owners of the parent/ROE (Return on equity) Number of new patents filed Number of employees at work ■■ Net sales ■■ Operating income Operating income ratio ■■ Profit attributable to owners of the parent ROE (Return on equity) ■■ In Japan ■■ Outside Japan ■■ Non-consolidated ■■ Consolidated (Millions of yen) （%） (Millions of yen) （%） (Number of patents) (Number of persons) 400,000 409,912 20 60,000 12.0 12.0 1,200 20,000 383,272 372,919 11.5 11.4 347,636 329,758 16.4 1,020 1,010 17.9 936 16,000 300,000 17.3 15 9.1 44,335 900 14,926 15,322 842 872 14,524 15.7 40,000 8.0 13,197 14.4 36,753 12,760 371 432 12,000 32,704 572 200,000 10 30,815 7.4 600 421 396 25,602 8,000 20,000 4.0 5,809 5,823 5,829 5,719 5,851 100,000 5 300 565 578 4,000 62,196 66,284 67,279 51,661 53,595 448 446 451 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Equity ratio Cash dividends per share/Dividend payout ratio Ratio of female employees/Number of female employees in Number of employees on childcare leave (non-consolidated) managerial posts (non-consolidated) Equity ratio ■■ Cash dividends per share Dividend payout ratio Number of female employees in managerial posts ■■ Number of employees on childcare leave ■■ Ratio of female employees （%） (Yen) (%) (Number of persons) (%) (Number of persons) 100.0 100 50 20 20.00 80 17.41 16.72 16.14 16.30 80.0 80 40 15.78 15 15.00 60 70.2 35.2 58 65.6 55 53 64.4 62.5 63.5 60.0 60 29.7 60 30 12 47 48 28.7 10 10 10.00 40 40.0 40 21.3 42 42 20 8 18.6 28 36 6 5 5.00 20 20.0 20 10 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Data related to environment Earnings per share Capital expenditures/Depreciation Fluctuations in CO2 emissions from energy use Fluctuations in tap water/well water usage ■■ Earnings per share ■■ Capital expenditures ■■ Depreciation ■■ Outside Japan ■■ Outside Japan (Yen) (Millions of yen) CO2 emissions (10,000 tons-CO2) ■■ Groups in Japan (without integrated certification) Amount of water used (10,000 m3) ■■ Groups in Japan (without integrated certification) 209.37 ■■ Groups in Japan (with integrated certification) ■■ Groups in Japan (with integrated certification) 200.00 50,000 35 200 45,339 31.17 31.43 168.88 30 168 166 41,034 28.89 28.56 162 162 162 40,000 27.61 5.04 5.37 160 150.00 150.26 36,372 36,328 37,591 3.41 25 141.60 25 3.28 3.62 26 28 38 1.51 1.25 38 1.29 119.44 30,000 120 4 5 20 4 100.00 20,000 19,601 20,920 15 80 16,834 25.48 24.63 24.81 10 24.33 23.65 143 136 50.00 13,337 130 124 120 11,567 10,000 40 5 0 0 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 05 About NGK SPARK PLUG 06 Corporate Philosophy and NITTOKU Keyword for today’s NGK Long-term Management Plan SPARK PLUG The “NITTOKU SHINKARON” is NGK SPARK PLUG’s long-term management plan. Through the 3-year phases of “Delving,” “Renovating,” and “Evolving,” we will seek to become the No. 1 leading “Monozukuri” company that 02 SHINKARON delivers real value to customers across the world, a highly profitable company, a progressive company, and a human “asset” company. By 2020, we will strive to be a company that can offer “Real Value” to all our stakeholders. Corporate Philosophy Long-term Management Plan: NITTOKU SHINKARON At NGK SPARK PLUG, we aim to contribute to people all over the world by linking people to technologies and Seventh medium-term management plan delivering new values. As a truly global corporation, we want to build stronger ties not only with customers and (for FY2016 to FY2020) communities, but the local and global environments. We are always working to make our corporate philosophy and our commitments a reality. NGK Three elements constitute our Slogan Spark existing Delving Renovating Evolving Real Value business Plug corporate philosophy. With established trust and confidence inside and outside the company, we aim to contribute to the peoples of the FY2010 to 2012 FY2013 to 2015 FY2016 to 2018 world by creating and Delve into existing Launch new products Develop existing and new putting at their disposal business and seek or new business business new values for new business at an accelerated rate the future. We offer a working Ever onward! Always mindful environment in which each one of what is the best course, of us is encouraged to make we swiftly put it into action. full use of his or her personality and capabilities. With all our power we are dedicated to With full use of the most suitable pursue management based on technology and our accumulated trust and confidence. experience, we continue striving to offer new values to the peoples of the world. The Nittoku Way The Nittoku Way refers to a set of philosophies that includes values that are shared by the entire NGK SPARK PLUG Group, and the actions based on these philosophies, as well as the manner in which those actions are carried out. The Four Shared Values of the Nittoku Way Shisei-Shinjitsu Sincerely, do our very best. Believe in one’s own ability, and take Dokuritsu-Jiei actions by oneself. Unite efforts with the people of the world, Shikai-Keitei and utilize each other’s differences. Have cherished desire, and carry it through Soshi-Kantetsu till the end. 07 About NGK SPARK PLUG 08 History of our Challenges and Keyword for Challenge today’s NGK Creation of our Strengths SPARK PLUG Our company has continued to challange and evolate. Its roots can be traced to Morimura Gumi, founded by the forefather of the Morimura Group, Ichizaemon Morimura in 1876. On-time delivery of quality products 03 at affordable prices. Morimura Gumi’s DNA of a commitment to quality continues to flow through the veins of NGK SPARK PLUG to this day. Morimura Gumi (March 1876) Nippon Toki Morimura Bank (June 1897) Gomei Kaisha (January 1904) Morimura Gumi Toyo Toki Nippon Toki, NGK Insulators, Okura Art China (May 1919) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Ltd. Ltd. (April 1918) (May 1917) (July 1917) (May 1919) Merged with Okura Art Morimura Noritake NGK Insulators, Ltd. NGK SPARK TOTO Ltd. Mitsubishi Bank China.Inc. Bros., Inc. (changed corporate Co.,Limited (changed a part of corporate PLUG (changed corporate (changed corporate name from Kanji to (1929) (reorganized in April 1950) name in May 2007) (October 1936) name in July 1946) name in April 1981) Katakanain May 1986) Origins of the Morimura Group Established Ceramica e Velas de Ignicao NGK do Brasil Ltda. 1876 — Startup Period 1950 — Growth Period The birth of NGK SPARK PLUG Establishing the NTK brand The first spark plugs manufacturer in Japan. and expanding overseas NGK SPARK PLUG’s history starts with Morimura Gumi, trade business based on their independent spirit, After postwar confusion had settled down and plug wide range of applications not limited to pluga corporate group whose name is synonymous with and their business gradually grew bigger. Eventually, manufacturing stabilized, we embarked on related products. Japan’s ceramic industry that was founded in 1876. Morimura Gumi began to manufacture ceramics and development of technologies and products that Furthermore, exports increased as Japan The founding brothers of Ichizaemon Morimura the Morimura Group was born. made use of ceramics, in an effort to diversify our entered a period of rapid economic expansion. and Toyo Morimura were honest and passionate NGK SPARK PLUG was established in 1936 as business. This marked the birth of the NTK brand. In Using the 1959 establishment of our first overseas merchants. Determined to reclaim wealth which had a spinoff from the Spark Plug Division of NGK the mid-1950s, using the development of ceramic base of operations in Brazil as a starting point, we flowed overseas, they embraced the challenge of Insulators. Our spark plug production began after a products that served as the foundation of the “NTK actively expanded overseas, creating a strong foreign trade for the prosperity of Japan. On-time decision by Magoemon Ezoe, the first president of brand,” we moved into products in the areas of overseas network. As overseas sales grew, we delivery of quality products at affordable prices. The the company, that we would “produce plugs using industry and environment. For example, provided plugs to the world’s premiere motorcycle sincerity of the Morimura Bros. Inc. was valued even our country’s ceramics.” Our plug manufacturing piezoelectric ceramics utilize the active properties of race, and that machine took the top position. in the foreign culture of the United States, building has since grown to cement a position as the No. 1 ceramics to create voltage by applying pressure or Thanks to strong performance at races by machines trusting relationships. The Morimura Bros. declined manufacturer of spark plugs in the world, and sonic waves by applying voltage. Later, as a new fitted with our spark plugs, our brand became the help of the Meiji government and started a small continues to evolve. type of ceramic, the NTK brand is currently used in a known worldwide. 1876 1936 1949 1959 Founding of Founding of NGK Started the Established Ceramica e Velas de Ignicao NGK do Brasil Ltda. Morimura Gumi SPARK PLUG manufacture of NTK technical ceramics 1930 1937 1958 1967 Launched “NG Spark Plugs,” the first Started manufacturing Developed ceramic Started the spark plugs manufactured in Japan of NGK Spark Plugs chip cutting tools manufacture of IC packages 09 About NGK SPARK PLUG 10 Keyword for today’s NGK Challenge SPARK PLUG History of our Challenges and Creation of our Strengths 03 Wide range oxygen sensor Exhaust temperature sensor Zirconia oxygen sensor Bioceramics Iridium plug 1960 — Establishment Period 1990 — Development Period Full-scale motorization of society Toward development of products and sensor development for the next generation The full-scale motorization of society arrived in the gas regulations, but the movement eventually To respond to energy and environmental issues for the Additionally, we are also proactively developing 1960s alongside the expansion of the Japanese spread to other developed nations, and the next generation, we are accelerating development of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), and established the economy. In 1967, the number of vehicles owned in regulations became increasingly strict with the high performance spark plugs and sensors, along with Fuel Cell Div. in 2016. We are focusing on the Japan exceeded 10 million, and cars could be seen passage of time. Amid such circumstances, we measures for a society powered by hydrogen energy. product that incorporates our core ceramic molding, throughout the country. Meanwhile, environmental began development on various automotive sensors, In 2000, the automotive industry began printing, bonding and sintering technologies, and pollution such as air pollution became a social issue, including exhaust gas sensors, zirconia oxygen development of fuel cell vehicles (FCV). We also began are fostering its R&D. Furthermore, we are also and in 1968, the Air Pollution Control Act was sensors, and wide range oxygen sensors. From then developing a “hydrogen leak detection sensor.” Through engaging in R&D in the medical field, with a view to passed in Japan. Administrative guidance was on, toward creating a sustainable environment, using sensor technologies from automotive oxygen contributing to the aging society. provided calling on countermeasures against society, and economy, we have continued to create sensors, we were successful in developing the industry’s exhaust gases. At the time, the United States and products in response to increasingly strict regulations. first automotive thermal conductivity hydrogen sensor. We will continue to challenge ourselves in a variety Japan were the only countries with such exhaust The hydrogen leak detection sensor, which can of fields through the use of various technologies that accurately detect hydrogen leaks, has already been can be derived from ceramics. selected for use in the mass production of FCVs. 1973 1985 2006 2016 Started the manufacture of glow plugs Total number of domestic Started the sale of Started the manufacture of (ceramic type) production of Spark Plugs reached hydrogen leak temperature sensors for 10 billion units detection sensors automobiles 1982 2005 2007 Started the manufacture of Developed a hydroxyapatite cement Developed “1kW class solid oxygen sensors for oxide fuel cell power automobiles generation system” 11 About NGK SPARK PLUG 12 NGK SPARK PLUG’s 84 % Keyword for today’s NGK Sales Structure SPARK PLUG Net sales The company’s ratio of sales outside Japan is 84%. Our business network spans 21 countries. We are actively working to expand our production and sales network into emerging markets by creating a 04 outside Japan production system optimized on a global scale. Consolidated net sales composition by business Consolidated net sales composition by region The automotive components business, which is centered on spark plugs and automotive exhaust gas sensors, The company operates businesses around the world, We are somewhat affected by foreign exchange rates, accounts for 80% or more of the company’s sales. At present, we are focusing on creating new businesses, as we but we do not rely on any particular region, and therefore our risks are diversified. aim to diversify our portfolio of businesses over the long-term. 10% 1% 4% Technical ceramics group Central and South – ceramics div. – Other America Other 7% Japan 17% Cutting tools Net sales for the year ended Net sales for the year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Electrostatic chucks Technical ceramics group – semiconductor div. – 409.9 billion yen 409.9 billion yen North America 26% 4% Semiconductor ceramic packages Automotive Components group 85% Asia 20% Europe 26% Spark plugs Glow plugs Automotive exhaust gas sensors 13 About NGK SPARK PLUG 14 Past, Present, and Future Keyword for Real Value today’s NGK Management Plans SPARK PLUG The company is moving forward with its “three years of evolving” and the five years that look toward creating “Real Value” as its seventh medium-term management plan to serve as the final phase of 05 “NITTOKU SHINKARON.” We are diligently working to provide real value through resolving management issues that were discovered through practice. Looking back on the Medium-term Management Plans Year ended March 31, 2011 to year ended Year ended March 31, 2014 to year ended From year ended March 31, 2017 Evolving March 31, 2013 Delving March 31, 2016 Renovating Delve into existing businesses and Concept Launch new products or new business Develop existing and new business at an accelerated rate seek new business Period to assess and recognize changes in the Preparation period to become newly reborn A preparation period to become newly reborn, change what needs to be changed with courage while staying true environment surrounding our company With a foundation in measures under “Delving,” increase speed in “decision-making” and to our DNA “execution” to work toward the launch of new products and new businesses In 2010, we raised the “NITTOKU SHINKARON” long-term management plan in view of where we wish to be in 10 years, and this plan is an evolution that serves as the final stage and looks toward creating Real Value over a period of five years Establish footing for a strong business foundation and “Maximize use of management resources, implementing bold challenges in new business areas and Core Basic policy Accelerating Current & New Businesses further development sectors ahead of ‘Evolution’” elements (1) Restructure and solidify current businesses via stronger (1) Provide new value in promising new areas via strategic marketing activities (1) Establishing new business pillars “Monozukuri” abilities (2) Not only strengthen current core competencies, but also implement development of new core (2) Strengthening current businesses Issues to (2) Develop new products for the next generation via new competencies (3) Establishing strong business infrastructure focus on R&D structure (3) Recognize that human “assets” are what will “Renovate” the company and accelerate the (3) Strengthen organizational abilities via strategic use of renovation of the company via designating and achieving our own commitments personnel resources 2010  N  GK Spark Plugs (France) takes over NGK Spark 2013 Chinese sensor manufacturing From 2017  T  o strengthen sensor production system, increased capacity at NGK SPARK PLUGS (ASIA) and NGK SPARK Plug Industries Europe (France) via an absorptionsubsidiary “Changshu NGK Spark Plug” PLUGS (INDIA) type merger begins operations Automotive 2011  Advanced concentration to United States West 2014 Construction completed for SparkTec components Virginia Factory by closing Irvine Factory TONO Nino Headquarters Plant Our Ideal Image in the group 2012  Strengthened ceramic sensor manufacturing 2015 Acquired Wells Manufacturing L.P. capabilities Year 2020 Current SparkTech Tono Co., Ltd Delivering “Real Value” businesses Ceramics-div. Semiconductor div. Semiconductor div. 2010  Dissolved cutting tool business subsidiary in 2013 Completed transfer of commercial rights in manufacture of organic CPU packages to 2016 Made semiconductor business an independent subsidiary Poland The No. 1 Leading “Monozukuri” Company Taiwanese partner Established NTK Ceramic 2014 Terminated production of organic packages Reconsidered semiconductor business and manufacturing facilities Technical Ceramics-div. Until 2017 Withdrew from crystal PKG business Highly Profitable Company ceramics 2014 Transferred dielectric business to MARUWA group 2015 Acquired all shares in Nihon Ceratec Progressive Company Transferred assets for ceramic tube business for vacuum switches to India-based Developed new material for cutting tools “BIDEMICS” Human “Asset” Company Solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) 2013 Capital and business alliance with Eastern Co., Ltd. (Joint exploration of new markets (FCCSP)) 2016 Capital alliance with Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing (manufacture and sale of orthopedic implant products) Product development using our company’s technologies 2014 Joint development of “FOMM Concept One” ultracompact electric vehicle with FOMM 2017 Began experimental operation of SOFC “pressurized hybrid power generation system” (Komaki) for global needs and markets in response to global Finalized partnership with US-based Spirometrix to create new products that utilize current Joint development with Hokkaido University toward practical use of artificial cartilage materials New warming sensor technologies Established healthcare material joint research laboratory with AIST products New business discovery project Toward mass production of “Tubular-type Cell Stack” solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), entered Expand use of planar SOFC (from residential to industrial) New Launched project team with the objective of creating business alliance with Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. Gas inhalation sensors: Begin sales of “NO (nitrogen monoxide) inhalation measurement units for hospitals” featuring our business new next-generation businesses by FY2020 and began 2015 Established the Fuel Cell Div. sensor units in Europe expansion activities (response to changes in the management “KM5 5touch (Sale name: 02Fresh-5G)” oxygen concentrator for medical use environment such as revolutions in automotive 2016 Began mass production of hydrogen leak detection sensors New products in development technology) All-solid batteries Laser diode packages for automotive use Air quality sensors 2010 Founded the CSR Committee 2013 Appointed an outside director Launched DIAMOND (Women Empowerment) Project 2016 Increased the number of outside directors to three Joined the UN Global Compact 2011 Established the CSR Policy Began holding global personnel conferences Began program to develop the next generation of global business leaders 2012 Decreased the upper limit of the number of 2014 Increased number of outside directors to two Founded the Working Styles Reforming Office Formulated the “Global Eco Vision 2020” ESG directors from 25 to 13 2017 Established the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Introduced the performance-linked stock remuneration system measures 2015 Formulated the criteria for the appointment of independent directors Introduced the corporate officer system Began assessing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Turned overseas bases into regional headquarters (RHQs) Designated as ESG investment stock Certified Bronze Class at the Sustainable Award 2017 Certified as one of the Excellent Enterprises of Health and Established the working style reform committee Productivity Management (“White 500”) Certified as one of the New Diversity Management Selection 100 companies C  onsider new direction toward structural reforms in the Break away from reliance of over 80% on internal combustion engines Response to contraction in internal combustion engines and movement toward EVs and electrification communication media components business Sharing and strengthening internal technologies; establishment of commercialization promotion structure Development of new businesses Remaining Thorough CSR Strengthen control functions and Create new businesses Fair corporate culture that allows for diverse individuals to reach their potential issues globalization of headquarters divisions Strengthen management foundations toward business growth Enrichment of corporate governance Improve organization abilities Improve organization abilities Strengthen technical ceramics divisions *The chart shows net sales. 15 Commentary on strategies to create value Strategic View 16 CEO Message “renovating,” where we launch new products and new Summary of the Year Ended March 31, 2018: businesses; and “evolving,” where we develop existing and Promoting both the further strengthening of new businesses at an accelerated rate; and our aim has well-performing current businesses and been to become a company that can ultimately deliver “Real creation of new businesses Commentary on strategies to create value Value” to all stakeholders. At present, we are in the third step, “evolving.” In terms Regarding recent business results, the automotive of our current state compared with our ideal images, with components business has been performing favorably overall respect to becoming a “‘Monozukuri’ company,” we have due to the effect of the ongoing strong demand for spark maintained the top share of the global spark plugs market plugs, glow plugs, and sensors not only in developed for many years, and have also acquired the top share in the markets, but also in emerging markets such as China, India, temperature sensor market. In addition, we are also pursuing and Thailand. In China in particular, sales have grown by unique core technology and using it to create new products, more than 20% year on year, and there has also been a including R&D on all-solid state batteries, which are very contribution to profits from factors such as the good safe, using our proprietary technology. With respect to reception to precious metal plugs and other value-added becoming a “highly profitable company,” our operating products in the repair parts market, and we have thus income ratio for the year ended March 31, 2018 was 16.4%, made progress with the issue of expanding sales in maintaining a high level among companies in the automotive emerging markets. components industry. We are targeting an operating income Stricter environmental regulations around the world are ratio of 20% by the year ending March 31, 2021, as we contributing to increased demand in the sensor business, focus on management that prioritizes high profitability by and we expect the number of units in use to continue Work to achieve reducing losses in the ceramic packaging business of the increasing, mainly with regard to value-added products such semiconductor-related business in line with plans and as wide-range sensors that measure oxygen concentration improving profitability for the Group as a whole. Regarding in exhaust gas and sensors that detect NOx. Volumes of the long-term management becoming a “progressive company,” in addition to aiming some sensors have decreased with the decline in sales of toward further expansion in current businesses, we will diesel-powered vehicles, but overall demand continues to actively advance the creation of new businesses. Sales in the trend upward, partly because of an offsetting increase from a automotive components business are currently proceeding shift to sales of gasoline-powered vehicles, and we shall plan targets ahead of targets and still make up over 80% of the total, as the proportion of growth businesses, including new businesses, remains relatively low in terms of the balance of respond to the demands of the market. In our semiconductor package business, which remains an issue, we made it a business subsidiary in 2016, and have by maintaining our status as a highly profitable company our business portfolio. There are many uncertainties related been diligently working by inviting management talent, to new businesses and there are aspects that are difficult to reconsidering facilities, selecting and concentrating of control, but in view of potential ultra-long-term risks posed products, and reduce fixed costs. As a result, for the year by the shift to electric vehicles and the spread of car sharing, ended March 31, 2018, we were successful in reducing the we must create new business pillars. In addition, as the amount of losses by about half compared to the previous Shinichi Odo business environment changes, we shall also hasten to year. We are making steady progress in line with our Representative Director and Chairman of strengthen our management foundations to facilitate regeneration plan, and are focusing on achieving profitability the Board Chief Executive Officer President Officer sustainable growth. With regard to being a “human ‘asset’ over the full-year by the year ending March 31, 2020. company,” we are engaged in diversity management and In addition, in regard to new businesses, we are focusing personnel reforms in the form of providing opportunities for on developing and producing tubular and planar stacks in the women and the “platinum generation (aging workers)” via the fuel cell business, which was established as division in 2016, “NITTOKU SHINKARON” Long-Term the final year of our seventh medium-term management plan, Strategic Human Resources Department. We are fostering a in order to supply a full line-up of stacks for home use, Management Plan Progress have designated net sales of 520 billion yen and operating corporate culture that treats our diverse human resources commercial use, and industrial use. Looking ahead, there are income of 100 billion yen, and we are continuing to endeavor fairly, and enables them to work in a lively and active manner. plans for the installation of a pressurized hybrid power Since the founding of NGK SPARK PLUG in 1936, we have to achieve these targets. established our raison d’etre as offering new value to people In the “NITTOKU SHINKARON,” a long-term around the world, utilizing our technical expertise in combining management plan we formulated in 2010, we outlined our our core strength in ceramics with different materials, our ideal images in the year 2020 as a “‘Monozukuri’ company,” Evolving development of quality products, and our technical expertise in a “highly profitable company,” a “progressive company,” and mass-production. Our businesses have been developed in line a “human ‘asset’ company.” We have divided our path to with global economic expansion and the trend toward motorization. As targets for the year ending March 31, 2021, achieve this images into three steps: “delving,” where we at an accelerated rate delve into existing businesses and seek new businesses; 17 Commentary on strategies to create value 18 CEO Message generation system (made by Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Preparing for business risks from game Systems, Ltd.) equipped with our Tubular-type Cell Stacks. changers such as entry by the ICT industry into distribution Assess business risks and keep with Commentary on strategies to create value Correspond to business risks in a Not limited to EV risk, there are various risks surrounding changing market our company’s businesses over the mediumto longterm stemming from trends in the market, technology, the times There is a possibility that the external environment of our and laws and regulations. One such risk that we have our company will change drastically in the future due to factors eye on is the effect of progress in ICT (information and such as the spread of electric vehicles (EVs). Furthermore, communications technology) on distribution for PHVs (plug-in hybrid vehicles) run for longer periods solely automotive components. Spark plugs for repair use are on electrical power than HVs (hybrid vehicles), so we must mainly sold in stores, etc., and we have built a strong also consider the possibility that spark plugs will last much distribution network. However, developments in ICT have longer. Looking ahead, it might be shrinking the repair parts caused revolutions in retail formats in many industries, business along with the spread of EVs and PHVs. We and we are aware that we must implement some form of recognize these changes as significant risks that may affect countermeasure in future, even in retail distribution for a advancement of automation. development if, after profitability is achieved, the operating our businesses, and we must adopt countermeasures from BtoB company like us. First, we shall further utilize our At the same time, another issue is the continuation of income ratio is only 2% to 3%.There is no room for growth a long-term perspective. On a daily basis, I encourage our distribution network to sell other automotive components manufacturing technologies that have been fostered during investment, and we shall therefore soon consider strategies employees to face new challenges and take risks to create in addition to spark plugs, such as ignition coils. our over 80 years in Monozukuri. Automation and aimed at moving from “surviving” to “winning,” to enable us and foster new businesses. systemization has advanced by leaps and bounds in the to secure an appropriate operating income ratio to invest Meanwhile, according to documents published this year manufacturing process for ceramics products, and time for “winning”. by the International Energy Agency (IEA), against a backdrop To further expand the automotive business, required for baking has been reduced significantly. For of increasing automotive demand in emerging markets, the revise ‘monozukuri’ example, we recently succeeded in reducing the time number of automobiles with internal combustion engines will required for baking processes for insulators by one hour, but Improving efficiency for supply chain continue to grow until 2050 in both the global number sold Against a backdrop of stronger environmental regulations, there doing so required many years of steady testing. In this way, management on a global scale and number owned, commanding a large share of the overall have been rapid improvements in vehicle fuel economy, there are many aspects of ceramics that cannot be fully automotive industry, even with the inclusion of EVs. This reductions of CO2 emissions, and downsizing of engines. As a explained by logic alone, and aspects remain that are reliant NGK SPARK PLUG operates businesses on a global scale, indicates a scenario where there will not be such a rapid shift result, not only must spark plugs maintain and improve a high on people’s intuition and talent. In addition to handing down and we recognize that reforms aimed at further toward EVs that do not require our mainstay products of level of ignitability, but their sizes must be adjusted to reduce these technologies and abilities to the young generation, strengthening supply chain management (SCM) are an spark plugs and sensors in the next 10 to 20 years. In their diameter and make them longer as well. through the use of ICT, it will also be necessary to consider important issue. With regard to our mainstay spark plugs particular, about 75% of the spark plugs our Group provides The insulator, which serves as the core of the spark plug, is Monozukuri methods that do not rely on intuition and talent. products, they can be shipped in high densities via transport are used for repair purposes. Even after new cars are sold, like a piece of pottery that must be baked, and is a functional containers due to their small size. Accordingly, transportation spark plugs must be replaced for vehicles owned, so it is component that is very difficult to make thin, narrow and long. expenses as a portion of overall costs have remained at a unlikely that this demand will fall drastically in a short span of We are able to respond to trends in new engines and Semiconductor package business to move level that does not have a significant effect. However, time, and when viewed from the global market, the market is environmental regulations because we have expertise nurtured from “survival” to “winning” logistics costs such as personnel expenses in warehousing actually expected to grow at over 5% on an annual basis. As over many years from taking on the entire process of operations are on the rise around the world. In response, for we hold a significant share of the global spark plug market at development and manufacturing from ceramic materials to the We are implementing reforms in the semiconductor example, we invested several billion yen in Europe to focus present, the NGK SPARK PLUG Group must continue to final product, including production technologies to stably package business, where losses have continued for on introducing robotics and automation in our logistics provide a stable supply to the market. produce quality functional components such as these. I believe many years, as we aim to achieve profitability by the operations. In Japan, we also created a new logistics center We must make some difficult decisions with regard to that this “ceramic development ability” and “ceramic product year ending March 31, 2020. three years ago and established a model method, which we future demand forecasts, but we shall endeavor not to suffer mass production technical expertise” give NGK SPARK PLUG a The company intends to continue operating the have begun rolling out globally. In the future, we will significant opportunity losses in an optimistic scenario, and competitive advantage. semiconductor package business. Value-added products accelerate such measures globally, and work toward the we also intend to establish new businesses that can secure However, there are issues that we must address in such as wide-range sensors and planar fuel cell stacks have optimization of logistics. profits even if a crisis occurs sooner than expected in a future in regard to production processes. In addition to been created by using semiconductor package technology scenario unfavorable for the company, while carefully continuously striving to improve performance and quality, in a cross-departmental manner. We have been able to refine assessing capital expenditures and making bold decisions we have also constantly improved productivity as well, our core semiconductor package technologies precisely Targets for the year ending March 31, 2019: so as not to miss opportunities for investment in new but at present, full automation has not been achieved, because we operate the semiconductor package business Forecasts call for increased sales and profits businesses, and thereby addressing business risks that will and there are certain processes that require a human as a business rather than R&D, and have developed on the back of strong performance from the significantly impact our management. touch. In particular, with an older population and lower applications for products through varied trial and error under automotive components business birthrate in Japan, a lack of personnel is an increasingly difficult circumstances. First, we aim to “survive” and achieve dire issue regardless of industry, and issues lie in the use profitability, in order to continue operating this business. Regarding business results forecasts for the year ending of robotics in the manufacturing process and further On the other hand, it will be difficult to target business March 31, 2019, at present, we project that both net sales 19 Commentary on strategies to create value 20 CEO Message and income will improve upon those achieved during the in SOFCs as fuel cells for power generation that use ceramic a solid business model through spark plugs and sensors, by people like the CEO or COO, but through a framework previous year. In addition to products such as spark plugs solid electrolytes. As this field can make use of our specialty in and to our benefit, we have been able to expand our in which persons in open environments both inside and and sensors in the automotive components business ceramics technologies, we are currently focusing on product business through a chain of successes. But viewed from a outside of the company can understand. In addition, a continuing to be drivers, the technical ceramics business commercialization with the aim of becoming a comprehensive different perspective, we are prone to becoming an performance-linked stock remuneration system has been Commentary on strategies to create value such as SPE business* will also contribute to results. cell stack manufacturer including residential, commercial, and organization that finds it difficult to foster a corporate introduced for executives since 2017 with the intent of For the full year, we forecast that net sales will increase by industrial use. culture that does not fear failure. heightening their motivation to contribute to improving 6.4% year on year to of 436.0 billion yen, operating income Additionally, we are also advancing development of In the seven years that have passed since I became business results and expanding our corporate value over will increase by 7.0% year on year to 72.0 billion yen, elemental technologies regarding solid-state batteries, which president, I have talked and explained about the importance the mediumto long-term. In regard to crossordinary income will increase by 8.5% year on year to 75.0 are being looked at as next-generation batteries due to their of facing challenges and taking risks. Compared with when I shareholdings, we have been reducing our shareholdings billion yen, and profit attributable to owners of the parent will high safety and performance. As their solid inorganic was appointed as president, I can feel that the mindset of on a yearly basis, and are considering further reducing our increase by 18.4% year on year to 52.5 billion yen. For our compounds are used as electrolyte material, we are our employees has definitely begun to change. In addition, shareholdings in future. plans for capital investment, we plan to invest 43.8 billion advancing development that makes use of our ceramics we have launched the “DNA Project,” which has the NGK SPARK PLUG signed the UN Global Compact in yen. By strengthening our abilities in each business, we technologies here as well. After about 10 years of R&D, objective of creating businesses for 10 years in the future, November 2016. As a good corporate citizen, we will comply believe that we can respond to strong demand. component prototypes have been completed, and we are and is centered on employees in their 20s and 30s. This with the ten principles of the Compact and contribute to the We are targeting spark plugs production of looking into future business expansion. project led to the creation of a new subsidiary in 2018. In creation of a sustainable society through the achievement of approximately 1.0 billion units in the year ending March 31, Meanwhile, in the medical field, we have developed addition, in order to encourage people to “face challenges” the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2021, and with our plans for significant capital expenditures techniques for ceramics in the form of sintered bone in the company, we began reforming our personnel structure in areas such as land and buildings largely solidified, we shall prosthetic materials, which are made by sintering materials four years ago, with the aim of renewing the evaluation move to the implementation stage in a timely manner. incorporating the inorganic component of bones, and system. At present, we are continuing with personnel Approach to shareholder returns We will consider subsequent capital expenditures by keeping hardening-type bone prosthesis, which can fit to replace reforms under the leadership of the Strategic Human close watch on future demand projections. absent parts of the bones during surgery and harden in Resources Department. We will work to create “transparency In the seventh medium-term management plan, our basic * SPE = Semiconductor production equipment bodies afterward. Furthermore, we are also promoting in personnel assets” on a global basis through initiatives policy is to return profits to shareholders, with a stable development of new artificial bones that have features similar such as creating a personnel asset database, while dividend as the base and a dividend payout ratio of at to natural bones as well as strengthening our businesses promoting the unified management of personnel assets, least 30%, also share buybacks accordingly, but I would Direction in new businesses: through initiatives such as a capital alliance in 2016 with from acquisition to development to assignment. like to aim for a total return ratio of 50% when share “Solving social issues” through our products Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, INC., a reseller of medical In 2013, the Group launched the “DIAMOND buybacks are included. We are still at the stage where new devices. In future, we shall consider business development, Project,” and has been promoting the creation of a investments and capital expenditure to prevent opportunity For our direction in new businesses, we have considered fields including M&A, as we look toward expanding sales in Europe, workplace where women can shine. Furthermore, in losses are required, and I would like to ask for where we can utilize our strengths to tackle business United States, and other developed countries. 2015, we also began work on “working style reforms” shareholders’ understanding in this regard. opportunities, while remaining mindful of our contribution to that revisit work-life balance on a companywide scale, future social issues. Specifically, we will advance initiatives in Establishing corporate culture essential for not just for women. Although the DIAMOND Project has next-generation automobiles, the environmentand energycreating new businesses and personnel been successful in increasing the number of women in Becoming a corporate group that can related field, and the medical field. reforms aimed at sustainable growth managerial positions by a factor of three since its launch contribute to a bright future of growth in the First is the development of cell stacks that serve as the core five years ago, I feel that if the number increases by a automotive industry component of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), which are expected It is my belief that to create new businesses, changing our factor of three again, it will be easier for women to to serve a vital role in a hydrogen society. Hope has been placed employees’ mindset is essential. Our Group has established envision a career and actively participate. In addition, we Thank you for your kind support of NGK SPARK PLUG. shall further promote diversity among management, in As the overall automotive industry moves toward a order to approach issues from a range of perspectives, historic revolution, automotive components manufacturers and live up to the expectations of stakeholders. need to redefine their own positions. Our Group will not be held back by our previous successes and current Solving conditions, keeping a watchful eye on market and industry Approach to governance changes to reveal our path forward. And through solving societal issues, we will aim to become a corporate group After introducing a corporate officer system in 2012, we that can contribute to the development of a bright future. social issues have reduced the number of directors and currently have To our shareholders and investors, I ask for your structure with ten directors including three outside continued understanding and support. directors and four audit & supervisory board members including two outside audit & supervisory board members. With a broad range of ideas exchanged at board meetings, through our products and creating I think that the Board of Directors is functioning well, and thanks to the introduction of the Nomination and our new value Remuneration Committees, decisions are not made solely 21 Commentary on strategies to create value 22 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Value Creation Process OUTPUT Value we provide = Commentary on strategies to create value Social issues resolved (Medium-term Three strengths management plan KPIs) Our Ideal Image in the Year 2020 INPUT External factors Technology Net sales R& Contribution to D 520.0 g environmental issues Risk Number of new patents filed n nin la billion yen Cleaning up automotive exhaust gases 1,010 Decline in number of vehicles P Improving automotive fuel economy with internal combustion engines Efficient use of hydrogen Fall from peak automotive Reducing environmental pollutants demand in developed countries R&D expenses Operating income 25.2 Decline in demand for plugs due Tools ting to engine downsizing Cut Delayed response to environmental issues in various billion yen o ti ve ut om A ctors Proc 100.0 billion yen ondu Capital expenditures urement countries Cera mics mic co m p Information and infrastructure Labor shortages International situation 37.5 billion yen o n e n ts techno Mass pro logies duction Se Operating income ratio maintenance Creating high-functionality electronic devices techno logies 20 Reducing lead times for plant Opportunity mi manufacturing processes Sale w cs Global Ne bu ra % or more sin ce Effective use of facilities Stricter environmental s ess strial regulations 21 overseas countries es Indu Challenging ourselves in space Increased automotive demand in 39companies t en emerging markets Joint development with em ROIC Expansion in semiconductormajor global automotive ag an related products (ceramic manufacturers m 13% or more packages, electrostatic chucks, t y etc.) due to higher demand for u ali Improving safety Finance Lo g is n dq Dividend payout ratio Safety in automotive driving semiconductors ti c s na c tio Possibilities of a hydrogen Rating and Investment Produ 30.0% society Information, Inc. A+ Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. A+ Long-term management plan: NITTOKU SHINKARON Development of medical Corporate Global Eco Vision 2020 Compliance Policy technologies foundation CSR Policy Code of Conduct Improving QOL Corporate Philosophy Safety in surgical procedures Corporate DNA The Nittoku Way 23 Commentary on strategies to create value 24 Risks and Opportunities The markets surrounding NGK SPARK PLUG are entering a transitional phase, and our businesses are directly facing significant changes. We aim to identify shortto medium-term, and long-term risks and opportunities, and maximize profit in existing businesses, while also turning risks into chances and boldly embarking on the challenge of creating new businesses that look to the future. Commentary on strategies to create value Short-term Medium-term Long-term Measures Risks Risk / opportunity expected time horizon Demand for automobiles is expected to increase over the shortto medium-term, so, we are focusing on further strengthening the automotive components business. By measures that include enhancing manufacturing efficiency with thorough process management, reducing defects and increasing the overseas production ratio in order to lessen the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations, we aim to continue securing profits, while also utilizing our advantage in terms of technological development to further increase our market share. Decline in automobiles with internal Looking ahead, we will also utilize NGK SPARK PLUG’s global sales network to the greatest possible extent as we engage in sales and distribution businesses for automotive components other than spark plugs. In addition to enhancing the automotive components combustion engines business in this way, we shall also endeavor to develop the fuel cell business, medical business, and other new businesses, as we look to achieve our target of sales of 30 billion yen in these areas by the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. We intend to make careful decisions about our future response, while closely watching trends in each country and the actions of each automaker. In the shortand medium-term, the shift to high-performance, value-added products is continuing, and we are Peaking of demand for automobiles focusing on product development and sales to allow us to address this demand. Furthermore, in the United States, where has the in developed countries culture of users repairing their own cars, we shall endeavor to further strengthen our ties with the automotive repair market, and further increase our market share. As the trend toward engine downsizing advances, the number of cylinders and spark plugs per vehicle will decline. On the other hand, as conditions within engines become increasingly restricted, spark plugs are required that have a high level of added value Decrease demand for spark plugs in terms of ignitability, voltage resistance, etc., but there are a limited number of companies that can develop such spark plugs. with trend toward engine downsizing We view this as an opportunity and aim to further increase profits by responding to the “increasing use of spark plugs with advanced functionality.” Since April 2018, we have taken steps to strengthen the functions of the Strategic Human Resources Department and secure the necessary human resources by promoting efforts to hire and utilize human resources on a global basis, in addition to creating a Labor shortage comfortable working environment by providing systems to enhance employee loyalty. In addition, we shall also work to save labor by outsourcing, increasing automation and the use of IT in production processes, and enhancing operational efficiency. Furthermore, we shall also strengthen our means of connecting with diverse human resources by working to enhance awareness of NGK SPARK PLUG. Risks Opportunities Opportunities Environmental regulations are becoming stricter in different countries, particularly in Europe, in order to create a sustainable society. In order to realize this objective, NGK SPARK PLUG develops and sells various sensors related to engine temperature increases and Stricter environmental regulations exhaust gases for automobiles. Looking ahead, opportunities to provide these products are expected to increase in line with stricter environmental regulations, including providing products for new installment in motorcycles in emerging countries, particularly India and Southeast Asia, and increases in the number of units in use per vehicle. At present we are focused on expanding our market share, mainly in China and India, and are implementing sales strategies tailored to each region. In China, we are seeing favorable sales of low-price spark plugs tailored to the market, which we Expanded demand for automobiles began selling in the previous year. In addition, we are focusing on building a network of distributors in inland regional cities, in emerging markets building relationships with local manufacturers, and strengthening our sales network. In India, we are focusing on building and strengthening our sales support systems. Increasing semiconductor-related In the semiconductor-related business, we are expanding the uses and customers for our semiconductor manufacturing equipmentproducts in line with increase in related products, by leveraging synergies with NTK CERATEC Co., Ltd. (former Nihon Ceratec Co., Ltd.), with which we integrated management in 2015. In the semiconductor business, we are developing semiconductor packages for various uses. semiconductor demand We are promoting the fuel cell business as a growth business and aim to become an integrated supplier and manufacturer of SOFC Possibilities of a society powered by (solid oxide fuel cells) stacks. In future, we shall also begin developing SOEC (solid oxide electrolysis cells), which produce hydrogen. In addition, we are also developing products that look toward a society powered by hydrogen energy, including hydrogen leak hydrogen energy detection sensors to protect the safety of hydrogen-powered vehicles. 25 Commentary on strategies to create value Strategic View 26 Message from Finance Officer Kenji Isobe First half of seventh medium-term management plan Member of the Board, Corporate Officer largely progressing as planned. Senior General Manager, Corporate Administration Group Engaging in ROIC management and Commentary on strategies to create value aimming to achieve stretch goals while maintaining a sense of balance. Progress toward management indicators Approach to financing also one reason our WACC has been high. Our company Our seventh medium-term management plan (hereinafter At NGK SPARK PLUG, we have made ROIC a Approach to use of funds believes that conducting steady dividends and reducing our “mid-term plan”), which began in April 2016, contains stretch management indicator because we believe it is important equity ratio through share buybacks will ultimately lead to goals, particularly in its second half, but our progress in the first to ensure investment efficiency across all businesses and In regard to the use of funds raised, NGK SPARK PLUG shareholder returns, in other words, the total return ratio will half has been generally in line with plans. We are gradually improve corporate value by targeting efficient operation intends to invest in new businesses and growth increase. Balance is important here as well. While maintaining approaching our targets, with the operating income ratio and across the company as a whole, effectively utilizing funds, businesses to create new business pillars, in addition to our shareholder returns measures, we intend to allocate profits ROIC* at 16.4% and 10% respectively in the year ended including those raised by means other than equity from reforming our business portfolio to prepare for in a well-balanced manner between investments in growth March 31, 2018. Although our targets of an operating income the market. When creating budgets, we assess business circumstances where the automotive components businesses, and the employees who support the company. ratio of 20% or more and ROIC of 13% or more are high, I continuity and other factors, while making comparisons businesses cannot maintain the current high level of believe it is important that we maintain our strength of being a with budgets in three years’ time, including ROIC, and profitability over the ultra-long-term. However, demand in “highly profitable company.” We have made employees across comparing targets and present values each quarter. I feel the automotive components business is currently Approach to financial and management the company conscious of our motto, “set stretch goals and that awareness of ROIC has gradually spread in each stronger than expected, and there is a risk of opportunity indicators going forward achieve completion,” but I would like to contribute to achieving business, but in terms of ROIC for the company as a losses if we refrain from investment in existing management indicators in terms of our financial strategy, taking whole, I think we should increase ROIC by increasing the businesses. Accordingly, we shall attempt to maximize NGK SPARK PLUG has been a highly profitable company for into consideration awareness of ROIC, reduction in capitalnumerator in the ROIC formula (net operating income profits by investing in existing businesses, while also many years, and I think there has been a culture of focusing raising cost, sense of balance in balance sheets, cash flows, after tax), rather than reducing investment. In ROIC increasing the proportion of investment in new and solely on profit and loss for that reason. However, going and profit and loss, balance in investments between existing management, each business manages ROIC based on growth businesses, although this shall also require forward, I think we must focus not only on profit, but also on and new businesses, and total return ratio. the asset base (accounts receivable trade + inventories balance. In particular, starting from this year ending the balance sheet and cash flows, otherwise stakeholders, *ROIC: Net operating income after tax ÷ invested capital – accounts payable trade), but for the company as a March 31, 2019, we have increased new businesses’ particularly investors, may increasingly not approve of aspects whole, we shall manage ROIC based on the liabilities share of R&D expenses, and the number of opportunities of our management. We shall endeavor to enhance corporate Business performance indicators base (interest bearing debt + shareholders’ equity). We to consider investment in new businesses has also value, based on the approaches to future financing, use of ■ Net sales (100 million yen) ■ Operating income (100 million yen) Operating income ratio (%) ROIC (%) Dividend payout ratio (%) shall focus on how much return on invested capital increased. In addition to increasing the proportion of funds, and shareholder returns I have described. 35.2 30.0 (ROIC) can exceed the weighted average cost of capital investment in new businesses and growth businesses 28.7 27.7 (WACC) as a management target for the company as a over the long-term, in order to steadily develop profitable 20.0 14.4 16.4 16.5 13.0 whole. While the business side is tasked with enhancing businesses, we shall also make difficult investment ROIC, on the financial side we shall fulfill the role of decisions at the same time in order not to allow any To achieve our goals 8.5 10.0 10.1 5,200 reducing WACC from the current 6% or so as much as opportunity losses in existing businesses. possible. Taking this into consideration, we shall For the seventh medium-term management plan, we shall 4,360 4,099 approach financing with a long-term perspective, while firmly seek new business in the first half of the five-year period 3,729 maintaining a sense of balance in regard to the two and look to achieve our ambitious targets as these efforts bear issues of: 1) financing plans that take the DE ratio into Approach to shareholder returns fruit and we see growth in the second half. I will cautiously account; and 2) ratings to contribute to interest bearing observe progress as the person responsible for accounting financing at a low cost. Returns to shareholders are based on three measures: and finance, and do my utmost to provide support to achieve 1,000 672 720 “stable returns,” “dividend payout ratio of 30%,” and “share our goals. 535 buybacks.” In the past, internal reserves remained high as 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 (plan) 2021/3 (plan) dividends and share buybacks were moderate, and this was 27 Creating value in business Review of Business 28 1 NGK SPARK Plug and sensor's Figure 1 Estimated global number of vehicles sold and vehicles owned 3 PLUG’s Key 2 Issues future strategy Global number of vehicles sold (RTS) Global number of vehicles owned (RTS) (Millions of units) ■ Fuel Cell ■ BEV ■ PHEV Diesel ■ Hybrid Diesel ■ ICE Diesel (Millions of units) ■ Fuel Cell ■ BEV ■ PHEV Diesel ■ Hybrid Diesel ■ ICE Diesel ■ PHEV Spark Ignition ■ Hybrid Spark Ignition ■ ICE Spark Ignition ■ PHEV Spark Ignition ■ Hybrid Spark Ignition ■ ICE Spark Ignition 250 3,000 200 2,400 150 1,800 100 1,200 50 600 0 0 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Source:  Based on IEA Mobility Model data developed by the International Energy Agency, ©OECD/IEA 2018. High voltage resistant insulators Current insulators Figure 2 Creating compact and durable spark plugs (High) Dielectric breakdown voltage (Low) Creating value in business Improved Weight Weight Weight voltage Ongoing spark plug demand resistance Thick Thin Thinner High voltage resistant Thread diameter insulators Normal reach Long reach Long reach Long reach (Thick) Insulator thickness (Thin) Business environment and trends Our strengths and future strategy Spark plug demand continues to grow in particular, it is estimated that sales of automobiles with Use technological advantages to work toward edge technological trends on repair markets across the engines will remain strong. In tandem with this, it can be expanding market share world, ensuring that the needs of the repair market are met. As environmental regulations across the world become assumed that sales volume of spark plugs will also grow. By making use of these strengths, and to maximize profits, increasingly strict, development of electric vehicles (EVs) at Figure 1 We are a company that has refined our ceramics we will secure required production abilities for an everautomotive manufacturers is rapidly advancing. In reality, technologies as a “comprehensive ceramics manufacturer” expanding market, create structures to enable the many unresolved issues remain, such as charging time, High technological barriers in spark plugs for over 80 years, and have a significant advantage in production of approximately 1.0 billion units annually by the driving range, and battery manufacturing costs, and it is ceramics technologies. year ending March 31, 2021, and work toward further believed that it will be some time before the proliferation of In automobiles, to address environmental concerns and To “improve durability” and “reduce diameters” of spark expanding our market share. automobiles that run solely on electrical power. Furthermore, associated issues in fuel economy, low emissions, and plugs, the improvement of the insulator part is a necessity, even if the transition to EVs accelerates rapidly, the first to interior space, the development of increasingly compact as it serves as the foundation for spark plugs performance. achieve critical mass will be plug-in hybrid vehicles or hybrid engines, or engine downsizing, has become a recent The insulator part is made of ceramics and accounts for the vehicles that feature an engine, and spark plugs will continue trend. In line with engine downsizing, spark plugs are majority of a spark plug’s composition. Since we are involved to be a requirement. Therefore, demand for plugs now required to be thinner and longer. Meanwhile, as the in the entire process of ceramics production from the disappearing is a risk to be considered over the long term. conditions in which spark plugs are used become more materials research stage to the manufacturing stage, we are Additionally, of spark plugs sold, approximately 75% are difficult, creating thin ceramics that are required for able to respond in detail to requests for high performance for repairs, and unless all vehicles including those already insulator sections is generally considered to be difficult, and specifications. owned transition to those that run solely on electric power, and the technological barrier grows by the day. Additionally, since we have business connections with nearly demand for spark plugs will not disappear. In Asian countries Figure 2 all automotive manufacturers, we are able to grasp such as China, the number of new automobiles sold is technological trends and respond appropriately. We are then projected to continue to increase, and in emerging markets able to sell products that are the first to reflect these cutting 29 Creating value in business Review of Business 30 1 NGK SPARK Figure 3 Regulatory trends, elemental technologies, and compliant products 3 PLUG’s Key 2 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Issues Tier3 LEV4 LEV3 (Undecided) Regulatory trends Tech trends Eu6d temp Eu7 WLTP/RDE Eu6d (Undecided) required by vehicles WLTP/RDE National National 6b 6a Regulations Regulations WLTP WLTP/RDE BS6 Regulations RDE Regulatory tightening HEV expansion 48V expansion China restrictions tightened (GPF) (Postprocessing revision) Gasoline Lean burn Forced induction gasoline PHEV expansion Fuel reforming NOx reduction PM regulations Postprocessing complications Regulatory tightening Diesel (High EGR) tightened owing to regulatory tightening (Postprocessing revision) Creating value in business Figure 4 Trends in sensor numbers Future of the sensor business Before mid-term plan ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20 ’21 ’22 ’23 ’24 ’25 ● Euro6d ● Euro6d Environmental temp ● National 6a Regulations WLTP ● National 6a Regulations WLTP/RDE regulations ● BS6 Regulations Trends in sensor numbers NOx sensors +45% annually with high added-value sensors ■ NOx sensors ■ Knock sensors Wide-range ■ Temperature sensors sensors ■ Wide-range sensors +24% annually ■ Oxygen sensors 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2021/3 Business environment and trends Our strengths and future strategy Stronger exhaust gas regulations to cause Difficult technological barriers Leverage technological advantages and will also increase, and we project that this will cause growth in sensor demand to continue strengthen production structure demand to rise significantly in exhaust gas sensors. As a Owing to stronger exhaust gas restrictions in various company with ceramics technologies for the development “Living in harmony with the environment” has been a countries, the performance required of exhaust gas sensors As such environmental restrictions progress further, it is of high value-added sensors and a diversified portfolio of longstanding issue in the automotive industry. From the is rising. Not limited to oxygen sensors that were mainstream estimated that the number of motorcycles and products in the exhaust gas sensor field, we believe that 1990s onward, in developed nations such as Europe and the to this point, the need for products with high added value is automobiles newly utilizing exhaust gas sensors will our company has a strong advantage in future United States, exhaust gas restrictions have been put in increasing, including wide-range sensors that can measure increase while the number of sensors installed per vehicle development. place, growing increasingly strict. Furthermore, in emerging exhaust gas conditions in greater detail and NOx sensors To establish a structure for future increases in markets as well, environmental restrictions are being that can measure nitrogen oxide. The development of such demand, we are working to strengthen manufacturing tightened in recent years, and in China, where air pollution sensors requires not only time, but a high level of capabilities for various sensors in countries such as India, has become a dire issue, exhaust gas restrictions will be manufacturing technology for the processing of their Thailand, and the United States. By further strengthening further strengthened in around 2020, creating further ceramics, meaning only a handful of companies have the our development abilities, we will improve our future demand for exhaust gas sensors. capabilities for development. market competitiveness, accelerate business expansion, Additionally, in India, stronger exhaust gas restrictions Figure 4 and contribute to environmental conservation. are planned for motorcycles, causing a significant increase in demand for exhaust gas sensors for motorcycles as well. We believe that the wave of stronger exhaust gas restrictions will continue to spread across the world. Figure 3 A factory being expanded in India to strengthen our production capabilities, primarily in regard to oxygen sensors for motorcycles. (Scheduled to be completed in 2019) 31 Creating value in business Review of Business 32 1 NGK SPARK Product development derived Environmentand energy-related field Expanding use of planar SOFC cell stacks 3 PLUG’s Key 22 from ceramics Regarding planar SOFC cell stacks that are currently under development, in addition to previous Issues residential uses, we have expanded their use to commercial and industrial applications, which require more power output. We are engaged in development and evaluation to respond to the performance demands of fuel cell system manufacturers in the commercial and industrial sector that require high efficiency and long-term reliability. As a part of this effort, we are providing cell stacks to experimental machinery manufactured by Hitachi Zosen Corporation and are participating in experimental trials. Moving forward, we will work to grow our portfolio of achievements to expand our business in providing cell stacks for fuel cell batteries in a wide range of outputs and applications. Medical field Established research laboratory toward development of medical and healthcare products NGK SPARK AIST PLUG In April 2017, to strengthen materials R&D for medical and healthcare products, we established a materials and chemistry research laboratory within the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST). Through cooperation between our company, with our strengths in product development utilizing new ceramics materials, and AIST, with its high technological potential for the combination, device Joint creation, and evaluation of medical materials and advanced ceramics, we are working in partnership to Creating value in business Research realize innovative healthcare products and contribute to improving QOL (quality of life) for people. Laboratory Creating New Value Next-generation automobile field Hydrogen leak detection sensors Hydrogen leak detection sensors detect small hydrogen leaks from fuel cell systems and stop the provision of hydrogen to fuel cells. As our hydrogen leak detection sensors do not use chemical reactions, they have low degradation over time, are fast to start up and respond, and utilize a “heat transfer method” that is resistant to vibrations and shocks, allowing for highly accurate measurements on the existence of hydrogen gas through measuring the amount of heat dissipated on the heater (detector element) by hydrogen. R&D with ceramics at the core Ceramics have characteristics that include “insulation,” “heat Leveraging the characteristics of ceramics (zirconia), we production structures. In the medical field, we are aiming for next-generation energy storage devices, and are working to resistance,” and “abrasion resistance.” Our company has have paved the way toward our future through constant overseas expansion of products such as artificial bones, and see their use in home appliances, mobile phones and drones, grown by developing and manufacturing products that utilize development of new products such as “exhaust gas will work to fulfill our duty to create products needed by an as well as in mobility applications, in the future. Additionally, to these characteristics. sensors” that measure automotive exhaust gas conditions, aging society. In the next-generation automobile field, we are leverage exhaust sensing technologies found in gas sensors in Additionally, through creating new value by combining ceramic cutting tools that offer heat resistance and durability, developing hydrogen leak detection sensors that can detect fields other than automobiles, we are seeking applications in ceramics with other materials such as metals and plastics and semiconductor packages that protect IC chips from the leak of hydrogen, a flammable gas, to ensure the safety of differing fields, such as agriculture and medicine. and technologies and quality management that enable heat and so on. hydrogen automobiles. Furthermore, we have also focused on We will strive to create new businesses utilizing mass production of uniform products, we distribute our Currently, we are focusing our efforts on R&D in the development of solid-state batteries, which are expected to be our technologies. products worldwide. “environmentand energy-related field,” “medical field,” and Spark plugs, which have been developed and “next-generation automobile field.” In the “environmentand manufactured since our founding, require “trustworthiness” energy-related field,” we launched the fuel cell business with and “high quality” that are able to accurately function in the intent of contributing to the future energy society. In solid “DNA Project” to create a corporate culture that encourages new ideas engine environments that reach temperature of up to 2000 oxide fuel cells (SOFC), which are being developed for use in As an “engine for promoting new businesses” across the entire company, we launched the “DNA (Dynamic New Approach) Project.” degrees Celsius. To overcome these strict requirements, we residential, commercial, and industrial applications, we have Since 2016, selected team members are executing projects in an incubation office. From among these, a new company, “Sharing have been relentless in R&D, constantly polishing our been engaged in development by concentrating our FACTORY,” was established in March 2018. This company provides sharing services to the manufacturing industry. ceramics technologies. manufacturing technologies in semiconductor packages and With the objective of diversification that makes use of spark plugs (multilayer technologies, technologies to combine these materials technologies, we have been involved in the metals and ceramics). In view of future demand that is development and manufacture of new products that make expected to result from rapid proliferation, we are advancing use of ceramics as “NTK Technical Ceramics” since 1949. measures toward improving capabilities and establishing mass 33 Creating value in business Review of Business 34 Review of Business We are supporting the world’s motorization through the supply of products, mainly components for internal combustion engines. These include spark plugs to serve as a “lighter” for the electrical ignition of fuel-air mixture; various automobile Automotive sensors that greatly contribute to the purification of exhaust gas from gasoline-or diesel-powered vehicles; and glow plugs to assist the autoignition of diesel engines. We are also developing and selling hydrogen leak detection sensors to ensure Components group safety in a world powered by hydrogen energy. Creating value in business Net sales Operating income Medium-term management plan progress 348.2 billion yen (Increased by 9.4% year on year) 68.1 billion yen (Increased by 17.4% year on year) Plug business NGK SPARK PLUG Group is making good progress on our products, while also enhancing brand recognition with strategy of expanding our market share in China and other proactive marketing activities. In addition, new products emerging markets. In regard to sales, we have focused on have been well received in emerging markets, and in the Sales/Operating income ratio of the automotive components group Operating income from the automotive components group “building our sales network,” “increasing penetration of the fiscal year under review, sales volume of spark plugs ■■ Plug business ■■ Sensor business Operating income ratio NGK brand,” and “introducing low-price spark plugs increased by 24% compared to the previous fiscal year in (100 million yen) （%） (100 million yen) 5,000 25 1,000 targeted at emerging countries,” and as a result, we have each of our priority markets of China and India. Looking 23.3 21.7 22.0 been able to strengthen relationships with prominent ahead, we shall continue making efforts to further increase 4,000 18.2 19.6 20 800 distributors and increase the number of stores selling our our market share. 3,482 683 711 681 3,229 3,181 3,000 2,928 15 600 589 579 Spark plug sales volume by region 2,718 1,370 1,332 1,251 China India 2,000 1,204 10 400 1,128 Up Up +24% +24% 1,000 5 200 1,931 2,112 year on year on 1,591 1,724 1,897 year year 0 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2021/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2021/3 Financial results for the fiscal year Review of operations Sensor business ended March 31, 2018 In the automotive industry, the Group’s main business Due to the favorable sales of new cars in China and other Sales of diesel-powered vehicles declined in Europe, which regulations globally, we forecast that sales volume will field, conditions were supportive for sales in the United markets, we recorded steady sales for automotive has particularly affected demand for temperature sensors, increase by approximately 45% and 24% on an annual basis States, including a stable labor environment and low components. Also, our sales of repair parts were satisfactory, but sales volumes are expected to recover on demand for for NOx sensors and wide-range sensors, respectively, over gasoline prices, but new automobile sales decreased being driven by sales in China, North America, and South temperature sensors for gasoline-powered vehicles over the the period from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 until overall compared to the previous fiscal year. Unit sales of America. As a result, in the automotive components medium-term. Amid increasingly strict environmental the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. automobiles remained favorable in China, increasing business, we posted net sales of 348,198 million yen (up compared to the previous fiscal year despite the impact 9.4% year on year) and operating income of 68,098 of the end of tax reductions for small vehicles. Overall million yen (up 17.4% year on year). Forecast for the year ending March 31, 2019 unit sales of automobiles in Japan exceeded those in the previous fiscal year, despite being affected by issues Although global growth in unit sales of new automobiles value owing to stricter environmental regulations in related to improper testing at automakers. is expected to slow, we intend to promote sales of a wide different countries. As a result, we expect that we will range of automotive component products by utilizing our record net sales of 367,419 million yen (up 5.5% year on existing sales network to the greatest possible extent, year) and operating income of 71,902 million yen (up while also capitalizing on the trend toward more added 5.6% year on year). 35 Creating value in business Technical ceramics Review of Business 36 Review of Business group – ceramics div. – In the cutting tool business, we have developed new materials for cutting tools in addition to ceramic materials, and manufacture a wide range of products. Our ceramic products for Our semiconductor packages and substrates made by using our unique ceramic multilayer Technical industrial use include components for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and technology are adopted for a range of products, including communication devices, smart devices, ceramics group other products that make use of the unique features of ceramics. We are also continuing to medical equipment and cameras. – semiconductor div. – develop new business fields. Creating value in business Net sales Operating loss Net sales Operating income 17.9 billion yen (Decreased by 8.0% year on year) 2.6 billion yen (4.8 billion yen loss in the previous fiscal year) 39.8 billion yen (Increased by 25.0% year on year) 1.6 billion yen (Increased by 296.8% year on year) Semiconductor-related sales/Operating income ratio Operating income from the semiconductor div. Sales/Operating income ratio of the ceramics-div. Operating income from the ceramics-div. ■■ Sales Operating income ratio ■■ Sales Operating income ratio (100 million yen) （%） (100 million yen) (100 million yen) （%） (100 million yen) 400 40 0 600 8 50 7.4 297 6.8 253 238 -20 40 200 194 179 20 450 6.0 6 (26) 398 -40 30 328 319 0 0 300 4 24 -60 (48) 245 250 4.0 20 (14.4) 17 16 15 -20 150 2 (24.9) -80 (71) 10 (29.3) (31.2) (29.9) (79) 4 (87) 1.3 -40 -100 0 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Medium-term management plan progress and Medium-term management plan progress and Review of operations Review of operations forecast for the year ending March 31, 2019 forecast for the year ending March 31, 2019 Production of high-end smartphones and smartphones In the semiconductor package business, we are targeting Shipments remained favorable for cutting tools and In order to respond promptly to strong market growth, made by Chinese manufacturers is trending favorably. In profitability on a monthly basis in the fiscal year ending ceramic products to be used in industrial equipment. including decisions about production, we implemented addition, the semiconductor market is being driven by March 31, 2019, and normal profitability by the fiscal year Increased shipments of components for semiconductor organizational changes in April 2018, making the increasing demand for semiconductor memory and ending March 31, 2020. For our revitalization plan, we have manufacturing equipment particularly contributed to an Semiconductor Production Equipment Division an different types of sensors, owing partly to the trend attracted outside management personnel and implemented increase in sales. independent division in order to increase speed. In toward high-performance smartphones. initiatives including concentrating our operating sites, addition, we plan to make investments totaling billions of selecting and concentrating our product range, and Financial results for the fiscal year yen through the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, with Financial results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 optimizing the workforce. As a result, the loss has become the policy of responding to market demand and not ended March 31, 2018 smaller, and we are making good progress with the In this business, shipments remained favorable for cutting allowing any opportunity losses. In addition, in terms of In this business, overall sales declined compared to the previous revitalization plan. In addition, in terms of forecasts for the tools and ceramic products to be used in industrial forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, we fiscal year as we exited unprofitable product lines, but profits fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, we intend to select and equipment. Increased shipments of components for intend to establish a stable profit-making system, and as improved compared to the previous fiscal year as shipments of concentrate our product range and reduce costs, and as a semiconductor manufacturing equipment particularly a result, we expect that we will record net sales of 45,816 smartphone components and other products increased. result, we expect that we will record net sales of 16,320 contributed to an increase in sales. As a result, consolidated million yen (up 21.7% year on year) and operating income As a result, on a consolidated basis, sales came to million yen (down 8.8% year on year) and operating loss of sales for the business came to 39,834 million yen (up 25.0% of 4,656 million yen (up 27.5% year on year). 17,901 million yen (down 8.0% year on year) and operating 1,404 million yen (as compared to an operating loss of 2,571 year on year) and operating income to 1,589 million yen (up loss amounted to 2,571 million yen (as compared to an million yen in the current fiscal year). 296.8% year on year). operating loss of 4,842 million yen in the previous fiscal year). 37 Creating value from strategic resources Review of Strategic Resources 38 1 General Manager of Human Resources speaks: NGK SPARK Personnel Reform by 3 PLUG’s Key 2 the Strategic Human Issues Resources Department Tomohiro Yamaguchi General Manager, Strategic Human Resources Department Corporate Strategy Group “Globalization” is critical Our company has advanced our businesses with the motto of “global, speedy, and fair,” and at present, over 80% of our “personnel development and organizational invigoration to sales are generated in overseas businesses. Meanwhile, the maximize performance” as the Strategic Human Resources human resources division primarily managed domestic labor, Department’s mission, and with the objective of becoming whereas outside Japan it primarily managed expatriates, an HR specialist organization that promotes human resource presenting issues where the “globalization” of the personnel strategies that unify management and business, we have function lagged behind. defined “Observe,” “Develop,” and “Motivate” our employees from current businesses will enjoy the same success in To resolve these issues, we first started periodically as our basic stance. new business areas. Therefore, we will bring change to holding a “Global Personnel Conference” from 2013, development policies. By redefining what types of human Creating value from strategic resources and through networking with personnel divisions at key “Observe” assets can support new businesses and current businesses “optimal for business to optimal for resources.” To make sure bases worldwide, we have advanced the “globalization” alike, we will fundamentally revise our previously uniform this initiative for optimization is carried out thoroughly, we of the human resources division. The Strategic Human First, we must engage in “observing.” Domestically, we have a training programs. For example, as a measure to achieve are advancing the creation of a framework for succession Resources Department was launched in April 2017, and certain grasp of what types of human assets lie where thanks this objective, it is difficult to generate new creativity with planning. The managerial staff in each section defines ahead in April 2018, we reorganized such that the former Human to our history of hiring and educational activities. However, internal training, so we have launched programs centered on of time the specific person that will be succeeding them. If Resource Department is now specialized in domestic moving forward, we must expand this approach to cover our interaction with different industries. We are accepting internal there is no successor, it will become necessary to hire from labor management as the Labor Department while the operations globally. Talent management is carried out by the applications for this program, with a focus primarily on the outside of the company ahead of time, and this will lead to Strategic Human Resources Department is tasked with RHQ in each region, but on the other hand, in the Strategic “ambition” of applicants. We shall implement measures for discovering gaps in our human assets. global personnel development such as hiring and training. Human Resources Department, we would like to discover developing human resources to promote on-the-job-training In other areas, we are considering creating an “internal The number of people working in the Strategic Human human resources with the potential to become managers (OJT) in the workplace (onsite), which is fundamentally the application system.” At our company, each department Resources Department has grown from 14 people before from within the NGK SPARK PLUG Group as a whole. To most effective form of training. makes a presentation to the new graduate hires, and the the reorganization to 50, and from the idea that we should this end, we must create a “human asset bank.” In addition new graduates may then request assignment of their choice Investment in training by organizational level respect diversity and assign capable personnel, 15 women to information on skills such as work histories and training based on what they learned in these presentations, and then General and Section Managers Managers and Chiefs and two foreigners are also part of the department. In achievements, information that includes mindset information (Millions of yen) Heads and general staff, etc. the company matches them with their choices. This method essence, the Human Resources Department has just such as attendance records and willpower will be collected 150 149 of personnel assignment has been used for over 10 years. begun measures in “personnel reform” that will shift from through methods such as employee surveys and individual However, the first department that these young employees 120 the previous section centered on domestic labor to a interviews and stored in a databank. As the first step in this 65 are assigned to may not always be the best place for them. In section that comes up with personnel strategies that unify initiative, we implemented for the first time a 360-degree 90 92 addition, it is difficult for employees to put themselves forward management and business on a global scale. survey for employees at the general manager level during the 26 for work they want to do. The company shall thus create a 60 44 year ended March 31, 2018. Our aim was to make managers system of personnel assignment based on “the right people in 31 Human resource policy understand how their subordinates and colleagues felt about 30 the right places.” them and provide multiple feedback meetings with specialists, 40 Furthermore, as a way to support the activities of senior 34 Our current human resource policy is: “We acknowledge that thereby contributing to the making the company more 0 citizens, we will also work to implement measures to create 2013 2018 employees are the most important management resource. dynamic by reviewing everyday management methods. First, work for our senior workers, such as a job matching system In light of this, we respect the diversity and individuality of we are providing opportunities for general managers to “watch that matches the company’s needs with the desired functions our employees and promote the cultivation of physically people.” Looking ahead, we shall also implement measures “Motivate” sought after by seniors. and mentally healthy human beings, striving to promote the for “observing” via “employee awareness surveys,” “corporate further development of our Group as a whole.” Under this culture assessments,” etc. Traditionally, personnel transfers focused on assigning the In the Strategic Human Resources Department, with the policy, we define one aspect of our ideal image in the year optimal human resources to each site where there were gaps establishment of a human asset bank to “Observe” as our 2020 as being a “human asset company,” but to accomplish “Develop” in staffing. However, moving forward, we will assign personnel foundation, we will solidify our training policy that will serve this, I believe that it will require a “fair corporate culture that “systematically” after considering what types of human assets as a pillar for “Develop” by the end of the current fiscal year, allows diverse personnel to shine,” “frameworks to enable Any new businesses that we create will not have a certain should be assigned to each department head, based on the and subsequently, we plan to roll out initiatives to “Motivate.” autonomy, challenge, and growth,” and “high professionalism recipe for success like the plug business. And of course, approach of “the right people in the right places,” particularly Under the spirit of “No Attack No Chance,” we will engage in and love for the company.” Under this policy, we have defined there is no guarantee that highly capable human assets for important positions. Essentially, our view is to move from reforms with speed. 39 Creating value from strategic resources 40 Review of Strategic Resources Review of Strategic Resources Basic Philosophy Diversity We believe that if every employee utilizes their individuality and freely leverages their capabilities, it will contribute to Human Resources the growth of the company and individual happiness, and we therefore position diversity as an important management strategy. We are promoting diversity to create an employee-friendly workplace that accepts different personnel “assets” (one in which all people regardless of their gender, age, disability or nationality, enjoy their work), and effectively use the new value and ideas generated by such a workplace. Strengthening and Maintaining Initiative to Promote Active Participation of Women In 2013, the company as a whole set about creating a These activities received approval, and we have received workplace where women can actively participate, as our first broad recognition by society for our activities, including being step toward diversity. We have positioned active participation by selected for the “2014 Excellence Award, Nagoya City women as an engine for promoting the reform of our corporate Accreditation and Commendation System for Companies that culture, and have changed the mindset of managers and female Promote Increased Roles for Women” and the “2015 Japan employees themselves. Productivity Center Incentive Award, Empowerment Grand Prix Specifically, we implemented a training program in which a for Activities by Women,” as well as being selected by the Ministry female employee is paired with her manager, in order to support of Economy, Trade and Industry for its “New Diversity career development and increase ambition. Under the program, Management Selection 100” in 2017, and being certified by Aichi she takes on the challenge of performing a task that is one level Prefecture as an “Aichi Josei Kagayaki Company” (Company higher than the task presently assigned to her for nine months, Supporting Aichi Women’s Career Success) for fiscal 2018. and her manager offers advice to help her fulfill the task, thereby Proportion of female employees supporting her growth. We also hold lecture meetings and Generalists Section Chiefs Managers training sessions of diversity management for all senior (%) Creating value from strategic resources Basic Philosophy managerial employees. Furthermore, in all departments, 8 Development of human resources 7 6.68 including those of Japanese Group companies, general 5.87 6 5.54 Employees are the most important management resource. We promote the sustainable growth of the NGK SPARK managers devised action plans that suited their own 5 4.91 PLUG Group by striving for human resources development that respects the diversity and individuality of our departments. We presented Encouragement Awards to 4 3 2.57 2.68 2.81 2.68 2.49 employees and by encouraging individual employees to reach their own full potential, to grow and to participate departments with outstanding initiatives. In addition, we are 2 actively in a state of physical and mental health. expanding systems to create a workplace that is more 2.32 0.81 1.07 1.24 1 0.52 0.66 comfortable for female employees. 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Rolling out PDCA Cycle through Employee Satisfaction Surveys Promoting the Active Participation of Senior Citizens The Group conducts an “employee awareness survey” in an Analysis result by category effort to see what extent the vision and policies of Comparison with As the birthrate declines and the population ages, labor that takes into consideration the aptitudes, motivation and the previous survey (2012/3) Job management have taken hold and understand the current 4.00 2017/3 shortages are expected owing to a decline in the working age abilities of senior employees. 2012/3 status of diversified personal values, environment and Disciplines 3.50 Supervisors population and an increase in the elderly population. On the workplace with the aim of achieving the management policy 3.00 other hand, promoting the active participation of senior citizens Total number of employees using the reemployment system 2.50 of the Corporate Philosophy: “We offer a working is an important issue, including raising the starting age for (Persons) 2.00 environment in which each one of us is encouraged to 1.50 receiving national pension and ensuring employment for the 300 make full use of his or her personality and capability. With Management 1.00 Workplace/ elderly. In 2001, we introduced a post-retirement reemployment 250 247 251 communication 228 229 223 all our power we are dedicated to pursue management system for providing work opportunities to retired employees so 200 based on trust and confidence.” In the survey of the year that long-accumulated knowledge and expertise are effectively 150 ended March 31, 2017, we collected answers from 89.6% of utilized. In year ended March 31, 2018, the total number of 100 employees. Based on the results, each division has Health and safety Human resource system employees using this system was 223. We are working hard to 50 formulated an action plan and rolled out a PDCA cycle so prepare an environment that meets the needs of senior 0 Development as to attain better results in the next awareness survey, employees, our company and the worksite and use it in a way 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 which in turn will lead to an enhancement in capabilities at In the previous survey results, the human resource system the workplace. scored low. After the adoption of a new human resource system, however, better results are shown in 2016 survey with Employment of the Disabled all eight categories balanced out with no particular weakness. HAGI Program “Nittoku Smile Co., Ltd.” which establish for promoting Percentage of Disabled Employees employment of the disabled certified as the special subsidiary Employment Rate (%) Legally required ratio In view of our globally expanding business operations, we to actively participate. In recent years of great company in January 2018. 2.2 2.17 launched the “Global Next-generation Management environmental change, the program is intended to offer The ratio of disabled employees at our company was 2.0 1.83 1.90 1.80 1.82 Personnel Development Program” in 2016, for discovering learning opportunities for personnel representing the next 2.17% in year ended March 31, 2018, so we were able to meet 1.8 and developing personnel eligible to become the nextgeneration, and it is called “HAGI,” from the “Shokasonthe statutory employment rate. 1.6 generation of management among those from all Group juku” private school located in Hagi-shi, Yamaguchi Additionally, we already had met the statutory employment 1.4 companies. We conduct hiring and recruitment of human Prefecture, from where many talented people went out into rate in year ended March 31, 2019 at June 2018. 1.2 resources regardless of nationality, and provide the world at the end of the Edo era. The president serves as For broadening the scope of work to the disabled, we 1.0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 opportunities and environments to enable every employee the principal of the program. promote to make more decent workplace for them. 41 Creating value from strategic resources 42 Review of Strategic Resources Review of Strategic Resources Research & Development Intellectual Property Management Creating value from strategic resources Framework and Policies of Research and Development Basic Philosophy To protect its existing and newly developed products, the company takes steps to actively acquire intellectual property Research & development activities at the Group are being for a higher level by using the latest technology that is rights and make effective use of them. We investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties in all production conducted toward creation of new value by leveraging attained through active participation in academic processes, from early stages of development to mass production, to avoid the risk of infringing the intellectual property the best technology and accumulated experience, based conferences and associations both in Japan and rights of third parties or violating contracts, laws and regulations. We also verify the appropriateness of the intellectual on our corporate philosophy. Activities are mainly overseas or joint research projects with universities and property-related provisions in various contracts. In addition, we are educating employees on the importance of conducted at Engineering R&D Group and respective public research institutes, etc. intellectual property. In the future, we will strengthen the management of intellectual property across the Group, as the technology departments of each division, and we strive basis for our continued evolution as a “Monozukuri Company.” Open Innovation NGK SPARK PLUG’s Activities Regarding Intellectual Property We are actively engaging in the creation of new innovation by generation vehicles,” and “medical” as new business At NGK SPARK PLUG, we have created systems for intellectual property strategies to contribute to profits in utilizing our core technology cultivated to date. domains. Further, we are proactively seeking for partners responding in a timely, strategic manner on a global level, our core businesses.” In accordance with this objective, Here, core technology means technology by which to work with in an effort to find solutions of social issues based on our management policies and business we take measures to address intellectual property ceramics can be combined with other materials such as which cannot be achieved by the Company alone. In April strategies, in order to “further stimulate the onsite requirements in accordance with the development stage, metal and organics to make products used in the field 2018, we established Open Innovation Center in San operations of the entire company, the development of in order to respect the proper rights of third parties. In where the high reliability and durability are required. We Jose, California, USA, accelerating activities targeted at new technology and products, and their addition, we also utilize patents as a source of technical are advancing application of the core technology mainly new business creation. commercialization in regard to activities related to information to analyze R&D trends, thus assisting in into the three areas of “environment and energy,” “nextintellectual property, and propose and promote discovering new subjects for our R&D. Promoting Measures to Stamp Out Counterfeit Goods Ceramics As our spark plugs “NGK SPARK PLUGS” are sold in the ASEAN and India, where economic growth continues. more than 190 countries around the world, it is one of the Counterfeit goods, which threaten the safety of important issues to manage trademarks and further customers, are becoming more sophisticated and are undertake measures against counterfeit goods. being traded in smaller lots over the Internet, etc. We We have been working with each Group company have been continuously engaging in activities to uncover around the world and with local law firms to proceed with and stamp out counterfeit goods in close cooperation Metal Organic activities to stamp out the imitation of NGK SPARK with the police, customs authorities, and relevant PLUGS. Those activities have been implemented primarily administrative agencies. in China, and are being strengthened in regions such as 43 Creating value from strategic resources 44 Review of Strategic Resources Review of Strategic Resources Quality Management System In an effort to meet the demands of customers and various Quality Management Promotion System Quality and Manufacturing industries who develop products, we have obtained the certification of international standard ISO 9001 and sector standards required in each business domain, for our quality CSR Committee management system. We are committed to its operation and (Chairman: Quality Committee Corporate Quality Management Division are further strengthening our quality assurance system in President & CEO) order to offer new value. The Quality Committee, as part of corporate governance system, determines policies, formulates Quality Assurance guidance and gives instructions, to optimize each function of Meetings the Company from a viewpoint of the Group as a whole. In addition, at Quality Assurance Meetings, quality-related issues and challenges inside and outside the Company are shared and learning related thereto are provided in the quality Business divisions exhibition room permanently set up inside the Company. The Meeting also promotes initiatives that lead to offering Quality management promotion system customers better products and greater services, such as exhibiting the commitment to product quality by the top management of the Company, from its founder to the current management leaders, together with what we learned from problems in the past on panels, which contributes to prevention of its obsolescence and continued education. Creating value from strategic resources Basic Philosophy We regard all the value, expectations, and evaluations provided to customers through products and services, and all the people, goods, processes, and arrangements involved in producing them as “quality.” Promoting Quality Training We are always conscious of making the best value for customers, and aware that we are the ones who support quality, we continue to grow, ambitiously applying creativity and imagination to all operations. We are working to develop our human assets as “making practical application in familiar themes in addition to We create value for customers in accordance with our Corporate Quality Rules and Corporate Quality Policy. We things is making people.” We have established extensive spreading this learning to the employees around them. will continue to contribute to society with safe and trusted manufacturing, as well as the development of human training programs that include quality control and QC Circle We also offer training and practical support regarding resources who effectively and efficiently implement total quality management (TQM), which enables us to respond Activities, and many of our employees attend these quality and problem solving for suppliers so that they provide flexibly and promptly to the evolving internal and external business environment. programs. We are also further strengthening more advanced us with consistently high quality parts and materials based NGK SPARK PLUG is working to share and practice the concepts of TQM (Quality Management) in order to become practice activities at work sites. We expect that training on continuous quality improvement. a Group company that creates value for all stakeholders and has a system that can respond flexibly and swiftly to participants will improve their skill on techniques through change. Based on our CSR Policy, we have updated NGK SPARK PLUG’s Corporate Quality Rules and identified the following five areas as the mainstays of total quality management (TQM). 1 Quality assurance In order to provide products and services that meet the needs of our customers and society, NGK SPARK PLUG will establish all operations and guarantee their safety and reliability and promote development activities aimed at creating new value. 2 Daily management NGK SPARK PLUG will consider methods and indicators to measure the quality of all our operations and promptly investigate the causes when results that differ from normal are obtained as well as taking countermeasures to maintain and improve quality. 3 Policy management NGK SPARK PLUG will further improve and innovate activities to maintain and enhance quality. We will establish strategies and NGK SPARK PLUG Group QC Circle conference In-house training objectives for creating new value for customers and responding to the evolving internal and external business environment and explicitly identify issues and problems that need to be tackled as we work towards achieving our strategies and objectives. 4 Small group improvement activities NGK SPARK PLUG will use small group teams to solve the various issues and problems identified through daily management Measurement Management and policy management, thereby developing human resources. 5 Quality control education Appropriate measurement management in order to obtain implement initiatives tailored to the issues of Group NGK SPARK PLUG will create the understanding and awareness of the mainstays of TQM, which are the prerequisites for reliable measurements is vital in manufacturing. In order companies, making the importance of measurement maintaining and enhancing quality and activating improvements and innovation and then establish and implement a levelto protect the NGK SPARK PLUG brand, we implement known throughout the Group. specific education system. appropriate management at the company and also 45 Creating value from strategic resources 46 Review of Strategic Resources Review of Strategic Resources Global Procurement Environment Creating value from strategic resources Basic Philosophy Basic Philosophy To procure superior materials and components at an appropriate price with speed and safety, it is a requirement to Environmental issues are a common challenge for all mankind. Every member of the NGK SPARK PLUG Group will work towards create healthy relationships of trust with transaction partners. By applying ourselves diligently to conduct activities reducing environmental burdens from our business activities as much as possible and developing and providing products and through the supply chain that will be mutually beneficial, we work to grow trust between companies. technologies that contribute to improving the environment. We will also endeavor to communicate in greater depth with our stakeholders including our local communities so that we may all work together to contribute to creating a sustainable society. CSR Promotion in Global Procurement Global Eco Vision 2020 As we aim to realize globally optimal procurement based Congo and surrounding nations are being used as a In our activities for environmental conservation, we set mediumon our quality products principle, we focus on source of funds for armed insurgents, we recognize these term environmental targets. From the fiscal year ended March strengthening cooperation with suppliers and promoting mineral conflicts as a significant social issue in the course 31, 2017, we have drawn up a vision for our company and CSR through our supply chain. of resource and materials procurement. implemented activities under Global Eco Vision 2020. The Group promotes purchasing activities that are Regarding the use of minerals from conflict zones, We set four important environmental tasks, “Natural considerate of social issues such as human rights and we implement surveys throughout the supply chain, and if resources,” “Global warming,” “Toxic, hazardous chemicals” and the environment, and regarding concerns that mineral such risks are discovered, we work to avoid using “Key quality (development of environment-friendly products),” resources extracted from the Democratic Republic of the materials from those sources. under Global Eco Vision 2020. By tackling these tasks through our business activities and on a foundation of “Education (raising consciousness of the environment),” “Compliance,” and “Open communication” we will work to enhance our manufacturing power, increase our brand value, and contribute to not only the To our partners sustainable development of our company, but of society, also. We aim not just to engage in conventional cost management, but to conduct procurement activities that can make proposals and offer value through purchasing. CSR is one important element of value that a company can offer. Therefore, we produced the “CSR Procurement Guidelines,” and made an overall assessment of suppliers’ trends through a suppliers’ self-checklist, and provided Environmental activity promotion organizations feedback on the results. We aim to pave the way to continuous social progress through promoting CSR and mutual development Environmental Administrator (President) CSR Committee together with our suppliers. Central Environmental Committee Chairman Central Environmental Committee Chief Central Environmental Administrator Regional environmental Head of the division Head of the working group administrator Environmental Committee Divisions Working groups Internal Environmental Environmental ISO Each region Divisions include the Groups The working groups conduct Auditor Bureau Note: “Each region” refers to the established at the Headquarters. cross-divisional activities, such as examining and conducting Headquarters Region, Komaki professional surveys and measures Region, Miyanojo Region, Ise for energy conservation and Region, and Group companies chemical substances. in Japan. 47 Creating value from strategic resources 48 Environmental action plan Reducing CO2 Emissions Major item Minor item Target for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 Result for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Target: Reduce per-unit CO2 emissions by 1% relative to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, per-unit CO2 restructuring of spark plug production factories and Result: Reduced the emissions by 7.3% relative to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Production Reduce per-unit CO2 emissions by 5% relative to the fiscal year Ongoing cross-departmental energy conservation activities under the leadership of emissions were 1.18 tons/million yen, marking an early semiconductor component-related factories. Global ended March 31, 2016 (Average yearly reduction of 1%) warming the energy conservation working group achievement of the target of 1.23 tons/million yen (down Going forward, we will revise upward our Global Eco Promoted measures to reduce CO2 (equivalent to 1.8% of emissions) 5% compared with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016) Vision 2020 targets, and with the objective of a 15% Logistics Increase efficiency for logistics Increased the efficiency of various activities accompanying logistics as previously set forth in Global Eco Vision 2020. reduction in comparison to the fiscal year ended March 31, Reduce defective products to reduce waste Reduced waste by reducing defective products generated by different processes Waste This was primarily the result of previous energy 2016 (1.10 tons/million yen), will move forward with Design products in consideration of waste reduction Implemented initiatives to limit waste by improving product structure, etc. conservation efforts in addition to the accumulated effects additional energy conservation measures. Depletion of resources Water Use water more efficiently  educed water use through business restructuring, etc. R of energy conservation resulting from the business Reduced water use by remodeling equipment and reviewing operational methods Raw materials Design products in consideration of the saving of raw materials Limited use of precious metals through replacement with resource-saving types CO2 emissions from energy use Outside Japan EnvironmentallyBuild an environment-friendly product certification system and Groups in Japan (without integrated certification) — Implemented measures to increase environment-friendly products friendly products expand the lineup of such products Groups in Japan (with integrated certification) For purchased electricity, CO2 emissions (10,000 tons-CO2) Africa North the CO2 emission Ensure compliance with ELV, RoHS, REACH and other Shared regulatory information across departments and made necessary responses to the 40 — regulations regulations under the leadership of the chemical substances management working group 1% America coefficient set for each Hazardous chemical 31.17 32% country under the GHG 31.43 Regional Protocol is used, while for substances — Foster the replacement of substances of concern with substitutes Replaced phthalic acid, whose use will be prohibited by RoHS in 2019, with a substitute 30 28.89 27.61 28.56 5.04 5.37 — Totally discontinue the use of HCFCs Upgraded fluorocarbon R-22 air conditioners 3.41 3.28 3.62 1.51 1.25 Asia composition of fuel, the same 1.29 coefficients as those 20 37% emissions used in Japan are used. outside Japan Data for the fiscal year 10 25.48 24.33 23.65 24.63 24.81 ended March 31, 2017 Environmental Burdens from Business Activities (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) South onward include data for Europe America Wells and 11 overseas 0 7% 23% sales subsidiaries. 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Scope covered*1 Scope covered*1 INPUT NGK SPARK Group Overseas companies in organizations OUTPUT NGK SPARK Group Overseas companies in organizations PLUG PLUG Japan *2 *3 Japan *2 *3 Creating value from strategic resources Promotion and Results of Efficient Water Use Raw materials Wastewater Ceramic and metal materials Released into sewerage systems and public Ceramic and metal materials purchased waters; output was deemed to be equivalent Output into waters 54,000 tons to the total volume of tap water and well water consumed. Per-unit water usage during the fiscal year ended March Primary reasons for the improvement in per-unit usage 1.63 million m 3 31, 2018 was 5.68m3/million yen, a 10.0% improvement include a reduction in water usage as a result of the business Electricity Suppliers Chemical substances (PRTR) compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. restructuring of semiconductor component-related factories. Used in offices and plants Released into waters and notified by sites 449.86 million kWh 0.3 tons Tap water/well water usage Outside Japan City gas Groups in Japan (without integrated certification) Used in offices and plants GHG emissions Volume used (10,000m3) Groups in Japan (with integrated certification) GHG from energy use and non-energy use *4 Africa North America 18.83 million m 3 320,000 tons-CO 200 0.4% 8.4% Output into air 2 168 162 162 166 162 LPG Research, 160 25 Regional 26 28 38 38 Asia composition of South America Energy Used in offices and plants and for testing, travel Design, Chemical substances (PRTR) 120 4 5 4 and transportation 58.6% usage 30.8% Manufacturing, 7,692 tons Released into air and notified by sites 80 Sales 138 tons 143 outside Japan Data for the fiscal year 136 130 ended March 31, 2017 40 124 120 Other fuels onward include data for Used in offices and plants and for testing, travel Europe Wells and overseas and transportation Waste generated 0 1.8% (and treated on commission) sales subsidiaries. 1,008 kL (crude oil equivalent) Total: 19,031 tons 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Renewable energy Waste recycled Generated by solar power generators and small Waste hydroelectric generators Products (including waste sold) 390,000 kWh 16,900 tons Promotion and Results of Reduction of Waste Tap water, well water Sent to landfill or incinerated Per-unit waste disposal during the fiscal year ended March certain types of high-volume waste through the business Water Tap water and groundwater used 2,131 tons 1.63 million m 3 31, 2018 was 0.052 tons/million yen, a 15% improvement restructuring of spark plug production factories and CO2 emitted by external transporters compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. semiconductor component-related factories, in addition Logistics Logistics CO2 emissions due to externally commissioned This was because we were able to limit the output of to previous activities to reduce waste. Chemical PRTR transportation Handled and notified by sites substances 865 tons 2,465 tons-CO 2 Fuels used for transportation Waste output Outside Japan Product shipment (outsourced) Groups in Japan (without integrated certification) Logistics Fuels used for transportation by trucks, ships, Output (tons) Groups in Japan (with integrated certification) and aircraft Africa North America Customers 20,000 19,756 19,031 926 kL (crude oil equivalent) Customers 17,882 18,427 17,552 1.5% 26.1% *1 For each INPUT and OUTPUT amount, companies included in the scope of reporting are indicated with . 16,000 7,066 Regional 5,654 6,453 6,134 7,305 *2 Group companies in Japan: Nittoku Alpha Service Co., Ltd., Nittoku Unyu Co., Ltd., Ceramic Sensor Co., Ltd., NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd., CS Nakatsugawa Co., Ltd., Nansei Ceramic Co., Ltd., Kamioka 12,000 Asia composition of Ceramic Co., Ltd., SparkTec WKS Co., Ltd., Nichiwa Kiki Co., Ltd., SparkTec TONO Co., Ltd., which have integrated certification; and Nittoku Denshi Co., Ltd. and NTK Ceratec Co., Ltd., which are outside 697 770 of integrated certification. 595 30.6% outputs 8,000 *3 “Overseas organizations” refers to the following overseas manufacturing and sales organizations: NGK Spark Plug (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Changshu NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd., Woojin Industry Co., Ltd., 12,228 outside Japan Data for the fiscal year NTK Technical Ceramics Korea Co., Ltd., NGK Spark Plugs (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Siam NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd., NGK Spark Plugs (ASIA) CO., LTD., NGK Spark Plugs Malaysia Berhad, PT NGK Busi 11,974 11,993 ended March 31, 2017 4,000 10,823 10,957 Indonesia, NGK Spark Plugs (India) Pvt. Ltd., NGK Spark Plugs (U.S.A.), Inc., Wells Vehicle Electronics, L.P., Ceramica e Velas de Ignicao NGK do Brasil Ltda., NGK Spark Plugs (France) S.A.S., NGK Spark Europe South onward include data for Plugs SA (Pty) Ltd.; and to the following overseas sales organizations: Taiwan NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd., NGK Spark Plugs (Vietnam) Co., Ltd., NGK Spark Plugs (Philippines), Inc., NGK Spark Plug (Australia) Pty. Ltd., NTK Technologies, Inc., NGK Spark Plugs Canada Limited, Bujias NGK de Mexico S.A. de C.V., NGK Spark Plug Europe GmbH, NGK Spark Plugs (UK) Ltd., LLC NGK Spark Plugs (Eurasia), and 0 6.5% America Wells and overseas NGK Spark Plug Middle East FZE. 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 35.3% sales subsidiaries. *4 For overseas organizations, only CO2 emissions from energy use are calculated. 49 Corporate governance Reliable Governance 50 Meeting with Outside Directors mid-career hires. However, frameworks were established and increase its corporate value, I will continue to comment two or three years ago, and they are now beginning to bear as an outside director. fruit. To further accelerate innovation, I think that we will need personnel such as external personnel that are not tied Yasui: Although our company tends to be seen as down to the “NGK SPARK PLUG” ways of thinking, or “conservative,” I feel that it was a “company that is tolerant personnel with abundant knowledge of unknown new areas. of failure.” I think that is precisely the reason why we have I hope that these frameworks can be used moving forward been able to build our current position in the automotive to advance “diversity.” components business. However, as the organization slowly grew bigger, it might have become slightly conservative. I Tamagawa: When I was first appointed, I felt that there think losses are inevitable from investments in new were issues in the human asset aspect. However, projects businesses, but I think it is important for managers to show to encourage the active participation of women are being leadership to ensure that this does not cause our ambition implemented, for example, and I feel that the development to face challenges to fade. As an outside director, I hope to of personnel to support innovation is slowly progressing. I contribute to supporting new businesses. recognize that human asset strategy from a diversity viewpoint is a very important issue moving forward with Tamagawa: As an accountant and as a business owner as respect to innovation. well, I have come across many different companies. Even if Creating a corporate the management spirit is the same, outside directors will see things from varying fundamental viewpoints. I feel that my role is to express my own views to enable the other culture that breeds From left Morihiko Otaki Megumi Tamagawa Kanemaru Yasui Q2 Compared with the previous year, how active are Board meetings? managers to see diverse ways of thinking and notice different things. Vice Chairman, PASONA Inc. Member of the Board of Head of the Office Yasui Certified “innovation” and increasing corporate value Outside director of NGK SPARK PLUG since 2013 MARUYAHONSHA Co., Ltd. Outside director of Public Accountant Outside director of Yasui: I think that discussions are active. Discussions in NGK SPARK PLUG since 2016 NGK SPARK PLUG since 2014 recent meetings of the Board of Directors have strongly Q4 As an outside director, what hopes do you have reflected the company’s circumstances as they have for NGK SPARK PLUG, and what are frequently centered on topics such as the future direction of its issues? the automotive components business and investment in necessary for that innovation. For example, the “Sharing new businesses, and in my opinion, the discussion views Yasui: I think that in future, a greater sense of speed will be Q1 Do you think NGK SPARK PLUG progressing in Factory” company was launched this spring from an have shifted to a more long-term focus. required in both new and existing businesses, and therefore, relation to changing to a corporate culture that employee’s idea. Although I don’t believe that this business I hope that things will move forward without becoming breeds innovation? is thought to become a future mainstay of our company, I Otaki: Of the over 80 years of the company’s history, M&A overly satisfied with the present. Corporate governance do feel that this is likely a manifestation of management only began about five years ago, and when considering the Otaki: NGK SPARK PLUG has been producing amazing seeking out awareness reforms on the employee level. business scope, I think that this is a rarity. However, since Otaki: I think that, however small, we should create a products for over 80 years. then, discussions revolving around M&A that look to the profitable new business, even if it is just one. That is my However, although timespan for change is short at Otaki: The significant strengthening of the Strategic Human future of the company have been made continuously, and I hope, and I feel contributing to it is my role and task. so-called BtoC companies, making it easy to create Resources Department beginning this year is one initiative feel that speedy discussions have been made. innovation, it is certain that innovation is harder to come by to allow us to respond to large waves of future change. Last Tamagawa: What I feel to be amazing about working with at BtoB companies. Although there are many issues that we year, I participated as a lecturer in the “HAGI Project,” which Tamagawa: In M&A, regarding investment decisions and NGK SPARK PLUG is that we invest in profitable areas in a must still overcome in relation to “establishing new business aims to develop next-generation talent, and participants keeping track of conditions after the investment, I reliable, timely manner. From here on, some information that pillars,” one of the basic policies of the medium-term were selected with a global perspective and were full of sometimes think that we must create more structures and indicates that the plugs and sensors business will see its management plan, I feel that the seeds are steadily ambition. I felt that the company was shifting gears toward rules; I feel that providing input as an outside director, peak in future, I hope that we will maintain our tenacity as beginning to grow. utilizing personnel globally, and also felt the company’s taking such things into account, is necessary for the future we also actively focus on new businesses. desire to actively foster personnel that would act as leaders growth of the company. Tamagawa: I believe that the core ceramics technologies both inside and outside Japan. are amazing. However, initiating challenges into completely new Yasui: As the ratio of overseas production will only continue What are you doing as outside director to fields takes time, and in addition, we must change any parts Q3 to rise, human resources must be thought of on a global improve the company’s corporate value? of our culture that prevent us initiating challenges. There will level. Until now, no clear development program had been Please tell us what you keep in mind when be attempts made in many fields over a long time span, and established with regard to developing successors, but now performing your role in supporting NGK a tolerant foundation must be made that will accept failure we have clearly established a program and made efforts to SPARK PLUG’s challenges. in order to achieve success. Not failure without trying, but implement a strategic response. This is a point that makes what is important is to just try different things, and in this me feel that the corporate culture is changing. I can feel a Otaki: To increase corporate value over the long term, we aspect, there is still progress to be made at the company. strong desire from the management layer to effect changes must create new businesses. Of course, new businesses in the company. require new investment, and as our company is not alone in Yasui: When thinking about society 20 or 30 years from fearing the uncertainty of the future, sometimes investments now, I think it is important that we consider the future of the Otaki: When I was first appointed five years ago, there are canceled, or the scale is toned down. During such company with an awareness of what sort of innovation NGK wasn’t a strong desire to acquire personnel from outside the times, it’s necessary to make committed decisions. To SPARK PLUG should create and how our technology will be company, and frameworks were lacking for the utilization of ensure that the company can challenge new businesses 51 Corporate governance 52 Management System (As of June 26, 2018) Directors Outside Directors Representative Director and Vice President Officer Representative Director and Chairman of the Board Internal Auditing Office, overall control of Chief Executive Officer Corporate Strategy Group and Engineering President Officer R&D Group Member of the Board (Outside Director) Member of the Board (Outside Director) Shinichi Odo Teppei Okawa Morihiko Otaki Kanemaru Yasui April 1977 Joined our company April 1981 Joined our company August 1996 President & CEO, JOHNSON & JOHNSON K.K. VISION CARE COMPANY March 1981 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant July 2005 President, NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A), INC. February 2011 General Manager, Procurement Group Procurement Dept. August 2011 Vice Chairman of the Board, PASONA INC. April 1999 Representative Partner, Central Audit Corporation June 2007 Member of the Board, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. June 2011 Member of the Board June 2013 Member of the Board, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) August 2007 Representative Partner, KPMG AZSA LLC June 2010 Managing Director, Member of the Board April 2012 Corporate Officer, Member of the Board June 2016 Director, Henry Schein Japan K.K. (up to today) June 2008 Representative Partner, Executive Director, June 2011 President June 2012 Corporate Officer August 2016 Vice Chairman, PASONA INC. (up to today) Head of Nagoya Office, KPMG AZSA LLC April 2012 President & CEO June 2013 Corporate Officer, Member of the Board July 2013 Head of the Office, Yasui Certified Public Accountant (up to today) April 2016 Representative Director and Chairman of the Board April 2014 Managing Officer, Member of the Board June 2014 Member of the Board, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) Chief Executive Officer April 2015 Senior Managing Officer, Member of the Board President Officer (up to today) April 2016 Representative Director Vice President Officer (up to today) Member of the Board Senior Managing Officer Member of Board In charge of Div. Business Planning Corporate Officer management Division Corporate Strategy Group Member of the Board (Outside Director) Takeshi Kawai Mikihiko Kato Megumi Tamagawa April 1987 Joined our company April 1985 Joined our company August 1990 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant February 2011 General Manager, Sensor Engineering Dept. II, February 2012 General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. February 1991 Joined BDO Toyo & Co. Automotive Components Group Sensor Div. August 2012 President of CERAMICA E VELAS DE IGNICAO NGK DO BRASIL LTDA. December 2000 Manager, Accounting Department, April 2012 Corporate Officer October 2015 General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept., NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Japan Branch, General Electric International Inc. April 2015 Managing Officer April 2016 Corporate Officer (up to today) October 2004 Joined MARUYAHONSYA Co., Ltd. June 2015 Managing Officer, Member of the Board June 2017 Member of the Board (up to today) March 2006 Representative Director, MARUYAHONSYA Co., Ltd. April 2016 Member of the Board, Senior Managing Officer (up to today) March 2016 Member of the Board, MARUYAHONSYA Co., Ltd. (up to today) June 2016 Member of the Board, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) Audit & Supervisory Board Members Corporate governance Member of Board Member of Board Managing Officer Managing Officer Automotive Components Sales & Marketing Engineering R&D Group Division Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Takio Kojima Toru Matsui Fumio Mizuno Yasuhiko Hotta April 1984 Joined our company April 1984 Joined our company April 1981 Joined our company April 1980 Joined our company February 2011 General Manager, Next Generation Product Project, April 2011 President, NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH February 2006 General Manager, Semiconductor Components Div. Production Dept. February 2008 General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept. Product Planning Center, Engineering R&D Group October 2013 General Manager, OEM Sales & Marketing Dept., Sales and Marketing Sec. I Communication Media Components Group November 2008 General Manager, Semiconductor Components Div., Communication April 2012 General Manager, Next Generation Product Project, Div., Automotive Components Group, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. June 2009 General Manager, Production Dept. Ceramic Package Div. Media Components Gr. New Business Advancement Group December 2014 President of NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Communication Media Components Group June 2009 General Manager, Planning Dept., Communication Media Components Gr. October 2013 General Manager of R&D Center, Engineering R&D Group April 2015 Corporate Officer, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. April 2011 President, NTK CERAMIC CO., LTD. February 2011 General Manager, Information Systems Dept. April 2014 Corporate Officer July 2016 President, NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) TRADING CO., LTD. July 2011 Senior General Manager, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. July 2011 Senior General Manager April 2018 Managing Officer (up to today) April 2018 Managing Officer, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) April 2013 Vice Senior General Manager, Technical Ceramics Group Semiconductor Div. April 2016 Senior General Manager, Working Styles Reforming Office, June 2018 Member of the Board (up to today) June 2018 Member of the Board (up to today) June 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing (up to today) Corporate Strategy Gr. June 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing (up to today) Member of Board Corporate Officer Secretarial Office, Corporate Administration Group, Nagoya Factory Manager Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Kenji Isobe Fumiko Nagatomi Akihiko Minato April 1986 Joined our company April 1981 Registered as an attorney, Joined Hachisuka Law Firm April 1976 Joined The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd. July 2011 General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept. April 1989 Opened Nagatomi Law Firm (up to today) June 2003 Executive Officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. April 2013 General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept. and Public Relations Office June 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside Corporate Auditor), May 2007 Managing Executive Officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. December General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept., CHUBU Electric Power Co. Inc. (up to today) (currently, MUFG Bank, Ltd.) 2015 Corporate Administration Group and General Manager, Public Relations Office June 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) June 2009 Managing Director, MARUNOUCHI YOROZU Co, Ltd April 2016 Corporate Officer (up to today) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, The Nanto Bank, Ltd. June 2018 Member of the Board (up to today) June 2010 Representative Director and Vice President, Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co., Ltd. June 2012 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation September 2016 Chairman, MST Insurance Service Co., Ltd. (up to today) June 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) 53 Corporate governance 54 Management System Corporate governance Corporate Officers Basic Philosophy Senior Managing Officer Senior Managing Officer We believe that it is our foundational and important managerial task to establish and maintain a fair and efficient Takahiro Suzuki Yoshitaka Narita management system, while securing soundness and transparency in management, in order to enhance corporate Industrial Ceramics Div. Overall control of PAMA region value by fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities. We will enhance our corporate governance to ensure the Semiconductor Production Equipment Div. President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.) HOLDING, INC. efficiency and soundness of our corporate activities in line with our corporate philosophy, thereby fulfilling our President of NTK CERATEC CO., LTD. President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.),INC. President of NTK TECHNOLOGIES, INC. responsibilities to our stakeholders. Senior Managing Officer Managing Officer Corporate Governance System Kozo Amano Noboru Ishida Overall control of Marketing Div. Product Technology Div. while decisions on other matters are made by the Corporate Cutting Tools Div. Overall control of Facility Engineering Div. We choose to have an Audit & Supervisory Board, who audit Overall control of Business Development Div. Corporate Quality Management Div. our directors objectively from an independent position. We Management Committee and others for greater speed in Medical Div. Fuel Cell Div. Komaki Factory Manager have also separated the managerial decision-making and decision-making. supervision function from the business execution function by We also appoint three outside directors and two introducing the corporate officer system. In the fiscal year outside audit & supervisory board members with an eye Managing Officer Corporate Officer ended March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors met 14 times. to introducing independent external viewpoints to Kozo Yamasaki Nobuyuki Tokioka As for decision-making, the Board of Directors makes enhance the supervision function and ensure President of NTK CERAMIC CO., LTD. AEC Div. decisions on the most important matters for management, transparency in management. Corporate governance system General meeting of shareholders Appointment/dismissal Appointment/dismissal Giving opinions Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Nomination Audit & Supervisory Board Committee Board of Directors (including outside directors) (including outside audit & supervisory board members) Yoshihiro Matsubara Yutaka Tanaka Consultation Instruction Appointment/ Mutual cooperation dismissal Audit Facility Engineering Div. Sensor Div. Remuneration Corporate Independent Auditors Corporate Quality Management Div. Glow Plug Div. Committee President and CEO Management Committee Giving opinions Mutual cooperation Corporate Instruction Corporate Officers Officers’ Meeting Internal Auditing Office Administration Officer in Charge Instruction Instruction Audit Corporate governance Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Business Operating Section/Group Companies Various Conferences and Committees (CSR Committee, etc.) Masato Taniguchi Masaki Sumiya Marketing Div. In charge of EMEA region Disclosure Business Development Div. President of NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH Chronological table of measures taken for corporate governance Corporate Officer Corporate Officer  hanged the term of C F  ounded the  ecreased the upper D Increased the number Increased the Hiroyuki Maeda Hiroyuki Tanabe service of a director CSR Committee limit of the number of of outside directors number of outside SCM Div. President of CERAMICA E VELAS DE IGNICAO NGK DO from two years to directors from 25 to 13 to two directors to three Procurement Div. BRASIL LTDA. one year Introduced the corporate officer system 2005 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Hiroyasu Ogura Akiyoshi Kato In charge of ASEAN & India region Spark Plug Div. President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. President of SIAM NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. F  ormulated the criteria President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (ASIA) CO., LTD.  stablished the Internal E  stablished the E  ppointed an A for the appointment of Auditing Office CSR Policy outside director independent officers  bolished the A B  egan assessing the retirement allowance effectiveness of the Corporate Officer Corporate Officer system for officers Board of Directors Koji Suzuki Yoshiyuki Takayanagi Automotive Component Sale & Marketing Div. Medical Div. E  stablished the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Introduced the performance-linked stock remuneration system (Corporate Officers who do not concurrently serve as Directors) 55 Corporate governance 56 Board of Directors Compensations for Directors and Corporate Officers The Board of Directors of the company is composed of Directors. To ensure reasonableness and transparency, Director and corporate officer remuneration is determined by directors. We also introduced a performance-linked and 10 directors, 3 of whom are outside directors. decisions regarding candidate nominations for the the Board of Directors based on deliberations regarding the highly transparent and objective stock remuneration system Meetings of the Board of Directors are held regularly directors shall be made by the Board of Directors responsibilities and performances of each director and for directors and corporate officers in June 2017, aiming to once a month as well as whenever necessary for following deliberations by the Nomination Committee for corporate officer by the Remuneration Committee, which make our executives more aware of their roles in improving deliberation and determination with respect to issues as submission to the General Meeting of Shareholders. The was established in April 2017 as an advisory body to the the company’s mediumto long-term business performance prescribed in applicable laws and regulations or articles term of office of directors is one year. Board of Directors and whose membership includes outside and contributing to an increase in corporate value. of incorporation as well as other key managerial issues, Decisions regarding candidate nominations for the and also for supervision of business execution status in audit & supervisory board members shall be made by the response to reports from the directors. Board of Directors with the consent of the Audit & Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors In addition, a Nomination Committee, whose Supervisory Board, following deliberations by membership includes outside directors, was established representative directors for submission to the General The company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. An overview of this evaluation for the fiscal in April 2017 as an advisory body to the Board of Meeting of Shareholders. year ended March 31, 2018 is as follows: 1 Method of evaluation Independence of Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Evaluation by the Board of Directors, based on a survey of directors and audit & supervisory board members 2 Overview of evaluation results Outside directors play supervisory roles in positions We appoint independent outside directors and audit & It was judged that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors of the company is sufficiently ensured. The reasons thereof are as follows: 1) The composition of the Board of Directors includes a sufficient percentage of independent outside directors, and constructive independent from business operations, including expressing supervisory board members in line with our own selection discussions take place. their opinions by taking a broader view at important criteria as well as the criteria set by the securities exchanges 2) Revisions have been made to the agenda items of Board of Directors meetings, and efforts are being made to make discussions at meetings, including the Board of Directors meetings. to ensure that candidates for independent positions have no meetings of the Board of Directors more effective and make deliberations regarding important management issues more adequate. Outside audit & supervisory board members play auditing special relationships with the management team or major 3) A framework for promoting constructive dialogue with shareholders has been established appropriately and is functioning properly. Furthermore, the following issues were also identified as items that it is hoped will be implemented in order to further enhance the functions by drawing on their expertise to carry out audits shareholders and that they have no conflicts of interest with effectiveness of the Board of Directors: from multifaceted viewpoints and express their opinions at general shareholders. 1) Further improvement shall be made to the content and volume of the materials for the meetings of the Board of Directors to important meetings including the Board of Directors meetings. increase efficiency. 2) Enhanced orientation and training shall be provided for acquiring knowledge required of directors. 3) A remuneration scheme for the management team shall be considered reflecting short-term and long-term targets in a balanced way. Appointment reasons for outside directors and audit & supervisory board members Title Name Reason for appointment Frequency of attendance Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Measures to Strengthen Their Functions Attended 12 of the 14 Board of Outside Morihiko He has a wealth of experience in global companies and expertise as an executive, The Audit & Supervisory Board of the Company is composed to support the operations of the Audit & Supervisory Board, Directors meetings held during director Otaki and is expected to supervise management in an appropriate manner. the term*1. of 4 audit & supervisory board members, 2 of whom are and this staff member engages in internal communication, outside audit & supervisory board members. Timely and investigation, and other supporting operations. In addition, Corporate governance appropriate opinions are expressed from outside perspectives. members of the Internal Auditing Office and the Accounting Attended all of the 14 Board of No outside audit & supervisory board members have interests Auditor conduct investigations and make reports in response Outside Kanemaru He is expected to make recommendations to management by using his expertise and Directors meetings held during such as engaging in transactions with the company and/or to requests from audit & supervisory board members, and the director Yasui experience gained over the course of his long career as a certified public accountant. the term*1. belong to any organizations that have such interests. respective organizations strive to enhance the quality of audits Furthermore, in accordance with a request from the audit and work together. & supervisory board members, one staff member is appointed She is expected to make a range of recommendations by drawing upon her wealth of At tended all of the 14 Board of Outside Megumi experience as an executive in a different industry as well as the expertise developed Directors meetings held during director Tamagawa as a certified public accountant. the term*1. Internal Auditing System Audit & Our Internal Auditing Office performs audits of NGK SPARK control over financial reporting based on the internal control He has served as a director at financial institutions and is expected to use his Attended 13 of the 14 Board of supervisory Kenichi PLUG and its Group companies as an independent reporting system set pursuant to the Financial Instruments abundant expertise and knowledge regarding finance and corporate management for Directors meetings held during board Masuda*2 the benefit of the company. the term*1. department, reports the results to management, and makes and Exchange Act of Japan. member proposals to the audited companies on improvements The Internal Auditing Office works to improve the regarding the identified problems. Departments that receive effectiveness of internal audits by exchanging views on each Attended all of the 10 Board of Audit & Directors meetings held during such proposals formulate and implement improvement plans, of the audit plans and results with audit & supervisory board supervisory Fumiko She is expected to use the expertise and knowledge that she has accumulated the term since her appointment and the Internal Auditing Office monitors and checks the members and/or independent external auditors regularly or board Nagatomi during her long career as an attorney for the company. to the position of outside audit & implementation status. To ensure the reliability of financial as required. member supervisory board member on reporting, the Office assesses the effectiveness of internal June 29, 2017. Dialogue with Investors Audit & supervisory board Akihiko Minato*3 He has served in important posts at financial institutions and is expected to use his abundant expertise and knowledge regarding finance and corporate management for Number of instances of dialogue with institutional investors 224 per year 88 the benefit of the company. We aim to enhance corporate value by disclosing member Number of instances of dialogue information to investors in an open, fair manner, and thereby at overseas roadshows per year *1 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 enhancing understanding of the company. We shall continue Number of participants at 1,117 *2 Mr. Kenichi Masuda resigned from his position as outside audit & supervisory board member on June 26, 2018. endeavoring to appropriately distribute information and information sessions for *3 Mr. Akihiko Minato assumed his position as outside audit & supervisory board member on June 26, 2018. individual investors people per year enhance the quality of communication. 57 Corporate governance 58 Corporate Governance Reliable Governance CSR Promotion System As well as determining each year’s key tasks for CSR promotion system CSR Management implementation of the CSR Policy, the CSR Committee oversees and evaluates the CSR-related activities implemented by the respective task force committees and CSR Committee Chairman: President & CEO Risk Management Dept. divisions, and makes proposals regarding them, in order to (Secretariat) achieve total optimization of CSR activities, thereby strengthening the business foundation. Working groups are established as necessary to discuss BCM-WG CSR Procurement WG Risk Management WG specific themes and develop countermeasures. Through close collaboration among the CSR Committee, the task force committees, and working groups, Safety and Confidentiality Export Quality Environment Compliance a company-wide CSR promotion system is put in place. Committee Health Committee Management Control Committee Committee Committee Committee Communication with Stakeholders To deepen mutual understanding, we are fostering dialogue with our stakeholders through various opportunities. Stakeholders Communication Shareholders In addition to meeting the legal standards of information disclosure, we disclose information through various media and Basic Philosophy Our CSR and investors promptly release information on our website. We view CSR not just as a responsibility but as an Our CSR Philosophy and Policy To ensure that our customers purchase and use our products and services with peace of mind, we offer information on opportunity to be accountable through review of the We act based on our Corporate Code of Conduct and our Customers our website, exhibitions, etc. from a customer-oriented point of view. NGK SPARK PLUG Group’s economic, environmental CSR Policy in order to realize our Corporate Philosophy. and social activities from a global perspective, to enhance corporate value, and to contribute to the Enhancement of corporate value In order to establish healthy partnerships with our suppliers and ensure mutual growth, we hold corporate policy sustainable development of society in accordance with  isk Management Policy R Suppliers briefings and conduct other activities through our supply chain system. Corporate governance our Corporate Philosophy. Compliance Policy Information Security Policy Our CSR activities are wide-ranging and diverse, and to Corporate Philosophy Corporate Quality Policy provide our Group’s action guidelines for fulfilling CSR, Information Disclosure Policy Local We respect local culture and customs in our sites established in respective regions in the world and engage in smooth we established the CSR Policy in April 2011, which Corporate Procurement Policy communication with local communities, while also aiming to build a comfortable society as a member of those Human Resource Policy communities Code of Conduct communities and striving to participate in various activities that contribute to society. comprises 10 policies, such as the Compliance Policy Occupational Safety and Health and others. In line with the CSR Policy, we review and Basic Policy Social Contribution Policy promote CSR based on a multifaceted approach. CSR Policy Environmental Policy To provide employees with safe and sound workplaces where they can work hard and make a meaningful contribution, Employees the management team proactively visits individual workplaces and talks with workers on-site. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Contribution to SDGs The NGK SPARK PLUG Group participated in the United NGK SPARK PLUG shall focus on achieving the Sustainable Inclusion in SRI Indexes Nations Global Compact in November 2016. Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN in 2015. The Global Compact is an initiative proposed in 1999 by then Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan to The NGK SPARK PLUG Group is a member of the following indexes related to SRI (socially responsible investing): address various issues facing the world, such as global warming, environmental problems and disparities in society. It was established formally at the UN headquarters in July 2000 as a set of voluntary action principles to be followed by companies. The NGK SPARK PLUG Group will support the Global Compact’s 10 principles set in four fields (human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption)  bout Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) A SDGs are a set of 17 goals and 169 targets for creating a sustainable world by 2030 and conduct activities to contribute to that were adopted at a UN summit, and they aim to resolve shared global problems building a sustainable society. and issues, including poverty and inequality, and climate change, etc. with the objective that “not a single person on earth will be left behind.” (As of March 31, 2018) 59 Corporate governance 60 Corporate Governance Reliable Governance Corporate Ethics Helpline The Corporate Ethics Helpline is an internal reporting Flow after report is received via the Helpline Compliance and Risk Management system available to employees seeking consultation regarding compliance. We have worked to increase user convenience by establishing channels not only inside the CSR Committee Recommendation When necessary Disciplinary Committee company but also via an external expert service provider and enabling employees to seek consultation and make Compliance Committee Disciplinary action reports also outside of business hours and on holidays. Chairperson of Investigation Committee Regarding consultations and reports received, facts are Compliance Committee (Those concerned) investigated with discretion so that the reporting employee is neither identified nor feels uncomfortable, and if Helpline channel (inside and outside the company) problems are confirmed, they are dealt with promptly. There were 65 consultations and reports in the fiscal year Both anonymous Compliance violator and non-anonymous Investigation ended March 31, 2018, including those from employees of consultations Results are accepted Group companies. The numbers have been increasing year on year as a result of the permeation of compliance Employees awareness throughout the workforce. Risk Management Basic Philosophy Compliance We will build and operate a company-wide risk management system in order to strategically deal with risks against the background of a business environment that is becoming more complex and diversified. To this end, we will implement measures continuously and in an integrated manner in cooperation with our domestic and overseas Group companies. Basic Philosophy We work to increase awareness among employees regarding compliance to act in a socially sensible manner, helping Information Security them to bear in mind that our enterprise is a member of society. We have established the Group Information Security Group, our customers and our suppliers. When we use Regulations and Confidentiality Management wireless LAN, mobile terminals and other electronic Compliance Promotion Corporate governance Regulations, and strive for the appropriate protection information devices, we give all possible consideration to and management of confidential information including information security while also ensuring compliance with The Compliance Committee, headed by the and the Compliance Newsletter, which gathers examples personal information belonging to the NGK SPARK PLUG the relevant laws and regulations. Representative Director and made up representatives of of cases that could occur in an everyday setting. the departments in charge of legal and regulatory matters In particular, taking the antitrust law (the Antimonopoly and of the divisions, meets every three months to monitor Act of Japan) violation that we were confronted with in Formulation of Various BCPs (Business Continuity Plans) and make corrections on key issues and actions fiscal 2014 seriously, we have been implementing a concerning them. To raise employees’ awareness of program to prevent the recurrence of similar problems, In preparation for various risks caused by large-scale and handling procedures are specified in BCPs (Business compliance, we provide ongoing education and specifically by appointing a director in charge of disasters including earthquakes, we have been addressing Continuity Plans), clarifying the time-limit and the target edification, using the Compliance Guidebook, which compliance and founding a team specializing in antitrust the issue of BCM (Business Continuity Management) for state. We conduct training to disseminate and confirm the provides information on rules in the company and society, law-related issues and legal compliance. continuing business operations while minimizing any damage effectiveness of the formulated BCPs annually, and issues that may be incurred. Especially for functions requiring that come to light, as well as the degree of improvement prompt response in the event of a disaster, such as business in the plans’ effectiveness, are confirmed by the CSR Compliance promotion system departments, IT, and procurement, contingency frameworks Committee to be addressed and reviewed. Board of Directors Committee activities Disciplinary Internal Committee Auditing Office Preparation against Large Earthquakes Consultation and reporting CSR Committee Recommendation Audit We restructure the plants of Group companies in headquarters, internal firefighting teams and reserves. Every Compliance Committee Reporting Cooperation consideration of damage that might be inflicted by large November, our plants, sales offices and Group companies in Helpline channel Chairperson of Division in charge of laws and regulations (inside and outside the company) Compliance Committee (Acquisition of legal information and its dissemination) earthquakes in the future. Japan concurrently hold evacuation drills, which include the Reporting Reporting We also set out the initial responses to be made and examination of the guidelines. Guidelines on BCPs include Educational tools Compliance Consultation and Anti-Harassment Committee Plant liaison staff anddivision in Education and training check measures to be taken to ensure business continuity in the those on the time required for the recovery of important reporting (Labor Dept. and labor union) charge of lawsand regulations Awareness survey Results disclosure Audit event of a large earthquake in our guidelines on business operations, recovery plans, organization of recovery teams Consultation and reporting Consultation continuity plans (BCPs) against earthquakes. Guidelines and the implementation of BCPs. We hold BCP drills in Implementation of compliance NGK SPARK PLUG Group companies on initial responses include those on employees’ actions, December every year, as part of efforts to enhance the (Headquarters, branches, sales offices, liaison offices and plants) such as evacuation and safety reporting, and on emergency effectiveness of business continuity plans. 61 Information 62 Financial Results Highlights for the Past 11 Years (Millions of yen) 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Net sales 345,584 292,121 243,914 269,232 284,746 302,798 329,758 347,636 383,272 372,919 409,912 Operating income (loss) 35,039 (5,222) 10,683 28,770 24,478 23,754 51,661 62,196 66,284 53,595 67,279 Ordinary income (loss) 34,938 (7,528) 10,758 27,379 23,740 27,674 54,960 67,907 64,483 55,559 69,094 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 22,144 (71,669) 13,509 23,680 25,524 20,909 32,704 36,753 30,815 25,602 44,335 Capital expenditures 63,231 24,173 10,977 8,767 14,004 24,012 41,034 36,372 45,339 36,328 37,591 Depreciation 25,474 31,767 18,825 16,646 15,438 12,798 11,567 13,337 16,834 19,601 20,920 R&D expenses 17,444 17,575 13,907 15,763 16,036 17,100 19,400 21,337 23,123 23,416 25,283 Cash flows from operating activities 37,728 36,603 34,255 35,398 21,079 26,194 54,697 36,593 56,465 49,764 65,707 Cash flows from investing activities (43,820) (27,153) (17,270) (20,412) (15,850) (15,442) (61,148) (12,865) (82,331) (53,410) (26,422) Free cash flows (25,520) 3,820 27,834 30,684 8,507 8,456 3,541 13,995 (25,866) 6,335 29,636 Dividend payout 5,917 2,941 2,396 4,791 4,789 4,788 6,093 7,834 9,140 8,942 12,676 Net assets 288,299 184,384 207,006 218,159 235,613 268,309 302,793 343,380 341,044 354,710 388,115 Total assets 412,150 275,995 331,476 337,318 340,295 366,489 458,148 485,497 526,103 563,801 607,769 Interest bearing debt 37,289 37,042 39,814 36,697 37,399 27,418 57,339 46,153 80,212 99,275 98,115 (Yen) Earnings (losses) per share 100.93 (328.90) 62.01 108.71 117.25 96.06 150.26 168.88 141.60 119.44 209.37 Net assets per share 1,312.72 838.11 942.41 994.36 1,075.24 1,223.41 1,381.38 1,566.80 1,557.16 1,660.06 1,837.46 Cash dividends per share 27.00 13.50 11.00 22.00 22.00 22.00 28.00 36.00 42.00 42.00 60.00 Financial and Corporate Data Operating income ratio (%) 10.1 (1.8) 4.4 10.7 8.6 7.8 15.7 17.9 17.3 14.4 16.4 Return on net sales (%) 6.4 (24.5) 5.5 8.8 9.0 6.9 9.9 10.6 8.0 6.9 10.8 Gross profit on sales (%) 24.1 13.8 21.0 27.4 25.1 24.2 32.6 35.8 35.6 33.0 34.6 ROE (Return on equity) (%) 7.7 (30.6) 7.0 11.2 11.3 8.4 11.5 11.4 9.1 7.4 12.0 ROA (Return on assets) (%) 5.4 (20.8) 4.4 7.1 7.5 5.9 7.9 7.8 6.1 4.7 7.6 ROIC (Return on invested capital) (%) 7.8 (1.3) 3.2 8.0 6.5 5.8 11.0 11.6 11.4 8.5 10.0 Equity ratio (%) 69.4 66.2 61.9 64.2 68.8 72.7 65.6 70.2 64.4 62.5 63.5 Total asset turnover (times) 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 Dividend payout ratio (%) 26.8 — 17.7 20.2 18.8 22.9 18.6 21.3 29.7 35.2 28.7 63 Information 64 Consolidated Balance Sheets NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 2018 Assets Liabilities Current assets Current liabilities Accounts payable trade (Note 9) ¥ 32,407 ¥ 30,045 $ 305,726 Cash and deposits (Notes 7 and 9) ¥ 56,235 ¥ 45,733 $ 530,519 Short-term loans payable (Notes 9 and 20) 10,113 11,259 95,406 Notes and accounts receivable trade (Note 9) 93,615 91,594 883,160 Current portion of bonds payable (Notes 9 and 20) 25,000 — 235,849 Short-term investment securities (Notes 9 and 10) 59,905 57,210 565,142 Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 9 and 20) 9,962 — 93,981 Inventories (Note 3) 94,953 86,857 895,783 Lease obligations (Note 20) 43 87 406 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 12,427 11,023 117,236 Income taxes payable 13,040 7,697 123,019 Other 15,076 14,614 142,226 Other 39,641 36,486 373,972 Allowance for doubtful accounts (751) (463) (7,085) Total current liabilities 130,208 85,577 1,228,377 Total current assets 331,463 306,570 3,127,009 Noncurrent liabilities Bonds payable (Notes 9 and 20) 30,000 55,000 283,019 Noncurrent assets Long-term loans payable (Notes 9 and 20) 22,886 32,848 215,906 Property, plant and equipment Lease obligations (Note 20) 111 80 1,047 Buildings and structures, net 63,410 62,400 598,208 Net defined benefit liability (Note 12) 27,443 29,263 258,896 Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 95,282 86,358 898,887 Provision for stock benefits 92 — 868 Land 21,279 19,659 200,745 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 13) 7,967 5,324 75,160 Construction in progress 11,027 9,726 104,028 Other 945 998 8,915 Other, net 4,101 3,156 38,689 Total noncurrent liabilities 89,446 123,514 843,830 Total property, plant and equipment (Note 3) 195,102 181,302 1,840,585 Total liabilities 219,654 209,091 2,072,208 Net assets Intangible assets Shareholders’ equity Goodwill (Note 16) 307 460 2,896 Common stock 47,869 47,869 451,594 Software 4,567 4,005 43,085 Financial and Corporate Data Capital surplus 54,639 54,825 515,462 Other 239 234 2,255 Retained earnings 278,374 262,010 2,626,170 Total intangible assets 5,114 4,701 48,245 Treasury stock (6,422) (17,649) (60,585) Total shareholders’ equity 374,461 347,056 3,532,651 Investments and other assets Investment securities (Notes 3, 9 and 10) 71,680 68,252 676,226 Accumulated other comprehensive income Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 31,211 27,580 294,443 Deferred tax assets (Note 13) 3,042 1,496 28,698 Foreign currency translation adjustments (16,737) (16,527) (157,896) Other 1,487 2,000 14,028 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 12) (3,273) (5,804) (30,877) Allowance for doubtful accounts (119) (523) (1,123) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 11,200 5,249 105,660 Total investments and other assets 76,090 71,226 717,830 Noncontrolling interests 2,454 2,404 23,151 Total noncurrent assets 276,306 257,230 2,606,660 Total net assets 388,115 354,710 3,661,462 Total assets ¥607,769 ¥563,801 $5,733,670 Total liabilities and net assets ¥607,769 ¥563,801 $5,733,670 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 65 Information 66 Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 For the Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 2018 Net sales (Note 16) ¥409,912 ¥372,919 $3,867,094 Profit ¥44,683 ¥25,997 $421,538 Cost of sales (Note 4) 268,189 250,017 2,530,085 Other comprehensive income: Gross profit 141,722 122,901 1,337,000 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 3,655 4,837 34,481 Selling, general and administrative expenses Foreign currency translation adjustments 16 (1,007) 151 Selling expenses 33,377 25,252 314,877 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 12) 2,560 2,928 24,151 General and administrative expenses 41,065 44,053 387,406 Total selling, general and administrative expenses (Notes 4 and 12) 74,442 69,306 702,283 Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using equity method (161) 113 (1,519) Operating income (Note 16) 67,279 53,595 634,708 Total other comprehensive income (Note 5) 6,070 6,872 57,264 Nonoperating income Comprehensive income ¥50,754 ¥32,870 $478,811 Interest income 1,123 1,157 10,594 Dividend income 1,398 1,422 13,189 Equity in earnings of associates 510 604 4,811 Comprehensive income attributable to: Other 1,826 1,815 17,226 Owners of the parent ¥50,286 ¥32,492 $474,396 Total nonoperating income 4,858 4,999 45,830 Noncontrolling interests 467 377 4,406 Nonoperating expenses See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense 511 342 4,821 Foreign exchange loss 1,786 963 16,849 Depreciation of idle property, plant and equipment — 201 — Other 746 1,528 7,038 Total nonoperating expenses 3,043 3,036 28,708 Ordinary income 69,094 55,559 651,830 Extraordinary income Gain on sale of noncurrent assets (Note 4) 199 487 1,877 Gain on sale of investment securities 1,117 — 10,538 Total extraordinary income 1,316 487 12,415 Extraordinary loss Loss on sale or disposal of noncurrent assets (Note 4) 1,325 773 12,500 Financial and Corporate Data Impairment loss (Note 4) — 20,187 — Loss on valuation of investment securities 5 74 47 Loss on violation of antitrust law 3,987 77 37,613 Settlement package 4,434 99 41,830 Environmental expenses 559 — 5,274 Total extraordinary loss 10,312 21,212 97,283 Profit before income taxes 60,098 34,833 566,962 Income taxes current 18,499 11,434 174,519 Income taxes deferred (3,084) (2,598) (29,094) Total income taxes (Note 13) 15,415 8,836 145,425 Profit 44,683 25,997 421,538 Profit attributable to: Noncontrolling interests 347 394 3,274 Owners of the parent ¥ 44,335 ¥ 25,602 $ 418,255 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 67 Information 68 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 For the Years Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total Net unrealized Foreign accumulated 2018 2017 2018 Total gains on currency Remeasurements other Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ available-fortranslation of defined benefit comprehensive Noncontrolling Total net Cash flows from operating activities stock surplus earnings stock equity sale securities adjustments plans income interests assets Millions of yen Profit before income taxes ¥ 60,098 ¥ 34,833 $ 566,962 Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥47,869 ¥54,824 ¥245,463 ¥ (7,647) ¥340,510 ¥22,733 ¥(15,640) ¥(8,734) ¥ (1,640) ¥2,174 ¥341,044 Depreciation and amortization 20,920 19,601 197,358 Changes during the fiscal year Impairment loss — 20,187 — Dividends of surplus (9,055) (9,055) (9,055) Increase in net defined benefit liability 1,870 1,147 17,642 Profit attributable to owners of Interest and dividend income (2,521) (2,579) (23,783) the parent 25,602 25,602 25,602 Interest expense 511 342 4,821 Purchase of treasury stock (10,001) (10,001) (10,001) Disposal of treasury stock 0 0 0 0 Equity in earnings of associates (510) (604) (4,811) Net changes in items other than Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 1,126 286 10,623 shareholders’ equity 4,846 (887) 2,930 6,889 230 7,120 Gain on sale of investment securities (1,117) — (10,538) Total changes in items during the period — 0 16,546 (10,001) 6,545 4,846 (887) 2,930 6,889 230 13,665 Loss on valuation of investment securities 5 74 47 Balance at March 31, 2017 47,869 54,825 262,010 (17,649) 347,056 27,580 (16,527) (5,804) 5,249 2,404 354,710 Increase in notes and accounts receivable trade (1,876) (17,715) (17,698) Changes during the fiscal year Increase in inventories (8,095) (6,348) (76,368) Dividends of surplus (10,823) (10,823) (10,823) Increase in notes and accounts payable trade 966 2,232 9,113 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 44,335 44,335 44,335 Other, net 6,053 1,950 57,104 Purchase of treasury stock (5,922) (5,922) (5,922) Subtotal 77,430 53,408 730,472 Disposal of treasury stock 0 0 0 0 Interest and dividends received 3,169 2,336 29,896 Retirement of treasury stock (0) (17,148) 17,149 — — Interest paid (501) (353) (4,726) Change in ownership interest of Income taxes paid (14,390) (5,626) (135,755) parent due to transactions with noncontrolling interests (184) (184) (184) Net cash provided by operating activities 65,707 49,764 619,877 Net changes in items other than Cash flows from investing activities shareholders’ equity 3,630 (210) 2,530 5,950 49 6,000 Total changes in items during the Net increase in time deposits (1,121) (1,009) (10,575) period — (185) 16,363 11,226 27,404 3,630 (210) 2,530 5,950 49 33,405 Net decrease (increase) in short-term investment securities 10,769 (8,973) 101,594 Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥47,869 ¥54,639 ¥278,374 ¥ (6,422) ¥374,461 ¥31,211 ¥(16,737) ¥(3,273) ¥11,200 ¥2,454 ¥388,115 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (37,222) (34,921) (351,151) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 858 935 8,094 Thousands of U.S. dollars Purchase of intangible assets (1,675) (1,636) (15,802) Balance at March 31, 2017 $451,594 $517,217 $2,471,792 $(166,500) $3,274,113 $260,189 $(155,915) $(54,755) $ 49,519 $22,679 $3,346,321 Changes during the fiscal year Purchase of investment securities (837) (8,739) (7,896) Dividends of surplus (102,104) (102,104) (102,104) Proceeds from sale and redemption of investment securities 1,927 1,002 18,179 Profit attributable to owners of Other, net 879 (69) 8,292 Financial and Corporate Data the parent 418,255 418,255 418,255 Net cash used in investing activities (26,422) (53,410) (249,264) Purchase of treasury stock (55,868) (55,868) (55,868) Cash flows from financing activities Disposal of treasury stock 0 0 0 0 Retirement of treasury stock (0) (161,774) 161,783 — — Net (decrease) increase in short-term loans payable (574) 10,866 (5,415) Change in ownership interest of Proceeds from long-term loans payable — 8,000 — parent due to transactions with Repayment of long-term loans payable — (10) — noncontrolling interests (1,736) (1,736) (1,736) Net changes in items other than Purchase of treasury stock (5,922) (10,001) (55,868) shareholders’ equity 34,245 (1,981) 23,868 56,132 462 56,604 Cash dividends paid (10,821) (9,056) (102,085) Total changes in items during the period — (1,745) 154,368 105,906 258,528 34,245 (1,981) 23,868 56,132 462 315,142 Other, net (725) (341) (6,840) Balance at March 31, 2018 $451,594 $515,462 $2,626,170 $ (60,585) $3,532,651 $294,443 $(157,896) $(30,877) $105,660 $23,151 $3,661,462 Net cash used in financing activities (18,043) (544) (170,217) See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 318 (1,147) 3,000 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 21,558 (5,338) 203,377 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 65,817 71,155 620,915 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from newly consolidated subsidiary 2 — 19 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 7) ¥ 87,378 ¥ 65,817 $ 824,321 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 69 Information 70 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. Basis of Consolidated Financial Statements of accounting had been applied to the investments in these (c) Capitalized expenditures for research and development are executed are translated at the contracted rate. Measurement companies, the effect on the accompanying consolidated financial activities of hedge effectiveness is not considered necessary for interest The accompanying consolidated financial statements of NGK statements would not have been material. (d) Fair value measurement of investment properties and rate and currency swap contracts that meet the requirements for SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (the “Company”) and its consolidated The major subsidiaries that are not consolidated are Bujias revaluation of property, plant and equipment and intangible the special treatment. subsidiaries (together with the Company, the “NGK Spark Plug NGK Del Ecuador Cia Ltda., Nittoku Smile Co., Ltd. and Sharing assets Group”) have been prepared in accordance with the provisions FACTORY Co., Ltd. for the year ended March 31, 2018 and Bujias (e) Inventories set forth in the Financial Instrument and Exchange Law of Japan NGK Del Ecuador Cia Ltda. and Nittoku Denshi Co., Ltd. and (Unification of accounting policies applied to associates accounted Inventories held for sale in the ordinary course of business are and its related accounting regulations and in conformity with Nittoku Smile Co. for the year ended March 31, 2017, respectively. for using the equity method) valued at the lower of cost, determined principally by the moving accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese There were no unconsolidated subsidiaries accounted for by The Company also has adopted ASBJ PITF No. 24, “Practical average method, or net realizable value. If net realizable value GAAP”), which are different in certain respects as to application the equity method for all periods presented. Solution on Unification of Accounting Policies Applied to has fallen below cost as of the end of the period, the cost basis and disclosure requirements from International Financial Reporting The Company has three associates accounted for by the Associates Accounted for Using the Equity Method.” PITF No. is reduced to net realizable value and regarded as decreased Standards (“IFRS”). equity method, namely, Woo Jin Industry Co., Ltd., Tokai Taima 24 requires that accounting policies and procedures applied by profitability of inventories. The accompanying consolidated financial statements Kogu Co., Ltd. and Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, INC. for all an investment company and its associates to similar transactions are a translation, with some expanded descriptions, from the periods presented. and events under similar circumstances should, in principle, be (f) Allowance for doubtful accounts consolidated financial statements of the Company prepared in During the year ended March 31, 2017, Japan Medical unified for applying the equity method. PITF No. 24, however, as Allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided for at the accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the appropriate Dynamic Marketing, Inc. became associates accounted for by the a tentative measure, allows an investment company to apply the aggregate amount of estimated credit losses based on an Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by the equity method due to the acquisition of their stock. equity method using its foreign associates’ financial statements individual review of certain doubtful or troubled receivables and a Financial Instrument and Exchange Law of Japan. The major unconsolidated subsidiaries that are not accounted prepared in accordance with either IFRS or U.S. GAAP. In this general reserve for other receivables based on the historical loss The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down for by the equity method are Bujias NGK Del Ecuador Cia Ltda., case, adjustments for the same four items as PITF No. 18 are experience of a certain past period. by truncating the figures below one million. Totals may not add Nittoku Smile Co., Ltd. and Sharing FACTORY Co., Ltd. for the required in the consolidation process so that their impact on up exactly because of such truncation. The translation of the year ended March 31, 2018 and Bujias NGK Del Ecuador Cia profit attributable to the owners of the parent is accounted for (g) Noncurrent assets and depreciation/amortization Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts is included Ltda. and Nittoku Denshi Co., Ltd. and Nittoku Smile Co. for the in accordance with Japanese GAAP, unless the impact is not Property, plant and equipment (except for lease assets), including solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan, using the year ended March 31, 2017, respectively. material. significant renewals and additions, are stated at cost. Depreciation approximate exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2018, which The associate that is not accounted for by the equity method is calculated by the straight-line method based on the estimated was ¥106 to U.S.$1.00. The translation should not be construed is Hayakawa Seiki Co., Ltd. for all periods presented. (b) Cash and cash equivalents useful life of the asset, principally ranging from 8 to 50 years for as a representation that the Japanese yen amounts have been, These companies are excluded from the scope of the equity The NGK Spark Plug Group considers highly liquid debt buildings and from 4 to 10 years for machinery, equipment and could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. method because their net income (loss), retained earnings, instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months vehicles. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. accumulated other comprehensive income and others are or less, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, Intangible assets (except for lease assets), including software Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform immaterial, and the exclusion of these companies from the scope and therefore present an insignificant risk of changes in value to for internal use, are mainly amortized using the straight-line to the current year’s presentation. of companies accounted for by the equity method does not hinder changes in interest rates, to be cash equivalents. method over the estimated useful life of the asset. The estimated a reasonable understanding of the Group’s financial position and useful life of software for internal use is mainly 5 years. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies results of operations. (c) Investments and marketable securities Expenditures on maintenance and repairs are charged to For the year ended March 31, 2018, the fiscal year-end The NGK Spark Plug Group classifies certain investments in debt income as incurred. Upon disposal, the cost and accumulated (a) Principles of consolidation date of NGK Spark Plug (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Changshu NGK and equity securities as “held-to-maturity,” “trading” or “availabledepreciation are removed from the related accounts and any gain The accompanying consolidated financial statements include Spark Plug Co., Ltd., NGK Spark Plug (Shanghai) Trading Co., for-sale.” The classification determines the respective accounting or loss is recorded as gain or loss. the accounts of the Company and its significant subsidiaries. Ltd., Bujias NGK de Mexico S.A. de C.V., LLC NGK Spark Plugs method to be applied to the investments as stipulated by the Investments in significant unconsolidated subsidiaries and (Eurasia), Woo Jin Industry Co., Ltd. and two other companies is accounting standards for financial instruments. The NGK Spark (h) Leases associates are accounted for by the equity method. Investments December 31. However, when preparing the consolidated financial Plug Group has no securities categorized as trading or held-toThe Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associates not accounted statements, the Company uses the financial statements of the maturity securities. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair capitalize the assets used under finance leases as lessee, except for by the equity method are stated at cost. All intercompany seven consolidated subsidiaries and one associate that have been value if such value is available, and net unrealized gain or loss for certain immaterial or short-term finance leases which are transactions and accounts have been eliminated. The difference compiled by a temporary closing of their accounts as of March 31. on these securities is reported as a component of accumulated accounted for as operating leases in accordance with the current between the cost of investments in subsidiaries and the underlying other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. accounting standard. Depreciation is calculated using the straightequity in their net assets, adjusted based on the fair value at (Unification of accounting policies applied to foreign subsidiaries Gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale securities line method over the lease term and assuming no residual value. the time of acquisition, is deferred principally as goodwill and for consolidated financial statements) are computed by the moving average method. Available-for-sale Financial and Corporate Data amortized over the estimated useful life, generally 5-10 years, on a The Company has adopted Practical Issues Task Force securities without available fair value are carried at cost determined (i) Impairment of fixed assets straight-line basis. (“PITF”) No. 18, “Practical Solution on Unification of Accounting by the moving average method. Adjustments in the carrying The number of consolidated subsidiaries and associates Policies Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for Consolidated The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have values of individual investment securities are charged to income accounted for by the equity method for the years ended March Financial Statements,” issued by the Accounting Standards adopted the “Accounting Standard for Impairment of Fixed Assets” through write-downs when a decline in value is deemed other than 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Board of Japan (“ASBJ”). PITF No. 18 requires that accounting and the related practical guidance. The standard requires that fixed temporary. 2018 2017 policies and procedures applied by a parent company and its assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Consolidated subsidiaries: subsidiaries to similar transactions and events under similar in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (d) Accounting for derivatives Domestic 12 11 circumstances should, in principle, be unified for the preparation may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized in the Derivative instruments are valued at fair value if hedge accounting income statement by reducing the carrying amount of the impaired Overseas 30 30 of the consolidated financial statements. PITF No. 18, however, is not appropriate or when there is no hedging designation, and asset or a group of assets to the recoverable amount, measured Associates accounted for by the equity method 3 3 as a tentative measure, allows a parent company to prepare the gains and losses on the derivatives are recognized in current by the higher of the asset’s net selling price or value in use. Fixed During the year ended March 31, 2018, Nittoku Denshi Co., consolidated financial statements using its foreign subsidiaries’ earnings. According to the special treatment permitted by the assets include land, plants, buildings and other forms of property, Ltd. was included in the scope of consolidation in order to improve financial statements prepared in accordance with either IFRS or accounting standard for financial instruments, if interest rate and including intangible assets, and are to be grouped at the lowest the accuracy of the consolidated financial disclosure. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). In currency swap contracts are used as hedges and meet certain level for which there are identifiable cash flows from other groups During the year ended March 31, 2017, NTK Ceramic Co., this case, adjustments for the following four items are required in hedging criteria, the interest rate and currency swap contracts are of assets. For the purpose of recognition and measurement of an Ltd. (new N-CERA) and Ceramic Sensor Nakatsugawa Co., the consolidation process so that their impact on profit attributable not remeasured at market price, and the amount to be received impairment loss, fixed assets of the NGK Spark Plug Group, other Ltd., which were newly established, were included in the scope to the owners of the parent is accounted for in accordance with under the interest rate and currency swap contracts is added to than idle or unused property, are grouped into cash generating of consolidation. The Company merged former N-CERA as of Japanese GAAP, unless the impact is not material. or deducted from the interest on the liabilities for which the swap units based on managerial accounting classifications. January 1, 2017. contracts are executed, and the liabilities denominated in foreign Investments in the remaining unconsolidated subsidiaries and (a) Goodwill not subject to amortization currencies for which the interest rate and currency swap contracts associated companies are stated at cost. If the equity method (b) Actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit retirement plans recognized outside profit and loss 71 Information 72 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (j) Employee retirement benefits in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment “Other nonoperating expenses” in the previous fiscal year, is (c) Investment securities The difference between retirement benefit obligations and plan date. included in “Other nonoperating expenses” from the current fiscal Among investment securities, shares of unconsolidated assets has been recognized as net defined benefit liability. To year because the amount was less than 10% of total nonoperating subsidiaries and associates at March 31, 2018 and 2017, calculate the retirement benefit obligations, the benefit formula (n) Enterprise taxes expenses. In order to reflect the change in presentation, the amounted to ¥12,349 million ($116,500 thousand) and ¥12,256 basis is used to allocate estimated retirement benefits to periods of The NGK Spark Plug Group records enterprise taxes calculated consolidated statement of income for the previous fiscal year million, respectively. service. Past service cost that is yet to be recognized is amortized based on the “added value” and “capital” amounts when levied as has been reclassified to reflect a consistent presentation format. on a straight-line basis over ten years, a period not exceeding size-based corporate taxes for local government enterprise taxes, As a result of this change, ¥311 million ($2,934 thousand) of (d) Notes receivable matured at the end of fiscal year the average remaining service period of the employees. Actuarial which are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. “Contribution” for the previous fiscal year was reclassified as “Other Notes receivable that were to mature at the consolidated balance gains and losses that are yet to be recognized are amortized on nonoperating expenses.” sheet date were accounted for at the date of actual settlement. a straight-line basis over ten years, a period not exceeding the (o) Appropriation of retained earnings Since the last day of the current fiscal year was a bank holiday average remaining service period of employees, from the year Cash dividends are recorded in the fiscal year when a proposed (u) Additional information and the following notes matured on March 31, 2018, they were following the year in which they arise. Net defined benefit liability appropriation of retained earnings is approved by the Board of (Performance-linked stock compensation plan) included in the consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2018: and retirement benefit costs of certain consolidated subsidiaries Directors of the Company. In order to increase the Directors’ awareness of their contribution Thousands of are calculated using the simplified method as permitted by the to the enhancement of the Company’s mediumto long-term Millions of yen U.S. dollars accounting standard for retirement benefits. (p) Per share data performance and the improvement of corporate value, the 2018 2017 2018 Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available Company introduced a performance-linked stock compensation Notes receivable – trade ¥66 ¥— $623 (k) Translation of foreign currency accounts to common shareholders by the weighted average number of plan (the “Plan”) for Directors and Corporate Officers of the Receivables, payables and securities, other than stocks of shares of common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted Company (excluding Outside Directors and nonresidents of Japan, (e) Contingent Liabilities subsidiaries and certain other securities, are translated into earnings per share is not disclosed as the NGK Spark Plug Group collectively “Directors, etc.”), which is a highly performance-linked, (1) Guarantee on loans Japanese yen at exchange rates prevailing at the fiscal yearhad no dilutive common shares. Cash dividends per share shown transparent and objective compensation plan. At March 31, 2018 and 2017, contingent liabilities in respect end. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded based on for each fiscal year in the accompanying consolidated statements The Company applies the “Practical Solution on Transactions to guarantees of indebtedness, principally of employees, the exchange rates prevailing on the transaction dates. Resulting of income represent dividends declared by the Company as of Delivering the Company’s Own Stock to Employees, etc. amounted to ¥11 million ($104 thousand) and ¥14 million, translation gains and losses are included in current earnings. applicable to the respective year. through Trusts” (PITF No. 30, March 26, 2015) for the accounting respectively. treatment of the Plan. (2) The NGK Spark Plug Group is subject to investigations by For financial statement items of the overseas consolidated (q) Consumption Taxes (1) Transaction summary overseas authorities regarding possible violations of competition subsidiaries, all asset and liability accounts are translated into The Plan uses an officer compensation BIP (Board Incentive laws in relation to certain past transactions in the automotive All figures are net of consumption taxes. Japanese yen by applying the exchange rate in effect at the Plan) trust by which Directors are granted shares of the components segment. In connection, compensation for respective fiscal year-end. All income and expense accounts are Company and paid the cash equivalent to the market value damage claims have been discussed with some customers (r) Provision for stock benefits translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the of the shares of the Company after conversion into cash and civil lawsuits have been filed. Additional losses may arise The provision for stock benefits is provided at the estimated year. Translation differences, after allocating portions attributable according to the degree of achievement of performance targets if new facts related to possible violations become known. amount of stock benefits to directors and corporate officers at to noncontrolling interests, are reported in foreign currency outlined in the medium-term management plan and other However, the effect of these contingent liabilities on the the fiscal year-end in accordance with the internal rules for stock translation adjustments as a component of accumulated other considerations. consolidated financial statements is not reasonably estimable delivery. comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance (2) The Company’s own stock in the trust at this stage. sheets. The Company’s own stock in the possession of the trust is (s) New accounting standards issued but not yet adopted recorded as treasury stock under net assets at book value (Standards and guidance not yet adopted) 4. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Income (l) Research and development expenses (excluding ancillary expenses). The book value and number of The following standard and guidance were issued but not yet shares of treasury stock were ¥919 million ($8,670 thousand) Expenses related to research and development are charged to (a) Loss on valuation of inventories adopted. and 433,200 shares, respectively as of the fiscal year ended income as incurred. Research and development expenses arise For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, a write-down of “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ March 31, 2018. from a wide range of the NGK Spark Plug Group’s activities, ¥1,193 million ($11,255 thousand) and ¥274 million, respectively, Statement No. 29, March 30, 2018) including basic and applied research for material development, was recognized as costs of goods sold. “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue (Revised Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred planning and designing of new products and processes and Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30, March 30, 2018) Tax Assets) activities aimed at improving existing products and processes. (b) Selling, general and administrative expenses (1) Overview The Company and its domestic subsidiaries adopted “Revised For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, research and Major components of selling, general and administrative expenses The above standard and guidance provide comprehensive Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Financial and Corporate Data development expenses aggregated ¥25,283 million ($238,519 for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: principles for revenue recognition. Under the standard and Assets” (ASBJ Guidance No. 26, March 28, 2016 (“Guidance No. thousand) and ¥23,416 million, respectively. These amounts Thousands of guidance, revenue is recognized by applying following 5 steps: 26”)) from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. included research and development activities for basic and Millions of yen U.S. dollars Step 1: Identify contract(s) with customers. applied research and the development of new products and 2018 2017 2018 Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract. processes in the amount of ¥4,448 million ($41,962 thousand) 3. Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheets Depreciation ¥ 2,401 ¥ 3,044 $ 22,651 Step 3: Determine the transaction price. and ¥4,089 million at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, Provision of allowance for Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance (a) Inventories doubtful accounts 223 183 2,104 and were recorded as general and administrative expenses. obligation in the contract. At March 31, 2018 and 2017, inventories consisted of the Retirement benefit costs 1,269 1,356 11,972 The remaining expenses were recorded for the respective years Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a following: Directors compensation and in the accompanying consolidated statements of income as employee salaries and performance obligation. manufacturing costs. Thousands of allowances 27,246 25,782 257,038 (2) Effective date Millions of yen U.S. dollars Packing and transportation The effective date of these new standards is under 2018 2017 2018 expenses 8,653 6,188 81,632 (m) Income taxes consideration. Finished goods ¥50,915 ¥48,911 $480,330 Advertising expenses 5,974 5,602 56,358 Income taxes are accounted for by the asset-liability method. (3) Effects of application Work-in-process 29,906 25,581 282,132 Research and development Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are in expenses* 4,448 4,089 41,962 Raw materials 14,132 12,364 133,321 consequences attributable to differences between the financial the process of determining the effects of these new standards * The aggregate amounts of research and development expenses included in selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and on the consolidated financial statements. (b) Accumulated depreciation of property, plant and equipment ¥4,448 million ($41,962 thousand) and ¥4,089 million, respectively. their respective tax bases and operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted At March 31, 2018 and 2017, accumulated depreciation of (t) Changing in presentation tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which property, plant and equipment amounted to ¥299,878 million (Consolidated Statements of Income) ($2,829,038 thousand) and ¥301,800 million, respectively. those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or “Contribution,” which was presented as a separate item under settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change 73 Information 74 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Gain on sale of noncurrent assets 5. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (b) Dividends 7. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Major components of gain on sale of noncurrent assets for the i) Cash dividends paid years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Amounts reclassified as profit in the current period that were Cash and cash equivalents Thousands of recognized in other comprehensive income in the current or Type of Total Dividend per Date of Payment Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents on the consolidated Resolution Shares dividends share record date Millions of yen U.S. dollars previous periods and the tax effects for each component of other statements of cash flows to the amounts disclosed on the Board of ¥4,456 2018 2017 2018 comprehensive income were as follows: Directors million consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2018 and 2017, were Buildings and structures ¥ 0 ¥287 $ 0 Thousands of on May 9, Common ($42,038 ¥21 March 31, June 8, as follows: Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 stock thousand) ($198) 2017 2017 Machinery, equipment and Thousands of vehicles 78 59 736 2018 2017 2018 Board of ¥6,366 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Directors million Land 113 136 1,066 Unrealized gains on availableon Oct 30, Common ($60,057 ¥30 September November 2018 2017 2018 Software 0 0 0 for-sale securities 2017 stock thousand) ($283) 30, 2017 30, 2017 Cash and deposits ¥ 56,235 ¥ 45,733 $ 530,519 Other 6 2 57 Increase during the year ¥ 6,463 ¥ 6,879 $ 60,972 (Note) Total cash dividends paid in accordance with the resolution of the meeting of the Short-term investment securities 59,905 57,210 565,142 Reclassification adjustments (1,117) 64 (10,538) Board of Directors held on October 30, 2017 included ¥12 million ($113 thousand) of cash dividends for the stock held by the officer compensation BIP trust. Subtotal 116,141 102,943 1,095,670 Subtotal, before tax 5,345 6,943 50,425 (d) Loss on sale or disposal of noncurrent assets Time deposits with deposit term Tax effect (1,690) (2,105) (15,943) of over 3 months (9,556) (9,115) (90,151) Major components of loss on sale or disposal of noncurrent assets ii) Dividends for which the date of record falls within the fiscal Subtotal, net of tax 3,655 4,837 34,481 Short-term investment securities for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: year under audit but the payment date occurs in the following other than cash equivalents (19,205) (28,010) (181,179) Thousands of fiscal year Foreign currency translation Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 87,378 ¥ 65,817 $ 824,321 Millions of yen U.S. dollars adjustments 2018 2017 2018 Type of Source of Total Dividend Date of Payment Increase (decrease) during Resolution Shares dividends dividends per share record date Buildings and structures ¥371 ¥337 $3,500 the year 16 (1,007) 151 8. Lease Commitments Board of ¥6,309 Machinery, equipment and Remeasurements of defined Directors million vehicles 917 287 8,651 benefit plans on April Common Retained ($59,519 ¥30 March 31, June 5, (a) Finance lease transactions 27, 2018 stock earnings thousand) ($283) 2018 2018 Land — 0 — Increase during the year 1,919 2,023 18,104 Financing lease transactions without transfer of ownership of (Note) Total cash dividends paid included ¥12 million ($113 thousand) of cash dividends for Software 5 1 47 Reclassification adjustments 1,673 2,113 15,783 leased assets the stock held by the officer compensation BIP trust. Other 31 145 292 Subtotal, before tax 3,593 4,136 33,896 i) Components of lease assets are as follows: Tax effect (1,033) (1,208) (9,745) For the year ended March 31, 2017 1) Property, plant and equipment: Mainly equipment (tools, (e) Impairment loss Subtotal, net of tax 2,560 2,928 24,151 (a) Class and total number of issued and outstanding shares furniture and fixtures) for development in the automotive Although no impairment loss was recorded for the year ended Share of other comprehensive and treasury stock components segment. income of associates March 31, 2018, the NGK Spark Plug Group recognized an accounted for using equity 2) Intangible assets: Mainly intra-communication systems impairment loss on fixed assets in the amount of ¥20,187 million method Number of Shares (software). as extraordinary loss for the year ended March 31, 2017. (Decrease) increase during As of March As of March ii) Depreciation of lease assets: the year (161) 113 (1,519) 31, 2016 Increase Decrease 31, 2017 For the year ended March 31, 2017, impairment loss consisted Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over Total other comprehensive Issued and of ¥7,513 million on goodwill, ¥8,765 million on other intangible income ¥ 6,070 ¥ 6,872 $ 57,264 the lease term and assuming no residual value. outstanding shares assets and ¥3,908 million on machinery and equipment and other Common stock 223,544,820 — — 223,544,820 assets. The NGK Spark Plug Group revised the future business (b) Operating lease transactions Total 223,544,820 — — 223,544,820 6. Notes to Consolidated Statements of Change in Net Assets At March 31, 2018 and 2017, the NGK Spark Plug Group had plan of a consolidated subsidiary, Wells Vehicle Electronics Treasury stock Holdings Corp. (hereinafter “Wells”), and its subsidiaries, as For the year ended March 31, 2018 Common stock 5,923,363 5,397,451 58 11,320,756 annual commitments under operating leases as lessee. The its business results were less than what was estimated upon (a) Class and total number of issued and outstanding shares Total 5,923,363 5,397,451 58 11,320,756 aggregate future minimum payments for noncancelable operating acquiring Wells. As a result of careful consideration of future and treasury stock Notes: 1) The increase of 851 shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the leases were as follows: recoverability based on the revised business plan, the NGK Spark purchase of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. Thousands of 2) The increase of 5,396,600 shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to Millions of yen U.S. dollars Plug Group recognize an impairment loss of goodwill, intangible Number of Shares the repurchase of shares pursuant to the resolution at the meeting of the Board 2018 2017 2018 assets and other properties related to Wells. The grouping of As of March As of March of Directors held on July 29, 2016. 31, 2017 Increase Decrease 31, 2018 3) The decrease of 58 shares in common stock of treasury stock was due to the Due within one year ¥ 804 ¥ 644 $ 7,585 operating assets is based on managerial accounting categories. sale of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. Issued and Due after one year 2,909 1,840 27,443 Idle assets are recorded separately in each fixed assets class. outstanding shares Financial and Corporate Data ¥3,713 ¥2,485 $35,028 Recoverable amounts were estimated using value in use and Common stock 223,544,820 — 11,000,000 212,544,820 (b) Dividends amounted to nil. Total 223,544,820 — 11,000,000 212,544,820 i) Cash dividends paid Treasury stock 9. Financial Instruments (f) Environmental expenses Common stock 11,320,756 2,335,168 11,000,036 2,655,888 Type of Total Dividend per Date of Payment Resolution Shares dividends share record date (a) Qualitative information on financial instruments For the year ended March 31, 2018, the NGK Spark Plug Group Total 11,320,756 2,335,168 11,000,036 2,655,888 Board of The NGK Spark Plug Group does not invest surplus funds recognized environmental expenses for the soil improvement costs Notes: 1) The decrease of 11,000,000 shares of issued and outstanding shares of common Directors of an overseas subsidiary in the amount of ¥559 million ($5,274 stock was due to the retirement of treasury stock. on May 9, Common ¥4,570 March 31, June 8, in securities other than short-term bank deposits and debt 2) The breakdown of the increase of 2,335,168 shares of treasury stock was 1,168 2016 stock million ¥21 2016 2016 securities with high liquidity from issuers with high credit ratings thousand) as extraordinary loss. shares from the purchase of shares in quantities of less than one share unit, Board of in accordance with its accounting rules and policies. The NGK 1,900,800 shares from the repurchase of shares pursuant to the resolution at the Directors meeting of the Board of Directors held on February 26, 2018 and 433,200 shares from the purchase of shares by the officer compensation BIP trust. on Oct 31, Common ¥4,485 September November Spark Plug Group uses indirect financing from financial institutions 2016 stock million ¥21 30, 2016 30, 2016 such as correspondent banks and direct financing from financial 3) The breakdown of the decrease of 11,000,036 shares of treasury stock was 11,000,000 shares from the retirement of treasury stock and 36 shares from the sale of shares in quantities of less than one share unit. markets principally by the issuance of corporate bonds to satisfy 4) The number of shares of treasury stock as of March 31, 2018 included 433,200 ii) Dividends for which the date of record falls within the fiscal short-term and long-term funding requirements. shares held by the officer compensation BIP trust. year under audit but the payment date occurs in the following The NGK Spark Plug Group is exposed to credit risk primarily fiscal year with respect to trade receivables. In order to reduce the credit risk of these receivables, the NGK Spark Plug Group sets payment Type of Source of Total Dividend Date of Payment Resolution Shares dividends dividends per share record date terms according to the credit capability of its customers. In some Board of cases, the NGK Spark Plug Group receives security deposits in Directors advance. on May 9, Common Retained ¥4,456 March 31, June 8, 2017 stock earnings million ¥21 2017 2017 75 Information 76 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The NGK Spark Plug Group holds investments in securities Carrying Fair Negotiable deposits 40,700 — — 10. Investment securities such as negotiable certificates of deposits, debt securities and value value Difference Other 10,200 — — equity securities whose fair values are monitored on a quarterly Thousands of U.S. dollars (a) At March 31, 2018 and 2017, the cost and fair value of ¥209,751 ¥— ¥— basis. At March 31, 2018: available-for-sale securities were summarized as follows: The NGK Spark Plug Group is a party to derivative instruments Financial assets: At March 31, 2017: Cash and deposits $ 530,519 $ 530,519 $— Cash and deposits ¥ 45,733 ¥— ¥— Millions of yen such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, currency Notes and accounts Notes and accounts receivable 2018 option contracts and interest rate and currency swap agreements receivable trade 883,160 883,160 — trade 91,594 — — Fair and Unrealized in the normal course of business principally for hedging purposes carrying value Cost gains (losses) Short-term investment Investments in order to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates securities: With unrealized gains: Bonds 13,000 2,000 — and interest rates. The NGK Spark Plug Group does not hold or Available-for-sale Equity securities ¥ 56,960 ¥11,870 ¥45,090 Negotiable deposits 29,200 — — issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Under securities 565,142 565,142 — Other 13,600 — — Bonds 4,000 3,999 0 the NGK Spark Plug Group’s financial management policies, Investment securities: ¥193,127 ¥2,000 ¥— Other 7,200 7,200 0 contract balances of currency derivatives are limited to certain Shares of associates 59,642 74,557 14,915 Subtotal 68,162 23,069 45,092 anticipated export sales and import purchases. Available-for-sale Thousands of U.S. dollars With unrealized losses: securities 537,368 537,368 — At March 31, 2018: Equity securities 0 0 (0) Total $2,575,849 $2,590,764 $14,915 (b) Fair value of financial instruments Cash and deposits $ 530,519 $— $— Bonds 5,004 5,036 (31) Financial liabilities: The fair value and carrying value of financial instruments at March Accounts payable trade $ 305,726 $ 305,726 $— Notes and accounts receivable Negotiable deposits 40,700 40,700 — trade 883,160 — — 31, 2018 and 2017, other than unlisted equity securities for which Short-term loans payable 95,406 95,406 — Other 3,000 3,000 — Investments the fair value was extremely difficult to determine, were as follows: Long-term loans payable *1) 309,887 310,396 509 Subtotal 48,705 48,736 (31) Bonds 84,906 — — Carrying Fair Bonds payable *2) 518,868 520,217 1,349 Total ¥116,867 ¥71,806 ¥45,060 value value Difference Negotiable deposits 383,962 — — Total $1,229,887 $1,231,764 $ 1,868 Millions of yen Other 96,226 — — Millions of yen At March 31, 2018: $1,978,783 $— $— 2017 Derivative instruments *3) $ 2,330 $ 2,330 $— Financial assets: *1) The carrying value of long-term loans payable includes the current portion of long-term Fair and Unrealized loans payable. carrying value Cost gains (losses) Cash and deposits ¥ 56,235 ¥ 56,235 ¥— (4) Contractual maturities of bank loans and bonds payable at *2) The carrying value of bonds payable includes the current portion of bonds payable. With unrealized gains: Notes and accounts *3) The value of derivative instruments is shown as a net position. March 31, 2018 and 2017, were as follows: receivable trade 93,615 93,615 — Equity securities ¥ 52,154 ¥12,484 ¥39,670 Short-term investment Millions of yen Bonds 5,004 4,999 4 securities: Notes: 2018 Other 5,880 5,312 567 Available-for-sale (1) The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value securities 59,905 59,905 — Short-term Bonds Long-term Subtotal 63,039 22,796 40,242 of financial instruments are summarized below: Year ending March 31, loans payable payable loans payable Investment securities: With unrealized losses:  The fair value of cash and deposits, notes and accounts 2019 ¥10,113 ¥25,000 ¥9,962 Shares of associates 6,322 7,903 1,581 Equity securities 153 170 (17) receivable trade, accounts payable trade and short-term 2020 — — 9,924 Available-for-sale Bonds 10,050 10,112 (62) loans payable is approximately equal to the carrying value 2021 — 30,000 4,962 securities 56,961 56,961 — Negotiable deposits 29,200 29,200 — due to their short-term maturities. The fair value of investment 2022 — — 8,000 Total ¥273,040 ¥274,621 ¥1,581 Other 9,099 9,100 (0) equity securities is based on quoted market prices. The fair 2023 — — — Financial liabilities: Subtotal 48,503 48,583 (79) value of bonds and other securities included in investment 2024 and thereafter — — — Accounts payable trade ¥ 32,407 ¥ 32,407 ¥— Total ¥111,543 ¥71,380 ¥40,162 securities, bonds payable and derivative instruments is based Short-term loans payable 10,113 10,113 — on the price provided by correspondent financial institutions. Millions of yen Long-term loans payable *1) 32,848 32,902 54 Thousands of U.S. dollars The fair value of long-term loans payable is computed based 2017 Bonds payable *2) 55,000 55,143 143 2018 on the total amount of principal and interest discounted at Short-term Bonds Long-term Total ¥130,368 ¥130,567 ¥ 198 Year ending March 31, loans payable payable loans payable Fair and Unrealized an interest rate applicable to new loans under the same carrying value Cost gains (losses) 2018 ¥11,259 ¥— ¥— Derivative instruments *3) ¥ 247 ¥ 247 ¥— conditions. With unrealized gains: 2019 — 25,000 9,962 Equity securities $ 537,358 $111,981 $425,377 At March 31, 2017: 2020 — — 9,924 (2) The following securities are not included in the table above Bonds 37,736 37,726 0 Financial and Corporate Data Financial assets: 2021 — 30,000 4,962 because the fair value was extremely difficult to determine. Other 67,925 67,925 0 Cash and deposits ¥ 45,733 ¥ 45,733 ¥— 2022 — — 8,000 Subtotal 643,038 217,632 425,396 Notes and accounts Carrying value 2023 and thereafter — — — With unrealized losses: receivable trade 91,594 91,594 — Thousands of Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity securities 0 0 (0) Short-term investment Millions of yen U.S. dollars securities: 2018 Bonds 47,208 47,509 (292) 2018 2017 2018 Available-for-sale Short-term Bonds Long-term Negotiable deposits 383,962 383,962 — Investments (equity securities) securities 57,210 57,210 — in unconsolidated subsidiaries Year ending March 31, loans payable payable loans payable Other 28,302 28,302 — Investment securities: and associates ¥6,027 ¥5,922 $56,858 2019 $95,406 $235,849 $93,981 Subtotal 459,481 459,774 (292) Shares of associates 6,333 6,179 (154) Unlisted equity securities 2,369 1,662 22,349 2020 — — 93,623 Total $1,102,519 $677,415 $425,094 Available-for-sale 2021 — 283,019 46,811 Note: For equity investments in nonpublic companies with a carrying amount as of March securities 54,332 54,332 — 31, 2018 and 2017, amounting to ¥2,369 million ($22,349 thousand) and ¥1,662 (3) Expected maturities of financial assets at March 31, 2018 and 2022 — — 75,472 Total ¥255,205 ¥255,050 ¥(154) million, respectively, fair values were not included in equity securities above as 2017, were as follows: 2023 — — — no quoted market prices were available and it was deemed extremely difficult to Financial liabilities: determine the fair values due to the impossibility of estimating future cash flows. Due in one 2024 and thereafter — — — Accounts payable trade ¥ 30,045 ¥ 30,045 ¥— Due in one year through Due later than Short-term loans payable 11,259 11,259 — year or less five years five years Long-term loans payable 32,848 32,982 134 Millions of yen Bonds payable 55,000 55,287 287 At March 31, 2018: Total ¥129,153 ¥129,574 ¥ 421 Cash and deposits ¥ 56,235 ¥— ¥— Notes and accounts receivable Derivative instruments *3) ¥ 253 ¥ 253 ¥— trade 93,615 — — Investments Bonds 9,000 — — 77 Information 78 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Available-for-sale securities sold during the years ended March Movement in net defined benefit liability for plans applying the Plan assets: 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. dollars simplified method: (1) Plan assets comprise: At March 31, 2018: Thousands of 2018 2017 Thousands of Interest rate and currency Millions of yen U.S. dollars Bonds 29% 22% Millions of yen U.S. dollars swaps: 2018 2017 2018 Equity securities 19% 27% 2018 2017 2018 (floating rate receipt, Balance at April 1 ¥247 ¥245 $2,330 fixed rate payment) General life insurance accounts 26% 25% Sale of available-for-sale (U.S.$ receipt, Japanese Long-term Retirement benefit costs 94 43 887 securities ¥1,918 ¥— $18,094 Alternative investments 14% 16% yen payment) bank loans $309,887 $215,906 $— Benefits paid (24) (19) (226) Gain on sales 1,117 — 10,538 Other 12% 10% The above interest rate and currency swaps which qualify Contributions paid by the Loss on sales — — — Total 100% 100% for hedge accounting and meet specific matching criteria are not employer (22) (22) (208) Notes: 1) Alternative investments are mainly investments in hedge funds and infrastructure separated from the hedged bank loans. The fair values of the Balance at March 31 ¥294 ¥247 $2,774 funds. (c) Loss on the write-down of available-for-sale securities was not derivative instruments are reflected in the calculation of the fair 2) As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, 7% and 8% of plan assets, respectively, were material for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan assets assets held by the employee retirement benefit trust under the defined benefit values of the related bank loans (see Note 9). to net defined benefit liability: pension plan. Thousands of (2) Long-term expected rate of return: 11. Derivative Instruments 12. Employee Retirement Benefits Millions of yen U.S. dollars Current and target asset allocation and historical and expected 2018 2017 2018 At March 31, 2018 and 2017, derivative instruments, except for returns on various categories of plan assets have been The Company has a lump-sum retirement benefit plan and a Funded retirement benefit derivative instruments accounted for by hedge accounting, were obligations ¥ 49,558 ¥ 47,786 $ 467,528 considered in determining the long-term expected rate of defined benefit pension plan that cover 80% of the retirement stated at fair value and recognized for valuation gains and losses Plan assets (42,265) (40,057) (398,726) return. benefits for employees of the Company who retire at the in current earnings as follows: compulsory retirement age after ten years or more of service. 7,292 7,729 68,792 Unfunded retirement benefit Actuarial assumptions: Notional Certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have similar retirement principal obligations 20,150 21,533 190,094 The principal actuarial assumptions at March 31, 2018 and 2017 or contract Valuation benefit plans. Certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries have Total net defined benefit were as follows: amounts Fair value gains (losses) defined contribution plans. The Company contributes certain plan liability 27,443 29,263 258,896 2018 2017 Millions of yen assets to the employee retirement benefit trust under the defined Net defined benefit liability 27,443 29,263 258,896 Discount rate Mainly 0.4% Mainly 0.4% At March 31, 2018: benefit pension plan. Net defined benefit liability and retirement Total net defined benefit Long-term expected rate of return Mainly 1.82% Mainly 2.75% Foreign exchange contracts: benefit costs of certain consolidated subsidiaries are calculated liability ¥ 27,443 ¥ 29,263 $ 258,896 Note: In calculating retirement benefit obligations, the NGK Spark Plug Group uses mainly Forward contracts to sell ¥12,347 ¥242 ¥242 using the simplified method as permitted by the accounting an index for salary increase by age based on a point system. Note: Includes those under plans applying the simplified method. Currency call options 2,242 (34) (34) standard for retirement benefits. Currency put options 1,831 39 39 Information about employee retirement benefits for the years Retirement benefit costs: (b) Defined contribution plans ¥247 ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount of At March 31, 2017: 2018 2017 2018 required contribution to the defined contribution plans of the (a) Defined benefit plans Foreign exchange contracts: Service cost ¥ 3,765 ¥ 3,751 $ 35,519 overseas consolidated subsidiaries was ¥295 million ($2,783 Movement in retirement benefit obligations, except for plans Interest cost 418 349 3,943 thousand) and ¥218 million, respectively. Forward contracts to sell ¥18,065 ¥205 ¥205 applying the simplified method: Expected return on plan assets (1,130) (1,054) (10,660) Currency call options 2,364 (8) (8) Thousands of Net actuarial loss amortization 1,661 2,091 15,670 Currency put options 1,300 56 56 13. Income Taxes Millions of yen U.S. dollars ¥253 Past service cost amortization 12 22 113 2018 2017 2018 Retirement benefit costs based The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to a Balance at April 1 ¥68,909 ¥68,381 $650,085 Thousands of U.S. dollars on the simplified method 94 43 887 significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, Service cost 3,765 3,751 35,519 At March 31, 2018: Total ¥ 4,821 ¥ 5,204 $ 45,481 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Interest cost 418 349 3,943 Foreign exchange contracts: Thousands of Actuarial loss (1,492) (1,213) (14,075) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans included in other Forward contracts to sell $116,481 $2,283 $2,283 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Benefits paid (2,002) (2,521) (18,887) comprehensive income (before adjusting for tax effects): Currency call options 21,151 (321) (321) 2018 2017 2018 Past service cost — 142 — Thousands of Currency put options 17,274 368 368 Deferred tax assets: Millions of yen U.S. dollars Other (355) 18 (3,349) Net operating loss $2,330 2018 2017 2018 carryforwards ¥ 4,084 ¥ 1,119 $ 38,528 Financial and Corporate Data Balance at March 31 ¥69,242 ¥68,909 $653,226 Past service costs ¥ (13) ¥ 119 $ (123) Impairment loss on fixed At March 31, 2018 and 2017, derivative instruments to which Movement in plan assets, except for plans applying the simplified Actuarial losses (3,579) (4,256) (33,764) assets 4,505 5,297 42,500 hedge accounting was applied were as follows: method: Total ¥(3,593) ¥(4,136) $(33,896) Net defined benefit liability 8,476 8,938 79,962 Notional Contract Thousands of Depreciation 2,481 3,125 23,406 principal amounts Millions of yen U.S. dollars Remeasurements of defined benefit plans included in accumulated Accrued expenses 4,312 4,368 40,679 Hedged or contract due after 2018 2017 2018 other comprehensive income (before adjusting for tax effects): items amounts one year Fair value Inventories 2,921 2,988 27,557 Balance at April 1 ¥39,893 ¥36,440 $376,349 Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars Intercompany profits 5,457 4,762 51,481 Expected return on plan Other 2,167 1,663 20,443 At March 31, 2018: assets 1,130 1,054 10,660 2018 2017 2018 Interest rate and currency Past service cost yet to be Less valuation allowance (8,647) (8,598) (81,575) Actuarial gain 424 932 4,000 swaps: recognized ¥ (28) ¥ (14) $ (264) Total deferred tax assets 25,759 23,666 243,009 Contributions paid by the (floating rate receipt, employer 2,074 3,232 19,566 Actuarial losses yet to be Deferred tax liabilities: fixed rate payment) recognized 4,557 8,136 42,991 (U.S.$ receipt, Japanese Long-term Benefits paid (1,261) (1,729) (11,896) Unrealized gains on availableyen payment) bank loans ¥32,848 ¥22,886 ¥— Total ¥4,528 ¥8,121 $42,717 for-sale securities (13,807) (12,116) (130,255) Other (166) (38) (1,566) Retained earnings of Balance at March 31 ¥42,094 ¥39,893 $397,113 overseas consolidated At March 31, 2017: subsidiaries (3,357) (2,943) (31,670) Interest rate and currency swaps: Depreciation (798) (1,106) (7,528) (floating rate receipt, Other (294) (303) (2,774) fixed rate payment) Total deferred tax liabilities (18,257) (16,469) (172,236) (U.S.$ receipt, Japanese Long-term yen payment) bank loans ¥32,848 ¥32,848 ¥— Net deferred tax assets ¥ 7,502 ¥ 7,196 $ 70,774 79 Information 80 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements At March 31, 2018 and 2017, deferred tax assets and liabilities As a result, goodwill increased by ¥93 million, other intangible 15. Net Assets Under the Law, legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in were as follows: assets decreased by ¥150 million, and total intangible assets, capital can be used to eliminate or reduce a deficit by a resolution Thousands of total noncurrent assets and total liabilities each decreased by Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount paid of the shareholders’ meeting. Additional paid-in capital and legal Millions of yen U.S. dollars ¥57 million. Because sales, general and administrative expenses for new shares is required to be designated as common stock. earnings reserve may not be distributed as dividends. All additional 2018 2017 2018 decreased by ¥4 million, operating income, ordinary income However, a company may, by a resolution of the Board of paid-in capital and all legal earnings reserve may be transferred to Deferred tax assets: and profit before income taxes for the previous fiscal year also Directors, designate an amount not exceeding one half of the price other capital surplus and retained earnings, respectively, which are Current ¥12,427 ¥11,023 $117,236 increased by that amount. of the new shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in potentially available for dividends. Noncurrent 3,042 1,496 28,698 capital surplus. At March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, capital surplus Deferred tax liabilities: (b) Business combination under common control Under Japanese Corporate Law (the “Law”), in cases in consisted principally of additional paid-in capital. In addition, Noncurrent (7,967) (5,324) (75,160) which a dividend distribution of surplus is made, the smaller of retained earnings included legal earnings reserve of the Company The Company, NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd., (former N-CERA) and Net deferred tax assets ¥ 7,502 ¥ 7,196 $ 70,774 an amount equal to 10% of the dividend or the excess, if any, of in the amount of ¥5,837 million ($55,066 thousand) at March 31, NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd. (new N-CERA) and Ceramic Sensor In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, Nakatsugawa Co., Ltd. which were newly established as of July 1, 25% of common stock over the total of additional paid-in capital 2018 and 2017, respectively. management of the NGK Spark Plug Group considers whether 2016 conducted an absorption-type company split as of October and legal earnings reserve must be set aside as additional paid-in The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 1, 2016 subject to the Absorption-type Company Split Agreement capital or legal earnings reserve. Legal earnings reserve is included dividends is calculated based on the separate financial statements The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon concluded as of July 29, 2016. in retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance of the Company in accordance with Japanese laws and the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which sheets. regulations. the temporary differences become deductible. At March 31, 2018 (1) Overview of the combination and 2017, a valuation allowance was provided to reduce deferred 1. Name and nature of the split business 16. Segment Information tax assets to the amount that management believed the deferred i) Split company tax assets were realizable. Company name Name and nature of the split business (a) General information about reportable segments For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd. Ceramic IC packages The reportable segments of the Company are the business units for which the Company is able to obtain financial information separately in reconciliation of the differences between the combined Japanese NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd. Ceramic IC packages order for the Board of Directors of the Company to conduct periodic investigations to determine the distribution of management resources statutory tax rate and the effective income tax rate on pretax (former N-CERA) Automotive sensors and evaluate business results. The Company has its business units identified by products. Each business unit plans its own comprehensive income reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of ii) Successor company domestic and overseas strategies for its own products and conducts its own business activities. Accordingly, the NGK Spark Plug Group income was as follows. consists of two reportable segments: “Automotive components” and “Technical ceramics.” The “Technical ceramics” segment consists of Company name Name and nature of the split business Percentage of the “Semiconductor” and “Ceramics” subsegments. NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd. pre-tax income (%) Ceramic IC packages • In the “Automotive components” segment, the Company manufactures and sells spark plugs, glow plugs, various automotive sensors, (new N-CERA) 2018 2017 Ceramic Sensor ceramic engine parts and other automotive components. Automotive sensors Combined Japanese statutory tax rate 30.7 30.7 Nakatsugawa Co., Ltd. • In the “Technical ceramics” segment, the Company manufactures and sells IC packages and other semiconductor components in the Increase (decrease) due to: 2. Date of the combination “Semiconductor” subsegment and manufactures and sells cutting tools and ceramics products for industrial use in the “Ceramics” Permanently nondeductible expenses 0.3 0.7 October 1, 2016 subsegment. Tax exempt income (0.8) (0.4) Tax credits for research and development 3. Legal form of the combination (b) Methods to determine net sales, income or loss, assets, and other items by reportable business segment expenses (4.7) (6.2) Absorption-type company split with the split companies and Accounting methods by reportable segment are principally the same as those written in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Differences between Japanese and foreign tax rates (1.0) (2.9) successor companies as the Company and former N-CERA Profit by reportable business segment is stated on an operating income basis. Changes in valuation allowance (1.8) 11.9 and new N-CERA and Ceramic Sensor Nakatsugawa Co., Retained earnings of overseas consolidated Ltd., respectively. (c) Information about reportable segment profit and loss, segment assets and other material items subsidiaries 0.7 (7.9) Information about reportable segments as of and for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Loss on violation of antitrust law 2.0 0.1 4. Name of the acquired company after the combination Reportable segments Transfer of net loss carried forward resulting NTK Ceramic Co., Ltd. (new N-CERA) Technical ceramics from merger of a consolidated subsidiary — (6.5) Ceramic Sensor Nakatsugawa Co., Ltd. Automotive Total Technical Impairment loss on goodwill — 6.6 components Semiconductor Ceramics ceramics Total Other Total Adjustments Consolidated Other 0.2 (0.7) Millions of yen 5. Other matters relating to overview of transaction Effective income tax rate 25.6 25.4 For the year 2018: Toward the revitalization of our ceramic IC package Financial and Corporate Data Operating revenue net sales: business, we will establish a financially independent External customers ¥348,198 ¥17,901 ¥39,834 ¥57,735 ¥405,934 ¥3,977 ¥409,912 ¥— ¥409,912 14. Business combinations subsidiary with manufacturing and sales functions Intersegment sales — — — — — — — — — consolidated instead of the subsidiary with manufacturing For the year ended March 31, 2017 Total net sales 348,198 17,901 39,834 57,735 405,934 3,977 409,912 — 409,912 functions only. With this reform, we aim to clarify (a) Completion of accounting for the business combination Segment income (loss) ¥ 68,098 ¥ (2,571) ¥ 1,589 ¥ (982) ¥ 67,116 ¥ 163 ¥ 67,279 ¥— ¥ 67,279 responsibilities and authority, better visualize the financial following provisional accounting Segment assets ¥510,884 ¥28,924 ¥66,599 ¥95,523 ¥606,408 ¥1,361 ¥607,769 ¥— ¥607,769 management and achieve a positive turnaround as early as The accounting with regard to the business combination for possible. Other items: the acquisition of Wells as of July 1, 2016 was completed in  The Company merged former N-CERA as of January 1, Depreciation ¥ 17,429 ¥ 730 ¥ 2,754 ¥ 3,484 ¥ 20,914 ¥ 6 ¥ 20,920 ¥— ¥ 20,920 the current fiscal year. Due to the completion of accounting for 2017. Increase in property, plant and equipment and intangible this business combination, the change in initial purchase price assets 29,525 2,452 5,611 8,063 37,589 1 37,591 — 37,591 allocation was reflected in the comparative information included in (2) Overview of accounting treatment adopted the consolidated financial statements of the current fiscal year as The combination is accounted for as a business combination For the year 2017: follows: under common control based on the “Accounting Standard Operating revenue net sales: Millions of yen External customers ¥318,149 ¥19,449 ¥31,855 ¥51,305 ¥369,454 ¥3,464 ¥372,919 ¥— ¥372,919 for Business Combinations” (ASBJ Statement No. 21) and Goodwill (pre-adjustment) ¥10,192 Intersegment sales — — — — — — — — — the “Guidance on the Accounting Standard for Business Other intangible assets 176 Total net sales 318,149 19,449 31,855 51,305 369,454 3,464 372,919 — 372,919 Combinations and Accounting Standard for Business Deferred tax liabilities (67) Segment income (loss) ¥ 57,988 ¥ (4,842) ¥ 400 ¥ (4,441) ¥ 53,546 ¥ 49 ¥ 53,595 ¥— ¥ 53,595 Divestitures” (ASBJ Guidance No. 10). Total Adjustment 109 Segment assets ¥478,647 ¥30,246 ¥53,603 ¥83,849 ¥562,497 ¥1,304 ¥563,801 ¥— ¥563,801 Goodwill (after-adjustment) ¥10,302 81 Information 82 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Other items: (f) Information about goodwill as of and for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Depreciation ¥ 17,158 ¥ 308 ¥ 2,123 ¥ 2,431 ¥ 19,590 ¥ 10 ¥ 19,601 ¥— ¥ 19,601 Reportable segments Impairment loss on fixed assets 20,187 — — — 20,187 — 20,187 — 20,187 Technical ceramics Increase in property, plant and Automotive Total Technical equipment and intangible components Semiconductor Ceramics ceramics Total Other Total Adjustments Consolidated assets 27,577 2,364 6,383 8,747 36,325 2 36,328 — 36,328 Millions of yen March 31, 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars Amortization ¥— ¥— ¥153 ¥153 ¥ 153 ¥— ¥ 153 ¥— ¥ 153 For the year 2018: Balance — — 307 307 307 — 307 — 307 Operating revenue net sales: March 31, 2017 External customers $3,284,887 $168,877 $375,792 $544,670 $3,829,566 $37,519 $3,867,094 $— $3,867,094 Amortization ¥910 ¥— ¥153 ¥153 ¥1,064 ¥— ¥1,064 ¥— ¥1,064 Intersegment sales — — — — — — — — — Balance — — 460 460 460 — 460 — 460 Total net sales 3,284,887 168,877 375,792 544,670 3,829,566 37,519 3,867,094 — 3,867,094 Segment income (loss) $ 642,434 $ (24,255) $ 14,991 $ (9,264) $ 633,170 $ 1,538 $ 634,708 $— $ 634,708 Thousands of U.S. dollars Segment assets $4,819,660 $272,868 $628,292 $901,160 $5,720,830 $12,840 $5,733,670 $— $5,733,670 March 31, 2018 Other items: Amortization $— $— $1,443 $1,443 $1,443 $— $1,443 $— $1,443 Depreciation $ 164,425 $ 6,887 $ 25,981 $ 32,868 $ 197,302 $ 57 $ 197,358 $— $ 197,358 Balance — — 2,896 2,896 2,896 — 2,896 — 2,896 Increase in property, plant and Note: For the year ended March 31, 2017, the NGK Spark Plug Group recognized impairment loss on goodwill in the amount of ¥7,513 million in the Automotive components segment. equipment and intangible assets 278,538 23,132 52,934 76,066 354,613 9 354,632 — 354,632 2) Shares held by the officer compensation BIP trust are included in treasury stock, Note: The “Other” segment includes business such as material sales, welfare program services and transportation not included in reportable segments. (g) Information about negative goodwill by business segment. which is deducted from the number of shares at the fiscal year-end and the No items to report. weighted average number of shares. The number of shares held by the officer compensation BIP trust at the current fiscal year-end was 433 thousand and the (d) Related information (Change in presentation) weighted average number of shares was 288 thousand. There were no shares Assets in “Asia,” which was included in “Other area” for the held by the officer compensation BIP trust in the previous fiscal year. i) Information on products and services 17. Information on Related Parties Information on products and services is the same as that previous fiscal year, exceeded 10% of total assets in the already reported in (c) Information about reportable segment consolidated balance sheet for the year ended March 31, No items to report. 19. Significant subsequent events profit and loss, segment assets and other material items. 2018 and is, therefore, presented separately for and from the (a) Repurchase and retirement of stock Therefore, the information is omitted here. current fiscal year. To provide a consistent presentation format, 18. Per Share Information property, plant and equipment in geographic information for the The Company resolved at a meeting of its Board of Directors held previous fiscal year has been reclassified to conform with the Basic and diluted net assets per share and earnings per share for on February 26, 2018 to repurchase its own shares pursuant to ii) Geographic information current year presentation. the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, were as follows: the provisions of Article 459, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act Information about geographic areas as of and for the years Yen U.S. dollars and to cancel the repurchased shares pursuant to the provisions ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: iii) Information by major customer 2018 2017 2018 of Article 178. The details of the stock repurchase after March Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars The NGK Spark Plug Group had no single external customer Basic net assets per share ¥1,837.46 ¥1,660.06 $17.33 31, 2018 pursuant to the resolution of the meeting of its Board of 2018 2017 2018 which accounted for more than 10% of net sales for the years Basic earnings per share 209.37 119.44 1.98 Directors held on February 26, 2018 were as follows: Operating revenue net sales: ended March 31, 2018 or 2017. 1. Type of stock repurchased Common stock Japan ¥ 67,467 ¥ 61,947 $ 636,481 (a) Basis for calculation of net assets per share 2. Total number of shares 1,732,400 shares repurchased North America 108,259 104,357 1,021,311 (e) Information about impairment of fixed asset by business Thousands of 3. Total price of repurchase ¥4,999 million ($47,160 thousand) Europe 107,052 96,170 1,009,925 segment. Millions of yen U.S. dollars April 1, 2018 to May 30, 2018 Asia 81,468 70,109 768,566 Information about impairment of fixed assets is presented in (c) 2018 2017 2018 4. Repurchase period (Commitment basis) Other area 45,663 40,334 430,783 Information about reportable segment profit and loss, segment Total net assets ¥388,115 ¥354,710 $3,661,462 5. Method of repurchase Market purchase on the Tokyo Stock Exchange ¥409,912 ¥372,919 $3,867,094 assets and other material items. Amount deducted from total net assets 2,454 2,404 23,151 The repurchase of stock pursuant to the resolution of the Note: Net sales are categorized by country or region based on the location of the customer. of which, noncontrolling meeting of its Board of Directors held on February 26, 2018 has Thousands of interests (2,454) (2,404) (23,151) been completed. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net assets allocated to common The results of the repurchase of stock were as follows: Financial and Corporate Data 2018 2017 2018 stock 385,661 352,305 3,638,311 1. Type of stock repurchased Common stock Property, plant and equipment: Number of shares of common stock outstanding at fiscal 2. Total number of shares 3,633,200 shares Japan ¥154,401 ¥146,415 $1,456,613 year-end used in calculation repurchased Asia 20,923 17,811 197,387 of net assets per share 3. Total price of repurchase ¥9,999 million ($94,330 thousand) (thousands) 209,888 212,224 1,980,075 Other area 19,777 17,075 186,575 February 27, 2018 to May 30, 2018 4. Repurchase period (Commitment basis) ¥195,102 ¥181,302 $1,840,585 (b) Basis for calculation of earnings per share 5. Method of repurchase Market purchase on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Thousands of The Company cancelled the treasury stock resulting from the Millions of yen U.S. dollars repurchase pursuant to the resolution of the meeting of its Board 2018 2017 2018 of Directors held on February 26, 2018. Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 44,335 ¥25,602 $ 418,255 1. Type of stock cancelled Common stock Amount not attributable to 3,633,200 shares 2. Total number of shares common stock shareholders — — — (Percentage to the total number of issued shares cancelled before cancellation: 1.71% ) Profit attributable to common stock owners of the parent 44,335 25,602 418,255 3. Date of cancellation June 8, 2018 Weighted average number of 4. The total number of shares of common stock issued shares after the 208,911,620 shares (thousands) 211,758 214,349 1,997,717 cancellation Notes: 1) As the Company had no dilutive shares at March 31, 2018 or 2017, the Company has not disclosed diluted net income per share for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 83 Information 84 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report (b) Issuance of unsecured straight bonds (b) Loans payable and lease obligations at March 31, 2018 and The Company issued the eighth series unsecured straight bonds 2017, comprised the following: and the ninth series unsecured straight bonds on June 14, 2018. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Eighth series unsecured straight bonds 2018 2017 2018 Short-term loans payable with 1. Total amount of issue ¥10,000 million ($94,340 thousand) interest rate of 2.85% ¥10,113 ¥11,259 $ 95,406 2. Issue price ¥100 per face value of ¥100 Current portion of long-term 3. Redemption price ¥100 per face value of ¥100 loans payable with interest rate of 0.30% 9,962 — 93,981 4. Interest rate 0.110% per annum Current portion of lease 5. Payment date June 14, 2018 obligations 43 87 406 6. Maturity date June 14, 2023 Long-term loans payable (except 7. Principal redemption portion due within one year) Lump-sum redemption at maturity method with interest rate of 0.16% 22,886 32,848 215,906 Capital investment and repayment of corporate Lease obligations (except 8. The purpose of bond issue bonds portion due within one year) 111 80 1,047 Other — — — Ninth series unsecured straight bonds Total ¥43,115 ¥44,275 $406,745 Notes: 1) Interest rates shown are weighted average interest rates for the balance 1. Total amount of issue ¥10,000 million ($94,340 thousand) outstanding at March 31, 2018. 2. Issue price ¥100 per face value of ¥100 2) Average interest rates for lease obligations are omitted because lease obligations include assumed interest amounts. 3. Redemption price ¥100 per face value of ¥100 3) The aggregate annual maturities of long-term loans payable and lease obligations 4. Interest rate 0.370% per annum (except portion due within one year) after March 31, 2018, are as follows: 5. Payment date June 14, 2018 Long-term loans payable Lease obligations 6. Maturity date June 14, 2028 Year ending Thousands of Thousands of 7. Principal redemption March 31, Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Lump-sum redemption at maturity method 2020 ¥9,924 $93,623 ¥53 $500 Capital investment and repayment of corporate 2021 4,962 46,811 29 274 8. The purpose of bond issue bonds 2022 8,000 75,472 20 189 2023 — — 7 66 20. Borrowings (a) Bonds payable at March 31, 2018 and 2017, comprised the 21. Asset Retirement Obligation following: Information is omitted due to immateriality. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 0.391% unsecured bonds due September 2018 ¥25,000 ¥25,000 $235,849 0.296% unsecured bonds due October 2020 30,000 30,000 283,019 Total ¥55,000 ¥55,000 $518,868 Note: The aggregate annual maturities of bonds payable after March 31, 2018, are as follows: Thousands of Year ending March 31, Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 ¥25,000 $235,849 2020 — — Financial and Corporate Data 2021 30,000 283,019 2022 — — 2023 — — 01 85 Information Information 86 Corporate Profile and Stock Information Independent Verification Report Corporate Data Breakdown of shareholders by type Treasury Stock Financial Institutions NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. 1.05% 24.76% Headquarters 14-18 Takatsuji-cho, Mizuho-ku, (2,222 thousand shares) (52,628 thousand shares) Nagoya 467-8525, Japan Individuals and Others Established October 1936 9.32% Breakdown of Trust Services Number of Employees Non-Consolidated: 5,851 (March 2018) (19,814 thousand shares) shareholders 23.97% Consolidated: 15,322 (March 2018) by type (50,946 thousand shares) Foreign Corporations CONTENTS Number of employees at work (Consolidated) and Investors 32.59% Securities Companies (Number of employees) (69,273 thousand shares) 1.59% 20,000 (3,372 thousand shares) Other Corporations in Japan 6.72%(14,284 thousand shares) 15,000 14,524 14,926 15,322 12,760 13,197 10,000 Major Shareholders 5,000 Shares held Ownership ratio Name of shareholders 0 (thousands) (%) 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 16,752 7.96 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 14,375 6.83 Number of Shares and Shareholders The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 13,460 6.39 Paid-in Capital ¥47,869 million Our Standing Position Strategic View Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) Review of Business 11,498 5.46 Total number of authorized 390,000,000 Keyword for sharesAbout NGK SPARK PLUG today’s NGK Commentary on strategies National to Federation Creating Mutual Insurance of value in business 6,658 3.16 Agricultural Cooperatives  otal number of T 212,544,820 SPARK PLUG create value issued shares MUFG Bank, Ltd. 6,541 3.11 Listed market First section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 5,861 2.78 031527and Nagoya Exchange  hareholder registry S Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (for Toyota 3,929 1.86 administrator Corporation Motor Corporation) Accounting auditor KPMG AZSA LLC Nippon Life Insurance Company 3,563 1.69 Number of shareholders 16,875 TOTO Ltd. 3,433 1.63 03 Financial and Non-financial Highlights 15 CEO Message 27 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Key Issues (1) 05 Corporate Philosophy and Long-term 21 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Plug and sensor’s future strategy Management Plan Value Creation Process 31 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Key Issues (2) Stock price/trading volume 07 History of our Challenges and Creation 23 Risks and Opportunities Product development derived of our Stock price of NGK SPARK Strengths PLUG 25 Message from Finance Officer from ceramics The Nikkei 225 (Yen) (Yen) 4,000 11 NGK SPARK PLUG’s 33 Review of Business (1) 25,000 Sales Structure Automotive Components group 3,200 13 Past, Present, and Future 35 Review of Business (2) 20,000 Management Plans Technical ceramics group 2,400 – semiconductor div. – 15,000 36 Review of Business (3) Financial and Corporate Data 1,600 Technical ceramics group 10,000 ceramics div. 800 5,000 0 Editorial Policy 0 By proactively disclosing management plans, business results, CSR and environmental initiatives, and other information, NGK SPARK PLUG intends to foster an ■ Trading volume understanding of the company among all stakeholders and create opportunities for communication. As a means to achieve this objective, we issue the Integrated (Million shares) Report and CSR Report. 50 Scope and Period Covered Guidelines for Reference 40 Period covered: The year ended March 31, 2018 (April 1, 2017 – March 31, 2018) “The International Integrated Reporting Framework,” the International Some information pertaining to activities in the year ending Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) 30 March 31, 2019 is also included. “Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Scope: The NGK SPARK PLUG Group Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation,” the Ministry of Economy, Some information reported by NGK SPARK PLUG (non-consolidated) Trade and Industry 20 is also included. 10 Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the company’s future plans, strategies, and business results. Please note that actual business results may 0 differ from the expectations presented in this report. 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) *Trading volume does not include trades via the ToSTNet system. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. 14-18 Takatsuji-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya 467-8525 https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/ Public Relations Dept., Corporate Strategy Gr. Phone: 81-52-872-5896 Fax: 81-52-872-5951 Risk Management Dept., Corporate Strategy Gr. Phone: 81-52-872-6248 Fax: 81-52-872-5999
