JOTUN VALUES LOYALTY Reliable and trustworthy Long term relationships between customers, Jotun and colleagues Commitment to Jotun’s values, strategies, policies and decisions CARE Help and support others Display trust and empathy Appraise and judge fairly Protect internal and external environment 2 OUR BUSINESS RESPECT Values differences in people Be honest and fair Build diverse teams across culture and gender Follow laws and regulations Treat others the way they expect to be treated BOLDNESS Take initiatives to create the future Initiate and nurture change Communicate openly, honestly and with integrity Be proactive Address difficulties constructively CONTENTS Jotun factory Opening Ceremony, The Philippines, November 6 2017. From left: Princess Märtha Louise of Norway, General Manager, Stamatis Solomakos, Chairman of the Board, Odd Gleditsch d.y., the Hon. Hermilando Mandanas, Governor of Batangas, Kristian Nedland, Charge d’affaires of the Norwegian Embassy and entertainer, Alexander Rybak. INTRODUCTION … 02 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT … 52 At a glance … 02 GreenSteps forward … 54 Group key figures … 06 Ensuring environmental performance … 56 Investing in process improvements … 58 OUR BUSINESS … 08 Going green … 59 Jotun Group … 10 Management summary … 12 JOTUN AND SOCIETY … 60 Marine Coatings … 14 On hand to help … 62 Powder Coatings … 18 Sailing through time … 63 Protective Coatings … 22 Setting the right example … 64 Decorative Paints … 26 Playing our part … 66 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION … 30 FINANCIAL INFO … 68 The gold standard in steel production … 32 Chairman of the Board … 70 Connecting Jotun Multicolor … 34 Consolidated financial statements … 71 Sales accelerator … 36 Executive summary of the financial statement … 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (CR) MM COMPANY OVERVIEW … 78 AND GOVERNANCE … 38 Organisation … 80 It’s all about attitude … 40 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE … 42 Growth through sustainable workforce development … 44 Creating a culture of opportunity … 46 Changing for the better … 47 A culture of teamwork … 48 Raising the bar … 49 Safety always comes first … 50 Reducing risk, step by step … 51 AT A GLANCE FOUR SEGMENTS 25+24+1041M 25 % MARINE COATINGS 41 % DECORATIVE PAINTS BUSINESS SEGMENTS 24 % 10 % PROTECTIVE COATINGS 2 INTRODUCTION POWDER COATINGS DECORATIVE PAINTS Jotun Decorative is a leading paint supplier to commercial buildings, public buildings and homes, serving both professionals and home owners, directly and through a substantial network of Jotun Multicolor centres. MARINE COATINGS Jotun is a world leading provider of marine coatings to the Newbuilding, DryDock and SeaStock markets. In addition, Jotun supplies coating solutions for megayachts and leisure yachts. PROTECTIVE COATINGS Jotun’s protective coatings are sold to companies active in industries related 3 to offshore, energy, infrastructure and INTRODUCTION hydrocarbon processing. POWDER COATINGS Jotun Powder Coatings is a leading supplier to companies active in industries related to appliances, furniture, building components, pipelines and general industries. REGIONAL HIGHLIGHTS SCA SCANDINAVIA • Jotun Scandinavia opens regional HQ at Vindal factory in Sandefjord • Jotun secures marine coatings contract for the world’s largest plug-in hybrid ferry built for Color Line at Ulstein Verft • Jotun Decorative Paints launches 10 products in Scandinavia, helping the region achieve rapid growth in the interior category • ISO frame agreements secured by Jotun in Norway with Kaefer and Energy Bilfinger. The 13-year agreements include NORSOK-approved maintenance systems • Jotun Powder Coatings achieves second consecutive year of double-digit growth in Sweden 1926 1142 2 4 INTRODUCTION AM THE AMERICAS WE WEST EUROPE • Jotun Brazil secures five aframax tankers at the • Jotun Powder Coatings secures two-year contract with E. Atlantico Sul shipyard in Recife Schneider Electric, a French-based company specialising • Together with steel fabricator Metasa, Jotun wins in energy management and equipment contract for Brazil’s largest PFP project • Jotun Greece wins exclusive SeaStock contract with the • Jotun USA delivered Jotachar JF 750 to Shell Angelicoussis Group, which controls 136 vessels Appomattox project and Jotachar 1709 to the • Jotun to supply NORSOK M 501 protective coatings ConocoPhillips Chemical Cedar Bayou petrochemical systems to Dolwin Gamma, an offshore converter plant in Texas station owned by the Dutch/German energy network • Jotun supplies protective coatings to Gestamp, a company, TenneT leading manufacturer of wind towers in Brazil • Jotun continues to deliver protective coatings to the • Jotun Brazil achieves strong growth in hydrocarbon Jaworzno coal-fired energy block project in Poland processing industry (HPI) concept through agreements • Jotun opens new R&D centre in Flixborough, UK to with Blaspint, RIP and Elfe, among others develop and test intumescent coatings 1974 243 2 1969 793 3 EAST EUROPE AND EECA CENTRAL ASIA NEA NORTH EAST ASIA • Jotun’s factory in Russia begins commercial production • Jotun China delivers protective intumescent coatings to • Jotun’s regional laboratory in Istanbul, Turkey produces the Macau & Zhuhai Passenger Customs Building first product: Jotun Fenomastic TAVAN, a specialised • Jotun Powder Coatings secured the KL118 project paint solution for ceilings located in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia, a mixed-used • Jotun Turkey secures contract for the Istanbul New skyscraper that will be the third highest in the world Airport, designed to have a world-leading capacity of • Jotun Marine secures newbuilding projects and 90 million passengers a year strengthens relationships with leading yards, including • Jotun launches three powder coatings products in the Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding (SWS), NanTong region: Reveal Light Matt, Reveal Light D and Primax COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co.,Ltd. (NACKS) and Diamond Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings (YZJ), among others • Jotun Turkey secures contract for one of Istanbul’s most • Jotun powder coatings selected for the Shenzhen iconic buildings: the 365-metre high Çamlıca TV & Upper Hill “super city” complex in China Radio Tower • Jotun Coatings Taiwan continued positive sales development for marine and protective coatings. 1991 762 3 1983 1933 4 5 INTRODUCTION MIDDLE EAST, SOUTH EAST ASIA MEIA INDIA AND AFRICA SEAP AND PACIFIC • Jotun secures 26 HPS contracts for key accounts in the • Jotun celebrates opening of three factories (Myanmar, region Philippines and Malaysia) in one week • Single Source Solution concept delivered to the iconic • Successful launch of Majestic Design, a premium Abu Dhabi Louvre Museum interior decorative range, across the region • Jotun supplies coatings to Dangote refinery (Nigeria), • Jotun Vietnam wins contracts as Single Source Supplier Kuwait University, Dubai Arena, among others for Landmark 80, the tallest building in Ho Chi Minh • Jotun selected to provide powder coatings to the City Riyadh Metro in Saudi Arabia and the architectural • Jotun Indonesia awarded green certificate in HSEQ landmark, the Dubai Frame, in UAE audit • Jotun achieves excellent results with premium interior • Jotun completes delivery of protective coatings to decorative products Wonderwall and Royal Velvet Singapore’s Changi Airport, Terminal 4 1962 2735 14 1968 2181 12 GROUP KEY FIGURES The Jotun Group is a matrix organisation divided into seven regions responsible for the sale of Decorative Paints and Marine, Protective and Powder Coatings. The company has 40 production facilities in 24 countries, 64 companies in 45 countries and is represented in more than 100 countries around the world. 45 9 789 40 EMPLOYEES FACTORIES COUNTRIES 6 INTRODUCTION SALES EBITA 21 000 2100 SALES AND EBITA DEVELOPMENT 18 000 1800 (NOK MILLION) 15 000 1500 12 000 1200 9 000 900 6 000 600 3 000 300 0 0 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2017 2016 (NOK MILLION) PROFIT/LOSS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operating revenue 16 401 15 785 16 282 13 171 12 034 Sales revenue outside Norway, in % 88 88 88 85 83 Operating profit 1 354 1 763 2 064 1 314 1 258 Profit before tax 1 236 1 594 1 918 1 301 1 191 Net cash flow from operating activities 1 097 2 027 1 500 919 819 YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITIONS Total assets 15 708 15 158 15 187 13 300 10 799 Investments in intangible and fixed assets 967 1 133 922 911 733 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 8 254 8 035 7 932 6 739 5 515 Equity / assets ratio, in % 52.5 53.0 52.2 50.7 51.1 Number of employees in the Group, including 100 per cent in joint ventures and associated companies 9 789 9 819 9 842 9 676 8 991 7 INTRODUCTION 15.1 % 8.3 % 9.8 % PROFITABILITY RETURN ON CAPITAL OPERATING MARGIN RETURN ON EQUITY EMPLOYED 30 % Return on capital employed, in % Operating profit + amortisation of intangible assets x 100 Average capital employed 20 % Operating margin, in % Operating profit x 100 Operating revenue 10 % Return on equity, in % Total comprehensive income for the year x 100 Average equity 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OUR BUSINESS 8 OUR BUSINESS Jotun Group … 10 Management summary … 12 Marine Coatings … 14 Powder Coatings … 18 Protective Coatings … 22 Decorative Paints … 26 9 OUR BUSINESS JOTUN GROUP THE POWER OF DIVERSITY Jotun believes in strength through diversity. By building an organisation rich in different nationalities, cultures, gender, products, segments and customers, the Group develops market understanding and competitive advantages that benefit all our global stakeholders. Jotun employs individuals from more than 88 different Meeting the needs of so many different end users in different countries, encouraging an open and inclusive working culture markets requires more than expertise on the technical merits whereby everyone, regardless of gender, race or belief, is of different paints and coatings systems; Jotun personnel accepted and encouraged to fulfil their potential. This benefits must understand the specific needs of customers in different the business on a multitude of levels. It creates a positive industries. Also, some projects may involve stakeholders from workplace and builds market reputation, while giving Jotun a many different countries, requiring Jotun project teams to broad-based wealth of knowledge, understanding and ideas cooperate across borders and time zones to secure contracts. that help us cater to the complex demands of the dynamic And finally, even companies operating in the same industry global marketplace. Jotun will continue to invest in developing a may have different business objectives, there is no ‘one size fits talented and varied workforce, delivering a competitive edge for all’ solution. both the Group and its customers around the world. COMBINED STRENGTH INDIVIDUAL UNDERSTANDING Managing Jotun’s regional and segment diversity represents a 10 As a paints and coatings manufacturer active in four different genuine challenge, but also helps mitigate financial risk. For OUR BUSINESS segments, Jotun’s customer base is remarkably diverse. On example, while low demand in Saudi Arabia impacted sales of any given day, Jotun employees interact with a broad range of Jotun Powder Coatings, the segment performed well in Sweden, end users, from shipowners to real estate developers, interior the Czech Republic, India, Vietnam, Turkey and Indonesia. designers to energy companies, appliance manufacturers to Likewise, weak demand for new ships and offshore installations steel fabricators, and many, many more. At the same time, slowed growth for Jotun marine and protective products. Jotun is active in more than 100 countries all over the world, However, strong growth in the Decorative Paints segment helped where the company works with customers representing the company achieve positive overall growth. By leveraging both different business cultures, ethnicities and religions. segment and regional diversity, Jotun can secure overall growth, even when some regions or segments underperform. Jotun celebrates the opening of a new factory in Myanmar. From left, Thiha Aung Ding, May The Win, Odd Gleditsch d.y. Chairman of the Jotun’s Board of Directors, and General Manager, Jotun Myanmar, Vo Chi Linh. OUR BUSINESS 11 JOTUN GROUP A DURABLE BUSINESS MODEL A number of external factors impacted Jotun’s results in 2017, but overall sales volume increased, a clear sign the company remains on the right track. In 2017, the rising cost of raw materials, including epoxies, In 2017, Jotun invested in new laboratories (in Turkey, the Czech titanium dioxide, copper and zinc, had a negative impact on Republic, and the UK), the ongoing construction of factories, profits. And because Jotun is active in more than 100 different and celebrated the completion of new factories in Malaysia, countries, the company is sensitive to currency effects and Myanmar, The Philippines and Russia. In Norway, construction changes in local economic conditions. For example, investment is underway for the company’s new head office and R&D activity in Saudi Arabia has declined, impacting Jotun’s growth centre. Jotun also continues to allocate resources towards IT in this important market. At the same time, weak demand tools and systems to modernise the company and to build the for the construction of new vessels and offshore installations competence of employees. has impacted Jotun’s sales of marine and protective coatings, notably in China and South Korea. STAY THE COURSE While Jotun is working to improve profitability going forward, VOLUME GROWTH the company’s results in 2017 have not led to any significant Despite challenges, Jotun recorded overall positive sales volume changes to Group strategy. Jotun continues to identify and growth in 2017, with strong support from the Decorative invest in promising markets, new technologies, production Paints segment. For a company active in four segments in many capacity and employees. Jotun has faced many challenges in 12 countries, Jotun has both the ability to shift resources where its 90-year history, but by leveraging the company’s strengths OUR BUSINESS they are needed and the flexibility to adjust to local market and taking a long-term perspective, Jotun is in a strong conditions without impacting other parts of the network. By position to continue the growth trend it has enjoyed for more narrowing the gap between growth in sales and manageable than a decade. costs, the company remains in a strong financial position to support its growth strategy. FULL TIME EMPLOYEES PRODUCTION FACILITIES SCA SCA WE WE EECA 2017 EECA MEIA 2007 MEIA SEAP SEAP NEA AM NEA Corporate AM 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 3 6 9 12 15 13 OUR BUSINESS Jotun Group Management (from left): Bård K. Tonning, Group Executive Vice President – Decorative Paints, Vidar Nysæther, Group Executive Vice President/CFO, Morten Fon, President & CEO and Geir Bøe, Group Executive Vice President – Performance Coatings. PRODUCTION VOLUME TOTAL SALES Litres/kilos (1 000 tonnes) Sales in NOK billion SCA SCA WE WE EECA EECA MEIA MEIA SEAP SEAP NEA NEA AM AM 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MARINE COATINGS POSITIONED FOR RECOVERY Despite continued uncertainty in the newbuilding market, Jotun Marine Coatings is working according to strategy by maintaining a market leading position and growing the DryDock and SeaStock business. Weak demand for ocean transportation, tonnage overcapacity has also gained ground in the Tank Coating concept and is and low freight rates continued to act as a drag on the preparing to launch a product with a cutting-edge technology shipbuilding industry in 2017, impacting Jotun’s Marine in 2018. Coatings segment. Profitability was also impacted by rising prices of raw materials. While a rise in newbuilding orders Consolidation in the shipping industry has created fewer, larger (mostly for containerships and bulk carriers) in China and players which seek long-term partnerships with suppliers. For South Korea in the second half of the year suggests a modest example, some customers prefer to outsource the management recovery, it will take some time for these vessels to be built. By of SeaStock to Jotun for a fixed fee. Product quality remains contrast, yard activity in Western Europe has picked up, thanks vital to Jotun’s offering, but the company recognises that to growing demand for cruise vessels, where over 90 vessels are owners are increasingly looking to suppliers for solutions to currently on order. Jotun has also secured a five-year contract improve their business. By leveraging digital tools, sensor with a leading cruise shipyard. technologies and data analytics, Jotun can quantify results, customise services and provide better decision support. SEIZING OPPORTUNITIES BUILDING LOYALTY Jotun has moved quickly to adjust to the new market reality 14 by focusing on the DryDock and SeaStock concepts. In 2017, Over the past five years, Jotun has taken significant steps OUR BUSINESS the company recorded growth in the DryDock concept of 17 to adjust to challenging markets. While uncertainty in the per cent, driven in part by increased demand for Jotun Hull newbuilding market is likely to continue to impact sales in the Performance Solutions, a concept applied to over 160 vessels. short-term, the company has retained its leading market position In the SeaStock concept, Jotun continues to perform well with by responding to the evolving needs of owners for solutionssix per cent growth, despite increased pressure on prices. Jotun based services and improved environmental performance. JOTUN MARINE COATINGS 6+21+7612435M 5% 6% AM SCA SALES IN BILLION NOK 21 % 2017 WE 2016 SALES 2015 PER REGION 43 % 7% 2014 NEA EECA 6% 2013 MEIA 12 % 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 SEAP OUR BUSINESS 15 OUR BUSINESS 16 MARINE COATINGS OPTIMISING DRYDOCKINGS As the industry continues to cycle through challenging markets, Jotun has found success offering solutionsbased drydocking services. While weak demand for new ship construction continues, there solution, including hull, topside and tank coating, if appropriate. are about 50 000 vessels now active in the world fleet that Once a coating solution is selected, Jotun works with the owner require periodic drydockings for scheduled maintenance. At to choose the best pre-treatment plan (spot or full blast) and the same time, increasingly strict regulations have encouraged determines the best service level to optimise the drydocking owners to refit vessels with ballast water treatment systems process. Because vessels in drydock are not earning, owners and exhaust gas cleaning systems, resulting in more activity at rely on repair yards and suppliers to complete their work on repair yards. Finally, owners seeking to reduce fuel costs and schedule. By using digital technologies to both customise and corresponding emissions are focused on hull performance, professionalise services, Jotun can help owners avoid downtime. leading to rising demand for Jotun premium marine coatings. SOLUTION DRIVEN SUCCESS FOCUSING ON THE OWNER Another key driver to the company’s success in the drydock Over the past five years, Jotun has developed a number of tools, market is linked to growing demand for Jotun’s Hull systems and enhanced services to grow its share in the drydock Performance Solutions (HPS) concept. Since its launch in 2011, market. Unlike newbuildings, where the shipyard often selects Jotun has won almost 700 HPS contracts, including more than the coatings supplier, decisions about coatings are made by the 160 vessels added to Jotun’s portfolio in 2017 alone. Jotun 17 owner. This provides Jotun with the opportunity to work more has also negotiated fleet wide contracts with larger owners, OUR BUSINESS closely with owners to help them meet their business objectives, allowing the company to provide comprehensive planning not only by recommending the hull coatings that best fit the and execution services. While Jotun’s results in the Marine operational profile of their vessel, but also by optimising the Coatings segment have been impacted by weak demand for drydocking process. new tonnage, the company’s efforts to expand its market share in the drydocking market has helped offset losses in Prior to the drydocking, Jotun collects data on the vessel’s the newbuilding market. By forging closer relationships with specific trade, average speed, cargo and time between owners, Jotun will be in a stronger position to compete for new scheduled maintenance to recommend the best coating contracts when the industry’s recovery gains strength. SPECIALISED MARKET: JOTUN YACHTING In 2017, the company provided coatings for over 100 In the leisure yacht market, Jotun has strengthened its European superyachts, achieving a 33 per cent increase in volume. This network of 75 global “Osmosis centres”, providing training to growth was driven partly by the growing success of Jotun’s local professionals on the prevention and treatment of osmosis, MegaFiller and Imperial Antifouling product ranges. With focus a naturally occurring process that can impact the integrity of on the superyacht maintenance market, the company launched fibreglass hulls. While overall sales in the leisure yacht market “Jotun Care”, a concept supported with an app which provides were stable in 2017, sales of Jotun’s Xtreme Gloss topcoat yacht captains and crews information on what, when and how doubled due to outstanding results achieved by the yacht painters to maintain their vessels. along with continuous success of NonStop Supreme antifouling. POWDER COATINGS INNOVATION, SERVICE AND TEAMWORK Jotun’s powder coatings business grew modestly in 2017 as the company strengthened its position in key markets. In 2017, Jotun had slower growth than expected in the In 2017, the company developed new premium solutions to powder coatings business due to weakening demand for meet specific customer demand. Products included Ultra One, pipeline and rebar coating products, particularly in the an effective substitute to liquid technology that can be applied Middle East. Coatings for steel rebar were affected by lower on Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF); Primax Xtend, a zinc investment in projects in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Three key free primer for cost effective steel corrosion protection for markets for Jotun’s powder coatings business were affected building components and general industrial applications; the in different ways in 2017, the economic downturn in Saudi Jotun Architectural Trends Collection, a selection of colours to Arabia, sharp devaluation of the Egyptian currency in late inspire architects for their most prestigious projects and Primax 2016, and supply chain disruption in Qatar from mid-2017. At Diamond, a specialised primer for diamond cut alloy wheels. the same time, two large scale pipeline projects in Turkey and The company also continues to work closely with global key Pakistan have been completed. Finally, a sharp rise in the costs account customers, such as Electrolux, Panasonic and IKEA, of key raw materials impacted profitability. and has developed closer links with companies like Mubea and Maxion, which manufacture automobile components. REGIONAL AND CONCEPT DIVERSITY ADJUSTING TO MARKET CHANGES Jotun’s regional and concept diversity helped the company 18 to offset volume declines in the pipeline and rebar coating Looking ahead, Jotun is implementing segment-wide price OUR BUSINESS products with positive results in other concepts and markets. increases to compensate for increased raw material prices. The For example, Jotun performed well in the Furniture concept and company has also built client teams that include sales, technical General Industries concept, which includes electrical switchgear, service and laboratory personnel (the “Troika approach”) to shelving, interior lighting and automotive components. Sales help customers realise value by optimising their processes. While of products for the Appliances concept were flat. The company Jotun does not anticipate market conditions in the Middle East is encouraged by rapid development in China, India, Indonesia will fully recover next year, the company remains confident and Vietnam, and by satisfactory double-digit growth in Eastern that by tailoring solutions for individual customers, working Europe & Central Asia (led by Turkey). Jotun also performed more closely with global key account clients and continuing well in Western Europe (led by the Czech Republic) and in to develop innovative products, the company can accelerate Scandinavia (led by Sweden). growth in the years ahead. JOTUN POWDER COATINGS 5+11+1640235M 5% 5% SALES IN BILLION NOK NEA SCA 11 % WE 23 % 2017 SEAP 2016 SALES 16 % EECA 2015 PER REGION 2014 2013 40 % 0 1 2 3 MEIA OUR BUSINESS 19 OUR BUSINESS 20 POWDER COATINGS FROM SUPPLIER TO PARTNER In 2017, Jotun Powder Coatings launched the “Troika approach”, a way to gain improved customer insights leading to tailored solutions to help the company migrate from the role of supplier to business partner. Over the past five years, the powder coatings industry has This process begins with understanding that different customers become increasingly sophisticated in terms of the range have different needs. For example, some may focus on cutting of surface preparation and application technologies used. energy costs related to curing, while others may seek advice While product quality and innovation remain a critical part of on how to optimise lines to speed production and improve Jotun’s offering, the company has recognised that enhanced efficiency. Technical sales support teams also work with understanding of specific application needs helps Jotun industry partners to develop suitable sensor and measurement to deliver solutions that add value for the customer. This technologies to track and gather more reliable data related to problem-solving approach not only strengthens relationships key application and curing parameters. And by encouraging with customers, it also helps Jotun differentiate itself from laboratory personnel to gain first-hand knowledge of application competitors in all concepts. conditions, they gain a better understanding of what technical solution best fits the needs of the applicator. Jotun has also invested in five Regional R&D centres to support the Troika teams PREPARING THE ORGANISATION and find technical solutions faster and more efficiently. In 2016, Jotun created client teams that include sales, technical sales support and laboratory personnel. Known as the Troika FROM SUPPLIER TO PARTNER 21 approach, these teams work with industrial manufacturers and OUR BUSINESS applicators to help them achieve optimal results. Sales personnel The Troika approach, together with support from Regional R&D are responsible for understanding the customer’s needs, while centres, has helped Jotun move much closer to the customer. By laboratory personnel are tasked with product adaptations, partnering with customers to help them improve their business, when required, to meet those needs. Technical sales support Jotun not only delivers added value, but also establishes a winprovides know-how on optimising systems and components of win basis for healthy long-term relationships with key customers. the application line, so that the customers can achieve the best results based on the products used. PROTECTIVE COATINGS MANAGING COMPLEXITY Jotun’s protective coatings business recorded growth in sales volume, but challenging conditions in some industries and markets, combined with increased raw material costs, impacted profitability. Jotun supplies protective coatings to companies active in a has launched a series of products in the Thermosafe range, broad range of industries, from offshore to infrastructure, enabling customers to operate at higher temperatures with hydrocarbon processing to energy. These industries are subject enhanced safety, efficiency and productivity. In the Infrastructure to different global and local economic forces and, like all concept, which includes residential buildings, stadiums and segments, profits are impacted by rising costs of raw materials. airports (among other projects) Jotun has found success with To manage these variables, Jotun has invested in product its range of thin film passive fire protection products (the innovations and sales force training to better meet the evolving Steelmaster range) and Green Building Solutions, a concept needs of different industry stakeholders. The company is also developed to support project owners seeking points toward expanding its dealer network to make products available to environmental certification (LEED, BREEAM, etc.). Jotun’s more customers. performance in the Energy concept, which includes wind farms and thermal and hydroelectric power, also experienced satisfactory growth in 2017. FOCUS ON MAINTENANCE Jotun’s results in the Offshore concept, traditionally an area of THE ROAD TO IMPROVED PROFITABILITY strength for the company, were impacted in 2017 by continued weak demand for the construction of offshore units. To offset this While Jotun does not anticipate a full recovery in the offshore 22 expected market development, Jotun has launched new products industry for some time, the company remains confident that OUR BUSINESS and solutions to capture more of the maintenance market. In through growth in other concepts it will be in a stronger 2017, Jotun introduced a new range of maintenance products position to build both sales volume and profitability in the years and solutions, consisting of Barrier Smart Pack, Jotamastic Smart ahead. Keys to improving profitability will be new innovations Pack HB and Hardtop One, which represents the world’s first and managing the rising cost of raw materials that has occurred NORSOK-approved solution for brush and roller application. over the past 18 months. With the current weak demand in offshore new construction, Jotun has developed the sales focus further in the other concepts. In the Hydrocarbon Processing Industry concept, Jotun JOTUN PROTECTIVE COATINGS 3+7+102617334M 4% 3% AM SCA 7% SALES IN BILLION NOK WE 10 % 2017 33 % EECA 2016 NEA SALES 2015 PER REGION 26 % 2014 MEIA 2013 17 % 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 SEAP OUR BUSINESS 23 OUR BUSINESS 24 PROTECTIVE COATINGS CLOSER TO THE CUSTOMER To gain market share in the complex and dynamic hydrocarbon processing industry, Jotun has launched a number of initiatives to align its business to meet the evolving needs of customers. The hydrocarbon processing industry (HPI), which includes Jotun’s expertise in HPI and interacting with customers refineries, gas processing facilities, petrochemical plants, tank even during periods of low activity, Jotun can strengthen its farms and other specialised facilities, requires both a global and reputation as a solutions provider. a local focus. While Jotun continues to interact with multiple international stakeholders to tender for new construction Jotun also launched Thermosafe, a comprehensive suite of (notably in the US), many facilities constructed in the past are products created to suit specific extreme environments, with a due for scheduled maintenance, representing a significant temperature range from –196 oC to 1000 oC. The five products growth opportunity for Jotun. To reach these customers, the in the Thermosafe range provide protection for everything from company has focused on working more closely with owners thermal exposure to corrosion under insulation, fire to cryogenic and contractors to understand their business and develop and spills, enabling better corrosion protection, improved safety and deliver the products and solutions that best fit their needs. reduced maintenance costs. By looking at the market in this new way, Jotun is more directly showing the value of quality solutions. SOLUTIONS PROVIDER In 2017, Jotun launched a distance learning initiative, a live, WORKING WITH DEALERS web-based concept-specific sales force training programme. 25 Rather than focus exclusively on Jotun products, the programme Dealer networks help customers source Jotun products and OUR BUSINESS is designed to build HPI competence among Jotun personnel so Jotun is expanding its dealer network. By building competence, they understand what is most important to project owners and offering complete product solutions and making Jotun contractors. The company also offers “Teach Me Tuesdays”, a maintenance products available where they are needed most, more informal webcast addressing specific issues and challenges Jotun is in a strong position to achieve significant volume faced by contractors and project owners. By demonstrating growth in the HPI concept in the years ahead. THERMOSAFE owns Launched in 2017, the Thermosafe range is proven to are designed to be applied ates, up to 150ºC. This enhance overall operational efficiency and on-site safety need for costly facility uring maintenance found in offshore oil and gas facilities. The products nce our epoxy PFP is mesh ptionally well suited to in the Thermosafe have been engineered for extreme ontaining PFP products. environments within a temperature range –196 oC to 1000 oC, providing protection from fire to cryogenic spills, thermal exposure to corrosion under insulation. ction against hydrocarbon s a critical HSE requirement. Applied Performance 13/07/2017 16:43 DECORATIVE PAINTS BUILDING ON OUR STRENGTHS Jotun continued to deliver good results in the Decorative Paints segment by remaining true to the company’s proven, long-term strategy. Jotun sells decorative paints in about 37 different countries, all Jotun distributes and sells decorative paints through about over the world. To serve these diverse markets, Jotun develops 8 000 dealer shops, all over the world. While the company user-focused products and works to build strong long-term continues to expand its dealer network, Jotun has focused relationships with dealers and project stakeholders, including on improving the shopping experience for consumers and contractors, architects, interior designers and real estate supporting dealers through a systematic approach to marketing. developers. In 2017, Jotun achieved positive growth in all This work includes providing dealers with tools to upgrade markets. shops, training programmes for shop sales staff, and investing in global television commercials and targeted social media campaigns. Jotun is also working more closely with architects, MARKET LEADER interior designers and developers to raise awareness for the Jotun is a recognised leader in the premium segment in many Jotun brand. In 2017, Jotun launched its fifth annual Global countries, building on the success of established brands and Colour Trends at events in more than 30 different countries the development of innovative products. For example, in South worldwide. East Asia, where the company saw double-digit growth in 2017, Jotun continues to find success with the premium interior range, A HISTORY OF SUCCESS Majestic, recording excellent growth with Majestic True Beauty 26 Sheen and Majestic Perfect Beauty and Care. In the Middle East, While Jotun will continue to focus on the development of its OUR BUSINESS India and Africa, Jotun saw strong growth in sales of interior premium products, these efforts also support growth for the products, such as Fenomastic Wonderwall, and specialised company’s medium range paints, which represent significant exterior products, such as Jotashield Décor, Jotashield Textures volume sales. Looking ahead, Jotun will continue to pursue its and Jotashield Colour Xtreme. Despite challenging markets, long-term strategy to remain a market leader in the premium Jotun outperformed its competition in Turkey. In Scandinavia, segment, a strategy that has proven successful for many years. the company saw double-digit growth in the interior segments, supported by the successful 2017 relaunch of Lady Pure Color. JOTUN DECORATIVE PAINTS 22+2+34922M 2% 22 % NEA 22 % SALES IN BILLION NOK SCA SEAP 2017 2% 2016 SALES WE 2015 PER REGION 3% EECA 2014 2013 49 % 0 3 6 9 MEIA 27 OUR BUSINESS Jotun works closely with interior designers, architects and developers to share fresh ideas and environmental solutions. OUR BUSINESS 28 DECORATIVE PAINTS THE EMOTION OF COLOUR Marketing decorative paints relies as much on quality as it does on making an emotional connection with the consumer through an innovative, global approach to marketing. Jotun’s success in the Decorative Paints segment is built Colour schemes are selected after an exhaustive process on quality products, close relationships with dealers and a involving Jotun colour specialists representing each region in coordinated local, regional and global marketing strategy. While Jotun’s network. Once each colour is specifically formulated by the company does invest in television and print advertising and Jotun’s in-house Colourant Technology laboratory, samples are has established a strong social media presence in most markets, assembled in an attractive brochure, featuring interiors shot by these efforts are supported by, and build on, the annual launch leading photographers and translated into 15 different brand of Jotun Global Colour Trends. and language versions. And to generate maximum publicity, Jotun Global Colour Trends are presented all over the world. SETTING THE TREND BUILDING THE BRAND Global Colour Trends is Jotun’s annual presentation of the latest trends in colour. Unlike some competing paint manufacturers Since the first launch of Jotun Global Colour Trends in 2013, who present a “Colour of the Year”, Jotun Global Colour Jotun has emerged as a leading international colour trendsetter, Trends is made up of a series of complimentary colours. These gaining recognition from some of the world’s top architects, are organised into three different schemes that evoke different designers and fashion influencers. The 2018 collection moods and emotions to appeal to different target audiences. (“Rhythm of Life”), launched in 2017, has been supported 29 In addition, Jotun Global Colour Trends is presented in a way by events in more than 30 countries worldwide, helping to OUR BUSINESS that helps take the guesswork out of choosing different colour strengthen Jotun’s brand as an important voice in the world of schemes, making it easier for consumers and designers to select interior design. the scheme that best fits their vision. RHYTHM OF LIFE The Rhythm of Life collection is divided into three primary colour schemes: City Motions, which pairs industrial blues and greys with warmer browns and beiges; Lush Garden, which matches the blue-greens of water with the reddish-browns of tree bark; and Silent Serenity, which contrasts creamy, terracotta pinks with sandy browns. CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 30 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 31 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION The gold standard of steel protection … 32 Connecting Jotun Multicolor … 34 Sales accelerator … 36 CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 32 THE GOLD STANDARD IN STEEL PROTECTION In 2017, Jotun enjoyed remarkable success in the sale of intumescent passive fire protection products that both meet fire safety requirements and the needs of customers. Steel, the world’s most commonly used construction material, coating offering 120 minutes of fire protection. Architects also will start to lose its structural integrity at temperatures reaching appreciate that this thin-film coatings system can enhance 400 oC. To provide occupants of buildings or work sites time the architectural design of the steelwork. The Jotachar range, to safely evacuate in case of fire, regulations require that steel made up of two solutions, one for the offshore segment (which constructions are treated with passive fire protection such as demands jet fire protection) and another for the onshore intumescent paints. These are specialised coatings that expand hydrocarbon industry, which requires protection against pool when exposed to heat thus insulating the steel substrate fires, provides project owners with easy application, lower underneath from external temperature increases. maintenance costs and reduced structural weight. MEETING CUSTOMER NEEDS INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Jotun produces a broad assortment of Passive Fire Protection Jotun will continue to develop solutions that meet or exceed (PFP) products, including the thin-film cellulosic fire protection regulations and satisfy customer demand. In 2017, the company Steelmaster range and Jotachar, a mesh free, epoxy PFP opened a new research centre in Flixborough, UK. The facility solution. While these products have been tested to ensure is housed in a 1 600 square-metre, two-storey complex compliance with local and international standards for fire safety, featuring two furnaces (to develop the intumescent products), 33 they have also been engineered to meet the diverse needs of laboratories, mill rooms, offices and plant space. The research CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION project owners. centre will complement the company’s existing R&D facility in Dubai, UAE. For example, for project owners seeking to earn points towards “green certification” (e.g. LEED, BREEAM, etc.), Jotun offers Steelmaster 1200WF, a waterborne intumescent Jotun intumescent Passive Fire Protection test furnace, Dubai U.A.E. CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 34 CONNECTING JOTUN MULTICOLOR By continuing to invest in new technologies, Jotun Multicolor has served as the backbone of the company’s decorative paints business for more than forty years. Launched in 1976, Jotun Multicolor was the first mass-produced Over the past five years, Jotun has embarked on an ambitious in-shop tinting system of its kind, allowing consumers to select project to leverage web-based services to connect all an almost infinite array of colours from their local shop. Over Multicolor machines to a global network. The Jotun Global time, Jotun Multicolor became a critical interface between Network allows dealers to get instant access to new products Jotun, the dealer and the consumer, helping to drive rapid and colours, online technical support and Jotun web solutions, growth. Today, Jotun Multicolor is one of the industry’s best such as automated backup of customised data. And by and most reliable in-shop tinting systems, recognised for user collecting statistics via web-connected Multicolor machines, friendliness, reliability and colour accuracy. Jotun can more effectively track global colour trends. By the end of 2017, more than 6 000 Multicolor machines have been connected via Internet. A UNIQUE CONCEPT While the Jotun Multicolor machine is itself a piece of CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT equipment, it is perhaps better understood as the centrepiece of Jotun’s efforts to create the best shopping experience for Looking ahead, Jotun will continue to add features to the consumer. In pursuit of this goal, Jotun has a dedicated strengthen the concept, supported by input from user survey Multicolor team responsible for the identification of trends to data. For example, the company has recently launched a touch 35 make colour selection easier, chemists to formulate new colours screen solution in Scandinavia. By optimising every step of the CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION that don’t fade, engineers to develop hardware and software to process, from making colour selection easier for consumers tint paints, and technicians to upgrade and service more than to providing dealers with user friendly equipment supported 8 000 Multicolor machines in operation worldwide. Jotun also by web-based services, Jotun delivers a truly unique shopping provides support to dealers to upgrade their shops to inspire experience for consumers and professionals alike. consumers to beautify their homes. Jotun server Remote service D Dealer l 1 Dealer D l 2 By the end of 2017, more than 6 000 Jotun Multicolor machines have been connected via Internet and some have been equipped with touch screen technology. SALES ACCELERATOR Jotun achieved significant growth in the decorative paints retail market in the Middle East, India and Africa by focusing on shop sales staff. Jotun distributes paints to about 2 000 shops in the Middle The two-day training course has four components: Train, East, India and Africa. To generate sales, the company relies on Engage, Motivate and Reward. Shop sales personnel were dealers, or shop owners, and their staff to recommend Jotun trained to “Start every day the Jotun Way” (Mind, Body, Store) products. This business model has helped the company achieve and learned sales methodology. At the end of the course, remarkable success; the retail sale of decorative paints represents shop sales staff received a Jotun Sales Specialist diploma, a about 80 per cent of Jotun’s business in the region. Over the Jotun name badge, a carry bag containing training manuals past five years, Jotun has worked closely with dealers to improve (translated into eight different languages), a Jotun branded the condition of their shops to attract more business. At the end polo shirt and hygiene products. To keep Jotun Sales Specialist of 2016, the company identified an opportunity to accelerate graduates engaged, Jotun organises various activities to ensure growth, particularly for premium products, by focusing on shop they remain motivated. sales staff. PROVEN SUCCESS LISTEN, LEARN AND MOTIVATE Since its launch, more than 1 700 shop sales people working While shop owners remain critical partners for Jotun, it is the in about 900 shops across 15 markets in the Middle East, India shop sales staff, often minimum wage workers, who deal and Africa have graduated from the programme. To date, 36 directly with consumers. In 2017, the company launched a around 300 sales specialists have been rewarded for their CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION change programme known as the ‘Jotun Way’ to train and achievements at work. Dealers with shop sales people who have motivate shop sales staff. The project was divided into three graduated from the course have achieved significant growth, phases: compared to shops that haven’t yet participated, making the • Phase one of the project was to bring shop sales staff ‘Jotun Way’ programme one of the most successful change together for workshops, where Jotun personnel could learn initiatives for the region. more about their goals and ambitions • Phase two was to develop a training programme and motivational tools to engage them • Phase three was implementation, a roll out of the training programme to every Jotun branded shop in the region CUSTOMERS AND INNOVATION 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE It’s all about attitude … 40 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE “Jotun is defined by its approach to corporate responsibility and governance. We are committed to investing in the development and implementation of long-term programmes that deliver the very highest standards, while building our global reputation, business results and trusted stakeholder relationships. Jotun’s Board fully supports our CR activities, which are defined by our values and clearly aligned with the 10 United Nations Global Compact principles.” Morten Fon, President and CEO Loyalty Care Respect Boldness IT’S ALL ABOUT ATTITUDE Jotun prides itself not only on producing high quality products, but also on building a unique corporate culture. One where our values of Loyalty, Care, Respect and Boldness dictate our behaviour and cement our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. Jotun is diverse, but unified. As a company of almost 10 000 In 2017 Jotun: employees selling products in over 100 countries, our individual • Strengthened its compliance function with the creation of a differences help us gain a variety of perspectives, taking new team, focusing on key non-financial compliance areas advantage of insights and opportunities that others simply may • Launched a new portfolio of anti-corruption nano-learnings, not recognise. However, we all share the same approach to helping delegates retain knowledge, embed tools for correct conducting business. decision making, and enforce Jotun’s stringent anti-corruption stance Jotun works hard to build an inclusive and respectful culture, • Renewed efforts to meet legal, corporate and ethical anchored in our values and maintained by a structured, clear requirements, investing in areas including data protection, and carefully tailored approach to Corporate Responsibility (CR) human rights, trading standards, and environmental and Governance. Our policies adhere to international standards, protection while our practices mould who we are, building a responsible attitude throughout every region, segment, company and team. GOOD GOVERNANCE 41 Jotun believes good governance is a cornerstone of successful BUILDING TRUST CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND GOVERNANCE business. By maintaining and continually improving clear and It’s this attitude that dictates our behaviour and helps us make effective corporate governance policies, audits and reviews, we the ‘right’ choices; for one another, for our suppliers, customers, pursue our strategic goals with transparency, integrity and a key business stakeholders and for the environment and society strong ethical focus. in general. It builds an organisation we can be proud of and a brand that communicates strong values in every area we Jotun’s Board of Directors and Group Management are integral operate in. to the promotion and support of the CR strategy, which is implemented throughout the global organisation via policies, Jotun, in terms of both its products and its behaviour, can guidelines, reviews, audits, supplier audits, CR reporting and a always be trusted to uphold high standards. comprehensive range of internal and external activities. All of our Corporate Responsibility policies and standards are Corporate Governance standards are evaluated and supported based upon the Human Rights convention of the United Nations using a multi-faceted approach that includes: (UN), the International Labour Organization (ILO) convention, • HSEQ audits Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development • Business reviews (OECD) guidelines for multinational companies, and the UN’s • Financial audits Global Compact principles. • HR reviews • Supplier audits INTEGRATED APPROACH The policies are developed centrally and implemented locally, CR is not a standalone element within Jotun. It is integrated ensuring that all companies not only share the same attitudes, throughout every operational element of the global but also the same high standards. organisation to help decision making, support strategy and steer sound judgment. Every year we take steps to refine and improve our programmes, building on our successful approach and embedding it further into our business processes. EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 42 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 43 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Growth through sustainable workforce development … 44 Creating a culture of opportunity … 46 Changing for the better … 47 A culture of teamwork … 48 Raising the bar … 49 Safety always comes first … 50 Reducing risk, step by step … 51 GROWTH THROUGH SUSTAINABLE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT Jotun is focused on driving growth through a sustainable, organic and strategic development of its global workforce. This provides opportunities for our employees, while delivering lasting value for our business stakeholders. Jotun’s continued success depends on its ability to recruit, CONCEPTS THAT WORK develop and retain qualified personnel. The Group tailors its HR activity to provide a dynamic and attractive work place, HR responds to Jotun’s business strategy by developing, one where individuals thrive and successful teams are created, advocating and implementing six interlinked concepts: helping Jotun fulfil its strategic ambitions. Recruitment, Leadership, Competence Development, Reward, Organisational Design, and Global Mobility. Each one feeds As a Group, we are guided by our values, but defined by our into the other to create a ‘wheel’ of sustainable development, people. It is imperative that we recognise, nurture enabling Jotun to meet its employees’, shareholders’ and develop their abilities, allowing them to and customers’ needs and expectations. build their individual careers while we build strong market position. Our concepts, policies and standards are devised centrally, Organisational but implemented locally, A PATHWAY FOR Design empowering our regional 44 POTENTIAL and local HR professionals EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Every new Jotun and local management Global employee starts a Leadership to make decisions that Mobility journey. Their present support overall Group role is not the strategy. Global HR destination, but a platform for further Concepts Organisational surveys, development. By conducted every two creating a dynamic years, reveal a high level work environment, the Competence of employee engagement Recruitment Group encourages them Development and commitment to Jotun, to gain experience across while also delivering valuable functions, departments, feedback on priority areas for regions and segment borders, Reward improvement. This kind of insight motivating them to maximise their helps us continually refine the HR career potential and deliver optimal function and activities to ensure onvalue to the business. going added value. This is of particular value to so-called ‘millennials’, who 2017 HIGHLIGHTS join Jotun early in their careers seeking quick personal and professional progression, and form the next generation of The Group’s growth is steady and prudent, with employee leaders. It is essential Jotun understands and responds to their numbers increasing slightly in 2017, despite challenging market desires, allowing us to retain talented young people and build conditions for numerous business segments. on-going competitive advantage. The past year has also seen: Jotun invests heavily in creating a structure where leaders are • The continued roll-out of Jotun’s revamped Leadership nurtured and opportunities delivered (see page 46) while all Expectations programme employees enjoy tailored initiatives to build individual and • The initiation of a survey looking into the success and collective competence (see page 47). sustainability of Jotun’s Mobility programme 45 EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Number of employees Female Male Nationalities Jotun total 9 789 1 806 7 983 88 Scandinavia 1 142 350 792 36 West Europe 793 190 603 33 East Europe and Central Asia 762 164 598 8 North East Asia 1 933 341 1 592 12 South East Asia and Pacific 2 181 540 1 641 23 Middle East, India and Africa 2 735 175 2 560 51 Americas 243 46 197 16 CREATING A CULTURE OF OPPORTUNITY Jotun’s most important asset is its people. To retain talented team members, and ensure they fulfil their potential while supporting the Group’s strategic business goals, Jotun invests in creating a dynamic internal labour market, rich in opportunities. Jotun is committed to a culture of organic growth. The Group directly benefiting operations and individuals, while appealing to aims to fill key positions internally, wherever possible, while a new generation of employees who appreciate such a flexible ensuring that existing and prospective employees see Jotun as and progressive work environment. a desirable workplace, one where career advancement isn’t just possible, it is encouraged. LEADING THE WAY We want employees that expect and target personal and Jotun recognises that effective leadership is essential in professional development, growing in engagement and achieving the Group’s global business objectives. In an commitment to Jotun as we deliver opportunities that help international organisation with over 1 700 managers, it them, and the Group, prosper in the global marketplace. is critical that we create the structure, programmes and Jotun’s focus on Mobility and Leadership are cornerstones of processes to support a leadership pipeline that develops our efforts. people and drives sustainable success. In 2017 Jotun worked to ensure that its newly revamped 46 DYNAMIC DEVELOPMENT Leadership Expectations initiative was rolled out effectively EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Global Mobility is key to sharing expertise, developing new across the organisation, communicating not just what we perspectives and building a stronger, healthier and increasingly expect from our leaders, but how they can achieve it. Local HR competitive international enterprise. managers were tasked with ensuring leadership is now firmly on the agenda at management meetings, creating a regular forum In 2017 Jotun has continued to strengthen its programme, for discussion and development, while a tailor-made leadership boosting the number of employees on short-term assignments, assessment tool has been launched to select management mobile workforce placements and international assignments. candidates and further develop skills. The Group’s processes have been standardised to enhance efficiency, while increased diversity has been encouraged. Leadership is a priority for managers, with dedicated workshops, Academy initiatives, Leadership development reports and Job mobility has also been in focus, with regional mobility organisational surveys ensuring concept integration throughout resources introduced in each region to ensure local managers Jotun. In addition, the Group has worked to encourage broader can offer employees opportunities across new roles, companies diversity with the leadership pipeline, with greater gender, and functions. This facilitates and supports greater movement, nationality and cross-functional representation. GLOBAL MOBILITY CONTRACTS Number of employees 2011–2017 200 150 100 50 0 2011 2013 2015 2017 CHANGING FOR THE BETTER Jotun invests in the continual development of its people, building their skills through the Competence Development function. This allows individuals to fulfil their potential, so the Group can fulfil its. Jotun works across all segments and regions to develop DIGITAL PLATFORM personal and collective competence with a unified approach. Best practices are shared, structured learning programmes and The introduction of the Working Together digital platform in tools are utilised, and, throughout all activities, the Group’s 2016 enabled Jotun to exploit new online tools to support business strategy is supported and empowered. global competence development in 2017. A business is only ever as good as its people. By investing in A new internal social networking service was introduced their skills we invest in our own future, creating talented teams as a communication hub for employees. This allowed all and an on-going competitive advantage for Jotun. communication relating to development and training to move onto a single platform. Rather than sending and receiving individual emails, all delegates and trainers now gather and REVITALISING LEARNING interact in the same place, sharing relevant information, 2017 marked a watershed year for the Jotun Academy, facilitating courses, and detailing developments. The efficiency often referred to as “the most important tool to Penguinise and effectiveness of this service has been transformative. employees. ”The Academy is a vital resource for building Jotun’s 47 global culture and supporting its growth. It encompasses some Similarly, new collaboration sites are now used. These EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE 38 programmes, with around 360 trainers interacting with sites provide a common and secure area for Jotun to share between 3 000 and 4 000 delegates every year. documents, templates, ideas and all resources for all learning programmes worldwide, everything a trainer needs to run a Two of its key areas, Operations & HSEQ and Management, programme can be stored and accessed here. underwent a complete revitalisation in 2017. Both were streamlined and enhanced, with less training days and more In this way, all activities are coordinated and uniform, maximising preparatory and post-learning activity. Projects included impact and quality across the entire global organisation. incorporating tools such as nano-lessons, e-learnings and selfassessments, and moving communication with trainers into BUILDING COMPETENCE Jotun’s new online collaboration sites. More practical exercises and peer-based learning was utilised, with, for example, In 2018 Jotun will continue investing in improving its operations managers learning from fellow operations managers competence development offering, including: in factory environments. Less of a reliance on external trainers resulted in significant cost efficiencies for the organisation as a • The introduction of ‘Leadership Boosters’, halfto one-day whole. Programme content was also modernised, with a clearer modules targeted at all Jotun managers focus on supporting Jotun’s growth strategy and individual • The use of more audio visual elements and digital tools within career paths. training • The launch of Jotun will now concentrate on continuing this successful – Level 2 training for managers without direct reports Academy overhaul, with the Competence Development team – Planning training as part of the Operations and HSEQ moving on to revitalise the Sales programmes in 2018. Academy – Digital Workplace training to raise the level of digital skills throughout the company A CULTURE OF TEAMWORK As a rapidly expanding global organisation, strengthening a culture of teamwork, respect and efficiency is critical to Jotun’s long-term growth strategy. Over the past decade, Jotun’s workforce has increased To facilitate cross border cooperation, Jotun has invested in significantly, creating a truly multinational company with tools and systems specifically designed to bring the organisation employees representing different ethnic backgrounds, religions together. After the launch in 2005 the company has continued and business cultures. While Jotun views this diversity as a core to improve its ERP system. In 2016, Jotun launched the strength, the company recognises that to operate as an effective “Working Together” platform, a cloud-based collaboration and unified organisation across borders and time zones, it must tool that allows users to share information, network and continue to invest in tools and systems to strengthen a culture communicate seamlessly across borders. The company also of teamwork, respect and efficiency. offers a broad range of web-based competence development modules to ensure that employees in different countries all receive the same level and scope of training. OPERATING IN A GLOBALISED ECONOMY In today’s globalised economy, where large projects often BUILDING A DYNAMIC WORKFORCE involve multiple stakeholders, Jotun has developed crossborder teams to manage specifications and work with project While IT tools are useful, Jotun also understands the role that stakeholders in different countries to tender for big contracts. face-to-face interaction plays in uniting the organisation. International teams within Performance Coatings segment In addition to organising both international and regional 48 track and manage global key accounts, while in the Decorative conferences, seminars and more informal work groups, EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE Paints segment, global teams work with international architects employees are encouraged to apply for short-term assignments, and interior designers to generate interest in Jotun products. either intra-regionally or internationally. By developing global Likewise, the company’s network of regional R&D centres often teams to meet the demands of a globalised economy, investing work together (and in close cooperation with the Group R&D in IT tools to ensure the organisation operates on one platform, function in Norway), to share expertise, develop new products and circulating skilled personnel throughout the network, Jotun and evaluate raw materials. is in a stronger position to grow efficiently and create a highly skilled and unified workforce. RAISING THE BAR Jotun follows a global, mandatory and fully integrated HSEQ strategy to ensure the creation and maintenance of a strong safety culture that protects people, property and the environment, while delivering tangible business benefits. Jotun’s HSEQ Management System was introduced in 2015, AUDITING EXCELLENCE rolled out across 2016 and fully implemented throughout all existing company sites by 1 June 2017. The system has 2017 saw the first audits of the system, with comprehensive been tailored to deliver uniformly high standards at a Group reviews at Jotun’s sites in Oman and Indonesia. The expected level, while ensuring implementation by delegating clear standards are higher than ever before, matching our ambition responsibilities, across 14 different elements. to continually improve, meaning it is harder to achieve the best results. Nevertheless, the audits, and an on-going process of self-assessment across the global network of sites, demonstrate STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE high engagement with the system and a commitment to build HSEQ is high on the agenda of every Jotun company in every competence and enhance safety. market where we are active. Through a programme of on-going training and awareness campaigns, HSEQ is top of mind for all WORLDWIDE ENGAGEMENT of our almost 10 000 employees. HSEQ is fully integrated organisationally and central to the A global survey conducted in October 2017 among 365 mindset of every Jotun employee, from Group Management 49 managers in operations confirmed that HSEQ was the most to individual operators worldwide. To ensure the correct EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE strategically important business element, with 71 per cent understanding, participation and results, Jotun creates a noting that there had been continuous improvements over the framework of activities that includes e-learning initiatives, course of the last two years. Academy programmes, HSE days, employee engagement surveys, local safety committee meetings, I Care campaigns The ultimate focus of HSEQ is to eliminate all incidents, fires (promoting mandatory and local initiatives), tool box talks, and spills, creating a work environment with optimum levels of safety walks and the 5S/housekeeping initiative. both safety and efficiency. The HSEQ Management System is central to this aim, providing well-defined requirements, tools By embedding the correct attitude, and providing the structure and best practices that are easy to understand and effective to support, measure and continually enhance standards, Jotun upon implementation. ensures that HSEQ isn’t seen as an ‘add on’, but is integral to day-to-day operations and business performance. LEARNING FROM THE BEST In 2017, a global drive to identify best practices from individual sites and roll them out on a group level was initiated. Templates can be accessed through a shared platform, with companies detailing their initiatives and sharing knowledge. As such Jotun taps into practical, grass roots operational expertise, while the diverse global teams impact positively on the Group as a whole. Examples of best practices include Fall Arrest System (UAE), Walkways (Indonesia) and Tank Farm Safety Harnesses (South Korea). SAFETY ALWAYS COMES FIRST Different countries, different challenges, but the same stringent systems, procedures and standards. Jotun’s diverse operational facilities are united by a carefully maintained culture of safety. Safety is a cornerstone of all Jotun operations. The Group BUILDING SAFETY IN MYANMAR continually develops and improves the management system that sets uniform global standards, while supporting individual Jotun refuses to compromise on safety. While constructing the operations in their efforts to address issues and improve new factory in Myanmar, the project team had to work hard to performance on a local level. communicate the benefits of our practices and convince local workers to comply with Jotun’s stringent safety standards. In 2017, safety at new Jotun facilities was a key focus, with factory projects entering the production phase in Russia, A multi-faceted approach was used, with the project team Myanmar, Malaysia and in the Philippines. on site every day to set a positive safety example and address challenge areas. Daily toolbox meetings with contractors highlighted required safety practices, while visual aids (such GETTING A HEAD START ON SAFETY as posters) on site used positive, simple messages to reinforce Jotun works hand in hand with local teams to ensure that understanding of expected standards. All staff conducted operational facilities can maintain optimal safety standards from induction safety training and were encouraged to maintain day one. New sites are constructed with safety at their hearts, standards, with dedicated awards schemes for ‘HSE employees built to the highest engineering standards, with 5S requirements of the month’. 50 now integrated within factory layouts, while facilities undergo a EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE pre-operations assessment and HSEQ audit before start-up. The end result of this consistent, clear and structured approach to safety was a project completed on schedule, with zero lost A Jotun support team joins the local organisation to ensure time injury (LTI) recorded across almost 800 000 working hours. that all safety equipment, systems and procedures are fit for purpose, while identifying risk areas, such as hazardous areas, The Myanmar production facility was officially opened in fire-fighting capabilities and the control of static electricity. November 2017. Once all criteria have been satisfied, the team stays in place for an initial production phase to oversee operations and verify safety standards. A further HSEQ audit is conducted one year after startup to ensure the maintenance of required standards. LOST TIME INJURY RATE ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS Number of injuries resulting in more than one day absence Days of absence in per cent of number of days worked per million working hours – (H-value) for Jotun Group 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 REDUCING RISK, STEP BY STEP Jotun is committed to constantly refining its programme of initiatives, procedures and requirements to improve standards, acknowledge incidents and create the safest possible working environment for our global workforce. At Jotun, we work hard to manage and minimise risk Jotun mitigates the risk of a reoccurrence. We learn locally and throughout our global organisation, communicating clear implement globally. procedures and requirements at a Group level, which are then owned, administered and implemented locally. Although robust THE PATH AHEAD in nature, Jotun’s approach is also flexible, evolving with the needs of our growing business to ensure a process of continual In 2018, Jotun will continue to fine-tune its approach improvement. to addressing risk, focus on HSEQ Management System implementation, and the 5S initiative. More emphasis will also be put on maintenance, with a new initiative to OPPORTUNITIES TO LEARN promote ‘operator driven maintenance’. This aims to create With a growing number of people, products and facilities, a mindset whereby operators are responsible for conducting the risk for incidents increases. However, Jotun endeavours to minor preventive maintenance actions on their machines. By ensure that all incidents are reported, analysed and followed up. implementing this we will ensure operators are aware of what they can do themselves to ensure reliable, efficient and safe 51 For incidents with high-risk potential a ‘lessons learned’ case machine operations. This aims to foster pride and responsibility, EMPLOYEES AND THE WORKPLACE study is compiled. This details the incident, its root cause, while further reducing operational risk. corrective actions that were taken, preventative actions to ensure the incident doesn’t happen again, and required In addition, the global ‘I Care’ campaign will focus on reducing actions. By addressing unwanted occurrence in this manner the risk of incidents related to the ‘person-machine’ interface. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT 52 53 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT GreenSteps forward … 54 Ensuring environmental performance … 56 Investing in process improvements … 58 Going green … 59 GREENSTEPS FORWARD Global results require local focus. By ensuring that each one of our facilities maintains strict standards and reporting mechanisms, Jotun as a Group reduces waste, energy consumption and the impact of its activities on the environment. Jotun GreenSteps is the platform upon which all our towards certification, which constitutes 10 per cent of the total environmental initiatives are built. With five key pillars, the points they need for the highest LEED award. Considering that programme gives a structure that defines our activities, guiding coatings typically represent only 0.5 to 2 per cent of overall what we do, who we do business with, and which high quality project cost, this is a highly efficient way to take a significant products we offer to our global customer base. step towards certification. As a guiding principle, Jotun is focused on achieving more, yet At Jotun, we see it as our role to not only provide more consuming less. This means improving products and stakeholder environmentally responsible products, but also to educate our results, while reducing waste, energy use, emissions, our carbon customer base on the best way to utilise them to meet the most footprint, and the use of hazardous materials. stringent standards, creating buildings that are green, efficient and economical, today and tomorrow. This impacts positively on the business, with greater efficiency and reduced energy costs, while our increasingly STEPS IN 2017 environmentally aware customer base enjoy high quality products that help them meet regulatory requirements and Further GreenSteps activity in 2017 included 54 address their own carbon footprints. • reducing waste by 10 per cent per tonne of produced ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT product over the last three years. This was achieved through Jotun’s focus on assisting customers achieve Leadership in a systematic approach including encouraging suppliers to Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) building certification re-use materials, cleaning and re-using water and solvents for demonstrates the company’s commitment to supporting more cleaning production equipment, and bulk-delivery of more environmentally sustainable building construction. raw materials. • reducing Jotun’s carbon footprint by five per cent over the past year, contributing to a total reduction of 20 per cent LEEDING FROM THE FRONT since 2013. This has been made possible through more Jotun satisfies a growing global demand for more efficient production facilities and processes. environmentally responsible building projects with the Green • implementing Jotun’s HSEQ management system, helping Building Solutions offer. Created to provide global specifiers ensure increased focus and standardisation of sustainable and building owners with approved systems to meet local and best practices; making Jotun safer and greener. international environmental requirements, this green product range covers decorative, protective and powder coatings. STEPS AHEAD As a globally respected certification programme, LEED is a In 2018 Jotun will focus on natural focus for green building projects. The scheme is growing • continuing to develop sustainable new products and solutions in popularity with around 80 000 projects currently either with less use of solvents and hazardous materials. certified or registered, from over 160 countries. Of these, major • the reduction of energy consumption through modern developing economies, such as China, UAE, Brazil and India are production facilities and equipment. recording the fastest growth in LEED certifications. • cooperating with environmental organisation Bellona to define areas that help Jotun and its customers to develop and Jotun caters for this market with products that assist building implement sustainable solutions. owners and developers achieve LEED certification. The right coatings can play a key role in helping them gain up to 11 points 55 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT Wave energy project: Over the last few years, Jotun (together with other partners) has supported Waves4Power, a Swedish-based clean energy company. In May 2017, Waves4Power celebrated the successful installation of a buoy, equipped with a wave energy converter, off the island of Runde, Norway. The grid-connected unit is capable of supplying 10-15 normal households with clean power for a year. 11+4+81M 11 % EMISSIONS PER TONNE PRODUCED INTERNAL TRANSPORT (Kg CO2 per tonne) for Jotun Group 4% ENERGY GENERATION 2017 EMISSION 4% CHEMICAL PROCESS 2016 SOURCE EMISSIONS 2015 81 % 0 20 40 60 80 100 ELECTRICITY ENSURING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Green is Jotun’s favourite colour. We are committed to utilising greener materials, production methods and product offerings, helping our customers improve their own environmental performance, and safeguarding the world around us. Jotun is committed to continually improving its environmental energy kWh per tonne produced for liquid paints, and energy performance. The Group follows a long-term strategy that kWh per tonne produced for powder coatings. focuses on reducing waste while optimising energy efficiency. We identify best practices locally, such as installing light tunnels, The management and employees on each site are expected to solar panels and treating waste water on-site, and introduce own and participate in this environmental commitment, taking them internationally, while setting stringent standards on a part in activities such as site environmental risk assessments, Group level for all sites to follow. training and environmental compliance. THE STRUCTURE TO SUCCEED WORKING TOGETHER in 2015, the goal to reduce waste was formalised with the Achieving optimal environmental performance is an integrated roll out of Jotun’s HSEQ Management System, concerning part of Jotun’s daily operational objectives. This clear, simple environmental expectations, systems, reporting and support tools. and structured approach ensures that every facility, team and individual understands and positively contributes to achieving 56 This describes requirements to ensure the correct measures are our overall Group objectives. ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT implemented to protect the environment locally, prevent spills and accidental emissions, handle waste effectively, and promote In 2018, Jotun will continue its drive to reduce waste, targeting energy efficiency and awareness. the use of less packaging, with, for example, increased raw material deliveries from tankers rather than in bags, and a push A central focus concerns the structure to support Jotun’s overall through the purchasing department to consider every purchase HSEQ targets, with clear key performance indicators (KPIs) in the context of product Life Cycle Analyses and, where reporting required from each site, namely, waste in kg/tonne relevant, Environmental Product Declarations. produced (%), total waste (hazardous and non-hazardous), HAZARDOUS AND NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (Kg waste per tonne produced) for Jotun Group Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Objective/year 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 0 5 10 15 20 25 57 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT In 2017, Jotun Brazil began to accept recyclable trash at designated bins at the factory, providing Jotun employees and local citizens the opportunity to dispose of recyclable waste in a responsible manner. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (Per tonne produced) for Jotun Group 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 0 30 60 90 120 150 INVESTING IN PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS Jotun has invested in equipment and systems to streamline the development, testing and production of solvent free paints and coatings. Jotun has a long history of producing alkyd binders, which, Jotun also replaced an old pilot reactor with a new unit near the dependent on the product, can make up between 25-60 per company’s headquarters in Sandefjord to support more efficient cent of a paint’s total volume. While Jotun also has experience development of both wood protection products and antifouling with the binder emulsification process, capacity issues with marine coatings. The unit helps to streamline the development some external suppliers created the need to bring this process process by bridging the gap between bench-scale reactors in fully in-house. the laboratory and the high capacity 30-tonne capacity reactors used in the factory. The new reactor is more precise, flexible and reliable, helping Jotun chemists to get better results, faster. COST EFFECTIVE CONTROL In 2017, Jotun opened an alkyd binder emulsion facility in its EMPOWERING PERSONNEL existing factory in Sandefjord. The new facility plays an important role in the production of exterior and some interior waterborne Jotun relies on skilled workers in both the factory and the wood protection products. As a leader in this specialised market laboratory to ensure it retains its edge in innovation. By making in Scandinavia, having full control of the binder production and significant investments in equipment and systems, Jotun emulsification process is critical for the continued success of empowers workers by giving them the tools they need to products like Trebitt, Optimal, Drygolin and Demidekk. At the succeed. These investments also support Jotun’s development 58 same time, the new facility enables Jotun to reduce costs related of solvent free waterborne paints, consistent with Jotun ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT to certain raw materials and ensures a predictable supply. The GreenSteps policy. automated facility requires only one operator per shift and can process up to 30 tonnes of alkyd binders per day. Payback on the investment costs are expected within five years. GOING GREEN Increased focus on fuel efficiency, combined with growing public concerns about the environment and stricter regulations have sparked a green revolution in shipping. Over the past eight years, the shipping industry has experienced performance, which contributes to around 0.3 per cent of all a cyclical downturn of unusual depth and duration, forcing human generated carbon emissions. As the world’s leading the industry to rethink existing business models and how they supplier of marine coatings, Jotun has taken a proactive manage their fleets. At the same time, growing public demand approach to supporting owners seeking to remain profitable to protect the environment has supported increasingly strict and in compliance with existing (and emerging) regulations. local and global regulations, covering emissions to air, water, underwater noise and invasive species. PART OF THE SOLUTION Jotun’s range of marine coatings, supported by the company’s PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT pioneering work with silyl-based binders (the technology behind According to the International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) the SeaQuantum range), help owners to improve environmental most recent GHG (greenhouse gas) Study, maritime transport performance. And since its launch in 2011, Jotun’s Hull emits around 1 000 million tonnes of CO2 annually and is Performance Solutions (HPS) concept has been applied to more responsible for about 2.5 per cent of global GHG emissions. than 600 vessels worldwide, helping owners reduce fuel costs In 2016, the IMO announced the implementation of a global and corresponding emissions. Jotun also helped organise a sulphur limit of 0.5 per cent by January 1, 2020, a significant work group of 53 expert industry stakeholders to create ISO 59 cut from the existing 3.5 per cent now in force. By some 19030, which prescribes practical methods for measuring ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT estimates, global bunker fuel costs could increase by USD changes in ship-specific hull and propeller performance, helping 60 million per year, a powerful incentive for owners to take owners to make more informed decisions. In addition, Jotun significant steps to improve efficiency and environmental coatings reduce bio-fouling, which prevents the spread of performance. invasive species. Looking ahead, Jotun will continue to leverage technologies and work in partnership with key stakeholders to While the industry is exploring a broad range of solutions to help the industry improve environmental performance. reduce emissions, about one tenth of the world fleet’s fuel consumption can be attributed to poor hull and propeller Jotun has been selected to provide coatings to the world’s largest plug-in hybrid ferry, built for Color Line at Ulstein Verft. The ferry can have full battery power for parts of its journey, for which it will not give emissions of harmful greenhouse gases or nitrogen and sulphur compounds. JOTUN AND SOCIETY 60 JOTUN AND SOCIETY 61 JOTUN AND SOCIETY On hand to help … 62 Sailing through time … 63 Setting the right example … 65 Playing our part … 66 ON HAND TO HELP We believe Jotun can be a force for global good, providing not just employment, high standards and tax revenue to the local communities where we operate, but also contributing to worthy causes and funding emergency aid where it’s most needed. Jotun prides itself on operating as a responsible, global make the border crossing, were in dire need of humanitarian aid, corporate citizen. As such we believe we have a duty to help with the ICRC assuming a vital role as a first responder. the local communities where we operate, especially in times of acute difficulty. To assist the organisation in its efforts, Jotun donated funds to enable the building of a field hospital to treat members of this To ensure Jotun directs its resources to the people and causes vulnerable group. where it’s most needed, we work to establish long-term relationships with key charitable partners. This is done on SAVING LIVES AT SEA a local scale, with each company in the Group contributing a set percentage of turnover to external CR initiatives, and The Red Cross has been driving to raise funds for a new Search globally, by coordinating centrally with organisations such as the and Rescue (SAR) boat in the Sandefjord area since its former International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). vessel was decommissioned in 2014. Jotun’s gift of NOK 2.5 million enabled the organisation to finally reach its target, with a new vessel, christened RC Jotun. REFUGEE AID IN BANGLADESH 62 Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims fled from The advanced 40 foot long ‘Flying Fish’ vessel boasts a top JOTUN AND SOCIETY Myanmar’s Rakhine State to Bangladesh in 2017 to escape violent speed of 38 knots and a range of specialist equipment to locate, unrest. This influx of refugees, many of whom walked for days to treat and provide assistance to those facing difficulties at sea. “Jotun has, over a number of years, enabled the Norwegian Red Cross to respond in emergencies. Jotun´s long-term commitment, which is highly appreciated, makes a real difference to vulnerable people.” Bernt G. Apeland, Secretary General of the Norwegian Red Cross RC Jotun will operate throughout the year, when the water is ice-free, from its base in Sandefjord. SAILING THROUGH TIME Three beautiful sailing ships, one vital mission; to educate and inspire the next generation of seafarers. Norway has a unique trio of floating treasures: Three tall ships ensuring they have the latest and best performing coating built at the beginning of the 20th century that, thanks to solutions for their specific needs. supporters like Jotun, are connecting 21st century youngsters with the skills and sensations associated with life at sea. Jotun sees this as both a responsibility and a source of pride. As a globally leading supplier of marine products we feel it is our duty to preserve the past while enabling the future, QUALITY CARE safeguarding these spectacular vessels and, in turn, giving Jotun has been donating high quality marine products to the tomorrow’s seafarers unique training opportunities. We are Christian Radich, Statsraad Lehmkuhl and Sørlandet since the proud of our involvement and the benefits our products deliver 1970s. for these historic ships. The ships, built between 1914 and 1937, were originally ONBOARD FOR THE FUTURE conceived as training vessels and have stayed true to that purpose. Today they are based in Oslo (Christian Radich), The support Jotun provides also delivers benefits for our Bergen (Statsraad Lehmkuhl) and Kristiansand (Sørlandet), but stakeholders. Every pupil on the vessel knows it is Jotun also undertake international journeys to teach pupils maritime that helps them cut through the waves, while our on-board expertise and connect with communities worldwide. paint schools provide valuable insights into our products and 63 performance. It is a mutually beneficial relationship. JOTUN AND SOCIETY INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION We look forward to supporting Christian Radich, Statsraad The ships require a combination of care, attention and Lehmkuhl and Sørlandet, and everyone that sails upon them, for quality products to ensure they continue sailing through the many more years to come. generations. Jotun treats each as an individual customer, Christian Radich, one of the three Norwegian tall ships sponsored by Jotun. JOTUN AND SOCIETY 64 SETTING THE RIGHT EXAMPLE Jotun acts to support and safeguard the Human Rights of all its stakeholders, from our employees to the local societies where we operate. Maintaining and strengthening a responsible purchasing function is central to these efforts. Jotun has a clear and embedded human rights policy designed a long-term programme of supplier audits and re-audits; and to adhere to the most stringent international standards. Aligned conforming to the Jotun Purchasing Policy. This sets clear with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights guidelines with respect to purchasing roles and responsibilities, (UNGP), the policy ensures that those working for, and with, processes, principles and our behaviour towards suppliers. Jotun are protected, while also being made fully aware of the Group’s expectations regarding their own conduct. It is an approach that allows the Group to establish uniform standards and set new benchmarks for responsible purchasing practices. POSITIVE ACTION Jotun’s structured approach to Human Rights focuses on three BENEFITTING THE BUSINESS key groups: employees, local societies, and suppliers and contractors. Jotun is constantly working to maintain and improve its purchasing function. In 2017 efforts centred on preparations Employees are protected in accordance with the ILO’s for an upgraded Enterprise Resource Planning system that Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, will roll out across the organisation in 2018. This will create 65 ensuring that child labour and forced labour is prohibited, a single, integrated and strategic purchasing platform, JOTUN AND SOCIETY discrimination is prevented, and freedom of association and centralising data management, optimising spend, and collective bargaining are recognised and respected. improving the standardisation of processes and routines. There will be a multitude of business benefits for Jotun and its Societies are strengthened by the company’s championing of stakeholders, including: human rights on a local level, as we endeavour to not only set a good example, but also vigorously oppose activities such as the • Improved risk management and compliance through exploitation of children. centralised data management, process transparency, knowledge sharing, and sophisticated processing and Suppliers and contractors should maintain the same levels documentation of supplier and raw material approvals of respect for human rights as Jotun itself. We engage in an on-going process of evaluation to ensure suppliers meet our • Efficiency and capability improvement through better rigorous standards, auditing their performances when necessary. process support, increased transparency, enhanced contract management, and the automated distribution of commercial terms RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Jotun prides itself on a stringent, structured and transparent • Better spend and cost control through master data approach to purchasing, setting high standards for itself, management and reliable transactional reporting suppliers and our collective responsibility to society and the environment. • Enhanced credibility and integrity towards suppliers through proactive spend and compliance management Our strategic purchasing goals are focused on continuity of supply, achieving competitive terms, and ensuring value creation In addition, in 2017 Jotun conducted 102 supplier audits, for ourselves, suppliers and all other stakeholders. established a six-year rolling forecast for audits, and refreshed its Purchasing Academy, implementing new strategic elements To support this we have established tools whereby we maintain and using an increased number of ‘real life’ scenarios as training high standards by choosing suppliers that adhere to the aids. 140 employees passed through the Academy in 2017. principles of the United Nations Global Compact; following PLAYING OUR PART Corruption is the scourge of industrial development and a key contributor to global poverty. Jotun is committed to combatting it at every level, in every region we undertake business activity. A growing global business demands increased focus on ethical In 2017 Jotun has strengthened its approach, certifying trainers and compliant practices to maintain high standards. At Jotun in every region to lead and conduct classroom activities, rather we are dedicated to doing business in the right way, with the than delivering training from central resources. This greatly right people, delivering the right results and value for all our expands our reach, effectiveness and efficiency. Each trainer is global stakeholders. Enforcing a stringent and transparent provided with the same resources to deliver the same messages, approach to anti-corruption is central to this objective. thus ensuring global consistency and standards. Our aim is that dilemmas are replaced with a clarity of conduct, protecting Jotun sells its products in over 100 countries worldwide. This Jotun and everyone our business impacts upon. means some of our activities occur in cultures where corrupt practices are present. Regardless of local norms, we adhere OPERATING WITH OPENNESS to one uniform approach across the organisation, educating our employees on our clear expectations and uncompromising Jotun is committed to building a compliance programme that standards. both encourages and facilitates the reporting of corrupt, or potentially corrupt/high risk business practices. Our employees and stakeholders are our ‘eyes and ears’ on the ground and it is ACTING AS ONE essential they are empowered to highlight potential violations of 66 To enforce Jotun policy, we have created a strong antiour policies, and/or laws and regulations. JOTUN AND SOCIETY corruption platform, one that we build upon with new investments, programmes and activities every year. In 2017 we worked on stronger whistleblowing routines, refining our guidelines to enhance clarity and embedding them From day one, every Jotun employee is informed of our throughout the global organisation. Regional compliance teams expectations, with anti-corruption modules included in their have also been established to ensure each case receives the induction training. This is consolidated through e-learning attention it deserves, while safeguarding whistle-blowers. focused on enabling greater understanding and preparedness, access to established reporting channels, on-going classroom On a Group level, Jotun’s new compliance function has overall training, and business reviews whereby all companies regularly responsibility for our anti-corruption activities. report on anti-corruption activities. The Group consolidates this information into yearly reports, which are delivered to the Board TOGETHER WE’RE STRONGER of Directors. Jotun will continue to invest in and develop its anti-corruption From an individual employee perspective, dilemma training activities in 2018 and beyond. However, we recognise that forms a key part of their anti-corruption arsenal. This has been a corruption is an issue that demands a collaborative approach, focus area in 2017. rather than solely individual effort, and will work with our suppliers and stakeholders to help raise awareness and standards worldwide. UNDERSTANDING DILEMMAS Classroom-based dilemma training is one of our most effective In addition, Jotun works alongside Transparency International to tools for building a culture of understanding and awareness support its campaign against corruption, while adhering to the relating to potentially corrupt business practices. Discussing United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and contributing to a real-life and market adjusted scenarios with peers and certified sustainable and inclusive global economy. trainers ensures that participants gain a collective and informed understanding, allowing them to approach individual dilemmas with the confidence to do ‘the right thing’. 67 JOTUN AND SOCIETY The UNGC focuses on four key areas human rights, labour, the environment and As a member of Transparency International Norway Jotun is committed to zero anti-corruption, providing companies with 10 principles that help them conduct tolerance towards all forms of corruption and to work for the implementation business in a responsible, ethical and sustainable manner. of values, codes of conduct and anti-corruption programmes covering all of the organization. This table details how Jotun aligns itself with the UNGC framework, listing the individual principles and noting the pages of this report where they appear. HUMAN RIGHTS PAGES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 40-41, 60-66 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 40-41, 60-66 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 10-11, 40-49 collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 10-11, 40-49 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 10-11, 40-49 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10-11, 40-49 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 38-39, 49, 52-59 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 14-25, 30-35, 38-39, 49, 52-59 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 14-25, 30-35, 38-39, 49, 52-59 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 38-41, 66-67 For more information on the Global Compact see www.globalcompact.org FINANCIAL INFO 68 69 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO Chairman of the Board … 70 Consolidated financial statements … 71 Executive summary of the financial statement … 76 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, ODD GLEDITSCH D.Y. A CHALLENGING YEAR Jotun’s growing size and complexity has exposed the company to new risks, resulting in an increased focus on worker safety, environmental performance, organisational efficiency and a more rigorous approach to corporate governance. 70 FINANCIAL INFO Board of Directors, from left: Per Kristian Aagaard, Nicolai A. Eger, Richard Arnesen, Birger Amundsen, Odd Gleditsch d.y. (Chairman), Terje Andersen, Einar Abrahamsen and Karl Otto Tveter. In 2017, Jotun’s growth was slowed by weak markets for new The health and safety of Jotun’s workers remains a top priority construction of vessels and offshore installations. In addition, for the company. The Board continues to support all initiatives Jotun’s gross margins were impacted by increased prices of that safeguard the welfare of our employees; a level of care that critical raw materials. The Board is satisfied with how the extends to contractors hired by Jotun. For example, the Board company responded to these conditions, but sees room for was pleased that during the construction of Jotun’s new factory improvement in other areas. For example, Jotun’s 2017 profits in Myanmar, there were zero Lost Time Injury (LTIs) recorded have been impacted by a number of claims, first registered in across about 800 000 man hours of labour. The Board also 2016. The Board is confident that systems put in place will help actively encourages initiatives to reduce the company’s impact the company reduce risk for claims in the future. on the environment. PRIORITY AREAS CONTINUED VALUE CREATION Jotun’s growth strategy relies on effective project execution. Jotun’s remarkable growth over the past decade owes much The Board notes that three new factories built in 2017 to the skill and dedication of the company’s workforce, timely (Malaysia, Myanmar and the Philippines) were completed on investments in key markets, and an ability to adapt quickly to or below budget. The Board is satisfied with a more structured market conditions. In years with unfavourable circumstances, approach to corporate governance and compliance, consistent Jotun’s presence in different markets, segments and low debt with directives issued by the European Commission. The Board have helped mitigate financial risk, allowing the company is encouraged by management’s attention to governance to pursue a long-term approach to growth. While the Board issues, notably its efforts to implement a strong anti-corruption will welcome increased profitability in the years ahead, the programme that has been shared throughout the network. company’s financial position remains strong. FINANCIAL INFO CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (NOK THOUSAND) 2017 2016 Operating revenue 16 400 998 15 784 604 Share of profit from associated companies and joint ventures 536 797 689 598 Cost of goods sold –9 078 415 –8 141 537 Payroll expenses –2 719 204 –2 601 717 Other operating expenses –3 297 110 –3 421 406 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment –488 802 –546 817 Operating profit 1 354 264 1 762 724 Net financial items –118 085 –168 985 Profit before tax 1 236 179 1 593 739 Income tax –438 609 –461 518 Profit for the year 797 570 1 132 221 Profit for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 721 200 1 107 985 Non-controlling interests 76 370 24 236 Total 797 570 1 132 221 71 FINANCIAL INFO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (NOK THOUSAND) 2017 2016 Profit for the year 797 570 1 132 221 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gain / loss (–) on defined benefit pension plans 13 836 –22 638 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Gain / loss (–) on hedge of net investments in foreign operations 36 910 16 051 Currency translation differences on net investment in foreign operations –71 363 –472 324 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax –20 618 –478 911 Total comprehensive income for the year 776 953 653 310 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 703 254 676 244 Non-controlling interests 73 698 –22 934 Total 776 953 653 310 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (NOK THOUSAND) 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 247 560 219 768 Other intangible assets 430 368 364 028 Property, plant and equipment 4 892 394 4 542 575 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 1 615 654 1 766 487 Other investments 17 596 8 248 Other interest-bearing receivables 97 313 125 419 Total non-current assets 7 300 886 7 026 525 Current assets Inventories 2 575 763 2 041 432 Trade and other receivables 4 804 382 4 504 319 Cash and cash equivalents 1 027 165 1 586 034 Total current assets 8 407 310 8 131 786 Total assets 15 708 196 15 158 311 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 102 600 102 600 Other equity 7 973 640 7 783 384 Non-controlling interests 178 117 148 573 Total equity 8 254 357 8 034 557 72 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 214 721 225 461 FINANCIAL INFO Deferred tax liabilities 51 707 27 828 Provisions 35 711 33 980 Interest-bearing debt 2 044 291 2 357 102 Other non-current liabilities 35 465 34 465 Total non-current liabilities 2 381 895 2 678 837 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 1 109 173 877 352 Trade and other payables 1 913 476 1 693 379 Current tax payable 145 962 159 554 Other current liabilities 1 903 333 1 714 634 Total current liabilities 5 071 943 4 444 918 Total liabilities 7 453 838 7 123 754 Total equity and liabilities 15 708 196 15 158 311 Sandefjord, Norway, 6 February 2018 The Board of Directors Jotun A/S Odd Gleditsch d.y. Einar Abrahamsen Birger Amundsen Terje Andersen Chairman Richard Arnesen Nicolai A. Eger Karl Otto Tveter Per Kristian Aagaard Morten Fon President and CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (NOK THOUSAND) 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 1 236 179 1 593 739 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows: Share of profit of associated companies and joint ventures –536 797 –689 598 Dividend paid from associated companies and joint ventures 699 553 712 571 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 488 802 546 817 Change in accruals, provisions and other 182 267 –100 153 Working capital changes: Change in trade and other receivables –300 062 252 740 Change in trade payables 220 098 –9 163 Change in inventories –534 331 157 052 Tax payments –358 536 –437 072 Net cash flow from operating activities 1 097 172 2 026 933 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2 616 6 848 Purchase of property, plant and equipment –839 011 –1 029 562 Purchase of intangible assets –128 245 –103 538 Net cash flow used in investing activities –964 640 –1 126 252 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 491 512 259 344 Repayment of borrowings –571 503 –299 413 Dividend paid to equity holders of the parent –513 000 –513 000 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests –44 153 –38 250 Share capital increase in associated companies and joint ventures –49 284 – Net cash flow from financing activities –686 428 –591 320 73 FINANCIAL INFO Net increase / decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents –553 896 309 361 Net currency translation effect –4 973 –244 166 Cash and cash equivalents as of 1 January 1 586 034 1 520 840 Cash and cash equivalents as of 31 December 1 027 165 1 586 034 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY EQUITY HOLDERS Non– Share Other Translation controlling (NOK THOUSAND) capital equity differences Total interests Total equity Equity as of 1 January 2016 102 600 6 306 009 1 314 133 7 722 741 209 757 7 932 497 Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –38 250 –551 250 Profit of the period 1 107 985 1 107 985 24 236 1 132 221 Other comprehensive income –41 176 –390 566 –431 742 –47 170 –478 911 Equity as of 31 December 2016 102 600 6 859 818 923 567 7 885 984 148 573 8 034 557 Dividends –513 000 –513 000 –44 153 –557 153 Profit of the year 721 200 721 200 76 370 797 570 Other comprehensive income 15 539 –33 485 –17 946 –2 672 –20 618 Equity as of 31 December 2017 102 600 7 083 558 890 082 8 076 240 178 117 8 254 357 74 FINANCIAL INFO FINANCIAL INFO 75 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR 2017 GENERAL mainly attributable to the increase in raw material prices. Jotun The consolidated financial statement consists of Jotun A/S and Group’s share of net result after tax in associates and joint 54 subsidiaries, three joint ventures in China and Korea and six ventures totalled NOK 537 million compared to NOK 690 million associated companies in U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia. Subsidiaries in 2016. The reduction is mainly attributable to higher raw are fully consolidated independent of shareholding, while joint material costs and continued weak shipbuilding and offshore ventures and associates are accounted for based on the equity markets in China and Korea. method and share of profit reported in the income statement based on actual shareholding. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR The Jotun Group’s consolidated financial statement has been The profit for the year amounted to NOK 798 million, a prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting reduction of NOK 334 million from 2016. Net financing charges Standards (IFRS) and interpretations as adopted by the decreased from 2016 mainly due to currency losses in Egypt last International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and approved year, and net financial costs ended at NOK 118 million (2016: by the European Union (EU). NOK 169 million). REVENUE INVESTMENTS Operating revenue for the Group was NOK 16 401 million, up Total purchase of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and four per cent compared to 2016. While the Decorative Paints intangible assets amounted to NOK 967 million for 2017 (2016: 76 and Powder Coatings segments continued to grow, revenues NOK 1 133 million), representing six per cent of operating FINANCIAL INFO in the Marine and Protective segments were impacted by lower revenue (2016: 7 per cent). Including investment activity in activity in the shipping and offshore newbuilding markets. associates and joint ventures, total investment in PP&E for In addition, sales were negatively impacted by a stronger production of Jotun-branded products was NOK 950 million. Norwegian krone. The largest investments relate to new production facilities in Malaysia, Myanmar and the Philippines, in addition to a new R&D centre and office buildings in Sandefjord, Norway. OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit in 2017 decreased by 23 per cent to NOK Jotun Group’s share of total equity in associates and joint ventures 1 354 million compared to 2016, yielding an operating margin amounts to NOK 1 616 million (2016: NOK 1 766 million), and is of 8 per cent (2016: 11 per cent). The reduction in profit is reported as non-current assets in the balance sheet. WORKING CAPITAL million, other comprehensive income of NOK –21 million relating Working capital increased to NOK 5 467 million as of 31 to currency translation effects, and dividend payments of in total December 2017 from NOK 4 852 million the previous year. The NOK 557 million. The equity ratio was at 53 per cent at the end increase is mainly tied to the sharp increase in raw material prices. of the year, and remained unchanged compared to 2016. The proposed dividend for Jotun A/S for 2017 amounting to NET INTEREST BEARING DEBT NOK 428 million will not be recognised in equity until finally The net interest bearing debt for the Group was NOK 2 029 declared in 2018. million at year-end 2017 compared to NOK 1 523 million as of 31 December 2016, and net interest bearing debt relative to the CASH FLOW operating profit before amortisation and depreciation (EBITDA) was 1.1 (2016: 0.7). The Group’s main sources of financing Operating activities in 2017 resulted in a net cash flow of NOK are loans in the Norwegian bond market and loans from the 1 097 million (2016: NOK 2 027 million). The reduction from Group’s relationship banks. At year-end 2017, Jotun A/S had 2016 is mainly due to an increase in working capital and lower NOK 1 000 million in long-term bonds and NOK 987 million profit. in USD bank debt, of which NOK 152 million was short-term, outstanding. External borrowing in the subsidiaries is primarily WORKFORCE short-term and through local banks. In 2017, Jotun Group had on average 6 976 full-time equivalents 77 Jotun A/S has NOK 800 million of long-term credit lines. This related to its on-going business in Jotun A/S and its subsidiaries FINANCIAL INFO committed funding serves as a back stop for certificate loans as (2016: 6 909 average full-time equivalents). Including employees well as a strategic reserve for short-term financing of the Group. in joint ventures and associates, Jotun had in total 9 789 At year end these credit lines, in addition to a short-term credit employees at year end 2017 (2016: 9 819 employees). line of NOK 100 million, were all unused. SHAREHOLDER EQUITY Total equity including non-controlling interests amounted to NOK 8 254 million (2016: NOK 8 035 million). The increase in total equity is due to the net effect of profit for the year of NOK 798 Sales office Production and sales COUNTRY COMPANY SHARE HOLDING % ALGERIA Jotun Algerie SARL, Algiers 70 S AUSTRALIA Jotun Australia Pty. Ltd., Victoria 100 P BANGLADESH Jotun Bangladesh Ltd., Dhaka 100 S BRAZIL Jotun Brasil Imp. Exp. & Industria de Tintas Ltda., Rio de Janeiro 100 P 78 BULGARIA Jotun Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia 100 S COMPANY OVERVIEW CAMBODIA Jotun (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh 100 S CHINA Jotun Coatings (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd., Zhangjiagang 100 P Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (HK) Co. Ltd., Hong Kong 50 S Jotun COSCO Marine Coatings (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao 50 P Jotun Paints (H.K.) Ltd., Hong Kong 100 S Jotun (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd., Shanghai 100 S Jotun Coatings (Taiwan) Ltd. Company 100 S CYPRUS Jotun Cyprus Ltd, Limassol 100 S CZECH REPUBLIC Jotun CZECH a.s., Usti nad Labem 100 P DENMARK Jotun Danmark A/S, Kolding 100 S EGYPT El-Mohandes Jotun S.A.E., Cairo 70 P FRANCE Jotun France S.A.S., Paris 100 S GERMANY Jotun (Deutschland) GmbH, Hamburg 100 S GREECE Jotun Hellas Ltd. Piraeus 100 S INDIA Jotun India Pvt. Ltd., Pune 100 P INDONESIA P.T. Jotun Indonesia, Jakarta 99 P P.T. Jotun Powder Coatings Indonesia, Jakarta 100 P IRELAND Jotun (Ireland) Ltd., Cork 100 S ITALY Jotun Italia S.p.A., Trieste 100 S KAZAKHSTAN Jotun Kazakhstan L.L.P. Almaty 100 S KENYA Jotun Kenya Ltd., Nairobi 100 S LIBYA Jotun Libya J.S.Co., Tripoli 80 S MALAYSIA Jotun (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings (M) Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam 100 P Jotun Paints (Malaysia) Sdn. Bdh., Nilai 100 P MEXICO Jotun Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Veracruz 100 S MOROCCO Jotun Maroc SARL/AU, Casablanca 100 S MYANMAR Jotun Myanmar Company Ltd., Yangon 100 P Jotun Myanmar Services Co. Ltd., Yangon 100 S NETHERLANDS Jotun B.V., Spijkenisse 100 S NORWAY Jotun A/S, Sandefjord 100 P Scanox AS, Drammen 100 S OMAN Jotun Paints Co. L.L.C., Muscat 62 P PAKISTAN Jotun Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 100 P Jotun Powder Coatings Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd., Lahore 98 P PHILIPPINES Jotun (Philippines) Inc., Manila 100 P POLAND Jotun Polska Sp.zo.o., Gdynia 100 S ROMANIA Jotun Romania S.R.L., Otopeni 100 S RUSSIAN FEDERATION Jotun Paints OOO, St. Petersburg 100 P SAUDI ARABIA Jotun Powder Coatings Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Dammam 49 P Jotun Saudia Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P 79 COMPANY OVERVIEW Red Sea Paints Co. Ltd., Jeddah 40 P SINGAPORE Jotun (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 S SOUTH AFRICA Jotun Paint South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Cape Town 100 P SOUTH KOREA Chokwang Jotun Ltd., Kyungnam 50 P SPAIN Jotun Ibérica S.A., Barcelona 100 P SWEDEN Jotun Sverige AB, Gothenburg 100 S THAILAND Jotun Thailand Ltd., Samutprakarn 95 P TURKEY Jotun Boya San. ve Tic. A.S., Istanbul 100 P UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Jotun Abu Dhabi Ltd. (L.L.C.), Abu Dhabi 52 P Jotun Powder Coatings U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 47 P Jotun U.A.E. Ltd. (L.L.C.), Dubai 42 P UNITED KINGDOM Jotun Paints (Europe) Ltd., Flixborough 100 P USA Jotun Paints Inc., Belle Chasse, LA 100 P VIETNAM Jotun Paints (Vietnam) Co. Ltd., Ho Chi Minh City 100 P Decorative Paints Marine Coatings Protective Coatings Powder Coatings P Production and sales S Sales office In addition to the companies listed above, the Jotun Group also owns a number of holding and inactive companies. In addition to legal companies Jotun has branch offices, agents, distributors and licensees in Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Domenican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Ethiopia, Faroe Islands, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guadeloupe, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Maldives, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Monaco, Montenegro, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherland Antilles, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Qatar, Rwanda, Serbia, Seychelles, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay, Virgin Islands and Zambia. March 2018 President and CEO Morten Fon Group functions CFO Vidar Nysæther Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Bård K. Tonning Geir Bøe Powder Marine Protective Ram Ramnath Alfie Ong Tunc Kazancioglu Middle East, India and Africa North East Asia Esben Hersve Biren Arora South East Asia and Pacific West Europe Martin Chew Harald Hvalvik Scandinavia East Europe and Central Asia 80 Stein Petter Lunde Sükru Ergün ORGANISATION Americas Bjørn Wallentin BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE ASSEMBLY Odd Gleditsch d.y., Chairman Anders A. Jahre, Chairman Einar Abrahamsen Richard Arnesen d.y. Birger Amundsen Terje V. Arnesen Terje Andersen Kornelia Eger Foyn-Bruun Richard Arnesen Anne Cecilie Gleditsch Nicolai A. Eger Bjørn Ole Gleditsch Karl Otto Tveter Thomas Hammer Per Kristian Aagaard Truls Hvitstein Thomas Ljungqvist Ingrid Luberth Jens Bjørn Staff Espen Wiik CREDITS Copywriting: Alexander Wardwell and Alan Johnstone / Blue-C AS The paper used to print this report Design: Charlotte Jørgensen / Charlotte.no has the Nordic Eco-labeling the Swan Print: BK.no and is also approved by the PEFC Photo: Kevin Schafer (front cover), cover inside (Getty Images, Luth and Council (Programme for the Endorsement Scanpix), Morten Rakke Photography (p. 3, 24, 30-31, 32, 36, 38–39, 40 of Forest Certifications schemes). 42–43, 45, 48, 49, 58), Fredrik Solstad (p. 16, 51, 53, 57, 60-61, 64, 67), Jotun (p. 15, 20, 23, 27, 33, 55), Stephanie Pabico © Marky Images (p. 1, 13, 70), Line Klein (p. 2, 28–29), Fotolia (p. 68–69, 75), Jon Fjelstad (p. 3), iStockphoto (p. 8–9), Mango Loke (p. 11), Shutterstock (p. 19), Jon Erik Andersen (p. 34), Ibrahim Said Photography (p. 37), Ulstein Verft (p. 59), Stian Larsen (p. 62), Martin Lindholm (p. 63) Jotun A/S P.O. Box 2021 3202 Sandefjord Norway jotun.com
