SIKA BUSINESS YEAR 2017 WWW.SIKA.COM/ANNUALREPORT SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ﻿ 1 CONTENT Letter to Shareholders 3 AT A GLANCE 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 Facts & Figures 2017 7 COMPENSATION REPORT 53 Strong Strategy Execution 9 The Sika Share 11 GROUP REVIEW 73 Dividend Payout 12 Group Report 74 Group Report Regions 76 STRATEGY & FOCUS 13 Group Report Outlook 78 Business Environment 14 Sustainability Report 79 Strategy 16 Sustainability Strategy 17 FINANCIAL REPORT 88 From Innovation to Solution 18 Consolidated Financial Statements 89 The Sika Brand 24 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 94 Target Markets 25 Report of the Auditor 139 Products & Innovations 27 Five-Year Reviews 142 Acquisitions & Investments 31 Sika AG Financial Statements 147 Risk Management 33 Financial Calendar 159 LEADERSHIP 36 Imprint 160 Organization & Leadership 37 Organizational Chart 38 Group Management 39 Board of Directors 42 Corporate Culture 44 FROM INNOVATION All Sika Annual Report content is available in German WEBSITE TO SOLUTION OUR YEAR 2017 MAGAZINE and English, and can also be accessed on our website Complete content Key content in brief www.sika.com/annualreport. PDF downloads RECORD PROFIT INNOVATION Strategy and Excel tables implementation CHF 649.0 MN NET PROFIT (+14.5%) 217 NEW PATENTS AND AROUND CHF 896.3 MN EBIT (+12.7%) 1,200 PRODUCTS LAUNCHED CHF 6,248.3 MN NET SALES (+8.7%) IN THE LAST THREE YEARS GROWTH EXPANSION STRATEGIC TARGETS 2020 CONFIRMED, 3 NEW NATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES GROWTH TARGET FOR 2018 RAISED TO 9 NEW FACTORIES MORE THAN 10% 7 ACQUISITIONS SIKA.COM/ANNUALREPORT SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Content 2 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS NEW RECORD FIGURES Paul Schuler, Chief Executive Officer Dr. Paul Hälg, Chairman of the Board SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Letter to Shareholders 3 Dear Shareholders The Sika success story continued in 2017 with another record year. In local currencies, sales increased by 9.0% to CHF 6,248.3 million. Strong growth momentum and disciplined cost management led to new record figures of CHF 896.3 million (+CHF 101.0 million, +12.7%) for operating profit and CHF 649.0 million (+14.5%) for net profit. In the reporting year, 19 key investments were realized with a view to driving future growth. The strategic targets for 2020 were confirmed, and the growth target for 2018 raised to more than 10%. All regions reported higher sales and were able to further indouble-digit growth was achieved in Australia, New Zealand, crease market share. Particularly high growth rates were and Thailand. achieved in the USA, Mexico, Argentina, China, Southeast Asia, the Pacific area, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Africa, as CONTINUITY IN THE MANAGEMENT well as in the automotive area. In cumulative terms, sales were Following the departure of Jan Jenisch, the Board of Directors apup 9.0% in local currencies. The strength of the franc led to conpointed Paul Schuler as new CEO of the Group with effect from version effects of -0.3%, and thus to an 8.7% increase in sales July 1, 2017. Paul Schuler has worked for Sika for some 30 years, in Swiss franc terms to CHF 6,248.3 million. and has been a Member of Group Management since 2007. His responsibilities have included the build-up of the industry busiRECORD PROFIT ness as well as management of the North America and EMEA The high growth momentum produced above-average increases regions. in the operating result and profit. Raw material price increases and volatility posed a challenge, with access to raw materials in 19 KEY INVESTMENTS AND 74 NEW PATENTS China, for example, being limited by environmental constraints The Group’s accelerated expansion into growth markets continintroduced by the government. Thanks to persistent cost manued under Paul Schuler’s leadership in 2017, with a total of 19 agement, margins were boosted further, while record figures key investments in nine new factories, three additional national were recorded for both EBIT (CHF 896.3 million, +12.7%) and net subsidiaries, and seven acquisitions. profit (CHF 649.0 million, +14.5%). More than 900 employees working on basic research and the GROWTH IN ALL REGIONS development of new products at 20 regional technology centers Sales in the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, Africa) increased are the key drivers of our innovative strength. 74 new patent by 7.5% in local currencies (previous year: 4.6%). The major EU applications were filed in the 2017 business year, and numerous countries with the core markets of France, Italy, and the United new products were launched in all target markets. Heralded by Kingdom, recorded strong growth rates. The Middle East, the slogan “From patents to world-class products”, more than Eastern Europe, and Africa all delivered double-digit growth. 20 products and innovations from all target markets were presented on Capital Markets Day 2017, including products for highAt 18.4%, it was the North America region that posted the er building standards, 3D concrete printing, and electric vehicles. strongest growth (previous year: 7.8%), of which 8.5% was through acquisitions. Sika reported a significant increase in its 2020 STRATEGIC TARGETS SET TO BE MET business volume in the USA, growing much more rapidly than Along with its annual growth target of 6–8%, Sika is seeking the local construction market in the reporting year. The positive to achieve an EBIT margin of 14–16% and operating free cash development of the North American business was attributable flow of more than 10% of net sales by 2020. At the same time, in particular to the targeted investment in this region over the the return on capital employed (ROCE) should amount to more last few years. than 25%. The Latin America region increased sales by 3.3% (previous The Group’s international expansion is to be further driven foryear: 5.1%). Both Mexico and Argentina generated above-avera ward over the same period by 21 additional factories and five growth. By contrast, construction activity continued to develop new national subsidiaries. The unknown outcome of Saintmodestly in the countries that are more dependent on the raw Gobain’s hostile takeover attempt remains an element of unmaterial sector, such as Brazil, Peru, and Chile. certainty for the future. Sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 5.2% (previous year: 3.6%). High growth rates were recorded in China, while SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Letter to Shareholders 4 DIVIDEND INCREASE OF 15.6% PROPOSED A special debt of gratitude is due to our customers, business For the Annual General Meeting of April 17, 2018, the Board of partners, and suppliers for their outstanding cooperation and Directors is proposing to shareholders a 15.6% increase in the the strong business relations we enjoy with them. gross dividend to CHF 111.00 per bearer share (2016: CHF 96.00) and CHF 18.50 per registered share (2016: CHF 16.00). We would especially like to thank our shareholders for their enduring loyalty to Sika and the extraordinary trust they place in Our strong sales organization, our well-filled product pipeline, the Board of Directors and management. and the 19 key investments give us reason to look to the future with optimism. Our thanks go to the global management team and our more than 18,400 employees, whose efforts are responSincerely, sible for Sika achieving another record year. We would like to thank all of them for their great dedication and loyalty over the past year. DR. PAUL HÄLG PAUL SCHULER Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Letter to Shareholders 5 AT A GLANCE SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Letter to Shareholders 6 FACTS & FIGURES 2017 NEW RECORD FIGURES All regions were able to further increase market share. Due to strong growth momentum and disciplined cost management, operating profit and net profit increased at a disproportionally high rate – resulting in new record figures. in CHF mn Changes in % 6,248.3 Net sales +8.7% 896.3 Operating profit (EBIT) +12.7% 649.0 Net profit +14.5% 496.8 Operating free cash flow -15.3% 29.8% ROCE +1.1 pp* 9 New factories 3 New national subsidiaries 7 Acquisitions 18,484 Employees 13 Hours of training per employee 905 Employees in R&D 20 Global Technology Centers -8% Workplace accidents * percentage points SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Facts & Figures 2017 7 NET SALES (CONSOLIDATED) NET PROFIT OPERATING EBIT PROFIT (EBIT) in CHF mn Growth in % in local currencies in CHF mn in % of net sales 6,600 1,000 +9.4% +13.0% +6.2% +5.5% +9.0% 14.3% 13.8% 6,300 900 12.3% 11.4% 6,000 800 10.2% 9.0% 5,700 700 5,400 600 +8.7% +12.7% 5,100 500 12 13 14 15 16 17 12 13 14 15 16 17 NET PROFIT NET PROFIT OPERATING FREE FREE OPERATING CASH FLOW CASH FLOW in CHF mn in % of net sales in CHF mn in % of net sales 800 700 10.2% 8.2% 9.9% 10.4% 8.4% 7.5% 8.0% 700 600 8.5% 6.3% 7.9% 600 500 6.7% 5.8% 400 500 400 300 +14.5% -15.3% 300 200 12 13 14 15 16 17 12 13 14 15 16 17 ROCE ROCE in % 30.0 26.0 22.0 18.0 12 13 14 15 16 17 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Facts & Figures 2017 8 STRONG STRATEGY EXECUTION STRENGTHENING THE MARKET POSITION The cornerstones of Sika’s growth strategy include investments in new national subsidiaries, new factories, and acquisitions. Sika positions itself early on in emerging economies and is well established in mature markets. This enables the company to harness potential at all stages in the development of local con­ struction sectors and sell the entire product portfolio for new-build projects, in the application of higher building standards through to refurbishment work. WELL POSITIONED FOR THE CONSTRUCTION BOOM IN TEXAS In 2017, Sika expanded its presence in the high-growth US market with the start of operations at a new factory for concrete admixtures and mortar products near Houston. Also serving as a strategic distribution center, Sika’s 22nd production facility in the USA will supply customers in the greater Texas area and the southwest of the country. With a total population of 20 million and home to a booming construction industry, the region also contains four of North America’s fastest-growing cities: the major megacities Houston, Dallas, Austin, and San Antonio. On a 16-hectare site Sika manufactures concrete admixtures, mortar products, and polymers – the backbone of high-performance additives used in concrete. 100TH NATIONAL SUBSIDIARY ESTABLISHED IN BANGLADESH With the establishment of a new national subsidiary in Bangladesh, Sika reached a further milestone in the implementation of its growth strategy and is now represented in 100 different countries. Bangladesh has over 163 million inhabitants. It is one of the most densely populated countries in the world and has a flourishing construction industry. The new headquarters in Bangladesh’s capital Dhaka enable Sika to tap into the potential available in the local construction market, which has a total volume equivalent to CHF 15 billion and an annual growth rate of 12%. Local and foreign investments are channeled primarily into the construction of transport and energy infrastructures. The construction industry is booming in Bangladesh. With its new headquarters in Dhaka, Sika is well positioned to capture the potential in this growing market. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strong Strategy Execution 9 IN THE FAST LANE THANKS TO FAIST CHEMTEC ACQUISITION Through the takeover of Faist ChemTec Group, a leading manufacturer of high-performance engineered, structure-borne acoustic solutions in vehicles, Sika consolidates its position as a strong supplier which meets the demands of tomorrow’s automotive construction sector. Headquartered in Worms, Germany, the company generates annual sales equal to CHF 190 million with a workforce of 840 and has six production sites in Europe, North America, and Asia, as well as a pan-European distribution network. Similar to Sika, its innovations are driven by megatrends such as the increased need for comfort and lightweight construction of vehicles. The acquisition brings technology and know-how that will accelerate Sika’s growth and drive market Christoph Röttges, CEO of Faist ChemTec (left), and Thomas Hasler, Head of penetration via the strong synergies between the two compaIndustry and Automotive at Sika, discuss ultralight acoustic solutions for energynies. efficient vehicles. At their robotics center in Frankfurt, Faist ChemTec’s experts are developing Quality you can hear. Testing solutions for reducing structure-borne noise automated assembly concepts tailored to the customers’ production processes. in the BMW i3 at the acoustics center in Worms. SikaFiber® Force-60 FOR THE ULTIMATE IN CONCRETE REINFORCEMENT In the year under review, Sika started producing high-performance concrete reinforcing fiber for customers in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region at its manufacturing facility in Troisdorf, Germany, and invested in a new plant. Made of a thermoplastic material (polypropylene), the fibers are used to increase the structural strength of concrete in highly demanding applications. Macro fibers such as Sika’s newly developed product line SikaFiber® Force-60 are mainly used instead of steel reinforcements for strengthening concrete or shotcreted structures with demanding performance requirements. Production of innovative fibers for concrete at the Troisdorf site for customers in the EMEA region. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strong Strategy Execution 10 THE SIKA SHARE SIKA ENTERS SWISS BLUE-CHIP INDEX SMI On May 15, 2017, the Sika share entered the blue-chip stock market index SMI and now belongs to the 20 most important shares in Switzerland. Also in 2017, the share price performed above-average and the market capitalization exceeded CHF 20 billion for the first time. 160% 150% 140% 130% 120% 110% 100% 1.17 2.17 3.17 4.17 5.17 6.17 7.17 8.17 9.17 10.17 11.17 12.17 OVERVIEW STOCK EXCHANGE RATIOS SIKA ́́ Performing at +58.2%, the Sika share price developed in CHF 2017 stronger than the SMI Index ́́ Closing price of the Sika share in 2016: CHF 4,892 Market capitalization in CHF mn 19,661 Closing price of the Sika share in 2017: CHF 7,740 Yearly high 7,885 ́́ The key global share indices performed as follows: Yearly low 4,781 –– SMI +14.1% Year end 7,740 –– SLI +20.7% –– DAX +12.5% Dividend 2016 96.00 –– Dow Jones +25.2% Dividend 2017 1 111.00 –– Nikkei +21.5% Earnings per share (EPS) 253.52 ́́ Shareholders benefit additionally from the record 1 Pursuant to proposal to Annual General Meeting results: dividend increase of 15.6% proposed SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The Sika Share 11 DIVIDEND PAYOUT HIGHER DIVIDENDS Sika’s growth strategy is sutainable and guarantees good results. Sales have continuously increased over the past few years, and profits have developed at disproportionately high rates. Shareholders also benefit as Sika has been able to raise the dividend year after year. DIVIDEND ROCE CHF / bearer share 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 12 13 14 15 16 17 2017: Pursuant to proposal to Annual General Meeting CHF 111.00 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Dividend Payout 12 STRATEGY & FOCUS SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 dividend payout 13 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT DYNAMIC GROWTH THROUGH FRAGMENTED MARKETS, MEGATRENDS, AND AN ATTRACTIVE BUSINESS MODEL A company is typically part of a complex STRONG BUSINESS MODEL FOR ALL PHASES economic network and embedded in an OF A CONSTRUCTION’S LIFE-CYCLE economic environment. This presents both The current economic phase of a country’s development will risks and opportunities. For many years also be reflected in the focus of the local construction sector. In now, Sika has been active in a market that is the emerging markets, the dominant feature of activity is the shaped by future trends, facilitates structural expansion of infrastructure in the form of transportation projgrowth, and offers business potential. ects such as roads, airports and ports, energy projects such as power plants, and the construction of public buildings and ­facilities such as hospitals. ATTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES AND MARKETS Markets at a later stage of maturity tend to attract investment As a company active in the field of specialty chemicals, Sika has in buildings of a higher quality. The products sought after in this a leading position in the development and production of syscontext are those that offer greater safety, higher energy effitems and products for bonding, sealing, damping, reinforcing, ciency and greater environmental compatibility, as well as rapand protecting in the building sector and motor vehicle industry. idly applied – and therefore more efficient – system solutions. It is active in seven target markets: concrete, waterproofing, sealing & bonding, roofing, flooring, refurbishment and indusIn mature markets, it is above all the refurbishment of building try. In 2017, these markets were estimated to have a combined facilities and renovation projects that take center stage. For exvolume of more than CHF 70 billion, a figure that is predicted to ample renovation projects encompass the waterproofing and rise to around CHF 80 billion by 2020. In other words, Sika is acreinforcement of bridges, as well as commercial and private tive in substantial markets with solid growth rates. Moreover, residential buildings. the pronounced fragmentation of these markets provides the company with additional potential to expand its business volSika offers solutions for all the above-mentioned phases of a ume in attractive segments. For example, the combined market construction facility’s life-cycle, and is well positioned in both share of the ten largest internationally active companies in the emerging and mature markets thanks to its global network of construction chemicals sector is just 40%. Sika’s global market national subsidiaries and specific product families. This enables share currently amounts to just under 10%. In many cases, nuthe company to market technologies for all stages of a construcmerous small companies with a very small market share and a tion object’s life-cycle – from new buildings through to refurmodest market position are active in individual markets and bishment work. In the early phases of development, market countries. Sika uses its reputation and its strong distribution growth is frequently achieved via distributors. Only when Sika’s organization to extend its market position on an ongoing basis. products and brand are established in a country, and the market The health of the global construction industry is providing the exhibits healthy growth potential, will Sika invest in its own company with an additional boost. ­national subsidiary and start building up its local supply chain – including local production – step by step. EXTERNAL GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITIONS IN FRAGMENTED MARKETS STRUCTURAL GROWTH THANKS TO Sika’s acquisition strategy should also be viewed against this MEGATRENDS background. External growth in the form of corporate takeovers is pursued if a company possesses a complementary product Megatrends determine the future and bring about social transportfolio and its customers can accordingly be offered added formation. Urbanization, sustainability, and lightweight con­ value, or if the Group’s distribution channels and its market struc­tion/e-mobility are three of the megatrends on which ­access can be expanded. For both Sika and the acquired com­Sika’s business model is based, and which facilitate dynamic pany new growth platforms are established which, in particular, growth and a high level of competitiveness. allow the acquired company to utilize production capacity fully and improve its access to the global market – thanks to Sika’s worldwide presence. In other words, a win-win situation arises for both parties. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business Environment 14 URBANIZATION AND MEGACITIES LIGHTWEIGHT CONSTRUCTION AND E-MOBILITY For the first time in history more than half of the world’s population lives in an urban environment, with a global trend of peoWith 95 million new vehicles sold, global car production grew by ple being drawn to the city from the countryside. Although the 2.1% year on year in 2017, parallel to a paradigm shift unfolding urbanization dynamic is particularly pronounced in emerging in the automotive sector. Combustion engines are increasingly markets and developing countries, this trend continues to be being replaced by electric drive systems. Alongside enhanced observed in highly developed countries too. Indeed, by 2030 comfort, themes such as electromobility, lightweight construcsome two-thirds of the global population is expected to live in tion, environmental compatibility, and safety will dominate the an urban environment. The urban way of life and the emergence future of mobility. In Norway, electric vehicles already make of megacities also have an impact on the construction industry, up 50% of all new cars, while in the automotive market of the thus stimulating demand for Sika products. Dense population ­future – China – some 700,000 electric cars were sold in 2017. clusters and heavily limited space on which to build are factors Numerous car manufacturers are responding to this phenomeconducive to the construction of high-rise buildings that require non by making large-scale investments in the development of high-performance, safe, and environmentally friendly building electric drive systems in readiness for the announced changes to materials from foundations to roof. the regulatory framework in various countries, as well as in-line with the specific requirements that apply in China. Sika aims to be a disproportionately strong beneficiary of the electromobility SUSTAINABILITY megatrend and wants to reach on average 20% more sales per electric car than for internal-combustion engine vehicles. Sika The earth’s climate is changing at a more rapid rate than ever solutions are replacing the weld seams in electric cars with adbefore. By signing up to the Paris Climate Agreement, countries hesives, strengthening the rigidity of newly designed vehicle all round the world have undertaken the task to alleviate the bodies, delivering greater driving comfort thanks to interior problem of climate change through regulatory measures. The soundproofing, increasing the safety of vehicle occupants agreement calls on chemical companies to contribute to the rethanks to superior crash resistance, and assisting with both the duction of their customers’ CO2 emissions. With its “More Value protection and heat management of batteries. – Less Impact” strategy, Sika is committed to achieving these goals. For example, the company has set up the Sika Sustainability Advisory Board, which sets out recommendations and targets for environmental protection. Furthermore, sustainable construction standards such as the LEED environmental rating system are increasingly gaining importance. These industry bodies issue certifications to construction projects that are planned and realized in a way that can be sustainably measured. Sika helps its customers to build more enduringly, and engages keenly with sustainable product developments in the area of ­research. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business Environment 15 STRATEGY GROWTH TRAJECTORY The Sika growth model is synonymous with long-term success and profitable growth. By focusing on market penetration, innovation, expanding emerging markets, and acquisitions – and driven by its strong corporate values – Sika is growing successfully. With the positive development of business in 2017, the establishment of three further national subsidiaries, and the commissioning of nine new factories and seven acquisitions, Sika took a further major step forward in the implementation of its strategic targets for 2020. SUCCESSFUL STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION SINCE 2015 Successful target market concept Market Penetration Megatrends driving growth 217 new patents filed Innovation 20 Global Technology Centers 26 new plants opened Emerging Markets 10 new national subsidiaries 17 acquisitions in all regions Acquisitions CHF 705 million sales added Strong corporate culture Values High employee loyalty STRATEGIC TARGETS 2020 Market Penetration 6–8% annual growth Innovation 30 new plants 105 national subsidiaries Emerging Markets 14–16% EBIT margin per year Acquisitions >10% operating free cash flow per year >25% ROCE per year Values SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategy 16 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY HONORING THE RESPONSIBILITIES With its sustainability strategy, Sika’s aim is to maximize long-term benefits and added value for all stakeholders and, at the same time, reduce resource consumption and the environmental impacts associated with production. 14.3% ALL +31% EBIT MARGIN LOCAL KEY ­PROJECTS PROJECTS IN 2017 IN 2017 IMPLEMENTED ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS LOCAL COMMUNITIES/SOCIETY Our success directly benefits all We are leading the industry by We build trust and create value – stakeholders. pioneering a portfolio of sustainable with customers, communities, and products, systems, and services. with society. TARGET TARGET TARGET Operating profit (EBIT) All new projects are assessed in 5% more projects per year. 14–16% of net sales. accordance with Sika’s Product Development Process. All local key projects are implemented. MORE VALUE LESS IMPACT ENERGY WATER /WASTE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY We manage resources and costs We increase water and material Sika employees leave the workplace carefully. efficiency. healthy. TARGET TARGET TARGET 3% less energy consumption per ton 3% less water consumption and 5% less accidents per year. and year. waste per ton and year. +3% +/-0% WATER +3% WASTE -8% ENERGY CONSUMPTION WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS IN 2017 IN 2017 IN 2017 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Strategy 17 STRATEGIE FROM INNOVATION TO SOLUTION Sika’s growth is driven to a large extent by innovation. Innovation can be the in­ vention of a completely new molecule, or it can be identifying a new way to apply an existing technology. The key factor is that the innovation represents a benefit for customers, applicators, and those who live in and use buildings and vehicles. That is why Sika’s employees listen very carefully and observe very closely – working together across teams and across regions to deliver timely solutions for the world of today and of tomorrow. « • SIKA – TEAM CORPORATE AND PRODUCTION, TROISDORF, GERMANY We developed a best-in-class high-performance fiber for concrete reinforcement. To complement it, we came up with an innovative packaging that is water-soluble and therefore waste-free – customers love it and we have won several awards. Successful development was made possible by the excellent collaboration » between corporate experts from Process Technology, Concrete and R&D as well as the local experts in Process Engineering and Quality Assurance. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 18 SIKA CHINA – R&D TEAM SIKA COLOMBIA – TEAM R&D AND SALES “Face-to-face communication is the ideal way to understand the clients’ ”Constantly working close to our clients is how we get ideas for new needs. This is a dynamic process that continues throughout the entire projproducts. It helps us to realize innovative projects that really meet their ect to ensure customer satisfaction, and adds value through innovation.” expectations.“ SIKA BRAZIL – TEAM R&D AND SALES WITH CUSTOMER “Both our sales and R&D teams strive to fully understand the design and objective of each project. We make regular visits to our large infrastructure project in São Paulo, together with our customer OAS Engenharia.” SIKA JAPAN – TEAM TECHNICAL ­SERVICE, R&D, MARKETING, SALES “Last year we launched Sikaflex®-268 to the Japanese market. Working as a team has enabled us to meet customer expectations. We are proud that we received positive feedback from the rail vehicle manufacturers using this product.” SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 19 SIKA NEW ZEALAND – TEAM R&D AND CONCRETE “Our lab team’s skills ensure our concrete team can deliver the rock-solid certainty our customers demand.” « SIKA UK – TEAM R&D, MARKETING, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT In the UK we are the market leader in a number of different roofing sectors. In» novation and collaboration between our R&D, marketing, and product management teams is key to our success. SIKA SOUTH AFRICA – NATIONAL DISTRIBUTION TEAM “We meet our clients’ needs all the way from R&D to procurement, production, and distribution. It is the job of our team to ensure that customers get our products on time, every time.” SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 20 SIKA URUGUAY – R&D TEAM SIKA USA – PRODUCTION TEAM HOUSTON “Our dedication and research efforts are rooted in our profound knowledge “It has been an awe-inspiring experience working on an expansion project of our customers’ needs, leading us to outstanding and motivating results.” team with access to the breadth and depth of Sika’s resources. Planning and execution have been methodical, and the very personal boots-on-theground approach to identifying and meeting customers’ needs makes it evident that we have planned for success.” « SIKA ARGENTINA – TEAM CONCRETE AND SUPPLY CHAIN WITH CUSTOMER We put the customer first and give highest priority to the quality of our products and services. This results in trust and decade-long relationships. We have worked together with our » highly esteemed customer JoséMaria Casas, a ready mix company, for more than 30 years. SIKA GERMANY – TEAM R&D, MARKETING, SALES ”When our researchers came up with a new flooring product, it was the collaboration between R&D, marketing, sales, and distribution that allowed us to highlight the innovative new features of the product, making it an instant success with our customers.“ SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 21 SIKA SWEDEN – TEAM CONCRETE SIKA ETHIOPIA – TEAM R&D, MARKETING, SALES “In Sweden our Concrete team is working very closely with the customer “Sika was the first foreign construction chemicals company to establish and provides project-specific innovations and services. From our lab, office, a production facility in Ethiopia. All our teams, including sales, marketing, and factory we develop, sell, and produce the concrete admixtures that are and R&D, are involved in finding the right Sika products for our clients. We shipped out to our customers on a daily basis.” are proud to bring Sika’s values and know-how to the Ethiopian market.” « SIKA USA – SUPPLY CHAIN TEAM, PRODUCTION MARION We support customers in all of our market sectors from R&D through to the finished project. Our goal is to produce the next generation of innovative ideas requested by R&D, while creating cus» tomer loyalty through continuous process improvements to ensure product availability and on-time shipping. SIKA CHILE – MARKETING TEAM SIKA HONG KONG – TEAM R&D, OPERATIONS, SALES “As a sales enabler, our mission is to communicate our leadership in tech“R&D is all about communication, ideas, and innovation. We take advice nology. We work closely together with our regional R&D team, which is from the customer and ideas from the sales team and turn them into new constantly developing and improving products for real-world applications products and solutions. A strong team combining R&D, operations, and in this demanding market.” sales is key to our success.” SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 22 SIKA CAMBODIA – TEAM FINANCE, SALES, HR “Close cooperation between our HR, sales, and fi« SIKA CROATIA – TEAM TECHNICAL SERVICE Our customers know that they can always contact us for » nance teams enabled the development of a new collaborative sales tool. This allows us to save time so help to find the best combination of products for their that we can spend more of it with our customers – projects. To maintain this service we regularly test our giving them a first-class service.” products and educate our employees and partners. CANADA – SWITZERLAND: HOW TWO SIKA SUBSIDIARIES SUCCESSFULLY INTRODUCED THE NEW PowerCure® TECHNOLOGY SIKA CANADA – TEAM R&D, SALES, TECHNICAL SERVICE SIKA SWITZERLAND – TEAM PRODUCT ENGINEERING, “When Bombardier Canada was facing a sudden increase in orders, we were TECHNICAL SERVICE AND SALES WITH CUSTOMER thrilled to introduce them to our new PowerCure® technology. It was the “When it comes to glazing in cable cars, every gram counts. When CWA built seamless cooperation between our sales, training, and technical departnew cabins for the Stockhorn aerial tramway, we recommended ­Sikaflex®ments that made it possible for Bombardier to apply PowerCure® within 223 PowerCure® – it met customer expectations unlike any other product.” weeks.” SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 From Innovation to Solution 23 THE SIKA BRAND THE SIKA BRAND STANDS FOR QUALITY, INNOVATION, AND SERVICE Sika is a strong brand. It allows the Group to CORPORATE CULTURE – MAKING AN IMPACT ON THE OUTpresent a uniform identity in all target markets SIDE AND THE INSIDE and with all products. The second core element of the Sika brand, alongside its positioning, is the brand personality. Three attributes form the backbone of this personality are pioneering, team oriented and committed. Today they shape the awareness of Sika employees SIKA AS A BRAND worldwide. To ensure that internal collaboration remains very strong in the digital age as well, in the year under review the Branding lends products a distinct identity and associates them possibilities offered by our social intranet were tapped into to with a specific set of values. This fact was recognized early in create new perspectives. Complementing internal measures, Sika’s history by founder Kaspar Winkler, who coined the comemployer branding campaigns have also been stepped up in expany’s name and designed its logo. The considerable standing ternal communications to make the Sika Spirit visible and tanacquired by the Sika brand over the years is a tribute to this fargible outside the company and to further increase the awaresightedness. Having changed only slightly since its creation, the ness of Sika as an employer. logo epitomizes continuity and solidity. It is recognized across the globe as synonymous with innovation, quality, and service. BUILDING TRUST The combined word/picture trademark has proved a valuable asSika successfully integrates the “Building Trust” tagline into its set throughout the world during the Sika Group’s decades-long communication strategy. The implications of this pledge for expansion. It has been successfully launched and is readily ac­Sika’s brand positioning can be described as follows: cepted across all cultural boundaries. Customers throughout the “Specialty chemicals are our business and trust is the foundaworld can rest assured that they will receive Sika quality and tion of our success. For more than a century, we have focused on service wherever they see the Sika logo. the quality of our products while constantly bringing to our industry a spirit of reinvention. We are committed to delivering WORLDWIDE TRADEMARK PROTECTION reliable, innovative, and long-lasting solutions to our customers Given the heightened awareness of the Sika brand, particularly in the construction, building and manufacturing industries. This the graphic word trademark, the company attaches high priority truly represents the value and the impact of the full range of to a consistent and standardized use of the logo and the associSika’s core competencies: sealing, bonding, damping, reinforcated corporate image guidelines, and verifies compliance with ing, and protecting. Willing and able to meet future challenges them. The various attempts, in recent years, to copy the logo of our clients and partners, we provide innovative products with only serve to underline its enormous intangible value for the added value, comprehensive services, expert answers, wellcompany. founded training, and custom-designed solutions. We’re proud of our achievements and eager to prove ourselves that Sika proThe Sika umbrella brand and some 851 Sika product trademarks, vides a seal of quality you can rely on. such as Sika® ViscoCrete®, SikaBond® or Sikaflex®, sharpen the Committed to excellence. company’s competitive edge. Hence the crucial role of tradeInspired by innovation. mark protection as a management task, performed both globBuilding Trust.” ally at Group level and locally at national level. In total, Sika held 10,735 trademark registrations in 165 countries at the end of 2017. Sika AG continuously monitors its trademarks and takes appropriate legal action in cases of infringement. CORPORATE IDENTITY The rollout of Sika’s revamped corporate identity in 2013 gave the company’s public face a fresh and modern look. The aim of the corporate identity process preceding this was to achieve a clear­cut positioning of the brand based on uniform corporate design guidelines. Additional elements of these guidelines were rolled out in 2017, focusing primarily on the packaging layout as well as several appendixes to existing guidelines. In 2017 Sika introduced an in-depth e-learning course internally to help further strengthen brand understanding with employees across the globe. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The Sika Brand 24 TARGET MARKETS FOCUS ON THE TOP POSITION CONCRETE ROOFING Sika develops and markets a complete range of admixtures and Sika provides a full range of single-ply and built-up flat roofing additives for use in concrete, cement, and mortar production. systems incorporating both flexible sheet and liquid-applied These products enhance specific properties of the fresh or hardmembranes as well as thermal insulation and various roofing ened concrete, such as workability, watertightness, durability, accessories. A more than 50-year history has documented that load-bearing capacity, or early and final strength. The demand Sika roofing solutions are outstanding performers, reliable, susfor admixtures and additives is currently on the rise, particularly tainable, and long-lasting. Demand in this segment is driven by due to the increased performance requirements placed on conthe need for eco-friendly, energy-saving solutions such as green crete and mortar, especially in urban areas and for infrastructure roof systems, cool roofs, and solar roofs, which simultaneously construction. Furthermore, the increasing use of alternative help to reduce CO2 emissions. While refurbishment projects con­cementitious materials in cement, mortar, and therefore also in tinue to gain significance in the mature markets, the emerging concrete, leads to a growth in the need for admixtures. markets are moving towards higher-quality roof solutions for new build structures. WATERPROOFING FLOORING Sika’s system solutions for waterproofing cover the full range of Sika’s flooring solutions are based on synthetic resin and cetechnologies used for below and above-ground waterproofing: mentitious systems for industrial and commercial buildings, for flexible membrane systems, liquid-applied membranes, waterexample pharmaceutical and food-sector production plants, proofing admixtures for mortars, joint sealants, waterproofing public buildings such as educational and healthcare facilities, mortars, injection grouts, and coatings. Key market segments parking decks, and private residential properties. Each market include basements, underground parking garages, tunnels, and segment is subject to its own particular requirements in terms all types of water-retaining structures (for example reservoirs, of mechanical properties, safety regulations (for example slip storage basins, and storage tanks). Waterproofing systems face resistance), anti-static performance, and chemical or fire resisincreasingly stringent requirements regarding sustainability, tance. Trends in the flooring market are being dictated by the ease of application, and total cost management. Therefore the growing significance of safety and environmental regulations, selection of appropriate waterproofing systems to suit the as well as customized technical requirements. The high volume needs and requirements of owners, as well as the treatment of of building alteration and conversion projects nowadays has specific project-related details, is key for long-lasting and waboosted the importance of efficient solutions for the refurbishtertight structures. ment of existing flooring systems. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Target Markets 25 SEALING & BONDING INDUSTRY Sika offers a wide range of high-performance and durable sealThe markets served by Sika include automobile and commercial ants, tapes, spray foams, and elastic adhesives for the building vehicle assembly (structural bonding, direct glazing, acoustic envelope, for interior finishing and for infrastructure construcsystems, reinforcing systems), automotive aftermarket (auto tion. Typical applications include the sealing of movement joints glass replacement, car body repair), marine vessels, industrial between facade elements to make buildings weatherproof, the lamination, renewable energies (solar and wind), and facade enbonding of wood floors to reduce noise, or the sealing of joints gineering (structural glazing, sealing of insulating glass units). in airport aprons. The growing demand in this market is fueled Sika is a technology leader in elastic bonding, structural adheby an increasing awareness of the importance of high-perforsives, sealants, reinforcing, and acoustic applications – serving mance sealants for the overall durability and energy efficiency the world’s leading industrial manufacturers. Customers rely on of buildings, the increasing urbanization including the larger Sika solutions to enhance product performance and durability ­volumes of high-rise projects, and the continued replacement of while optimizing manufacturing efficiency. For example, ­Sika’s mechanical fastening systems by adhesives due to better persolutions address key megatrends in vehicle design, leading to formance. lighter, stronger, safer, quieter, and more efficient vehicles, while fast-processing materials and compatibility with a­ uto­mation ­optimize productivity. REFURBISHMENT This segment features concrete protection and repair solutions, for example repair mortars, protective coatings, grouts, and structural strengthening systems. It also includes products for interior finishing, such as leveling compounds, tile adhesives, and tile grouts as well as facade mortars for external use. Sika provides technologies for the entire life cycle of commercial buildings, residential properties, and infrastructure constructions. Especially in developed markets, many structures are ­decades old and need to be refurbished. The present uptrend in demand is attributable to a rising volume of infrastructure rehabilitation projects in the transport, water management, and ­energy sectors. The global urbanization trend and the increasing need for renovation in developed markets are also fueling ­demand. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Target Markets 26 PRODUCTS & INNOVATIONS COURAGE FOR INNOVATION Sika’s long history of innovation has led to crete with consistent optimum properties such as flowability unparalleled success in becoming a recognized and strength. Sika also meets the growing demand for concrete global technology leader in many markets, with highly aesthetic surfaces with its range of innovative surfactant agents. as well as creating value for Sika’s customers. While investing in established and new In 2017 a new production line for synthetic macro fibers for Eurotechnology centers around the world, the pean markets was successfully set up at Sika in Troisdorf. Based company also nurtures and develops an on the production knowledge from Australia, Sika’s best perinternational network of scientists, partners, forming fiber, SikaFiber® Force-60, was launched to the European market. Sika was also awarded with the German Packagsuppliers and customers. ing Award in the category Functionality and Convenience for its innovative fully water-dissolvable packaging. INNOVATION AND GROWTH WATERPROOFING Sika produces a range of resin injection systems designed to Creativity, innovation, customer connections, and research are stop water ingress through leaks. In 2017, multiple products dynamic components of Sika’s long-term success and future used for injections were domesticated and made available to growth. Multiple large-scale projects are cultivated simulta­ the local markets in North and South America. The company has neously around the globe, resulting not only in effective and also invested in production equipment to produce the latest adoriginal products for existing customers but also in opportunidition to the SikaProof® portfolio for the Korean tunneling marties for knowledge sharing among R&D teams in different counket. Sika has extended its range of waterproofing membranes tries. Securing and enforcing patents is an active part of prowith SikaProof A+, which offers improved adhesion to fresh tecting Sika’s intellectual property. concrete and therefore prevents lateral water underflow; Inhouse manufacturing has been implemented and results from CUSTOMER-FOCUSED DEVELOPMENT initial basement waterproofing applications have been anaA dedicated focus on core competencies – bonding, sealing, lyzed. This product is expected to be field tested in 2018. damping, reinforcing and protecting load-bearing structures – has been, and remains, the cornerstone of Sika’s success. ROOFING Sika’s new self-adhered PVC membrane, launched in 2017, is ofIn 2017, Sika’s concentration on core knowledge and capabilities, ten used on roofs with unusual shapes and forms. The system is as well as customer needs, led to unique new products, includa good choice for any facility where Volatile Organic Compounds ing novel adhesives and coatings with improved mechanical per(VOCs) or odor may be a concern. Sika’s bituminous product formance and environmental sustainability. Sika is introducing range has increased as a result of various company acquisitions, unrivaled cementitious mortars and underlayments with either and efficient in-house production of bitumen-based sealing acoustic properties or a unique balance of quick dry and nontapes for the construction and industrial markets was implecrack properties. Remarkable new additives for masking conmented. tamination in cement and sand provide customers with a better application experience and reduced dependence on premium Furthermore the company continues to profit from its technoraw materials. Sika’s R&D team developed more than 50 notelogical leadership in polyurethane roof coatings, offering enviworthy new products in 2017 alone. ronmentally friendly and low emission products. Over the last 12 months Sika developed the portfolio to include a cost-effective base coat and primer. The continued focus on water-based techDEVELOPMENT FOCUS IN nology has also led to the release of several products in 2017, INDIVIDUAL TARGET MARKETS including a high-performance top coat and an innovative early rain-resistant waterproofing product. Sika continues to select CONCRETE and develop technology platforms that will benefit from anticiDue to the worldwide shortage of high-quality aggregates, pated changes in legislative and regulatory environments. gravel and sand, secondary aggregates are increasingly being used for the production of concrete – either from recycling or FLOORING from natural, inferior sources. Nevertheless, the finished conDevelopment work for synthetic resin flooring products continues crete must meet the highest quality standards. The new Viscoto focus on meeting sustainable building requirements, which inCrete® polymers from Sika make it possible to compensate for clude low emissions, high performance, and excellent aesthetics. the varying quality of such raw materials and to produce conNovel epoxy coatings have been developed with ultralow emisSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Products & Innovations 27 sions, fast cure, and high performance for use in a range of indusINDUSTRY trial applications. The developments are based on novel Sika-patSika is highly successful in driving efficiency improvements for ented hardeners. The environmentally friendly, low emission its customers with fast and smart curing adhesive and sealant theme has extended to balcony coatings with the introduction of systems based on new, innovative, and patent-protected techa low-odor waterproofing product and a high-performance clear nologies. The trend for lightweight solutions continues and top coat. Reliable, aesthetically pleasing products which meet the ­demands the replacement of steel, rivets, screws, bolts and most stringent regulatory requirements remain the focus. welding by bonding concepts. Key requirements for such highperformance bonding concepts are a high durability and conSEALING & BONDING stant mechanical properties over the whole temperature range Both product ranges for sealants and adhesives were extended of use. Several groundbreaking new technologies for structural with numerous innovative new products and technologies. Sika bonding applications have been developed in 2017, enabling Sika launched new sealants based on aqueous dispersion polymers to significantly expand the business in the future. with outstanding elastic properties and weather resistance, as well as fire-rated products to seal cavities from fire and smoke AUTOMOTIVE thus making buildings safer. Furthermore new special jointing Sika has been selected as finalist for the 2018 Automotive News systems for airport runways and products with excellent chemiPACE Award with the new and innovative generation of PUR hot cal resistance for silo and tank applications have been develmelt products for lamination applications. These patented prodoped. Sika added value for its customers with its high grab ucts show the excellent application and mechanical properties ­adhesives, eliminating the need to fix freshly bonded parts, and of PUR hot melts whilst having a massively reduced monomeric launched a product range for adhering to wet and green conisocyanate content, which prevents sensitization of workers. crete thus eliminating unproductive waiting times. Therefore these products are branded “SF”, meaning “Safety First”. REFURBISHMENT Innovative building and engineering mortars from Sika provide complete sustainable solutions for every step of refurbishment projects in a wide variety of construction applications. Specific design and manufacturing of dry-mix compositions, according to local availability and technical requirements, provide longer life of the structures and high safety levels. The recently developed Sika mortars use the latest technologies to provide easy, fast and smart refurbishment with the least impact on the environment and very high performance – also for special applications in which specific properties such as fatigue resistance or extreme crack resistance are required. PRODUCT CREATION PROCESS PRODUCT CREATION PROCESS SCIENCE PUSH MARKET PULL OBSOLESCENCE Technology Creation Process Equipment Creation Process Product Development Process Trading Product Process Product Maintenance Process Elimination Process R&D Corporate Operations Procurement Corporate Expert Teams SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Products & Innovations 28 RESEARCH STRATEGY INVESTMENT Sika’s research activities are carried out at its 20 technology Total expenditures on research and development for the Group centers worldwide, with Switzerland as a key location. The rein the year under review totaled CHF 180.8 million (previous search program targets the development of proprietary technolyear: CHF 172.1 million), equivalent to 2.9% of sales (previous ogy that provides key performance benefits and thus allows Siyear: 3.0%). ka’s product platforms to respond to global trends such as resource-saving building methods, energy-efficient and lowINTELLECTUAL PROPERTY emission construction materials, high-speed manufacturing methods, or lighter and safer vehicles. Key projects focus on Sika maintains exclusivity over its innovative products through high-performance molecules with unique features, smart refinthe systematic registration of its intellectual property rights. 112 ing techniques for polymers and surfaces, and tailored laboranew inventions were reported in 2017 (previous year: 84) and 74 tory equipment allowing quick scale-up to full-size production. new patent applications were filed (previous year: 72). By the end of 2017 Sika’s patent portfolio included more than 700 Sika complements its internal research efforts by working with unique patent families with more than 2,700 single national major universities and scientific institutes on fundamental patents. technologies. One example is the “Mesh Mould” project, in partnership with the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zurich, for the development of a robotized construction method for building load-bearing concrete elements of any shape without formwork. Sika also participates in international research projects and networks, such as the “Lorcenis” and the “EnDurCrete” projects. These grant-supported consortium projects run under the HORIZON 2020 program of the European Union and center on durable, environmental-friendly reinforced concrete for energy infrastructure, industrial and offshore applications. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Products & Innovations 29 NEW PRODUCTS IN 2017 Sika launched a number of important new products in 2017, inADHESIVES AND SEALANTS cluding the following: –– Sikaflex®-118 Extreme Grab: Extreme high grab adhesive for applications without any initial fixings. CONCRETE –– Sikaflex®-591: Designed to perform well under harsh marine –– Sika® Stabilizer SI-100: Admixture for aesthetic quality imconditions. The sealant is available in different colors. provement of concrete surfaces both traditional RMC and –– SikaSeal®-106 Construction: Water-based sealant with exprecast applications but more importantly colored concrete. traordinarily high-performance level and movement capabili–– Sika® ViscoCrete®-3301: High-performance admixture to ties for construction. produce soft and rheology-improved concrete with fluctuat–– SikaBond®-151 Object: Elastic wood floor bonding adhesive ing, inferior raw materials. with excellent application properties designed for large ob–– SikaFiber® Force-60: Synthetic macro fibers for concrete rejects with engineered wood, or small solid wood floors. inforcement. –– SikaPower®-1200: Fast, room temperature-curing two-component epoxy adhesive for return flange bonding in wind MORTARS blades with excellent durability performance. –– SikaGrout®-3210: High-performance grout for wind turbines, –– Sikasil® AS-784: RTV-2 silicone for short cycle line producspecifically designed for horizontal joints with optimized tion. Excellent adhesion on all relevant substrates and best flow and setting properties for perfect pumpability in all apdurability under various climatic conditions. plication conditions. –– Sikaflex®-274: Fast-curing assembly adhesive with booster –– Sikafloor®-40 Level: High fluidity, self-levelling compound to bond plastic parts in OES industry. with excellent application properties and optimized balance of all components for perfect finish and performance. AUTOMOTIVE –– SikaMelt®-9700: PUR hot melt, particularly designed for SEALING SYSTEMS bonding of lenses into polycarbonate housings of head­ –– SikaBit® S-515 MX: Self-adhesive, post-applied, bituminous lamps, allowing immediate fixing of headlamp, showing exmembrane, offering high hydrostatic head resistance and vacellent adhesion on all relevant substrates. por barrier. –– SikaReinforcer®-951: Product shows optimized crash perfor–– Sika® Injection-101 BR: Low-viscous polyurethane injection mance, improves the stiffness of car bodies and enables enfoam for temporary water stopping. ergy absorption in case of crash. Furthermore, it offers higher –– Sika® Injection-201 BR: Low-viscous, flexible polyurethane elasticity compared to other reinforcers and therefore better injection resin for permanent watertight sealing even in wet energy distribution, enabling minimal weight of car bodies conditions. while maintaining excellent crash properties. –– Sarnafil® G-410 EL SA: Self-adhered, fully bonded PVC roof–– SikaBaffle®-455 LB: New low-bake version of acoustic baffle ing membrane system. which prevent moisture ingress into vehicle body cavities and reduce noise, enabling lower oven temperatures, respectively COATINGS shorter oven duration times, and consequently energy saving –– Sikafloor®-377 / Sikafloor®-376: Polyurethane car park coatof the Automotive OEM. ing system with low moisture sensitivity combined with excellent wear resistance and durability. –– Sika® Unitherm® Platinum-120: Solvent-free epoxy intumescent coating for prolonged fire protection and approvals for indoor air quality. –– Sikalastic®-580: Acrylic water-based roof coating with novel early-rain resistance. –– Sikafloor®-264 N: High-quality, versatile epoxy floor with high early-strength development and optimized aesthetics. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Products & Innovations 30 ACQUISITIONS & INVESTMENTS SUPPORTING GROWTH IN THE TARGET MARKETS Acquisitions are an important element of Sika’s 2017 ACQUISITIONS growth strategy, enabling the company to enhance its core business with related techIn February 2017, Sika acquired Bitbau Dörr, a leading waterproofing system manufacturer, headquartered in Innsbruck, Austria. nologies as well as to improve access to certain The product portfolio includes complete waterproofing systems markets or additional distribution channels. for roofs, buildings and civil-engineering applications. Both Through capacity expansion fine-tuned to companies will benefit from growth opportunities resulting market demands, and investment in plant from expanded distribution channels and a broader cus­tomer efficiency, the Group ensures the consolidation base. of its global growth potential. Acquisitions In August 2017, Sika acquired ABC Sealants, a leading Turkishthus become a platform for further growth. based manufacturer of sealants and adhesives headquartered in Istanbul. The acquired production site will not only improve ACQUISITION STRATEGY Sika’s ability to serve customers in the Turkish market but will also function as a distribution and production hub for the Mid­dle Organic growth, i.e., growth driven by entrepreneurial endeavor, East and Africa, reinforcing the supply chain in this region. is at the core of Sika’s corporate strategy. This organic growth is enhanced by carefully targeted external growth, which offers a In October 2017, Sika acquired KVK Holding a.s, headquartered in useful way of closing existing gaps in access to target markets Prague, Czech Republic, a leading manufacturer of waterprooand consolidating fragmented markets. Particularly in North fing and roofing systems as well as a wide range of mortar proAmerica, Asia, and parts of Europe and Latin America, Sika purducts. With these strategically located facilities, Sika will sues this policy as a means of steadily improving its market postrengthen its production platform and expand its geographical sition. At the same time, however, the company seeks to footprint in the growing Czech market. strengthen or extend its core business through the selective acquisition of related technologies, which Sika finds mainly in In October 2017, Sika acquired Butterfield Color, Inc., a US-based medium-sized enterprises in Europe, the USA, and some Asian market leader in the production of decorative concrete floor procountries. The fact that such acquired businesses are usually ducts and systems. The acquisition will accelerate Sika’s growth unable to market their systems worldwide sooner or later proves by bringing the most comprehensive range of solutions for cona barrier to growth, and by acquiring such companies, the Sika crete contractors in the North American construction market. Group, as a global player, is able to leverage their full potential. In November 2017, Sika agreed to acquire Faist ChemTec Group, When evaluating a takeover offer, Sika relies on the expertise a leading manufacturer of high-performance engineered, strucand experience it has already gained as well as on clearly defined ture-borne acoustic solutions for the automotive industry headprocesses in place across the Group. Since acquired companies quartered in Worms, Germany. With six production sites in Eu­ are usually fully incorporated in the Group, Sika places great val­ rope, North America and Asia, and a pan-European distribution ue on a smooth integration process, and therefore pays particunetwork, it supplies its customers with successful and innova­ lar attention to the corporate culture of all takeover candidates tive products. The acquisition brings technology and know-how prior to any acquisition. that will accelerate Sika’s growth and drive market penetration via the strong synergies between the two companies. The regions generally assume responsibility for the business aspect and integration of an acquisition, but the whole process is In December 2017, Sika acquired certain assets of Grupo Indus­ supervised and coordinated at group level. trial Alce in Mexico. As a result, Sika will extend its range of solutions for roofing and waterproofing customers, and further expand its manufacturing footprint in Mexico to better serve the Mexico City metropolitan area. The addition of Grupo Industrial Alce’s well-known brands will reinforce Sika’s position in key project management and specification selling. In December 2017, Sika acquired Emseal Joint Systems, Ltd., a US-based market leader in the development and manufacturing of structural expansion joint products for new construction and SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Acquisitions & Investments 31 refurbishment. With the acquisition, Sika will be able to offer In the year under review, Sika invested CHF 163.4 million (2016: the most comprehensive range of sealing and bonding solutions 154.9 million), which is equivalent to 2.6% of net sales. At 52%, available in the North American construction market. the key focus for investment was the expansion of production capacity (2016: 54%). The breakdown of the remaining invest2017 INVESTMENTS ments is as follows: 28% (2016: 24%) was needed to replace existing facilities, 16% (2016: 19%) was used for rationalization, Sika’s unchanged investment strategy is geared to consolidaand 4% (2016: 3%) was spent on environmental protection, ting the global presence it has built up during the last few years, health and safety, and quality control. The share of investment and unlocking new markets or expanding its activities to this in the emerging markets was 39% (2016: 37%), underscoring end. To encourage focused growth, selected markets, custoSika’s growth strategy. mers, technologies, and products are prioritized. Sika continues to invest in production and logistics capacities at its sites in orSika will continue to invest in those regions where the Group can der to strengthen local supply chains, and its decentralized martap into new markets and generate growth. ket development policy brings the company very close to its customers. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Acquisitions & Investments 32 RISK MANAGEMENT EARLY IDENTIFICATION OF POSSIBLE RISKS As a global player, Sika is exposed to a variety SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT AND of risks. Ensuring the Group’s freedom of RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT action at all times, safeguarding its image, and The raw materials that Sika processes into superior-grade prodprotecting the capital invested in Sika necesucts are the Group’s biggest cost factor. This is why they are high sitates the timely analysis of potential risks on the risk assessment agenda. Almost 70% of the materials and their integration into strategic decisionused by Sika in production – e.g., polyols, epoxy resins, acrylic dismaking processes. persions, and polycarboxylates – are based on fossil fuels or their derivatives. Purchase prices consequently vary according to the supply and demand situation for each raw material and fluctuaRISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES tions in the price of oil. To reduce its dependency on crude oil, Sika is increasingly relying on renewable raw materials such as sugar Flawed risk assessments may seriously impair a company’s repderivatives, bioethanol derivatives, and natural oils. Moreover, reutation, limit its freedom of action or, at worst, lead to insolcycled raw materials are used wherever possible, and many provency. Well aware of this, Sika reacted years ago by introducing duction plants implement their own or externally operated recya comprehensive risk management system at Group level and cling loop systems. Mineral substances, such as calcium for all its subsidiaries. Risks should be identified at an early carbonate, sand, and cement, make up the remaining raw materistage and integrated into strategic decision-making processes. als. Risk management may sometimes assist in the identification of new opportunities and thereby help to generate added value. Sika purchases its base chemicals in accordance with strict quality requirements from certified suppliers offering the best value for GROUP MANAGEMENT AND money. In the case of key raw materials with limited availability or BOARD OF DIRECTORS large purchase volumes, Sika mandates at least two suppliers whenever possible. For unique, highly innovative technologies, Whereas Sika’s Group Management regularly reviews the prothe Group seeks to manufacture raw materials itself or source cesses underlying risk management, the Board of Directors them in close collaborative partnerships with innovative supplibears ultimate responsibility for risk assessment. Its duties iners. In respect of all the materials used, compliance with the relclude the annual reassessment of the risk situation at Group evant statutory registration requirements (e.g., REACH or TSCA ) level. All risks are assessed in terms of a few basic questions: is monitored and ensured by a network of global and local special–– Is the risk global or regional in scope? ists as well as external consultants. –– What implications does the risk have for the Group? –– How high is the probability of losses occurring? Sika’s purchasing specialists and technical experts work closely –– What measures need to be implemented to prevent the risk with suppliers’ technical units to fully understand the raw mateor mitigate its consequences? rial flows and continually optimize costs, quality, availability, and sustainability. Potential suppliers are closely screened by Sika. If a risk is rated critical in the overall assessment, effective meaBefore working with the company, they are required to sign the sures are then taken to reduce the probability of or prevent its Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers all principles of sustainoccurrence, or limit its implications. ability. Sika pursues a risk-based management approach along the enSuppliers are regularly evaluated by a comprehensive supply risk tire value chain from procurement and production to marketing. management process to achieve continuous uninterrupted material availability, quality and cost competitiveness and compliance essential for the business success. The corresponding findings are incorporated into the risk assessment, along with the suppliers’ self-appraisals and data available in the public domain. If a relevant risk is identified, Sika will conduct an audit of the supply company in question to ensure the functionality of the latter’s internal risk management system. Potential risks are systematically identified and addressed, particularly in the case of local suppliers. Raw materials are systematically evaluated within Sika to assess possible risks relating to quality and availability, and to determine SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Risk Management 33 relevant measures such as maintaining safety stocks or securing The company is focusing more closely on accident prevention and, long-term supply contracts. Risk mitigation actions are actively since 2015, has also operated a global, Web-based emergency nodeveloped in collaboration with R&D and Operations to ensure aptification and crisis management service solution. proval of potential alternate suppliers or solutions to mitigate an overall risk. 2017 was marked by an unusually high number of inciPRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING dents caused by force majeure, as well as reduced availability of materials as a result of stricter environmental audits in China. For products and services, Sika implements a structured product Thanks to the processes and measures described above, Sika was development process that factors in potential risks. The Group able to mitigate the impacts and avoid disruptions in supplying its monitors ecological and safety aspects during the development, customers. production, and product-handling stages. For this purpose, it has introduced the specific checking of new developments PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS against a sustainability profile. Sika also focuses on market opportunities and risks, product sustainability performance, and Sika sets defined standards for risk provisions that are binding for the protection of intellectual property. its production and logistics operations. These standards form part of the Group-wide “Sika Corporate Management System” Over a period of many years, Sika has had a global program in and determine, for example, processes and guidelines in the areas place to minimize the risks in advisory and sales activities that of purchasing, quality, environment, health, and safety. Following could provide grounds for product complaints. Thanks to a host the launch in 2016 of Sika’s new intranet platform (SikaWorld), of additional measures, including the regular training of emthe “Sika Corporate Management System” is now accessible to ployees, clearly formulated standards, detailed causal analyses, employees all around the world. Together with the statutory regand stricter controls, expenditure for product-related claims is ulations, the standards are also documented in the management steadily being reduced. To avoid the risk of customers using Sisystems of local Sika companies. Additionally, Sika production ka’s products incorrectly, Sika provides systematic instructions, companies are certified to ISO 14001:2015 (environmental protecapplication training, and support to customers, as well as extention) and ISO 9001:2015 (quality), and many also to OHSAS 18001 sive documentation and quality control. (safety and health). A growing number of larger facilities are also certified to ISO 50001 (energy management). The current certifiCUSTOMERS AND MARKETS cation status of individual Group companies is shown on page 114 et seq. of the download version of this report. Sika has a policy of strategic diversification to limit market and customer-related risks. Geographical diversification is tremenAudits and inspections are core elements of Sika’s comprehensive dously important in the locally based construction industry given management system. They provide management at group, rethe sometimes contrary business trends witnessed in this sector gional, and local company levels with a regular, independent asin different regions of the world. Customer diversification – with sessment of compliance with official requirements as well as with no single customer accounting for more than 2.0% of Sika’s turnSika’s internal risk management guidelines and principles. The over – is another stabilizing factor. As a further safeguard against audits and inspections ensure the effectiveness of processes and economic fluctuations, Sika operates both in the new-build sector related controls. Quality, environment, safety and risk factors, and in the less cyclical renovation and maintenance market. technology, legal matters, application risks, IT security, suppliers and products are all subject to audit. On group level, Sika conFINANCIAL RISKS ducted 117 corporate audits in 2017. The purpose of financial risk management is to optimize fundSupplier audits are carried out by the purchasing and quality asing and achieve a liquidity position geared to financial obligasurance departments on the basis of the risk assessment, and tions. Liquidity is ensured by means of long-term bonds. the number of reviews is steadily being increased. In 2017, two supplier audit trainings for more than 40 purchasing and quality Liquidity is optimized by means of a cash-pooling arrangement. assurance employees were conducted. Sika also manages its net working capital with the utmost prudence. For example, the local companies have precisely defined Sika also regularly audits production and logistics at local compaprocesses for handling accounts receivable. A cost structure nies. This includes recording any risks that may result in producdovetailed to the prevailing market conditions ensures adetion downtime, personal injury, property damage, or liability quate cash generation. Sika attaches high priority to open and claims. The probability and significance of these risks are ascost-efficient access to capital markets. In this context, the A/ sessed, and measures are subsequently defined and imple­ negative rating of Standard & Poor’s must be taken into acmented to minimize the risk potential at the site and to enhance count. Due to the legal disputes surrounding Saint-Gobain’s safety. Sika is also insured against production losses. hostile takeover bid, the outlook for Sika’s rating has been downgraded from “stable” to “negative.” Over recent years, Sika has succeeded in significantly reducing the number of accidents and is constantly working on further improvements. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Risk Management 34 INTERNAL AUDIT Internal Audit carries out audits as set out in the annual audit plan. The internal audits are primarily for Group companies in the areas of sales, accounts receivable and accounts payable management, product development, purchasing, production, goods management, financial and operational reporting, payroll processes, and IT management. In addition to the global audit of sales and production companies, regular in-depth audits are carried out in the area of headquarters functions and Groupwide support processes. Internal Audit is an instrument of the Board of Directors and reports to the Audit Committee. Financial risk management is described in greater detail on page 125 et seq. of the download version of this report. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Risk Management 35 LEADERSHIP SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ﻿ 36 ORGANIZATION & LEADERSHIP INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT, FLAT HIERARCHIES Sika’s organizational structure is decentralized, The regional and national management teams bear full profit with the management teams in the regions and loss responsibility, and – based on the Group strategy – set and national subsidiaries playing a pivotal role. country-specific growth and sustainability targets, and allocate resources. An overview of the organization by regions for the The company is customer focused and is 2017 financial year can be found on page 76 of the download vercharacterized by its traditional flat leadership sion of this report. structures. Sika’s regional breakdown is based on unified economic areas and supply chain structures. Overarching leadership responsibilORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE ity ensures integrated management from production to the ­customer. Sika’s sales organization is geared to seven target Sika conducts its worldwide activities according to countries markets: Concrete, Waterproofing, Roofing, Flooring, Sealing & that have been classed into regions with area-wide managerial Bonding, Refurbishment, and Industry. This market-oriented functions. The heads of the regions are members of Group distribution enables Sika to sharpen its customer focus, opti­Management. mize its technical market support activities, and concentrate its R&D operations on market needs. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Organization & Leadership 37 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Sika takes the long view when it comes to developing its business. The relationship with customers, employees, and other stakeholders is shaped by respect and respon­ sibility. Sika operates with a strong focus on safety, quality, environmental protection, fair treatment, social responsibility, responsible growth, and value creation. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Paul Hälg, Chairman Urs F. Burkard Willi K. Leimer Daniel J. Sauter Jürgen Tinggren Frits van Dijk Monika Ribar Ulrich W. Suter Christoph Tobler CEO Paul Schuler LEGAL COMMUNICATION Stefan Mösli Dominik Slappnig PROCUREMENT HR Marcos Vázquez Philippe Jost CFO TECHNOLOGY (CTO) Adrian Widmer Frank Höfflin CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY AND Yumi Kan AUTOMOTIVE Thomas Hasler EMEA ASIA/PACIFIC NORTH AMERICA LATIN AMERICA Ivo Schädler Mike Campion Christoph Ganz José Luis Vázquez SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Organizational Chart 38 GROUP MANAGEMENT Sika’s Group Management is made up of experienced managers who have been active at Sika companies across the globe. Thanks to the diversity of their careers and their many years with the company, the members of Group Management have vast expertise that allows them to lead Sika successfully and steer the company toward the future. Urbanization with high levels of population density, high-rises, and infrastructure investments is one of the megatrends where Sika is capturing the full potential for its business. IVO SCHÄDLER CHRISTOPH GANZ THOMAS HASLER ADRIAN WIDMER EMEA North America Industry and Automotive CFO With Sika for 21 years in With Sika for 22 years in With Sika for 29 years in With Sika for 11 years in Switzerland and the UK Switzerland, France, and the USA Switzerland and the USA Switzerland JOSÉ LUIS VÁZQUEZ YUMI KAN MIKE CAMPION PAUL SCHULER FRANK HÖFFLIN Latin America Construction Asia/Pacific CEO Technology (CTO) With Sika for 34 years in Spain With Sika for 26 years in With Sika for 20 years in With Sika for 30 years in With Sika for 15 years in and Latin America Switzerland and Asia Asia and the USA Switzerland, Germany, Switzerland and the USA (until March 2018) and the USA SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Management 39 PAUL SCHULER, MBA CHRISTOPH GANZ, lic. oec. HSG CEO Regional Manager North America Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1955 Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1969 CEO since 2017; Member of Group Management since 2007; Regional Manager North America since 2013; Member of Group 2013–2017: Regional Manager EMEA; 2007–2012: Regional ManManagement since 2007; since 2013: General Manager Sika USA; ager North America; General Manager Sika USA; 2003–2006: 2007–2012: Head of Corporate Business Unit Distribution; 2009– General Manager Sika Germany; 1988–2002: Product Manager, 2012: General Manager Sika France; Area Manager France, North Head of Sales Industry; Marketing Manager Industry; Business Africa, Mauritius; 2003–2006: Head of Business Unit DistribuUnit Leader Industry; 1982–1988: International Key Account tion; 1999–2003: Corporate Market Field Manager Distribution; Sales Manager Switzerland, EMS Chemie AG, Switzerland; 1996–1999: Project Manager Distribution, Sika Switzerland. 1980–1982: Project Manager Air Condition Plants, Luwa AG, Hong Kong, China; 1976–1980: Production Manager, Hemair AG, Switzerland. Further commitments: Member of the Board THOMAS HASLER, Dipl. Ing. Chem. HTL, Executive MBA Swiss­pearl Group AG. Head Industry and Automotive Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1965 MIKE CAMPION, BSc Chemistry Head Industry and Automotive since 2017; Member of Group Regional Manager Asia/Pacific Management since 2014; 2014–2017: CTO; 2011–2013: Head Global Automotive; 2008–2010: Senior Vice President of Industry Nationality: US; Year of birth: 1965 and Automotive, Sika USA; 2005–2008: Senior Vice President Regional Manager Asia/Pacific and Member of Group ManageAutomotive North America, Sika USA; 2004–2005: Automotive ment since 2017; 2016–2017: Head Target Market Concrete Asia/ Manager Europe; 2000–2003: Automotive Manager SwitzerPacific; 2015–2017: General Manager Sika China; Area Manager land; 1995–2000: Business Development Manager; 1992–1995: Greater China; 2013–2015: Senior Vice President Target Markets R&D Head Automotive OEM Adhesives; 1989–1992: Research Concrete and Waterproofing, Sika USA; 2011-2015: General ManChemist Industry Adhesives. ager Sika Greenstreak, USA; 1998–2011: Management Positions in Target Market Concrete and in Business Unit Construction, Sika USA; 1991–1998: Management Positions, Stonhard Inc., USA. FRANK HÖFFLIN, Ph. D. Chemistry Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Nationality: German, US; Year of birth: 1964 CTO and Member of Group Management since 2017; 2014–2017: Corporate Technology Head Thermoplastic Systems; 2011–2014: Corporate Technology Head Roofing and Waterproofing; 2004– 2011: Vice President Research and Development, PTD Acoustics and Reinforcement, Sika USA; 2003–2004: Director Research and Development, Sika USA; 2001: Global Technology Manager, Exatec, USA; 1996–2001: Management Positions, Weatherables, GE Plastics, USA. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Management 40 YUMI KAN JOSÉ LUIS VÁZQUEZ, Dr. Ing., MBA Head Construction Regional Manager Latin America Nationality: Vietnamese, Taiwanese; Year of birth: 1970 Nationality: Spanish; Year of birth: 1947 Head Construction since 2017; Member of Group Management Regional Manager Latin America since 2009; Member of Group since 2016; 2016–2017: Head Building Systems & Industry; 2015– Management since 2002; 2002–2008: Regional Manager Europe 2016: Head Target Market Concrete Asia/Pacific; 2011–2016: South; 1984–2002: Head of Marketing; General Manager Spain; Area Manager Southeast Asia; 1995–2014: General Manager Sika 1999: Area Manager Southern Europe; 1983–1984: Manager Vietnam; 2001–2005: Area Manager Indochina; 1994: Deputy ­National Sport Insurance Company, Sport Ministry, Cabinet of General Director Sika Vietnam; 1992–1993: Sales and Marketing Ministers, Spain; 1977–1983: Vice President, Oil Business DiviManager Sika Vietnam. sion, Explosivos Rio Tinto, Spain; 1972–1976: Director of numerous global projects in the area of road construction, harbors, factories; Helma (Cádiz), Boskalis (Cádiz), Laing (Valencia/ IVO SCHÄDLER, MSc ETH Materials Eng., Executive MBA Bilbao), Caminos y Puertos (Barcelona); 1970–1972: Laboratoire Regional Manager EMEA Central des Ponts et Chaussées, France; Instituto Eduardo Torroja, Spain. Nationality: Swiss, Liechtenstein; Year of birth: 1966 Regional Manager EMEA and Member of Group Management since 2017; 2015–2017: Area Manager Europe South, Head Target ADRIAN WIDMER, lic. oec. publ. Market Refurbishment EMEA; 2012–2015: General Manager Sika Chief Financial Officer (CFO) UK and Sika Ireland ; 1997–2012: Head Business Unit Contractors and Industry, Head Marketing Construction, Product Engineer Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1968 Industrial Flooring, Deputy Manager Diagnostic Center, Sika CFO and Member of Group Management since 2014; 2007–2014: Switzerland; 1996–1997: Head Department Materials Testing and Head Group Controlling and M&A; 2005–2007: General Manager R&D, Wolfseher and Partner AG, Switzerland; 1993–1995: ManConstruction Systems Germany/Austria/Switzerland, BASF ager Department Materials Testing, EMS Chemie AG, Switzer(Degussa) Construction Chemicals, Switzerland; 2000–2005: land. CFO Degussa Construction Chemicals Switzerland; Finance Director Business Line Flooring Europe; Manager Corporate ­ ­Finance, Degussa Construction Chemicals, Switzerland; 1997– 2000: Manager M&A, Textron Industrial Products, United Kingdom/Switzerland; 1995–1997: Market Development Manager, Textron Inc., USA/United Kingdom; 1994–1995: Business Analyst, Nordostschweizer Kraftwerke (NOK), Switzerland. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Management 41 BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAUL HÄLG, Dr. sc. techn., ETH Zurich FRITS VAN DIJK, School of Economics (HES), Rotterdam Chairman Nationality: Dutch; Year of birth: 1947 Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1954 Member since: 2012; Committees: Chairman Nomination and Member since: 2009; 2004–2016: CEO, Dätwyler Group, Altdorf; Compensation Committee; 1970–2011: Career within Nestlé 2001–2004: Executive Vice President, Forbo International SA, ­(focus region Asia), of which the last 10 years as member of the Eglisau; 1987–2001: Product Manager, Commercial Director, CEO, Nestlé SA Executive Board, responsible for Asia, Oceania, Africa Gurit Essex AG, Freienbach; 1981–1986: Project and Group Lead& Middle East; Member of the Board: Nestlé Malaysia Berhad; er, Schweizerische Aluminium AG (Alusuisse), Zurich; Chairman Member of Advisory Board: Al Muhaidib Group, Saudi Arabia. of the Board: Datwyler Holding AG (and therefore also of PEMA AG and Dätwyler Führungs AG), Altdorf; Member of the Board: Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Altdorf; Sonceboz Automotive SA, Sonceboz; Baumann Federn AG, Ermenswil; Chairman: URS F. BURKARD, Carpenter/Interior Designer ­ Welfare Foundation Sika, Baar; Member of the Foundation Council: ETH Foundation, Zurich; Swisscontact, Zurich. Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1957 Member since: 1990; Committees: Nomination and Compen­ sation Committee; 1989–2017: Principal, Burkard Office Design GmbH, Rotkreuz; 1987–1989: Head of planning, Denz Office WILLI K. LEIMER, Dr. oec. HSG ­Furniture, Zurich; Vice Chairman of the Board: Schenker-Winkler Holding AG, Baar; Member of the Board: Gazet Holding AG, Baar; Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1958 Modularis AG, Zurich; ADUR Management AG, Oberägeri. Member since: 2010; Committees: Audit Committee; since 2003: Partner and Chairman of the Board, ISPartners Investment ­Solutions AG, Zurich; 2002-2017: Member of the Board and Partner, WM Partners Wealth Management, Zurich; 2007–2014: MONIKA RIBAR, lic. oec. HSG Chairman of the Board, Schenker-Winkler Holding AG, Baar; 1990–2002: Managing Director, Morgan Stanley, Zurich; 1988Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1959 1990: ­Associate, Goldman Sachs & Co., New York and Zurich; Member since: 2011; Committees: Chairman Audit Committee; Chairman of the Board: Mojo Capital, Luxembourg; Turos Capital 2006–2013: CEO, Panalpina AG, Basel; 2005–2006: CFO, Pan­ AG, Zug; Member of the Board: Helvetica Capital AG, Zurich; Caalpina AG, Basel; 2000–2005: Chief Information Officer (CIO), nica Holding AG and Canica International AG, Freienbach. Panalpina AG, Basel; 1991–2000: Various functions within ­Controlling, IT and Global Project Management, Panalpina AG, ­Basel; Chairman of the Board: SBB AG (Swiss Federal Railways), Bern; Member of the Board: Lufthansa Group, Frankfurt am DANIEL J. SAUTER, Financial Expert Main; Chain IQ Group, Zurich. Member of the Swiss Innovation ­Agency’s Innovation Council, “Innosuisse”, Bern. Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1957 Member since: 2000; Committees: Nomination and Compen­ sation Committee; 1994–2001: CEO and Delegate of Board of Directors, Xstrata AG, Zug; 1983–1998: Senior partner and CFO, Glencore International AG, Baar; 1976–1983: Various banks, incl. Bank Leu, Zurich; Chairman of the Board: Julius Bär Gruppe AG, Zurich; Trinsic AG, Zug; Tabulum AG, Zug; Hadimec AG, Mägenwil; Member of the Board: ARAS Holding AG, Lenzburg; AS Print AG, Villmergen; Richnerstutz AG, Villmergen; Member of the Foundation Board: Avenir Suisse, Zurich. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Board of Directors 42 CHRISTOPH TOBLER, Dipl. El. Ing. EPFL ULRICH W. SUTER, Dr. sc. techn., Professor emeritus Nationality: Swiss; Year of birth: 1957 Nationality: Swiss, US; Year of birth: 1944 Member since: 2005; Committees: Audit Committee; since Member since: 2003; 2001–2005: Vice President Research, ETH 2004: CEO, Sefar Holding AG, Thal SG; 1998–2004: Head of InZurich; 1988–2008: Professor, ETH Zurich, Department of Matedustry Division and Member of Group Management, Sika AG, rials; 1982–1989: Professor, MIT, Department of Chemical EngiBaar; 1994–1998: Adtranz Schweiz; 1988–1994: McKinsey & neering, Cambridge, USA; Chairman of the Board: WICOR HoldCompany, Zurich; Chairman of the Board: AG Cilander, Herisau; ing AG, Rapperswil SG; Member of the Board: Rainbow Photonics Member of the Board: Sefar Holding AG, Thal SG; economie­ AG, Zurich; Co-owner of Ceruda d.o.o., Serbia; President of the suisse, Zurich; Member of Regional Advisory Board: Swiss Foundation Council: Werner Oechslin Library Foundation; Mem­National Bank. ber of the Board of Trustees: Pension Fund of the Weidmann Group of Companies; Swisscontact; Swiss National Science Foundation; President Swiss Academy of Engineering Sciences (SATW). Consultant to the National Research Foundation, JÜRGEN TINGGREN, MBA ­Singapore. Nationality: Swedish; Year of birth: 1958 Member since: 2014; 2011–2013: CEO Schindler Group, Ebikon; 2007-2011: CEO and President of the Schindler Group Executive Committee; 1997-2007: Member of the Schindler Group Exe­ cutive Committee; 1985–1997: Sika AG, Baar. Final position: Member of the Management Committee with responsibility for North America; Member of the Board: Johnson Controls International Ltd., Dublin; OpenText Corporation, Ontario; The Conference Board, New York; Senior Advisor to the Chairman’s office, Schindler Holding AG, Hergiswil. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Board of Directors 43 CORPORATE CULTURE SIKA SPIRIT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE “Dear friends” – that’s how most emails at LABOR AND SOCIAL STANDARDS Sika begin. Many employees describe the work atmosphere as informal and uncomplicated. Sika companies and their employees comply with global and ­local labor and social standards. Furthermore, all employees are The Sika corporate culture combined with the bound by the Sika Code of Conduct, regardless of where they skills and expertise of our workforce is work and in which function. The Sika Code of Conduct is binding what defines the Sika Spirit and consistently even in cases where local laws are less stringent. In addition, as produces new record results. To ensure that a signatory of the UN Global Compact, Sika prepares its reportthis remains the case in future too, employees ing in accordance with the GRI standards. To ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are represented and to reaffirm our are assured the best possible conditions. commitment, Sika is also a member of the World Council for Sustainable Development. SHARED VALUES AS A STRONG FOUNDATION The Sika Code of Conduct protects and ensures compliance with AND BASIS OF THE GROWTH STRATEGY human rights. The company respects the right to freedom of association. However, it must be noted that Sika also operates Customer First, Courage for Innovation, Sustainability & Integin countries where the right to freedom of assembly and collecrity, Empowerment & Respect, and Manage for Results are the tive bargaining are restricted by national legislation. defining elements of our company. These values and principles serve as a compass at all Sika national subsidiaries around the Sika tolerates neither child labor nor any type of slavery, and globe and are applied by our employees. Thus the Group’s cul­observes all laws and guidelines in respect of discrimination in ture of trust, transparency, and openness has a firm global any form. Sika actively promotes a recruitment policy aimed at foundation that is lived out in practice. Sika’s 2020 growth tarachieving a diversified workforce. Chapter nine of Sika’s Code of gets describe what is being done, the corporate values how this Conduct contains a zero tolerance guideline on harassment and is being achieved. discrimination in the workplace. In the reporting year, the ­compliance system was again strengthened in order to further ETHICAL CONDUCT AS A CORNERSTONE OF promote the Sika Group’s culture of trust, transparency and REPUTATION openness. The company is actively committed to ethical conduct and inEvery year around 20 internal audits and ten external audits are tegrity as the strategic cornerstones on which Sika’s excellent conducted, corresponding to some 20% of all Sika national subreputation is founded. Numerous compliance initiatives were sidiaries. Among other things, these audits ensure compliance conducted in the year under review, owing to the strong growth with the applicable labor and social standards. experienced by Sika as a result of the takeover of large com­ panies, the establishment of new national subsidiaries, and ­fast-growing business activities in challenging markets. AccomEMPLOYEES – THE KEY TO SUCCESS panied by a large-scale international compliance campaign designed to promote integrity awareness, a new digital training The number of employees rose 6.1% during the year under reprogram on the Code of Conduct was widely introduced throughview to 18,484 (previous year: 17,419). Regional distribution is as out the company, as was the misconduct reporting system, the follows: EMEA: 9,822 (previous year: 9,083), North America: Sika TrustLine. Worldwide over 5,000 employees underwent 2,142 (previous year: 1,818), Latin America: 2,479 (previous year: compliance training and education in 2017. Leaders including 2,349), Asia/Pacific: 4,041 (previous year: 4,169). ­senior managers, general managers, and executive management members in the 100 countries reinforced their role model In 2017, 901 new employees joined Sika as a result of acquisistatus by signing a multi-year compliance commitment. tions. Organic growth also added a further 164 employees to the company headcount. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture 44 EMPLOYEES INTERESTING PROSPECTS ACROSS THE GLOBE 19,000 Sika has a local presence in over 100 countries and its products 18,000 are available worldwide. The company is growing fast and able to offer employees adaptable career paths as opposed to rigid 17,000 development plans. With its culture of flexibility and trust in ­talents, Sika creates and nurtures individual career opportuni16,000 ties and increasingly champions international mobility. Internal candidates are given preference. In recent years, for instance, 15,000 some 300 employees were promoted to new positions and 100% of Sika senior management roles were filled in-house. The 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 long-term employee prospects and the corporate culture are among the reasons behind Sika’s low fluctuation rate of 6.2% (2016: 6.2%). Sika is proud to have employees who remain with Together, the workforce generated a net added value of the company a long time and contribute their know-how and CHF 2,092 million in 2017 (previous year: CHF 1,935 million). This experience over a lengthy period. corresponds to net added value per employee of CHF 117,000 (previous year: CHF 112,000). By building an employer brand and introducing related measures focusing on digital communication, Sika is further enhancing its reputation as an employer of choice. The external recruitNET ADDED VALUE PER EMPLOYEE ment strategy is aimed predominantly at hiring and developing IN CHF young talents, increasing the quota of female employees, and 120,000 attracting more candidates from emerging economies. 115,000 LEARNING FOR LONG-TERM SUCCESS 110,000 Sika is growing rapidly and posting record results. As a multina105,000 tional, the company is still able to act as fast as a medium-sized enterprise and respond to business opportunities with high 100,000 ­implementation speeds. To ensure that this remains the case, employee know-how must be kept in sync with current trends 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and market demands. In the year under review, Sika spent CHF 10.7 million (previous year: CHF 9.9 million) on employee ­development. The aim is to provide at least ten hours training per year for each employee. In 2017, this figure stood at 12.9 hours The age structure at Sika is broadly balanced: 15% of employees (previous year: 12.4 hours). The focus is on external as well as are under 30 years of age and 24% over 50. Sika wants to offer in-house training opportunities. its staff long-term prospects with the company. Over 96% of employees have permanent employment contracts. Geared to a strategy of sustainable growth, the programs ­offered by the Sika Business School comprise leadership and ­talent development, sales training, digital learning, and special DIVERSITY academies. The more than 100 courses on offer in the year under review were attended by 1,600 participants. The 29 training proSika’s global presence and associated proximity to customers grams conducted for existing and upcoming managers were make it extremely important to integrate different cultures and ­designed to further foster management and leadership knowshare experience and know-how across national boundaries. how and, among other objectives, prepare them for assignThe company firmly believes that the diversity experienced by ments abroad. employees on a daily basis is one of the factors of its success, especially at senior management level. At courses and se­minars, To promote the development of sales skills within the company, Sika managers are encouraged to give high priority to d ­ iversity sales and marketing training was expanded to include new in team and project planning. 48 nationalities are ­represented courses on negotiating tactics and key project management. among Sika’s Senior Managers.Women account for 22.6% of the Approximately half of all Sika Business School courses are salestotal headcount (previous year: 22.7%) and 18.4% of managers oriented. Furthermore, many training courses on Sika products (previous year: 17.4%). Sika is constantly working to increase and their applications take place at local and regional level. The these percentages. company’s expertise in advising customers is thus fostered ­further. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture 45 The range of online courses available was also increased signifiIn 2017, Sika pressed ahead with the worldwide launch of its cantly. Over 200 new programs were implemented, and more state-of-the-art intranet platform SikaWorld, designed to prothan 2,000 training hours completed online. mote the global transfer of knowledge. Every country where Sika is present has access to the platform and around 60 national DIGITAL COMMUNICATION PLATFORM subsidiaries publish their own regional content. In the year under review, SikaConnect was transferred to the cloud, the global Driven by the Internet, real and virtual worlds are growing intool for worldwide internal collaboration. Thanks to these two creasingly into an Internet of Things. In the year under review, digital workplaces, the global transfer of know-how is faster and Sika made further headway with the wide-scale integration of more straightforward. employees, customers, and business partners into business, value creation, and communication processes. Internal and In the process of implementing a sophisticated online commu­external digital media therefore play a crucial role in shaping nication strategy, a social media management tool available in Sika’s corporate culture. This not only applies to innovation all countries was introduced. In 2017, the Sika social media chanmanagement, recruitment, and training, but also extends to nels numbered around 90,000 regular users. LinkedIn remained ­everyday communication, whether at the workplace or off-site. the most popular channel, with some 60,000 followers. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE CULTURE 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITMENT TO OPENNESS AND TRANSPARENCY Creating transparency is the highest objective sented on pages 37 to 43 of the download version of this reof good corporate governance. This provides port (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/ information on structures and processes, areas annual_reports01.html). of responsibility and decision procedures, as As of the balance sheet date of December 31, 2017, Sika had well as rights and obligations of various ­received notification of three significant shareholders whose stakeholders. Reporting at Sika follows the SIX voting rights exceed 3%: (1) The Burkard-Schenker family, who, Swiss Exchange guidelines. according to information provided by the family, held 52.92% of all voting rights via Schenker-Winkler Holding AG (SWH) as of December 31, 2017. On December 8, 2014, the Burkard-Schenker family announced the sale of their Sika participation to ComGROUP STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDERS pagnie de Saint-Gobain (“Saint-Gobain”), and, on December 11, 2014, the Burkard-Schenker family and Saint-Gobain announced Sika AG, headquartered in Baar, is the only listed company of the the formation of a group. On April 7, 2015, the Burkard-Schenker Sika Group. Sika AG’s bearer shares are listed on SIX Swiss family and Saint-Gobain announced the dissolution of their ­Exchange under Swiss security no. 58797. Information on Sika group. Saint-Gobain itself announced on April 7, 2015, that it AG’s market capitalization can be found on page 11 of the downheld 52.92% of all voting rights via SWH. Legal proceedings are load version of this report (available at https://www.sika.com/ ongoing in connection with the planned transaction, which, as en/group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). In the year unfar as the company is aware, has not yet been completed. (2) A der review, the Sika Group encompassed unlisted subsidiaries in group consisting of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited, 100 countries. 161 companies are included in the scope of conThreadneedle Investment Services Limited, Threadneedle Mansolidation. Companies of which Sika holds 50% or less of the agement Luxembourg S.A., FIL Limited, William H. Gates III and voting rights are not consolidated. These are namely Condensil Melinda French Gates as well as Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation SARL, France; Part GmbH in Germany; Sarna Granol AG, SwitzerTrust, which owned 4.77% of all voting rights on the balance land, as well as Hayashi-Sika Automotive Ltd., Chemical Sangyo sheet date. (3) BlackRock, Inc., which owned 3.41% of all voting Ltd., and Seven Tech Co. Ltd. in Japan. Detailed information on shares on the balance sheet date. A list of changes in significant the Group companies can be found on page 135 et seqq. of the shareholdings reported to the Disclosure Office of SIX Swiss download version of this report (available at https://www.sika. ­Exchange during the year under review can be found at https:// com/en/group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/ significant-shareholders.html. Sika conducts its worldwide activities according to countries that have been classed into regions with area-wide managerial There are no cross-shareholdings exceeding 3%, either in terms functions. The heads of the regions are members of Group of capital or votes. ­Management. The regional and national management teams bear full profit and loss responsibility, and – based on the Group CAPITAL STRUCTURE strategy – set country-specific growth and sustainability targets, and allocate resources. As of December 31, 2017, the outstanding share capital totaled CHF 1,524,106.80 and was divided into 2,151,199 bearer shares, each Furthermore, Sika has geared its internal organization towards with a nominal value of CHF 0.60, and 2,333,874 registered shares, seven target markets from the construction industry or from each with a nominal value of CHF 0.10. All shares earn the same industrial manufacturing. These target markets are represented dividend, with payout adjusted according to nominal value. One by two members of Group Management as well as in the regionshare represents one vote in the General Meeting. In addition, there al management teams and the national subsidiaries. The releis a maximum amount of CHF 155,893.20 in conditional capital vant managers are responsible for the definition and launch of (which represents 10.2% of the outstanding share capital as of new products, the implementation of best-demonstrated prac­December 31, 2017) , unrestricted in time, comprising 259,822 beartices, and the product-line policies for Group products, i.e., those er shares with a nominal value of CHF 0.60 each. These shares are offered worldwide rather than only in one particular country. reserved for the exercise of option or conversion rights. The Shareholders’ subscription rights are excluded. Further information on The heads of the central Finance and Research and Developthe conditional capital can be found in art. 2 para. 4 of the Sika ment are likewise members of Group Management, which conArticles of Association (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ ­ sists of nine members. All Group business is consolidated in Sika group/investors/corporate-governance/articles-of-association. AG, the holding company, which itself is under the supervision html). Sika AG does not have an authorized capital. of the Board of Directors. The organizational structures are preSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance 48 There are currently no conversion or option rights outstanding. Sika nificant business connection with Sika AG or any of the Sika has not issued any participation certificates, dividend right certifiGroup companies. The Board of Directors convenes at the Chaircates, or stock options. man’s request as often as business demands. Meetings are generally held every one to two months. In the business year Option plans do not exist for members of the Board of Directors, 2017, the Board of Directors met twelve times. The meetings Group Management, or employees. Changes in the share capital, lasted between four and six hours. reserves, and retained earnings during the last five years are posted on page 142 et seqq. of the download version of this report (availATTENDANCE OF INDIVIDUAL BOARD MEMBERS able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/annual_ reports 01.html). Board Member Number of meetings attended Paul Hälg 12 of 12 The purchase of Sika bearer and registered shares is open to all Urs F. Burkard 12 of 12 l­egal persons and individuals. The Board of Directors can deny the purchase of registered shares if the purchaser’s registered shareFrits van Dijk 11 of 12 holdings exceed 5% of the total number of registered shares enWilli K. Leimer 11 of 12 tered in the commercial register. Nominees, i.e. shareholders who Monika Ribar 11 of 12 acquire shares in their own name but on the account of third parties, are registered as shareholders without voting rights. Further Daniel J. Sauter 12 of 12 information regarding transfer restrictions of registered shares Ulrich W. Suter 12 of 12 ­(including group and trustee clauses) can be found in art. 4 of the Jürgen Tinggren 11 of 12 Sika Articles of Association (available at https://www.sika.com/ Christoph Tobler 12 of 12 en/group/investors/corporate-governance/articles-of-association. html). The removal of the statutory transfer restrictions requires an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes represented, The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) participates in the meetings of and an absolute majority of the par value of shares represented the Board of Directors in an advisory capacity. The other mem(see art. 7.3 para. 4 of the Sika Articles of Association). bers of Group Management take part as necessary, but at least three times per year, also in an advisory capacity. Company BOARD OF DIRECTORS ­officers report regularly and comprehensively to the Chairman concerning implementation of decisions of the Board of DirecThe Board of Directors is Sika’s highest governing body and is tors. mainly responsible for the: –– Definition of the corporate mission statement and corporate The CEO as well as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) report to the policies Board of Directors in writing on the development of business at –– Decisions on corporate strategy and organizational structure least once per month. Extraordinary events are reported imme–– Appointment and dismissal of members of Group Managediately to the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Audit ment Committee, insofar as such events relate to the latter’s area of –– Structuring of finances and accounting responsibility. The Internal Audit staff report to the Chairman of –– Establishment of medium-term planning as well as the anthe Board of Directors as well as the Audit Committee within nual and investment budgets. the scope of the review schedule. The members of the Board of Directors are elected by the Information regarding the number of permitted mandates of Annual General Meeting for a term of office of one year. They members of the Board of Directors outside the Sika Group can can be re-elected. Upon reaching the age of 70, directors make be found in art. 8.4 of the Sika Articles of Association (availtheir mandate available. The Board of Directors may decide on able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporateexemptions. Detailed information on individual members of the governance/articles-of-association.html). Board of Directors is listed on page 42 and 43 of the download version of this report (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). No directorships are maintained with other listed companies on a reciprocal basis. Further information regarding the election and the composition of the Board of Directors can be found in art. 8.1 of the Sika ­Articles of Association (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ group/investors/corporate-governance/articles-of-association. html). The Board of Directors of Sika AG currently consists of nine members. None of the members of the Board of Directors was a member of Group Management or the executive management of a Sika Group company during the three preceding business years. None of the members of the Board of Directors has a sigSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance 49 BOARD COMMITTEES INFORMATION AND CONTROL INSTRUMENTS VIS-À-VIS GROUP MANAGEMENT Sika has two committees of the Board of Directors: the Audit Committee and the Nomination and Compensation Committee. Within the framework of its nontransferable and inalienable duThe members of the Nomination and Compensation Committee ties, the Board of Directors of Sika supervises the Group Manare elected annually by the General Meeting. Re-election is posagement. The members of the Group Management report to the sible. The members of the Audit Committee as well as the chairCEO, who in turn reports to the Chairman of the Board of Direcperson of each committee are elected by the Board of Directors. tors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is regularly and Otherwise, the committees organize themselves. Information comprehensively informed by the CEO and the CFO on all maton the members of the committees can be found on page 42 ters pertaining to Sika. Extraordinary events are reported to the and 43 of the download version of this report (available at Chairman of the Board of Directors immediately. In every meethttps://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/annual_reports ing, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, at the Chairman’s 01.html). instruction, the CEO informs the Board of Directors about the ongoing business. More detailed information regarding the inThe Audit Committee mainly reviews the results of internal and formation and reporting rights can be found in the Organizaexternal audits as well as risk management. The committee tional Rules of Sika AG and the Sika Group (available at https:// convenes at the request of its chairperson as required. Customwww.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporate-governance/ arily, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CFO, as well organizational-rules.html). as the CEO if necessary, take part in these meetings in an advisory capacity. Meetings are generally held every two to three Sika has a comprehensive risk management as well as an Intermonths, lasting between three and four hours. In the year under nal Audit. Details can be found in the chapter “Risk Managereview, the Audit Committee met five times, with all members ment” beginning on page 33 of the download version of this represent at all meetings. More detailed information regarding port (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/ the competences and activities of the Audit Committee can be annual_reports01.html). As part of its audit plan, the Internal found in the 5th chapter of the Organizational Rules of Sika AG Audit reports to the Chairman of the Board of Directors as well and the Sika Group (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ as to the Audit Committee. group/investors/corporate-governance/organizational-rules. html). GROUP MANAGEMENT The Nomination and Compensation Committee prepares perWithin the framework of the resolutions of the Board of Direcsonnel planning at the level of the Board of Directors and Group tors, Sika’s operative leadership is incumbent on Group ManageManagement and handles matters relating to compensation. ment. The structure of the Group Management is outlined in the One of the central tasks of the Nomination and Compensation beginning of the Corporate Governance section, on page 48 of Committee is succession planning for the Board of Directors and the download version of this report (available at https://www. Group Management. The committee convenes at the request of sika.com/en/group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). During its chairperson as required. Usually the Chairman of the Board of the year under review, the following persons resigned from the Directors and the CEO participate in these meetings in an adviGroup Management: Jan Jenisch (former CEO; resigned as per sory capacity, insofar as they are not themselves affected by the the end of June 2017), Ernesto Schümperli (former Head Conitems on the agenda. Meetings are generally held on a bicrete & Waterproofing; resigned as per the end of March 2017) monthly basis, lasting between one and a half and two and a and Heinz Gisel (former Regional Manager Asia/Pacific; resigned half hours. In the year under review, the Nomination and Comas per the end of March 2017). Mike Campion (Regional Manager pensation Committee met six times, with all members present Asia/Pacific) and Frank Höfflin (Chief Technology Officer) joined at all meetings. More detailed information regarding the comthe Group Management as per April 1, 2017. As per July 1, 2017, petences and activities of the Nomination and Compensation Paul Schuler resumed the CEO position and Ivo Schädler (ReCommittee can be found in art. 9 of the Sika Articles of Associagional Manager EMEA) joined the Group Management. The tion (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/ members of Group Management and their functions as per the corporate-governance/articles-of-association.html), the 6th balance sheet date are listed on pages 38 to 41 of the download chapter of the Organizational Rules of Sika AG and the Sika version of this report (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ Group (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/ group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). Detailed informacorporate-governance/organizational-rules.html) as well as on tion on their backgrounds and activities can be found on pages page 55 et seqq. of the download version of this report (avail40 and 41 of the download version of this report (available at able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/annual_ https://www.sika.com/en/group/Publications/annual_reports reports01.html). 01.html). Information regarding the number of permitted mandates of members of the Group Management outside the Sika Group can be found in art. 10 para. 3 of the Sika Articles of Association (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporategovernance/articles-of-association.html). Sika had no ma­na­ge­ ment contracts with third parties in the year under review. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance 50 REGULATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES tered shares sold between the deadline and a General Meeting are not entitled to be voted. The powers, tasks, and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Group Management are set out in detail in the OrganizaCHANGE IN CORPORATE CONTROL AND tional Rules of Sika AG and the Sika Group (available at https:// DEFENSE MEASURES www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporate-governance/ organizational-rules.html). Further, for the tasks and duties of In accordance with art. 5 of the Sika Articles of Association (availthe Board of Directors and the Group Management, reference is able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporatemade to art. 8.2 and art. 10 of the Sika Articles of Association governance/articles-of-association.html), a purchaser of shares (available at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporateis not obligated to make a public tender offer (opting-out) as governance/articles-of-association.html). generally prescribed by art. 135 and 163 of the Swiss Federal Act on Financial Market Infrastructures and Market Conduct in COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS ­Securities and Derivatives Trading (FMIA). There are no change AND LOANS of control clauses. As regards information on the compensation of the members of AUDITOR the Board of Directors and the Management Board, reference is made to the compensation report beginning on page 53 of the The auditor of Sika AG is elected by the Annual General Meeting download version of this report (available at https://www.sika. for a term of one year. In the year under review, Ernst & Young com/en/group/Publications/annual_reports01.html). AG, listed as auditor in the commercial register since February 7, 1995, served in this capacity. SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION RIGHTS The auditor participates regularly in the meetings of the Audit Each shareholder can have his shares be represented by another Committee, providing oral and written reports on the results of shareholder with voting rights or the independent proxy. Proxies its reviews. In 2017, the auditor participated in three meetings of and instructions can be issued to the independent proxy in writthe Audit Committee. The Audit Committee checks and evaluing or electronically. The Annual General Meeting elects the inates the auditor and makes recommendations to the Board of dependent proxy annually for a one-year term until the concluDirectors. For further information regarding reporting and sion of the next Annual General Meeting. Re-election is possible. ­control of the auditor reference is made to the 5th chapter For more detailed information on the participation, representaof Organizational Rules of Sika AG and the Sika Group (availtion and instruction rights of shareholders reference is made to able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporatethe chapter CAPITAL STRUCTURE and art. 7.3 of the Sika Artigovernance/organizational-rules.html). cles of Association (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ group/investors/corporate-governance/articles-of-association. The independence of the auditor is ensured by various meahtml). sures. The Audit Committee has defined a percentage threshold for non-audit services in relation to the audit services. In addiInformation on the legal quora can be found in Article 703 et tion, services outside the audit which individually exceed CHF seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations (CO); information on what 100,000 are subject to prior approval by the chairman of the Auconstitutes a quorum under the Sika Articles of Association can dit Committee. As part of its reporting for the consolidated and be found in art. 7 para. 4 of the Sika Articles of Association. The statutory financial statements, the auditor confirms its inderesolutions for which a qualified majority (at least two-thirds of pendence vis-à-vis Sika AG. In accordance with legal requirethe votes represented, and an absolute majority of the par value ments, the lead auditor is replaced after a maximum period of of shares represented) is required are defined therein. The Sika seven years. The current lead auditor has been responsible for Articles of Association can be found at https://www.sika.com/ the audit mandate since 2015. As set out in the 5th chapter of en/group/investors/corporate-governance/articles-of-associathe Organizational Rules of Sika AG and the Sika Group (availtion.html. The invitation modalities and deadlines for the able at https://www.sika.com/en/group/investors/corporate­General Meetings match with legal requirements (art. 699 et governance/organizational-rules.html), the Audit Committee seq. CO). In addition, during a period published by the Company reviews any potential conflicts between the audit and non-audit in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce, shareholders represervices of the auditor. senting shares with a nominal value of CHF 10,000 can request in writing to have an item placed on the agenda, indicating the The performance of the auditor is evaluated by the Audit Comproposals to be put forward. mittee as well as by employees of Sika who are in regular contact with the auditor. The assessment is based on criteria such The publication of the convening of the General Meeting is as the professional expertise and know-how, the understanding made in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce. The convening of the corporate structure and company-specific risks, comprealso contains the agenda items and the proposals of the Board hensibility of the audit strategy proposed by the auditor and of Directors. In addition, the invitation to the General Meeting is diligence in the implementation of the proposed audit strategy sent by post to the holders of registered shares. New holders of as well as the coordination of the auditor with the Audit Comregistered shares will not be registered by the company in the mittee and the finance department of the Sika Group. In additwo business days prior to a General Meeting. Therefore, registion, the Audit Committee reviews the results of the audit, SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance 51 ­ articularly the audit report for the consolidated annual finanp INFORMATION POLICY cial statements and the interim financial statements. Sika provides extensive information on the development of The budget for the audit fees is proposed by the CFO and apbusiness in its annual, half-year and quarterly reports, at the proved by the Audit Committee. During the year under review, ­annual media and financial analyst conference, as well as at Ernst & Young AG invoiced in total CHF 4.8 million for its servicthe Annual General Meeting. The continually updated website es. Thereof, CHF 3.9 million related to audit services, which inat www.sika.com as well as media releases regarding imporcluded the audit of the statutory financial statements of Sika tant developments (https://www.sika.com/en/group/Media/ AG and of practically all subsidiaries as well as the audit of the Mediareleases/2018.html ) are also integral components in consolidated financial statements. Ernst & Young AG received ­Sika’s communication activities. As a company listed on SIX additional fees totaling CHF 0.8 million for tax consultancy and Swiss Exchange, Sika is also obligated to comply in particular CHF 0.1 million for additional services. These additional services with the requirements of ad hoc disclosure, i.e., the publication related to legal advise in connection with local compliance of price-sensitive facts. Anyone who would like to receive ad ­requirements, the merger of two local subsidiaries and legal hoc publications of Sika can register for the push service on ­services in connection with employment law matters. Sika’s website under: https://www.sika.com/en/group/Media/ registration-media-release-en.html. In addition, Sika maintains a dialog with investors and the media through special events and road shows. Official publications of the company are made in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce. In the download ­version of this report (available at https://www.sika.com/en/ group/Publications/annual_reports01.html), the financial calendar with important publication dates in 2018 can be found on page 159 and the contact details of the company (address of head office, telephone, e-mail etc.) on page 160. MATERIAL CHANGES Material changes having occurred between the balance sheet date (December 31, 2017) and the editorial deadline for the ­Annual Report are referenced in the report. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance 52 COMPENSATION REPORT 2 2.1 EINLEITUNG DES PRÄSIDENTEN DES NOMINIERUNGSUND VERGÜTUNGSAUSSCHUSSES4 2.2 VERGÜTUNGSPOLITIK 6 2.3 FESTSETZUNGSVERFAHREN FÜR VERGÜTUNGEN 12 2.4 VERGÜTUNG DER VERWALTUNGSRÄTE  15 2.5 VERGÜTUNG DES CEO UND DER MITGLIEDER DER KONZERNLEITUNG 20 2.6 VERGÜTUNG FÜR DEN CEO UND DIE KONZERNLEITUNG FÜR DAS GESCHÄFTSJAHR 2013 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 Corporate Governance 53 COMPENSATION REPORT The Compensation Report describes the compensation principles and programs as well as the governance framework related to the compensation of the Board of Directors and the members of Group Management of Sika. The report also provides details around the compensation programs and the payment made to members of the Board of Directors and of Group Management in the 2017 business year. The Compensation Report is written in accordance with the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Listed Stock Corporations, the standard relating to information on Corporate Governance of the SIX Swiss Exchange and the principles of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance of economiesuisse. It has the following structure: Introduction by the Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Committee 55 Compensation governance 56 Architecture of compensation of the members of the Board of Directors 60 Architecture of compensation of the members of Group Management 61 Compensation awarded to the Board of Directors in 2017 (audited) 66 Compensation awarded to the CEO and to Group Management in 2017 (audited) 68 Shareholdings of the members of the Board of Directors and Group Management in 2017 71 Report of the statutory auditor 72 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 54 INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, In the name of the Board of Directors and the Nomination and Compensation Committee, I am pleased to introduce the 2017 ­Compensation Report. 2017 has again been a very good year for Sika, with an 8.7% revenue growth in Swiss francs (9.0% in local currencies) and 12.7% EBIT increase. The positive development of business in all regions, together with investments in new factories, the founding of further national subsidiaries and the market launch of new products all contributed to Sika’s strong growth. In terms of relative performance, Sika outperformed its peers both in terms of sales growth and profitability improvement. The Compensation Report ­explains how these results impacted the variable incentive payments made to the members of Group Management under the different compensation plans. During 2017, changes to Group Management occurred with Paul Schuler succeeding Jan Jenisch as the new Chief Executive Officer on July 1, 2017 and the appointments of Ivo Schädler as Head Region EMEA, Mike Campion as Head Region APAC, Frank Höfflin as Chief Technology Officer and Thomas Hasler as Head Industry and Automotive. Thanks to our strong and well-established talent pool, all vacancies were filled with experienced internal candidates promoted within or onto Group Management. During the reporting year, following last years’ amendments to the share-based compensation of Group Management and the introduction of a shareholding ownership guideline, the Nomination and Compensation Committee decided not to implement any further changes to the compensation system. In addition to the nominations to the Group Management mentioned above, the Committee performed its regular activities throughout the year such as the succession planning for the positions on the Board of Directors and Group Management, the performance goal setting at the beginning of the year and the performance assessment at year end, the determination of the compensation of the members of Group Management, as well as the preparation of the Compensation Report and of the say-on-pay vote at the Annual General Meeting. At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, a binding vote on the aggregate maximum compensation amounts for the Board of Directors and for the Group Management was conducted, as well as a consultative vote on the Compensation Report, so that shareholders could express their opinion on our compensation policies and principles. The shareholders approved the compensation amount for the Group Management with a result of 99.56%, however the compensation amount for the Board of Directors (binding vote) and the Compensation Report (consultative vote) were again rejected mainly because of the majority voting rights of the main shareholder. Looking ahead, we will continue to assess and review our compensation programs to ensure that they are still fulfilling their purpose in the evolving context in which the company operates and are aligned to the interests of our shareholders. We will also continue to maintain an open dialog with our shareholders and their representatives. We would like to thank you here for sharing your perspectives on executive compensation with us and trust that you will find this report informative. Sincerely, Frits Van Dijk Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Committee SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 55 COMPENSATION GOVERNANCE NOMINATION AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE In accordance with the Articles of Associations and the organizational regulations of Sika AG, the Nomination and Compensation Committee is composed of three members of the Board of Directors that are elected individually by the Annual General Meeting for a period of one year. Since the Annual General Meeting 2017, Mr. Frits van Dijk (Chairman), Mr. Urs Burkard and Mr. Daniel Sauter are re-elected members of the Nomination and Compensation Committee. It is the responsibility of the Nomination and Compensation Committee to –– review and determine the compensation policy, including the principles for the variable compensation and shareholding programs according to the provisions specified in the Articles of Association; –– propose to the Board of Directors the maximum aggregate amounts of compensation of the Board of Directors and of Group Management to be submitted to the shareholders vote at the Annual General Meeting; –– propose to the Board of Directors the compensation level for the members of the Board of Directors, the CEO and the other members of the Group Management, within the maximum aggregate compensation amounts approved by the Annual General Meeting; –– provide the Board of Directors with a performance assessment of the CEO and of the other members of Group Management, together with a recommendation for the short-term and long-term incentives to be awarded to them based on their individual performance and the performance of the company; –– propose to the Board of Directors the Compensation Report; –– prepare the succession planning of the CEO and other members of Group Management, and propose to the Board of Directors the appointment of new members of Group Management. LEVELS OF AUTHORITY CEO BoD Chairman NCC BoD AGM Compensation policy and principles Proposes Approves Maximum aggregate compensation Proposes Reviews Approves amounts of BoD and GM (binding votes) Compensation of BoD Chairman Decides Is informed Individual compensation of BoD Proposes Approves members Compensation of CEO Proposes Reviews Approves Individual compensation of Proposes Reviews Approves members of GM Compensation Report Proposes Approves Consultative vote CEO = Chief Executive Officer, BoD = Board of Directors, NCC = Nomination and Compensation Committee, AGM = Annual General Meeting, GM = Group Management In 2017, the Nomination and Compensation Committee held five ordinary meetings according to the following predetermined ­annual agenda, as well as one extraordinary meeting and one extraordinary conference call (both related to the changes in Group Management): SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 56 Feb Apr Mai Oct Dec Review of overall compensation policy and compensation governance Review of overall compensation strategy • Review of external stakeholder feedback on compensation disclosure • Preparation and approval of Compensation Report • • Preparation of say-on-pay vote for next Annual General Meeting • Review of committee duties, accountabilities, and responsibilities • Approve meeting schedule • Self-assessment NCC • Compensation of Board of Directors Determination of compensation for following compensation period • Compensation of Group Management Preliminary performance evaluation (previous year) • Final performance evaluation (previous year) • Determination of short-term incentive payout for previous year • Determination of long-term incentive vesting (previous performance period) • Preliminary compensation review for following year • Determination of compensation (at target) for following year • Determination of performance objectives for following year • Nomination items Review of Board constitution • Succession planning for Group Management positions • • In 2017, all members attended all Committee meetings. The meetings’ duration extended from one and a half to two and a half hours. The Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Committee reports to the Board of Directors after each meeting on the activities of the Committee. The minutes of the committee meetings are made available to the members of the Board of Directors. As a general rule, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO attend the meetings in an advisory capacity. They do not attend the meeting when their own compensation and/or performance are being discussed. The Nomination and Compensation Committee may decide to consult an external advisor from time to time for specific compensation matters. In 2017, Agnès Blust Consulting continued to provide services related to executive compensation matters. This company does not have other mandates with Sika. In addition, support and expertise are provided by internal compensation experts such as the Head of Human Resources and the Head of Compensation & Benefits. SHAREHOLDER INVOLVEMENT The role of the shareholders on compensation matters has gained in importance in recent years. First of all, shareholders annually approve the maximum aggregate compensation amounts of the Board of Directors and Group Management. In addition, the principles of compensation are governed by the Articles of Associations, which are also approved by the shareholders. The provisions of the Articles of Associations on compensation are summarized below (please refer to http://www.sika.com/de/group/investors/ corporate-governance/articles-of-association.html for the full version of the articles of association): –– PRINCIPLES OF COMPENSATION APPLICABLE TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Articles 11.1, 11.3, and 11.8): The Board of Directors receives fixed compensation in cash and/or in shares; –– PRINCIPLES OF COMPENSATION APPLICABLE TO GROUP MANAGEMENT (Articles 11.1, 11.4 to 11.6, and 11.8): Group Management receives fixed and variable compensation. The variable compensation consists of a performance bonus paid in cash and possibly partially in shares (share purchase plan) and of a long-term incentive in form of equity compensation. For the CEO, the variable compensation (value of paid-out performance bonus and grant value of the long-term incentive) does not exceed 300% of the fixed compensation. For the other members of Group Management in total, the variable compensation does not exceed 200% of the fixed compensation; SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 57 –– BINDING VOTE BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Article 11.2): The Annual General Meeting annually approves the total fixed compensation amount for the Board of Directors for the period until the next ordinary Annual General Meeting and the maximum total fixed and variable compensation amount for Group Management for the next fiscal year; –– ADDITIONAL AMOUNT FOR NEW MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT (Article 11.7): The total additional compensation for each new member of Group Management may not exceed the average total compensation of Group Management in the previous fiscal year by more than 200%, or 400% for a new CEO. Proven disadvantages from a change of position may be compensated within this additional amount; –– CREDIT FACILITIES, LOANS, AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (Article 12): The company does not offer any loans, credit ­facilities, guarantees, or other securities to members of the Board of Directors and Group Management. Pension benefits are offered only in accordance with the occupational pension plans, which are specified in the respective regulations. In addition, the Compensation Report is submitted to a consultative shareholders’ vote, so that shareholders can express their opinion on the compensation policy and programs. METHOD FOR DETERMINING COMPENSATION PERIODIC BENCHMARKING The compensation of the Board of Directors is regularly reviewed against prevalent market practice of other multinational industrial companies. In 2012, a thorough review had been conducted to determine the competitiveness of the Board compensation in terms of structure and overall level. For this purpose, a peer group of Swiss multinational companies of the industry sector listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange had been selected for the benchmarking analysis. The peer group consists of Clariant, Geberit, Georg Fischer, LafargeHolcim, Lonza, Schindler, Sonova and Sulzer and is well balanced in terms of market capitalization, revenue size and headcount. The compensation model of the Board of Directors has not changed since 2012, consequently, no further analysis has been made since then. Regarding the compensation of the Group Management, a benchmarking analysis is conducted every two years with the support of an independent consultant, Willis Towers Watson. The same peer group of companies has been chosen as for the review of compensation of the Board of Directors. Willis Towers Watson gathers the relevant benchmarking data through a so-called club survey and summarizes them in a report that serves as basis for the Nomination and Compensation Committee to analyze the compensation of the CEO and the Group Management and to set their target compensation levels. The policy of Sika is to target market median compensation for solid performance and to provide for compensation above median in case of strong performance. Such compensation benchmarking analysis was undertaken in 2016 and served as basis for the Nomination and Compensation Committee to analyze the compensation of the CEO and the Group Management and to set their target compensation levels for the business year 2017. No benchmarking analysis was conducted in 2017. PEER GROUP FOR BENCHMARKING PURPOSES Market capitalization Revenue Headcount In CHF thousands (12/31/2016) (12/31/2016) (12/31/2016) Sika 12,425 5,748 17,419 1st quartile 5,147 2,931 11,769 Median 8,615 3,886 14,339 3rd quartile 16,055 6,703 27,100 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 58 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT The actual compensation paid to the individual members of Group Management in a given year depends on the company and on the individual performance. Individual performance is assessed through the annual performance management process, which aims to align individual and collective objectives, to stretch performance and to support personal development. The objectives for the CEO and members of Group Management are approved by the Nomination and Compensation Committee at the beginning of the business year and achievement against those objectives is assessed at year-end. The performance assessment of the members of Group Management is conducted by the CEO, while that of the CEO is conducted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the performance assessment of the CEO and the other members of Group Management before submitting them to the Board of Directors for approval. In discussing performance, the Nomination and Compensation Committee reflects on the achievement of the individual objectives of each member of Group Management. The Committee also considers the extent to which individuals have carried out their duties in line with company values and expected leadership behaviors. The individual performance assessments, together with the company’s performance, form the basis for the determination of incentive payout levels. COMPENSATION PRINCIPLES COMPENSATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In order to guarantee the independence of the members of the Board of Directors in exercising their supervisory duties, their ­compensation consists of a fixed remuneration only. The compensation is delivered partially in cash and partially in restricted shares, in order to strengthen the alignment to shareholders’ interests. COMPENSATION OF GROUP MANAGEMENT Sika’s compensation programs reflect a commitment to attract, develop and retain qualified, talented and engaged executives. They are designed to motivate executives to achieve the overall business objectives and to create sustainable shareholder value. The compensation programs are based on the following principles: Pay for performance and sustainable success The compensation of Group Management is linked to Sika’s performance and to individual performance. Through a well-balanced combination of incentive programs, both the annual performance and long-term success are rewarded. Alignment with shareholder interests A significant portion of compensation is delivered in the form of shares to align the interests of executives with those of the shareholders. Market competitiveness Compensation is regularly benchmarked and is in line with competitive market practice. Transparency Compensation programs are straightforward and transparent. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 59 The compensation programs include key features that align the interests of executives with those of shareholders and are in line with good practice in corporate governance. WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DON’T DO • Conduct an annual review of the compensation policy and • Provide discretionary compensation payments programs • Reward inappropriate or excessive risk taking or short-term • Maintain compensation plans with a strong link between pay profit maximization at the expense of the long-term health and performance of the company • C  onduct a rigorous performance management process •P  ay dividend equivalents on performance-contingent-deferred • Maintain compensation plans designed to align executive units that have not been earned yet based on the company’s compensation with long-term shareholder interest performance • Offer employment contracts with a notice period of a maxi• Guarantee future base salary increases, nonperformancemum of twelve months based incentive payments, or unrestricted equity compensation • Have prearranged individual severance agreements or special change-in-control compensation agreements ARCHITECTURE OF COMPENSATION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In order to ensure their independence in their supervisory duties, the members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed compen­ sation only, consisting of a retainer for services to the Board and an additional fee for assignments to committees of the Board. The retainer is paid partially in cash and partially in restricted shares, while the committee fees are paid in cash. The restricted shares are blocked from trading for a period of four years. The restriction on the shares may lapse in case of change of control or liquidation. The shares remain blocked in all other instances. The cash payment and the shares are transferred shortly after the Annual Shareholders Meeting for the previous year of office, being defined as the period between Annual General Meetings. The members of the Board of Directors receive no additional reimbursements of business expenses beyond actual expenditures for business travel. The members of the Board do not participate in Sika’s employee benefit plans. STRUCTURE OF BOARD COMPENSATION in CHF in cash in shares Retainer (gross p.a.) Chairman of the Board of Directors individually determined individually determined Members of the Board of Directors 150,000 50,000* Committee fees (gross p.a.) Committee Chairman 50,000 Committee members 30,000 * Converted into shares on the basis of the average closing share price in the five first trading days of April before the beginning of the year of office. Shares are allocated to the members of the Board of Directors shortly after the end of the year of office. The compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is defined individually, based on the person’s skills and experience, and includes the following components: an annual retainer, paid partially in cash (monthly) and partially in shares (after the Annual General Meeting for the previous year of office), and a representation allowance paid in cash (monthly). The Chairman of the Board of Directors is not eligible for committee fees. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 60 ARCHITECTURE OF COMPENSATION OF THE MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION MODEL AND COMPENSATION ELEMENTS The compensation for members of Group Management includes the following elements: –– Fixed base salary –– Variable compensation: short-term and long-term incentives –– Benefits and perquisites STRUCTURE OF COMPENSATION OF GROUP MANAGEMENT Vehicle Purpose Drivers Performance measures Annual base salary Monthly cash salary Attract and retain Position, market practice, skills, and experience Performance bonus Annual bonus Pay for performance Annual performance Group EBIT (STI) in cash and restricted Group net sales shares Individual goals Long-term incentive PSU with a 3-year Reward long-term Business performance Return on capital (LTI) performance vesting performance over 3 years employed Align to shareholders Benefits Pension and insurances Protect against risks Market practice and Perquisites Attract and retain position FIXED ANNUAL BASE SALARY Annual base salaries are established on the basis of the following factors: –– Scope, size, and responsibilities of the role, skills required to perform the role; –– External market value of the role; –– Skills, experience, and performance of the individual in the role. To ensure market competitiveness, base salaries of the members of Group Management are reviewed every year taking into consideration the company’s affordability, benchmark information, market movement, economic environment and individual performance. PERFORMANCE BONUS (SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE) The performance bonus is a short-term variable incentive designed to reward the collective performance of the company (“Group performance”) and the individual performance (“Individual performance”) of the incumbent, over a time horizon of one year. This variable compensation allows employees to participate in the company’s success while being rewarded for their individual performance. The performance bonus target (i.e. bonus at 100% target achievement) is expressed as percentage of base salary and amounts to 100% for the CEO and ranges from 44% to 77% for the other members of Group Management. Group performance accounts for 60% of the total bonus, while the achievement of individual objectives accounts for 40%. GROUP PERFORMANCE The performance measures for the Group performance are proposed by the Nomination and Compensation Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. For 2017, they were the same as in the previous years: –– EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) improvement during the year, relative to a peer group of companies; –– Net sales growth during the year relative to the same peer group. EBIT improvement is weighted twice as much as net sales growth. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 61 EBIT and net sales performance are measured based on an evaluation provided by an independent consulting firm, Obermatt. This benchmark compares and ranks Sika amongst the performance of a selected peer group of 23 companies, all industrial firms which were chosen because they have a comparable base of products, technology, customers, suppliers or investors and are thus exposed to similar market cycles. PEER GROUP (OBERMATT BENCHMARK) 3M – Industrial & Transportations EMS Chemie Holding AG Owens Corning Armstrong World Industries Inc. Forbo – Flooring Systems Pidilite Industries Limited Ashland – Performance Materials Fuller HB Company RPM BASF – Functional Solutions Geberit Saint-Gobain – Construction Products Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc. Grace – Construction SK Kaken Co., Ltd. Beiersdorf – Tesa Henkel – Adhesive Technologies Sto AG Carlisle – Construction Materials Hilti Corporation Uzin Utz AG Cemedine Co., Ltd. Huntsman – Performance Products Following reorganization and merger, the segment Coating& Infrastructure of Dow is no longer part of the peer group. The intention is to reward the relative performance of the company rather than its absolute performance because absolute performance may be strongly impacted by market factors that are outside the control of senior management. For both EBIT and net sales, the objective is to reach at least the median performance of the peer group, which corresponds to a 100% payout factor. There is no payout for any performance below the lower quartile of the peer group. Performance at the lower quartile of the peer group corresponds to a payout factor of 50%. Performance at the upper quartile leads to a 150% payout factor and being the best in the peer group leads to a 200% payout factor. Any payout factor between those levels is interpolated linearly. PAYOUT CURVE FOR THE OBERMATT BENCHMARK Payout 200% 150% 100% 50% Zero Bonus 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% Ranking INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE The individual performance includes personal objectives that are set as part of the annual performance management process. For the CEO and for the other members of Group Management, they are reviewed and approved by the Nomination and Compensation Committee. The personal objectives are mainly of financial nature, are clearly measurable and are set in three different categories: –– Bottom line contribution: profitability of the business under responsibility (EBIT target expressed as an improvement versus previous year); –– Return on invested capital: net working capital of the business under responsibility (NWC target expressed as an improvement versus previous year); –– People and projects management: includes strategic objectives, such as for example entry into new markets, introduction of new products, improvement of processes and operational efficiency, and leadership objectives. At the end of the financial year, the actual achievement is compared with the targets that were set at the beginning of the year. The level of achievement for each objective corresponds to a payout percentage for that target, which is always between 0% and 200%. The overall bonus payout under the short-term incentive is capped and cannot exceed 150% of the performance bonus target. The bonus is paid out in April of the following year. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 62 OVERVIEW OF PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES AND RESPECTIVE WEIGHTING CEO, Regional Heads Corporate Functions Performance • Relative Group • EBIT improvement (2/3) 40% 40% performance relative to peer group Net sales growth (1/3) 20% 20% relative to peer group • Individual performance • Bottom line/profitability 20% (EBIT Group) 20% (EBIT region) Net working capital 10% (NWC Group) 10% (NWC region) People & projects 10% 10% SIKA SHARE PURCHASE PLAN Under the Sika Share Purchase Plan (SSPP), the members of Group Management may convert part of the performance bonus into Sika shares that are subject to a blocking period of four years. The objective of this program is to encourage members of Group Management to directly participate in the long-term success of the company and to strengthen the link between their compensation and the company performance, as the portion of the bonus invested into shares is exposed to the change in share value during the four-year blocking period. In return, Sika provides one matching share for every five shares purchased under the SSPP. The SSPP allows participants to defer either 0%, 20% or 40% of the bonus into shares, therefore maximum 40% in total. The shares are allocated at their fair market value, shortly after the Annual General Meeting in the month of April of the following year. Fair market value is defined as the average closing share price during the five first trading days of the month of April of the payout year. The calculation of the share grant is made as follows: CALCULATION OF THE NUMBER OF SHARES GRANTED Deferred percentage Bonus amount 1.2 (matching share one Average closing share Number of shares of bonus for five) price of five first trading purchased × × : = (0%, 20% or 40%) days in April In case of change of control or liquidation or of termination of employment due to retirement, death or disability, the blocking period of the shares is accelerated. The shares remain blocked in all other instances. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE Sika’s compensation policy is to also align a significant portion of compensation of Group Management to the long-term company’s performance and to strengthen the alignment to shareholders’ interests. Members of Group Management are eligible for a longterm equity incentive. The long-term incentive target amounts to 104% of annual base salary for the CEO and ranges from 40% to 86% for the other members of Group Management. The long-term incentive plan is a performance share unit plan. At the beginning of the vesting period, a number of Performance Share Units (PSU) is granted to each member of Group Management. The PSU vest after a period of three years, conditionally upon fulfilling a performance condition, the return on capital employed (ROCE). The ROCE target is determined at the beginning of the vesting period by the Board of Directors and is measured at the end of the vesting period as the average ROCE of the first year, the second year and the third year of the vesting period. Acquisitions are excluded of the ROCE calculation in the year of acquisition and for two additional calendar years. The final share allocation is determined after the three-year performance period, based on the following vesting rules: –– ROCE at or above target: 100% of the PSU vest into shares –– ROCE at threshold level: 50% of the PSU vest into shares and 50% of the PSU forfeit –– ROCE between threshold and target levels: linear interpolation –– ROCE below the threshold level: 0% of PSU vest into shares (100% forfeiture). There is no overachievement in the long-term incentive, meaning the maximum payout is 100%. For the grant made in 2017 (performance period 2017–2019), the ROCE target was set at 29%, excluding acquisitions, and the threshold was set at 24%. The shares are allocated at their market value (closing price at grant date on the SIX Swiss Exchange), shortly after the Annual General Meeting in the month of April following the three-year vesting period. In some countries where the allocation of shares may be illegal or impractical, the award may be settled in cash after the performance period. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 63 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERIOD LTI Plan Performance Period Plan Year 2017 Plan Year 2018 Plan Year 2019 Grant date Vesting date Payout date Number of PSU Number of shares 0 to 100% ROCE measurement In case of termination of employment due to retirement, death, disability, or in case of liquidation or change of control, the u ­ nvested PSU are subject to an early vesting, prorated for the number of months that have expired from the grant date until the termination date and based on an achievement payout of 75%. In case of termination for any other cause, such as resignation or involuntary termination, the unvested PSU forfeit. SHAREHOLDING OWNERSHIP GUIDELINE A shareholding ownership guideline was implemented as of business year 2017. The members of Group Management are required to own at least a minimum multiple of their annual base salary in Sika shares within four years of their appointment to Group ­Management, as set out in the table below. CEO 300% of annual base salary Members of Group Management 200% of annual base salary In the event of a substantial rise or drop in the share price, the Board of Directors may, at its discretion, amend that time period accordingly. To calculate whether the minimum holding requirement is met, all vested shares are considered regardless of whether they are restricted or not. However, unvested PSU are excluded. The Compensation Committee reviews compliance with the share ownership guideline on an annual basis. BENEFITS: PENSIONS As the Group Management is international in its nature, the members participate in the benefits plans available in the country of their employment contract. Benefits consist mainly of retirement, insurance and healthcare plans that are designed to provide a reasonable level of protection for the employees and their dependents in respect to the risk of retirement, disability, death and health. The members of Group Management with a Swiss employment contract participate in Sika’s pension plans offered to all employees in Switzerland. These consist of the pension fund of Sika Schweiz AG, in which base salaries up to an amount of CHF 133,950 per annum are insured, as well as a supplementary plan in which base salaries in excess of this limit are insured up to the maximum amount permitted by law. Sika’s pension funds exceed the legal requirements of the Swiss Federal Law on occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans (BVG). Members of Group Management under foreign employment contracts are insured commensurately with market conditions and with their position. Each plan varies in line with the local competitive and legal environment and is, as a minimum, in accordance with the legal requirements of the respective country. Moreover, an early retirement plan is in place for members of the top management of Sika. The plan, entirely financed by the ­employer, is administered by a Swiss foundation. Beneficiaries may opt for early retirement from the age of 60, provided that they have been in a top management position for at least five years. Benefits under the plan are twofold: –– Fixed pension payment until the age of legal retirement. The amount of pension depends on the last fixed salary and the actual age at early retirement. –– Partial financing of the reduction in the regular pension due to early retirement. The amount, which may be received as life-long pension payment or as a capital contribution, depends on the actual age at early retirement and benefits already accrued in existing pension plans. This portion of the plan is only applicable to beneficiaries insured under a Swiss pension plan. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 64 BENEFITS: PERQUISITES Members of Group Management are also provided with certain executive perquisites such as a company car allowance and other benefits in kind, according to competitive market practice in their country of contract. The monetary value of these other elements of compensation is evaluated at fair value and is included in the disclosure in the compensation tables. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS The members of Group Management are employed under employment contracts of unlimited duration and are all subject to a notice period of one year. Members of Group Management are not contractually entitled to termination payments or any change-in-control provisions other than the early vesting and early unblocking of share awards mentioned above. Their contract may foresee noncompetition provisions that are limited in time to maximum two years and which allow compensation up to maximum six months. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 65 COMPENSATION AWARDED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2017 This section is audited according to Article 17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Listed Stock Corporations. In 2017, the members of the Board of Directors received no compensation because the compensation of the Board of Directors for the period from the 2017 Annual General Meeting to the 2018 Annual General Meeting has not been approved by the shareholders and therefore could not be paid out. The compensation of the Board of Directors for the period from the 2016 Annual General Meeting to the 2017 Annual General Meeting had not been approved by the shareholders either and therefore could not be paid out. COMPENSATION EFFECTIVELY PAID in CHF Retainer CommitValue of Social Total 2017 Retainer CommitValue of Social Total 2016 (cash) 1 tee Fees Shares 2 security (cash) 1 tee Fees Shares 2 security (cash) (cash) Paul Hälg, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chairman Jürgen Tinggren 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Urs F. Burkard, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 NCC Member Willi K. Leimer, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AC Member Monika Ribar, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AC Chairwoman Christoph Tobler, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AC Member Daniel J. Sauter, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 NCC Member Ulrich W. Suter 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Frits van Dijk 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 NCC Chairman TOTAL 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1) Includes the representation allowance for the Chairman of the Board of Directors. 2) Fair market value is defined as the average closing price of the first five trading days in April before the beginning of the year of office. The table below discloses the remuneration that will be paid out to the Board of Directors for the year 2017 under the assumption of a positive shareholders’ vote on compensation. The amounts for the retainer in cash, the committee fees and the allocation of restricted shares have remained unchanged since 2012. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 66 TOTAL COMPENSATION (PROPOSED) 1 in CHF Retainer CommitValue of Social Total 2017 Retainer CommitValue of Social Total 2016 (cash) 2 tee Fees Shares 3 security (cash) 2 tee Fees Shares 3 security (cash) (cash) Paul Hälg, 510,000 0 303,409 60,067 873,476 510,000 0 302,017 59,964 871,981 Chairman Jürgen Tinggren 150,000 0 53,055 15,580 218,635 150,000 0 50,893 15,414 216,307 Urs F. Burkard, 150,000 30,000 53,055 17,759 250,814 150,000 30,000 50,893 17,594 248,487 NCC Member Willi K. Leimer, 150,000 30,000 53,055 17,759 250,814 150,000 30,000 50,893 17,594 248,487 AC Member Monika Ribar, 150,000 50,000 53,055 19,212 272,267 150,000 50,000 50,893 19,048 269,941 AC Chairwoman Christoph Tobler, 150,000 30,000 53,055 17,759 250,814 150,000 30,000 50,893 17,594 248,487 AC Member Daniel J. Sauter, 150,000 30,000 53,055 17,759 250,814 150,000 30,000 50,893 17,594 248,487 NCC Member Ulrich W. Suter 150,000 0 53,055 12,570 215,625 150,000 0 50,893 12,436 213,329 Frits van Dijk 150,000 50,000 53,055 15,973 269,028 150,000 50,000 50,893 15,837 266,730 NCC Chairman TOTAL 1,710,000 220,000 727,849 194,438 2,852,287 1,710,000 220,000 709,161 193,075 2,832,236 1) Includes the compensation proposed for the calendar year that is still to be paid out upon AGM approval. 2) Includes the representation allowance for the Chairman of the Board of Directors. 3) Fair market value is defined as the average closing price of the first five trading days in April before the beginning of the year of office. In the year under review, no compensation was paid to former members of the Board of Directors. No compensation was paid to parties closely related to members of the Board of Directors. In accordance to the Articles of Association, no member of the Board of Directors was granted a loan during the reporting year. No loans were outstanding at the end of the year under review. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 67 COMPENSATION AWARDED TO THE CEO AND TO GROUP MANAGEMENT IN 2017 This section is audited according to Article 17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Listed Stock Corporations. In 2017, the members of the Group Management received a total compensation of CHF 18.7 million (2016: CHF 16.7 million). This amount comprises fixed salaries of CHF 5.5 million (2016: CHF 4.8 million), short-term bonus of CHF 5.1 million (2016: CHF 5.0 million), long-term incentives of CHF 4.1 million (2016: CHF 3.5 million), other expenses of CHF 1.6 million (2016: 1.3 million) and contributions to social security and post-employment benefits of CHF 2.4 million (2016: CHF 2.1 million). The highest paid individual in 2017 was Paul Schuler, Head of Region EMEA until June 30, 2017, and Group CEO as of July 1, 2017. ­During 2017, three new members were nominated to Group Management as internal appointments, and two members changed roles within Group Management. In CHF thousands CEO 2017 1 CEO 2016 2 Total 2017 3 Total 2016 4 Fixed base salary 5 790 908 5,469 4,774 Performance bonus (STI) cash 6 601 1,322 3,865 4,539 Performance bonus (STI) shares 6 476 0 1,263 469 Long-term incentive (LTI) 7 1,009 1,003 4,103 3,489 Other payments 8 44 46 1,610 1,286 Social security and pension contributions 9 451 503 2,354 2,131 TOTAL 3,371 3,782 18,664 16,688 1) Includes the full year compensation of Paul Schuler, appointed Group CEO as of July 1, 2017. 2) Includes the full year compensation of Jan Jenisch, Group CEO until June 30, 2017. 3) On the basis of 11 members (including the former and the current CEO), 5 of whom served during the full year in 2017. 4) On the basis of 10 members, 8 of whom served during the full year in 2016. 5) Includes annual base salary and children/family allowances. All compensation amounts are gross payments. 6) Estimated performance bonus (STI) for the reporting year that will be paid in April of the following year, split between immediate cash and deferred shares (including matching shares). 7) Grant value of the LTI in the reporting year. For newly promoted members, includes the pro-rata participation in previous LTI that are still in the vesting period. Includes CHF 1.5 million of 2017 LTI grants that have already forfeited due to termination/stepping down of Group Management.. 8) Includes other benefits in kind and perquisites at fair value such as anniversary payments and cost allowances (tax equalization, housing, schooling, home leave) for the international assignees and international transfers. 9) Includes social security contributions as well as contributions to company-provided pension plans, including the service cost to the preretirement plan. Explanatory comments to the compensation table: –– From 2016 to 2017, the target compensation (fixed base salary, target bonus and grant value of long-term incentive) of the new CEO and other members of Group Management has been reviewed in light of the reorganization of Group Management (new appointments and changes in roles) outlined above. –– The fixed compensation has increased by 15% compared to the previous year. This is mainly due to the different composition of Group Management mentioned above. Corresponding to the notice period in their contract, the compensation of members who have stepped down from Group Management but remained employed within the company has been kept unchanged for a period of 12 months. The portion of compensation which is in excess of the standard compensation for their new role has been fully included as fixed compensation in the table above. –– The “other” payments have increased by 25% mainly driven by the fact that a new member of Group Management is an international assignee and received expatriate benefits such as relocation support, housing, home leave and tax services. The number of members of Group Management with such benefits in the reporting year has increased to three (two in previous year). –– The social security and pension contributions have increased by 10% in line with the increases in base salaries mentioned above. –– The performance achievement under the performance bonus was higher in 2017 than in 2016. Further details are provided below. –– The grant value of the long-term incentive has substantially increased compared to the previous year (+18%). This increase is due to the following factors: 1. The value reported corresponds to the full fair value at grant of the LTI awarded to Jan Jenisch (CEO until June 30, 2017) despite the fact that this award was fully forfeited upon termination of employment. 2. The value reported includes the full fair value of the LTI awards of two members who stepped down from Group Management. Those awards are partially forfeited upon stepping down from Group Management (pro-rata vesting at regular vesting date, considering that those two members remain employed with the company). The value forfeited amounts to CHF 492,004. 3. The reported value includes a special grant to Paul Schuler (CEO as of July 1, 2017) corresponding to the difference between the CEO grant size and the grant size as Head Region EMEA, calculated pro-rata for the remaining time of the respective vesting period of the 2016 and 2017 LTI plans (e.g. for the period since nomination as CEO until vesting date). Concretely, a special grant of CHF 196,274 was awarded to mirror the 2016 LTI plan (vesting date December 31, 2018) and a total of CHF 842,838 was awarded under the 2017 LTI plan (vesting date December 31, 2019). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 68 The total amount of compensation of CHF 18.7 million awarded to Group Management in 2017 is above the maximum aggregate amount of compensation of CHF 18 million approved by the shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting for business year 2017. This is due to the appointment of three new members into Group Management and to the fact that the members who have stepped down from Group Management while remaining employed within the company continue to receive their compensation for a period of 12 months according to their contract of employment as Group Management member. The compensation in excess of the standard compensation for their new role has been fully included in the table above. Pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of Association, the Board may award each new member of Group Management a maximum of 200% over the average total compensation of the Group Management during the previous fiscal year. For 2017, this allows for a potential maximum additional amount of CHF 5.6 million for each new member of Group Management. The compensation for the three new members of Group Management Mike Campion, appointed Head of APAC as from April 1, 2017, Frank Höfflin, appointed CTO as from April 1, 2017 and, Ivo Schädler, appointed Head EMEA as from July 1, 2017, was first allocated in the amount of CHF 2 million to exhaust the approved maximum aggregate compensation amount of CHF 18 million and then in the amount of CHF 663,755 against the additional amount of which CHF 248,908 relate to the compensation for Mike Campion, CHF 248,908 for Frank Höfflin and CHF 165,939 for Ivo Schädler. PERFORMANCE IN 2017 (NOT AUDITED) The business year 2017 has been a strong year for Sika, with an 8.7% revenue growth (in local currencies 9.0%) and 12.7% profitability increase (earnings before interest and tax). In the performance bonus, Sika has outperformed the peer companies both in terms of net sales growth (ranked 6th, payout of 157%) and in terms of EBIT improvement year on year (ranked 7th, payout of 144%). The group performance achievement is estimated at 148.5% (best-estimate at time of publication) and will be calculated by Obermatt based on the annual report publications of the peer companies before the payout date in April 2018. This compares to a strong year 2016, where Sika outperformed its peers (13th rank on net sales growth and 8th rank on EBIT improvement), with a payout of 127%. Individual performance, which is mainly measured by EBIT and net working capital improvement versus previous year, at Group and regional level, ranges from 103% to 168% for members of Group Management and amounts to 118% for the CEO (average of target achievement as CEO and as Head EMEA). Consequently, the overall bonus payout percentage ranges from 130% to 150% (cap) for Group Management and amounts to 136% for the CEO (average of target achievement as CEO and as Head EMEA). This compares to a payout range of 122% to 150% for Group Management and to a payout of 147% for the CEO in 2016. Objectives Threshold Target Cap Group Group Net sales growth (relative) Group EBIT improvement (relative) Individual Group & Regional operating EBIT Group & Regional Net Working Capital People & Project goal Total 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% In the Long-Term Incentive that has been granted in 2017 (LTI 2017–2019), 414 performance share units have been granted to the members of Group Management. Those PSU had an overall grant value of CHF 1’769’338 million and will vest on December 31, 2019 based on the average ROCE performance during 2017–2019 and upon the continuous employment of the participant. In the long-term incentive that vested in 2017 (LTI 2015–2017), the performance condition of 24% average ROCE over the vesting period has been overachieved: The average three-year ROCE, excluding acquisitions, amounts to 29.7%, leading to a payout of 100% (cap). Therefore, the 439 units granted to the current members of Group Management (including the new CEO) have vested with a vesting value of CHF 3.4 million. The value at vesting is higher than the value at grant due to the positive development in the share price during the vesting period (2015–2017). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 69 OVERVIEW OF THE UNVESTED PSU GRANTS (INCLUDES MEMBERS OF GROUP MANAGEMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017) Plan Grant date Performance Vesting Number of Total value Vesting Number of Total value (PSU)* Period date (PSU) PSU at grant level in % shares at vesting granted (CHF) of grant (Vesting) (CHF) LTI 2015 Group Mgt. 01.01.2015 2015 2017 31.12.2017 439 1,534,745 100% 439 3,397,860 (incl. CEO) CEO 01.01.2015 2015 2017 31.12.2017 116 400,418 100% 116 897,840 LTI 2016 Group Mgt. 01.01.2016 2016 2018 31.12.2018 481 1,902,852 To be To be To be (incl. CEO) determined determined determined CEO 01.01.2016 2016 2018 31.12.2018 141 596,704 To be To be To be determined determined determined LTI 2017 Group Mgt. 01.01.2017 2017 2019 31.12.2019 414 1,769,338 To be To be To be (incl. CEO) determined determined determined CEO 01.01.2017 2017 2019 31.12.2019 141 842,838 To be To be To be determined determined determined * For new members of Group Management, grant date may be different (pro-rata participation in the previous LTI that are still in the vesting period). In the year under review, no compensation was paid to former members of Group Management. No compensation was paid to parties closely related to members of Group Management. No member of the Group Management was granted a loan during the reporting year. No loans were outstanding at the end of the year under review. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 70 SHAREHOLDINGS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP MANAGEMENT IN 2017 At the end of 2017, members of the Board of Directors held a total of 3,292 bearer shares of Sika AG (2016: 3,292). At the end of 2017, members of the Group Management held a total of 2,982 bearer shares of Sika AG (2016: 5,795). This figure includes both privately acquired shares and those allocated under the Group’s compensation schemes. Because of the new composition of Group Management, the figures cannot be compared on an exact basis. At the end of 2017, members of the Board of Directors and of Group Management did not hold any options. Information regarding participations of the Board of Directors and Group Management in Sika AG can be found in the Sika AG Financial Statements (on page 154 of the download version of this report). EQUITY OVERHANG AND DILUTION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 In total as of December 31, 2017, the equity overhang, defined as the total number of share units and restricted shares outstanding divided by the total number of outstanding shares (2’151’199 bearer shares and 2’333’874 registered shares) amounts to 11’617 units, 0.26%. The company’s “burn rate,” defined as the number of equities (shares and share units) granted in 2017 (3’412 units) divided by the total number of common shares outstanding is 0.08%. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 71 REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SIKA AG, BAAR REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE COMPENSATION REPORT We have audited pages 66 to 69 of the Compensation Report of Sika AG for the year ended December 31, 2017. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the Compensation Report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying Compensation Report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Compensation Report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the Compensation Report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the Compensation Report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the Compensation Report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. OPINION In our opinion, the Compensation Report for the year ended December 31, 2017, of Sika AG complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. Zurich, February 21, 2018 ERNST & YOUNG LTD CHRISTOPH MICHEL MARC RÜEGSEGGER Licensed audit expert Licensed audit expert (Auditor in charge) SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Compensation Report 72 GROUP REVIEW SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ﻿ 73 GROUP REPORT RECORD RESULT ON THE BACK OF STRONG GROWTH MOMENTUM The Sika success story continued in 2017 with In local currencies, Sika increased its sales of special chemical another record year. In local currencies, 2017 products for the construction industry by 9.0%. Sales of solusales increased by 9.0% to CHF 6,248.3 million. tions for industrial applications were up 8.7% in local currencies. Strong growth momentum and disciplined cost management led to new record figures of 2020 STRATEGIC TARGETS SET TO BE MET CHF 896.3 million (+CHF 101.0 million, +12.7%) for operating profit and CHF 649.0 million The Group’s accelerated expansion into growth markets cont­ (+14.5%) for net profit. In the reporting year, inued in 2017, with a total of 19 key investments in nine new factories, three newly established national subsidiaries, and seven 19 key investments were executed with acquisitions (see Group Report Regions, download PDF p. 76). a view to driving future growth. The strategic Along with its annual growth target of 6–8%, Sika is seeking to targets for 2020 were confirmed, and the achieve an EBIT margin of 14–16% and operating free cash flow of growth target for 2018 raised to more than 10%. more than 10% of net sales by 2020. At the same time, the return on capital employed (ROCE) should amount to more than 25%. GROWTH IN ALL REGIONS The Group’s international expansion will be further driven over the same period with 21 additional factories and five new naIn 2017, sales in the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, Africa) tional subsidiaries. increased by 7.5% in local currencies (previous year: 4.6%). The major EU countries with the core markets of France, Italy, and the UK recorded strong growth rates. The Middle East, Eastern RECORD PROFIT Europe, and Africa delivered double-digit growth. The high growth momentum produced above-average increases At 18.4%, it was the North America region that posted the in the operating result and profit. Commodity price increases strongest growth (previous year: 7.8%), of which 8.5% was and volatility posed a challenge, with access to commodities in through acquisitions. Sika reported a significant increase in its China, for example, being limited by environmental regulations business volume in the USA, growing much more rapidly than imposed by the state. Thanks to persistent cost management, the local construction market in the reporting year. The positive margins were boosted further while record figures were re­ development of the North American business was attributable corded for both EBIT (CHF 896.3 million, +12.7%) and net profit in particular to the targeted investment in this region over the (CHF 649.0 million, +14.5%). last few years. The tax rate decreased to 24.7% (previous year: 25.0%). The Latin America region increased sales by 3.3% (previous year: 5.1%). Both Mexico and Argentina generated above-average growth. By contrast, construction activity continued to develop modestly in the more commodity-based countries of this ­re­gion, such as Brazil, Peru, and Chile. Sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 5.2% (previous year: 3.6%). High growth rates were recorded in China, while doubledigit growth was achieved in Australia, New Zealand, and Thailand. In the “Other segments and activities” area, Sika generated growth of 14.0% in local currencies (previous year: 11.7%). The automotive business, which is managed centrally on a global ­basis, forms a key part of these areas of operation. Posting ­organic growth of 20.2% in the fourth quarter, Sika significantly ex­ceeded the growth of the market as a whole. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Report 74 SELECTIVE INVESTMENTS, IMPROVED KEY PROFIT AND LOSS FIGURES Sika invested in production capacity expansion in order to be able to act fast and tap into the business potential offered by high-growth markets. At CHF 163 million, investments in new factories and maintenance of existing manufacturing facilities were higher year on year (previous year: CHF 155 million). At 19.0%, the ratio of net working capital to net sales rose slightly, partly as a result of the sharp increase in acquisition activity (previous year: 18.4%). The management of inventories and accounts receivable remains a major priority. As at year-end, cash and cash equivalents amounted to CHF 1,037.9 million ­(previous year: CHF 1,155.0 million). The net credit balance once again remained high in the reporting year at CHF 293.8 million (previous year: CHF 415.6 million), while gearing likewise ­remained at a solid level, namely –8.6% (previous year: –14.1%). Return on capital employed (ROCE) reached a new record level of 29.8% (previous year: 28.7%). The equity ratio now stands at 58.9% (previous year: 57.8%), thereby confirming Sika’s solid financial base. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Report 75 GROUP REPORT REGIONS GROWTH IN ALL REGIONS All regions reported higher sales and were able ceding years led to 4% growth in the construction industry. The to further increase market share. Particularly tax reform is expected to provide sustained stimulus for the US high growth rates were achieved in the USA, economy and construction sector. Canada’s construction industry found itself in slightly negative territory – a recovery is proMexico, Argentina, China, Southeast Asia, the jected for 2018. Pacific area, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Africa, as well as in the automotive area. At 18.4%, it was the North America region that posted the strongest sales growth within the Sika Group (previous year: EMEA 7.8%), of which 8.5% was through acquisitions. Sika significantly boosted its business volume in the USA, thus growing at Reporting a sustained phase of solid growth, the eurozone a much faster rate than the local construction market in 2017. countries saw positive momentum in 2017. Stable investment Targeted investments in North America over the last few years and export revenues, extremely low interest rates, and a dycontributed substantially to this positive business performance. namic global economy stimulated the majority of EU markets. These include the development of the sales organization, the Gross domestic product growth of more than 2% energized the implementation of the growth strategy through the acquisition European construction industry. of companies, and the significant expansion of the supply chain with new factories located close to fast-growing metropolitan In the 2017 financial year, Sika’s sales in the EMEA region areas. At the end of 2017, a new factory for concrete admixtures (Europe, Middle East, Africa) were up by 7.5% in local currenand mortar was opened near Houston, with a view to tapping cies (previous year: 4.6%). The major EU countries with the core into the huge growth potential of the construction market in markets of France, Italy, and the UK recorded strong growth Texas and the wider southwest of the USA. rates. The Middle East, Eastern Europe, and Africa delivered double-digit growth. The offering for concrete contractors was expanded with the takeover of Butterfield Color Inc., a leading manufacturer of In Africa, Sika’s presence was further strengthened through the decorative concrete floors and systems in the USA. At the end of founding of a new national subsidiary in Senegal and the comthe year, Sika also acquired Emseal Joint Systems, Ltd., a highmencement of operations at three new factories. In both Dar es performance supplier of structural expansion joints. Salaam, Tanzania, and Douala, Cameroon, the first factories for concrete admixtures came into service, while a second factory for the local production of mortar products was established in LATIN AMERICA Luanda, Angola. In Kazakhstan, concrete admixture and mortar production in Almaty was transferred to a larger site. In Russia, The markets in Latin America presented a very varied picture. a new production line for PVC membranes was set up at the facBrazil, as the largest economy with a significant construction tory in Lobnya, near Moscow. Furthermore, manufacturing market in the region, saw a further downturn owing both to an capacity was expanded at Lahore, Pakistan, with the opening of absence of public and private investment as well as to continua new factory for mortar products and concrete admixtures. ing political instability. The Argentinian economy gained tracA new facility for the production of high-performance concrete tion in the wake of political reforms, and Mexico and Colombia fibers for customers in the EMEA region began operations at the posted further growth. Troisdorf site in Germany. The Latin America region increased sales by 3.3% (previous year: Bitbau Dörr, a leading supplier of waterproofing systems, was 5.1%). Both Mexico and Argentina generated above-average acquired in Austria, while ABC Sealants, a well-known manufacgrowth. Construction activity is still subdued in the countries turer of sealants and adhesives for the interior finishing sector, within the region that are more dependent on the raw material was taken over in Turkey. Through the purchase of KVK Holding, sector, such as Brazil, Peru, and Chile. The supply chain in Mexico, which is based in the Czech capital, Prague, the Sika Group also a high-growth market, was further expanded through investacquired an established supplier of waterproofing and roofing ment in a new factory for mortar products and concrete admixsystems as well as mortar products. tures in Coatzacoalcos. Sika’s presence in Central America was also reinforced by the foundation of a new national subsidiary in NORTH AMERICA El Salvador. Economic growth and investment sentiment in the USA stayed The acquired brands of Grupo Industrial Alce have strengthened strong in the year under review and remained at a high level. A Sika’s presence in Mexico in respect of both major projects and significantly larger number of building projects than in the prelocal specification capabilities. Moreover, the additional producSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Report Regions 76 tion site close to Mexico City facilitates the rapid supply of liquidOTHER SEGMENTS applied and bituminous membranes to this huge metropolis. With 95 million new vehicles sold, global car production grew by ASIA/PACIFIC 2.1% year on year. In 2017 as well, the automotive sector was dominated by the megatrends lightweight construction, electro China’s economy continued to grow in the year under review, mobility, eco-friendliness, and safety combined with increased thanks to a sound real estate market and continuous investcomfort. Numerous automakers responded by making largements in infrastructure, both of which lifted demand in the­ scale investments in the development of electric drive systems construction supplies industry. In the Pacific area, Australia in readiness for the announced changes to the regulatory frameachieved a consistently positive performance owing to low work in various countries. Sika aims to profit more than average ­interest rates, a stable economy, and investment in major projfrom the electro mobility megatrend and increase its share in ects. In Southeast Asia, further economic growth was, for components per vehicle by over 20%. ­example, reported by Malaysia, and Thailand, with investments in infrastructure expansion proving growth drivers in local conSika’s “Other segments and activities” generated sales growth struction markets. of 14.0% in local currencies (previous year: 11.7%). The automotive business, which is managed centrally on a global basis, Sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose by 5.2% (previous year: forms a key part of these areas of operation. Posting organic 3.6%). High growth rates were achieved in China, and doublegrowth of 20.2% in the fourth quarter, Sika significantly exdigit increases in Australia, New Zealand, and Thailand. ceeded market growth. At the end of the year, the acquisition of Faist ChemTec Group was announced. Headquartered in Worms, Sika reached a major milestone in Asia: following the founding Germany, the company is a leading provider of acoustic systems of a new national subsidiary in Bangladesh, the Group is now for the automotive industry. The acquisition brings technology represented in 100 countries worldwide. and know-how that will accelerate Sika’s growth and further drive penetration of the automotive sector. THE REGIONS IN BRIEF EMEA North America Latin America Asia/Pacific Other Segments and Activities Net sales in CHF mn (2016) 2,874.9 (2,695.3) 1,094.0 (922.6) 590.0 (564.3) 1,132.7 (1,080.7) 556.7 (484.8) Growth in local currencies 7.5% 18.4% 3.3% 5.2% 14.0% Currency impact -0.8% 0.2% 1.3% -0.4% 0.8% Acquisition effect 2.5% 8.5% 0.1% 0.6% 0% Employees 9,822 2,142 2,479 4,041 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Report Regions 77 GROUP REPORT OUTLOOK CONTINUATION OF SUCCESSFUL GROWTH STRATEGY The foundations for future growth were laid in 2017 with the opening of nine new factories, the establishment of three ­further national subsidiaries, and the acquisition of seven companies. The strong sales organization, the well-filled product pipeline, and these 19 key investments give the Group reason to look to the future with optimism. For the 2018 business year Sika is anticipating an increase in sales of more than 10%. Commodity price increases and volatility remain a challenge in the current year, with access to commodities in China, for example, being limited by environmental regulations imposed by the state. Operating profit (EBIT) should continue to grow at a disproportionately high rate in 2018. The unknown outcome of Saint-Gobain’s hostile takeover attempt remains an element of uncertainty for the future. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Group Report Outlook 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING CUSTOMER VALUE, REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, AND ASSUMING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a global company, Sika is committed to and to define the contents of the sustainability strategy accordsustainable development. The company honors ing to the GRI-Standards. In terms of sustainability reporting, its responsibilities by offering sustainable the aspects deemed as material (or relevant) are those that have a significant impact on the economic, social, and environsolutions for energy-efficient construction and mental performance of the company or that may substantially economical vehicles. It also implements influence stakeholders’ perceptions and decisions. Accordingly, numerous projects and measures aimed at the materiality analysis is two-fold, as it takes account of the boosting the Group’s business, social, and standpoint of the company and of its stakeholders. ecological sustainability. Sika regularly reviews the materiality matrix to ensure that the sustainability agenda remains relevant as the business and the external context may be subject to changes (see GRI Standards). SIKA’S SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The company originally developed its sustainability materiality matrix in 2013 to identify and prioritize strategic target areas, Sika continued to implement its 2014–2018 sustainability stratbased on extensive consultation with all stakeholders, through egy during the year under review. With the aim of “enhancing surveys and interviews with employees, customers, suppliers, utility and reducing impacts,” the company continued to pursue investors and analysts, and NGOs, and some additional desk its six strategic target areas, focusing on economic performance, ­research. This shaped the six strategic target areas for the sussustainable solutions, local communities/society, energy, waste/ tainability strategy. water, and occupational safety. Over the years Sika has developed metrics and targets in each Through its products, systems, and solutions, Sika strives to strategic target area to measure the progress, and to meet the create long-term benefits and added value for all its stakeholdevolving expectations of stakeholders. Sika concentrates on the ers, and to significantly reduce resource consumption and the highest priority items in its Annual Report and gives a more deimpacts associated with production processes. tailed review in the annual GRI report. As a result of the review in 2015 the original findings were confirmed. The materiality of Included among the tactics employed to globally implement the the topics was defined by taking into account: sustainability strategy were the “More Value – Less Impact” The main sustainability topics raised by Sika’s stakeholders campaign, and the introduction at a local level of the target and The relevance for Sika’s core business reporting system in line with the Global Reporting Initiative Potential reputational impacts (GRI) standards. A summary of the key results and findings is Potential of Sika to influence/impact the topic presented on the following pages. Full details are available onRelevant laws and regulations, compliance line at www.sika.com/gri. Sika’s risk management MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Sika has taken a long-term perspective on the development of its business. Through its products, systems, and solutions, Sika seeks to generate benefits for stakeholders that outweigh the negative consequences of the production process and resource consumption. An effective strategy, trust in the company, and the dedication of all employees are the pillars of Sika’s success. The Sika journey to global leadership is founded on the com­ pany’s entrepreneurial philosophy and the Sika Spirit, which is a synonym for the strong set of five values and principles that make up the DNA and culture of the company: customer first, courage for innovation, sustainability & integrity, empowerment & respect, and manage for results. Sika considers the materiality analysis to be an important tool for identifying the most relevant economic, environmental and social aspects that are consistent with its business strategy, SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 79 SUSTAINABILITY: TARGETS AND lished to support a business model based on sustainability. An IMPLEMENTATION independent expert opinion aims to provide Sika management with further impulses regarding the direction and implementaMORE VALUE OR ENHANCING UTILITY tion of Sika’s sustainability strategy. Sika takes a long-term perspective on the development of its business, and acts with respect and responsibility towards all The SAB reviews the Sika sustainability practices step by step internal and external stakeholders. The company maintains a and has issued a number of recommendations during 2017, strong focus on safety, quality, environment, fair treatment, sowhich were reviewed. This will lead to an adaptation of the meacial involvement, responsible growth, and value creation during suring and reporting structure. As a consequence, Sika will reall business activities. fine the training and education structure as well as the target setting principles for sustainability for line managers. In addiSustainability has always been part of Sika’s identity. The comtion, a more detailed monitoring of the many social projects will pany aims to continually measure and improve sustainable valbe initiated, so that the company will have an insight into the ue creation and communicate activities and progress. “More benefits delivered. Value – Less Impact” refers to Sika’s obligation to maximize the value of its solutions and contributions for all stakeholder groups, while simultaneously minimizing the risks and resource consumption associated with value generation. The development and launch of a Regional Sustainability Academy program for Asia Pacific and Latin America, within the framework of the Sika Business School, was one key activity in the year under review. The regional Academy aims to train employees from local subsidiaries to become sustainability experts, therefore enabling them to drive and accelerate the implementation of the “More Value – Less Impact” strategy at a regional and local level. Commercial and marketing-oriented people were trained to be local champions for “More Value” and operations and EHS people to be the local champions for “Less Impact”. On completion of the program, these “ambassadors” have a deeper understanding about Sika’s Sustainability strategy, targets, principles and tools, the benefits of using sustainability as a value creation concept, and how to initiate, manage and coordinate local sustainability activities and projects from both perspectives. The Sustainability Academy will be repeated in the future and is set to become an integral part of the Sika Business School’s training program. The goal is to initiate even more ­activities in the area of sustainability and achieve further progress. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION Group Management tasked the department Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) with implementing the sustainability strategy. It is implemented and anchored locally by the line organization. A particular degree of responsibility lies with the general managers, target market managers, and operations managers, who drive the development and implementation of local action plans. The existing network of local and regional EHS&S officers ­supports the local Sika companies in ideation, planning, and implementation of higher-level regional measures. Through the “More Value – Less Impact” communication campaign, Sika ­ informed all internal stakeholders about the sustainability strategy and included them in planning and implementing respective measures. These activities were extended and intensified in 2017. Sika has installed a Sika Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) which became operational in 2016. The SAB has been estabSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 80 ECONOMICAL: PERFORMANCE INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS Inspections and audits are core elements of Sika’s comprehenSTANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE sive management system. They provide management at Group, Sika is pursuing a holistic approach to compliance, and its comregional, and local company level with a regular, independent aspliance management system involves the whole organization sessment on whether activities in scope comply with official throughout hierarchies, functions, and geographical areas. The requirements, as well as with Sika’s own internal guidelines, Sika compliance management system aims to ensure that govprinciples, and risk management specifications. The inspections ernance, risk management, and other structures and processes and audits thereby ensure the effectiveness of the relevant prowithin the Group are not only compliant with regulatory requirecesses and controls at Sika. ments, but also as effective as possible within the organization to mitigate risks and prevent financial losses. Audits are performed by various assurance functions across the group covering quality, environment, safety, health, risk, techSTRENGTHENING OF THE SIKA COMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION: nology, application, legal and compliance, branding, IT security, In the year under review, Sika continued to strengthen and train suppliers, and products. The results and subsequent corrective the Sika Compliance Organization. Sika held several Compliance actions of these audits are regularly presented to the Group Meetings, attended by the four Regional Compliance Officers. Management. Besides those assurance functions, an independent Corporate Internal Audit function, reporting to the Audit GLOBAL AWARENESS-RAISING CAMPAIGN ON COMPLIANCE: Committee of the Board of Directors, validates the effectiveIn 2017, as part of the internal Global Awarenes Raising Camness of internal controls in both legal entity audits and reviews paign on Compliance, Sika continued in the joint roll-out of the of group processes and functions. In total, Sika conducted new digital e-learning module on the company’s Code of Con117 audits in the reporting year and implemented associated imduct and the new internal web-based reporting system for seriprovements wherever necessary. ous misconducts (“Sika Trust Line”), covering an additional 25 countries and training more than 5,000 employees in the difTo ensure that suppliers also meet the official requirements and ferent regions. In 2017 two alleged cases for minor misconduct labor standards, they are required to perform self-assessments. (1 HR and 1 conflict of interest) were submitted through the Sika Sika conducts supplier audits themselves. In the year under reTrust Line. There has been no case of abuse or misuse of the view, all new suppliers were assessed according to the new vennew reporting platform. dor evaluation process. CODE OF CONDUCT: In the year under review, Sika has increased To improve supplier qualification, Sika trains sales teams in the number of languages in which the Code of Conduct is availplanning and performing supplier audits themselves. Most of able from 26 to 32. All 32 Code of Conduct official translations these inspections are overseen by safety, quality, or technology are available and accessible internally on the Corporate Policies experts. This makes it possible to work on improvements toand Manuals page on SikaConnect (internal collaboration platgether with the suppliers, including improvements in sustainform) and SikaWorld (intranet). ability. COMPLIANCE CONFIRMATION, COMMITMENT AND CHECKAs a supplier to major customers – particularly from the autoLIST 2018 (COMPLIANCE AUDITS): General Managers of all motive and industrial sectors – Sika is itself often subject to Sika companies confirm for each fiscal year compliance of the ­external audits. These audits are designed to ensure compliance corresponding Sika Company with the Code of Conduct princiwith international labor standards and prescribed quality, enviples, including information to and training of all staff. This anronment, safety, and health criteria. nual confirmation allows Sika to receive assurance that the business had been conducted throughout the organization in INVOLVEMENT OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS compliance with the Code of Conduct principles, with particular The goal of sustainable development requires the involvement focus on the following specific topics: Environment, Anti-corof every participant along the entire value chain and the identiruption, Anti-trust and Human Rights Assessments. General fication of shared topic areas of significance to all those inManagers have also renewed, in the year under review, their volved. A new relevance (materiality) analysis covering the most commitment to lead with integrity by signing a “Compliance important internal and external stakeholder groups was perCommitment”. All Sika Senior Managers have signed the Comformed in 2015. The survey endorsed the strategies adopted pliance Commitment 2018-2019. under the “More Value – Less Impact” banner. This, in turn, prompted Sika to intensify its existing ties and partnerships TRAININGS: More than 220 managers have been trained. With with important stakeholders – including customers, suppliers, regard to compliance training, Sika continues to align the conassociations and sponsorship partners/communities – by entent of the Sika Business School to enhance ethical leadership. gaging in numerous projects and collaborations at various levels In 2017, trainings and presentations on regional and local level in the year under review. The focus was on key issues, such as informed about the importance of the Code of Conduct, an inoccupational health and safety, customer health and safety, troduction on the new compliance organization, and the main sustainable solutions, and energy/water/waste. tools available to support management in mitigating risks. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 81 TAX APPROACH SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Through its tax principles, internal policies, and actions, Sika is Sika aims to be an industry leader with a portfolio of sustainable committed to being a “good corporate fiscal citizen”in pursuit of products, systems, and services. The company makes an essena long-term sustainable tax strategy, while fully and efficiently tial contribution to customers in construction and other induscomplying with national and international tax laws and regulatries to meet their sustainability targets, for example, energytions. Sika’s tax approach is in line with OECD/G20 guidelines and material-efficient vehicles and buildings. Sustainability is a and their general objectives. key component of the company’s capacity for innovation and an important driver of product development. Sika strives to extend By following a business-oriented approach, based on functions, the service life of buildings and industrial applications, to reduce assets, and operating risks when determining processes and maintenance effort, to improve energy and material efficiency, transactions, Sika has a market-based outcome where a fair and to further enhance user-friendliness and health and safety amount of taxes is paid in each jurisdiction in which the comprofiles. One of the company’s main objectives is to reduce repany operates. The outcome of the business-oriented approach source consumption, energy consumption, and the associated is always checked for its compliance with all applicable laws. CO2 emissions along the value chain – both internally and for Such an approach results in an Effective Group Tax Rate which partners and customers who place their trust in Sika products reflects Sika’s global footprint, the decentralized nature of the and solutions. The Group goals are: business, and the Group’s successful local operations. TARGET 1: All new product developments are reviewed against Sika’s 2016 Country-by-Country Report, following the relevant sustainability criteria using a standardized methodology, includOECD Guidelines, demonstrates that Sika’s Corporate Tax proacing a documented sustainability profile and an appropriate imtively implements new international tax rules and complies with provement plan where necessary. new requirements where applicable. As a new standard, the OECD/G20 requires countries to request multinational enterIMPLEMENTATION: A uniform sustainability appraisal process prises to prepare and file a Country-by-Country Report contain(including guidelines and work aids) was established throughing aggregate tax information per country relating to the global out the company that addresses the relevant sustainability indiallocation of the income, the taxes paid, and certain other indicators and forms part of the official Sika product development cators. For the Sika Group, the 2016 Country-by-Country Report process. The objective of the sustainability appraisal process is was filed during 2017 with the Swiss Tax Administration on to assess all relevant sustainability aspects of a new developa voluntary basis making Sika one of the first Swiss Groups to ment over its entire life cycle, compared with the company’s start filing for the financial year 2016, two years ahead of the own or competitors’ solutions. Economic, environmental and time when the reporting obligation will come into effect in Switsocial aspects are assessed and serve as the basis for deciding zerland. As foreseen by the OECD, the Swiss Tax Administration what measures are needed to improve the sustainability profile will share this report with other countries where Sika has a taxof a development. If a new solution fails to provide an improveable presence in order for their authorities to monitor that Sika ment over the existing product, it may not be worthwhile to furis paying its fair amount of taxes. ther pursue a particular development. On the other hand, if a significant improvement over the existing product is achieved, the relevant projects must be prioritized for special attention. In the year under review, the sustainability appraisal process was used to assess 108 new local and global product developments. Of these, 12% were identified as relevant and have ­undergone or are undergoing closer scrutiny as they offer an ­improvement over the existing product and are therefore of particular importance for the company’s sustainability. In 2017, a new one-component moisture-triggered polyurethane roof waterproofing base coat (Sikalastic®-631) was developed as part of the Sika® CoolRoof i-Cure / SikaRoof®i-Cure system. The product is based on a novel latent hardener that prevents gassing in the finished film, which can often be seen in conventional polyurethanes when applied in harsh environments. The new technology allows the final product to be formulated with reduced VOC’s (volatile organic compounds), odor, and most importantly emissions to the environment. The Sika® CoolRoof i-Cure / SikaRoof®i-Cure system fulfills LEED v4 requirements and is a high-end cool roof solution to help reduce the operational energy consumption of buildings. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 82 Another example is Sarnafil® G-410, a self-adhered thermo­ tion on the environmental performance of Sika solutions. plastic roofing membrane which was successfully launched in ­Examples include the preparation of various EPDs for major North America. The membrane design includes a pre-applied polyurethane liquid-applied membranes for roof waterproofing adhesive, which is covered with a release liner at the factory, solutions under the UK BRE standard. With this, Sika has pubproviding more consistent coverage versus adhesive applied on lished product-specific EPDs for all its major European single-ply site and double the speed and ease of application on the roof. By and LAM (liquid applied membrane) roofing brands and techeliminating the use of liquid membrane adhesives, VOCs and nologies. Furthermore, Sika was the first company in the North adhesive odors were eliminated from potentially harming appliAmerican roofing market to publish third party certified cradlecators and entering the building. The membrane is ideal for any to-grave Environmental Product Declarations (EPD). They inproject, but especially for those buildings that are sensitive to clude the full life cycle from resource extraction to factory gate, adhesive odors and fumes, such as schools, healthcare facilities through the use phase and end of life treatment. Thanks to the and office buildings. long life expectancy of the Sarnafil membranes and the company’s recycling program to take back old membranes at the TARGET 2: The major Sika national subsidiaries prepare a susend of their service life, the figures show very good results. In tainability action plan and implement all key projects planned in 2018 the EPD activities in the North American market will be this context. The plan is aligned with local trends and with marfurther extended to other product categories utilizing local US ket requirements and encompasses the key projects and topics EPD standards. that are geared to the global initiative. The interest in EPDs has grown significantly since recent verIMPLEMENTATION: All of the bigger countries in the key regions sions of the US Green Building Council’s (USGBC) LEED, the North America, Southern Europe, Northern Europe, Central EuGreen Building Initiative’s (GBI) Green Globes program and the rope, and Eastern Europe further developed product sustainabilUK’s British Research Establishment Environmental Assessity road maps in the year under review. A priority in the year unment Method (BREEAM), amongst others, award credits for der review was to extend the scope of the road map activities buildings incorporating products with EPD, which provide added into the Asia/Pacific and Latin America region. In this regard, value and comprehensive information for assessing buildings the newly created regional Sustainability Academy programs and other structures. With the increasing number of green played an important role in involving further national subsidiarbuilding projects in commercial and public construction, and ies and increasing the future number of projects and activities. having a product portfolio that contributes to multiple green building requirements, Sika is in a good position to benefit. The regional Sustainability Academy courses in Bangkok in July and Bogota in November were attended by 37 employees from With buildings having extensive direct and indirect impacts on various business segments from 19 country organizations in the the environment, operational energy efficiency is an essential Asia/Pacific and Latin America region. The participants were aspect for the building design. In the reporting year, Sika has empowered to draw up and implement local market-oriented developed an “energy-saving calculator”, which enables customroad maps with the support of local teams. Here, the commerers to quantify the contribution of the roof design on energy and cial and marketing-oriented persons were nominated to be cost savings during a building’s use phase. Possible energy trained to be local champions for “more value” and operations ­savings can be achieved through improved thermal insulation and EHS persons to be the local champion for “less impact”. On characteristics and/or reflectivity of roofing membranes. With completion of the program, the “ambassadors” have a deeper this tool, our clients can interpret the benefits of selecting Sika’s understanding of Sika’s sustainability strategy, targets, princihigh-quality roofing systems into economies of scale. The tool ples and tools, the benefits of using sustainability as a value also allows a simulation of the effect of the roof design depencreation concept and how to initiate, manage and coordinate lodent on various climate conditions. With its energy-saving cal sustainability activities and projects from both perspectives. ­approach, Sika strives to create value for its customers via cusBased on the learnigs of the Sustainability Academy, initial tomized sustainable and energy-efficient roofs. The company ­action plans were locally developed for Japan, China, Vietnam, plans to collect various case studies by introducing the new conIndonesia, Malaysia, and New Zealand. Roadmaps for the key cept into a limited number of countries step by step in order to Latin America countries Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Chile, Peru, ensure the reliability of the tool. Ecuador, Argentina, and Uruguay will follow in 2018. All of this underscores Sika’s aim to move further in the direcCustomers, as well as legislature, increasingly demand that tion of being a solution supplier, providing customers with incompanies make the environmental performance or environnovative solutions to decisively enhance the efficiency, durabilimental impact of its products more transparent. This calls for ty, and aesthetic appeal of buildings, infrastructure facilities, sound data and knowledge about the effects of product manuand installations. The integrated concepts and solutions a­ ddress facturing and the added value of finished products in their apthe entire life cycle of a built structure, from initial construction plication and use phase. In the year under review, as in years and maintenance through to refurbishment or expansion or ultibefore, Sika expanded the existing reference database for Envimately demolition. ronmental Product Declarations (EPD) for its products and systems in accordance with the international ISO and EN standards, which creates an increase in confidence by providing informaSIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 83 Brochures, product and project case studies, and videos containSOCIAL: PEOPLE ing more detailed information from a range of target markets can be found at www.sika.com/sustainability. They show how SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sika solutions support sustainable construction and help to Social, economic, and environmental issues are closely intersave energy, raw materials, and water, and reduce CO2 emistwined, and social responsibility is a necessary component of sions while meeting sustainable building standards. success. Mindful of its obligations, Sika actively engages in sustainable and humanitarian development projects, either as a member of international organizations or directly on the spot. Sika’s social involvement also embraces the sponsorship of organizations and initiatives in the fields of science, culture, and sport. Sika aims to build trust and create value – with customers, local communities, and society as a whole. The Group goal is: TARGET: 5% more social projects per year. Social projects benefit all non-commercial stakeholder groups of local companies and their neighborhoods. They encompass monetary benefits or material donations, local projects and community engagement programs, dialog with stakeholder groups, communal consultation procedures, social activities and programs, training, environmental projects, or recovery programs. In 2017, this target was achieved. IMPLEMENTATION: Sika sponsored 118 projects during the year under review (previous year: 90 projects). This equates to a yearon-year increase of 31%. The projects can be classed under the headings “social” (including donations), “ecological,” “scientific,” and “sports and cultural.” SOCIAL SPONSORSHIPS AND DONATIONS The main goals, among others, are to support communities in infrastructure development for social projects, to promote training in construction professions and trades, and to provide emergency aid to disaster-stricken regions. Sika also seeks to promote on-the-ground self-help. The local Sika companies thus put forward specific aid applications and, working with local partners, supervise the projects from site up to completion. Sika endeavors to provide intelligent support for projects through the application of company-specific expertise, voluntary work by its employees, and long-term collaboration with partners. Support of children and young people: Projects sponsored by Sika in the year under review include initiatives like the continued support of the non-profit organization Operation Smile in Vietnam and Thailand. Sika has supported the activities of ­Operation Smile in Vietnam since 2010, and in Thailand since 2014. Thanks to the assistance of committed volunteers, the organization has, since 1989, arranged operations for some 220,000 children and youths with cleft lips and palates or similar facial disfigurements. Likewise, in 2017 Sika continued the support of children’s homes throughout the world, for example in Lurín, Peru, Brasov, Romania, Madh Island, India and in Querètaro, Mexico. Education and schooling: Another focus was to support schools. In China, Sika supports the Library Project, a nationwide initiative to sponsor libraries in public schools. In the year under ­review Sika donated 18,450 books to establish libraries at 20 schools. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 84 Overall Sika has established 61 school libraries since 2015, benreporting year, Sika sponsored drinking water and environmenefiting 53,159 children. Sika was also involved in work to renotal projects in Ivory Coast, Tanzania, and Mexico. In the year unvate 21 school libraries in the mountainous regions of the der review the GNF obtained the Energy Globe Award for Green Chongqing and Sichuan provinces in the south and less develFilter Projects. These projects have been supported by Sika for oped areas of the country. In 2017, Sika also continued its supsome years, and focus on innovative and cost-effective systems port of a new school for girls and young women in Madagascar. for sewage treatment. The school prepares the young women for careers in education and is located in Tulear, a city of 150,000 inhabitants over SCIENTIFIC SPONSORSHIP 900 kilometers southwest of Antananarivo. As project sponsor, Sika engages in a lively dialog with ETH ­Zurich (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich), the UniSika Cambodia intensified its cooperation with “Smiling Gecko”, versity of Fribourg, EPFL (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology an NGO which runs several construction projects in the country. in Lausanne), the ESPCI ParisTech (School of Industrial Physics The projects are headed by architect and Professor Dirk E. Hebel and Chemistry of the City of Paris), the University of Burgundy, of ETH Zurich and supported by the Center for Development and Princeton University, the Beijing University of Chemical TechnolCooperation (CDC) of the Berner Fachhochschule. With the supogy, the University of Tokyo, and similar institutions across the port of Sika, Smiling Gecko was able to open a carpentry, which globe. Sika’s local subsidiaries co-operate with research instiprovides nine additional jobs and training places for young tutes and provide mutual support. ­Cambodians. Furthermore, five bungalows and a restaurant have been completed in the “farmhouse project”. ETH Zurich, Switzerland: In the year under review Sika continued to support the chair in Soft Materials at the ETH Zurich. ReImproving lives of people with a disability: In the year under search interests focus on soft materials – i.e., materials that are ­review, Sika increased its engagement for improving the lives of thermally deformable at room temperature – such as gels, molpeople with physical or intellectual disabilities. The team from ten polymers, and rubber and their boundary surfaces. Research Sika Spain, for example, is helping to improve the recreation into composites made of soft materials as well as colloid sys­areas of the “Carmen Pardo Valcarce” Foundation, a pioneer in tems and bacteria are further main aspects. defending the fundamental rights of people with intellectual disabilities. At Sika’s facility in Gournay-en-Bray, France, a part2017 was the eighth year in which the Sika Master Award was nership with the local governmental initiative “ESAT” (‘Centre presented to the author of an outstanding master’s thesis in d’Aide par le Travail’) supports the professional reinsertion of the field of applied chemistry, based on the recommendation of disabled people. ETH’s Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences. Sika also participates in ETH Zurich’s Partnership Council Sustainable Volunteering: Sika aims to vigorously support volunteering work Construction. This interdisciplinary forum promotes dialog on in relation to social activities and personal development. In the current research topics, supports resources and knowledge year under review, Sika teams in Switzerland provided a group of transfer, and encourages the launch of joint research projects in refugees with an enjoyable and productive day out and brought the field of sustainable construction. help and assistance to mentally impaired working individuals. Volunteering work was carried out by Sika teams in all regions: In 2014 a research group on management in emerging markets volunteers from Sika USA, Construction Specifications Institute was established at the Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences (CSI), and the local AEC community joined forces with “Rebuildof the Fribourg University, Switzerland. Since then, the Univering Together San Francisco” to take part in the “Give-Back Day.” sity of Fribourg and Sika have carried out work to address the The goal was to help provide maintenance and refurbishment to growing significance of emerging markets for the strategies of the popular community garden at Adam Rogers Park in San Western companies. Professor Dirk Morschett is an active memFrancisco’s Hunter’s Point neighborhood. In Chile, students, ber of Sika’s newly formed Sustainability Advisory Board. teachers, and Sika staff worked together to improve the access to the pre-elementary school area, including the playground, the In the year under review, Sika received the “Research Cooperabicycle parking, and the trees. tion Prize” from the Technical University of Madrid for its socioeconomic impact and relations with the university. The accolade ECOLOGICAL SPONSORSHIP recognizes the company’s commitment to innovation and its The focus of Sika’s ecological sponsorship is on water, building, model relationship with the university, which has been close for infrastructure, and renewable energy projects. The main sponmore than 20 years. sorship partner in this field is the Global Nature Fund (GNF). Sika has supported the GNF and its international Living Lakes enviSPORTS AND CULTURAL SPONSORSHIP ronmental program since 2004. Made up of over 100 partner Sika supports sports and cultural projects throughout the world. organizations from various lake regions across the globe, the The focus of sponsorship in Switzerland is on the Lucerne Living Lakes network aims to promote sustainable development ­Symphony Orchestra, the EV Zug ice hockey club, the Oberwil and the protection of drinking water, lakes, and wetlands. The ­Rebells, and the Swiss Sliding sports association. Sika France initiative uses concrete projects to demonstrate how, with the sponsors the French national handball team, who won the world involvement of the local population, positive social and economchampionship in 2017. Furthermore, Sika was presenting partner ic developments can be achieved in different regions and socie­ of the Zug Sports festival where athletes and sport clubs had ties without any threat to nature and the environment. In the the opportunity to inspire the people of Zug/Switzerland. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 85 Throughout the weekend of August 19-20, 2017, the Zug Sports ECOLOGICAL: PLANET festival offered a variety of activities for everyone to participate in or watch. LESS IMPACT: REDUCING THE NEGATIVE FOOTPRINT The following details relate to all business operations of the OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Sika Group, including the activities of newly acquired compaThe health, safety, and well-being of all Sika employees are esnies, and focus on the core themes of energy, water/waste, ocsential to the success of the company’s business and are core cupational safety, and CO2 emissions at the more than 200 Sika concerns throughout the organization. This requires focus and production sites. a systematic approach: occupational standards, management commitment, employee involvement, work site and risk analySika is continually improving its environmental protection and sis, hazard recognition and resolution, training and education safety performance through its routine investment planning are all key components of Sika’s health and safety framework. and maintenance activities. During the year under review, Sika A culture of safety and a healthy work environment are at the spent CHF 6.5 million on technical equipment to prevent accicenter of everything the company does. dents and illness. This corresponds to roughly 4% of total ­investments of CHF 163.4 million. Sika also implemented nuSika has the ambitious goal of ensuring every employee leaves merous further health, safety, environment, and sustainability the workplace healthy. The Group goal is: measures during the year under review. Expenditures in these areas came to CHF 26 million (previous year: CHF 24 million). The TARGET: 5% fewer accidents per year. This refers to the number total worldwide headcount in this field runs to over 100. Sika of work-related accidents leading to injuries and covers all Sika employs environment, safety, and sustainability specialists at employees, including temporary and subcontracted staff, at the all its major sites. company’s operating companies and units, and both industrial and nonindustrial sites. Construction projects are not factored ENERGY in. In 2017, this target was achieved. Global megatrends, such as energy and raw material shortages, urbanization, and population growth are confronting companies IMPLEMENTATION: The number of occupational accidents leadand communities with major economic, social, and ecological ing to lost work time of more than one day showed a year-onchallenges. Availability and efficient use of energy and re­sources year decrease of 8.4%. In the year under review, 8.7 occupationare crucial to sustainable development and poverty reduction. al accidents per 1,000 employees were recorded (previous year: Sika sees it as its responsibility to minimize the impact on 9.5). In 2017, injuries again caused absences of an average of ­climate change by reducing energy consumption from nonrearound 22 days (previous year: 22). This figure was strongly newable sources with the positive effect of lowering costs and ­influenced by longer absences due to injuries to the system increasing competitiveness. The Group goal is: caused by accidents while walking. TARGET: 3% less energy consumption per ton and year. This inSika will continue to make constant improvements to safety in cludes the total energy produced and consumed by all Sika oper2018, placing greater emphasis on employee participation. In ating companies and units, both industrial and nonindustrial the US, the comprehensive safety concept, which was launched sites. In 2017, this target was not achieved. in 2015 under the name “Sika Safe”, led again to a significant reduction in accident numbers in 2017 resulting in approximately IMPLEMENTATION: In 2017 Sika consumed 1,961 terajoules of 70% less accidents per 1,000 employees over the past two years. energy (previous year: 1,779 terajoules). Approximately 55% of Sika’s energy requirements were met by electrical power from the local grid. The remaining demand was mainly covered by natural gas and liquid fuels. Energy consumption per ton sold added up to 450 megajoules (previous year: 428 megajoules). This increase is mainly due to acquisitions of factories with very energy-intensive production processes (resulting in plus 2.5% of total energy consumption in comparison to last year, adjusted for acquisitions). It is part of the integration process to review and analyze the impact performance, such as energy consumption, of newly acquired sites. This will consequently initiate local improvement projects to align with Sika expectations and targets. However these improvements not only need time but also investments on shop floor level. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 86 However, overall energy consumption reduced by 17% (target IMPLEMENTATION: In 2017 Sika used approximately 1.4 million 12%) from 2013 to 2017 from 541 MJ/t to 450 MJ/t which is an cubic meters of water (previous year: 1.3 million cubic meters). average of 4.25% per year. The water consumption per ton sold was around 0.32 cubic meters (previous year: 0.32 cubic meters). CO2 EMISSIONS CO2 is a consequence of fossil energy consumption, and can only From 2016 to 2017 there was no change in the water consumpbe limited within Sika by increasing energy efficiency. This is tion. However overall, the water consumption was significantly why Sika controls its CO2 emissions via its energy target and has reduced by 52% (target 12%) from 2013 to 2017 from 0.67 m3/t not set a specific reduction target at Group level. The total emisto 0.32 m3/t, which is an average of 13% per year. sions fluctuate due to the energy mix consumed by the individual Sika entities and acquisitions. Sika’s total CO2 emissions run WASTE to around 193,000 tons compared to 187,800 tons in 2016. Efficient use of input materials is extremely important to all Sika companies, as production processes are material-intensive CO2 EMISSIONS (DIRECT): CO2 emissions from energy consumed and use high volumes of nonrenewable resources. Efficient prodirectly by all Sika operating companies and units, both indusduction in this context means reducing and reusing production trial and nonindustrial sites, and by its own vehicles are calcuscrap, reducing and reusing packaging materials, and improving lated based on the reported fuel quantities. In 2017, CO2 emispackaging design, leading to higher productivity and lower masions from the use of primary energy sources ran to around terial use. The Group goal is: 53,000 tons (previous year: 45,000 tons). Two factories in China still rely on locally sourced coal as fuel. However overall, coal TARGET: 3% less waste per ton and year. This includes all waste consumption was cut by approximately 50%. Coal has a low material sent to external contractors for disposal – except for gross calorific value and entails higher CO2 emissions than natumaterials returned to suppliers – and covers all Sika operating ral gas. Emissions were reduced at two plants by adjusting the companies and units, including industrial and nonindustrial product mix, partially replacing a coal-intensive process with a sites. In 2017, this target was not achieved. coal-free process. IMPLEMENTATION: With an increased production volume, the CO2 EMISSIONS (INDIRECT): CO2 emissions from indirect energy company generated some 80,000 tons of waste (previous year: consumption, i.e., emissions not due to Sika’s own primary en74,000 tons). This corresponds to 18.4 kilograms of waste per ergy usage, including leased vehicles and business travel, are ton sold (previous year: 17.8 kilograms per ton sold) or an inderived from the reported energy quantities. CO2 emissions crease of 3.4%. This significant increase is mainly due to newly caused by purchased electricity are calculated using current enforced regulations in Pennsylvania, USA, in regard to the disemission factors from the Greenhouse Gas protocol (GHG), charge of sewage water. This has an impact of more than 8% of ­applying average values for electric power production in each the total generated waste. As a consequence Sika is in the proparticular country. In 2017, CO2 emissions caused by electricity cess of designing its own, local waste water treatment station consumption were calculated at 102,000 tons (previous year: in order to reduce the main amount of waste and to recycle 109,000 tons), i.e. approximately twice as high as direct CO2 ­regenerated water for its production processes. emissions. Leased vehicles and business travel caused additional CO2 emissions of 22,000 and 16,000 tons respectively (previous year: 20,000 and 13,800 tons). WATER Sika aims to boost the sustainability performance of its production sites by reducing water consumption and treating water ­ locally. The company implements measures to reduce con­ sumption or to use lower-grade water qualities, especially in geographic regions where water is scarce. Efficient production means closed loop cooling and switching from public to surface and ground water, reducing the amount of drinking water used in production. By reusing wastewater, Sika aims to reduce its water consumption on a larger scale. The Group goal is: TARGET: 3% less water consumption per ton and year. This includes water consumed by all Sika operating companies and units, both industrial and nonindustrial sites, whether from public utilities or from ground or surface water sources. In 2017, this target was not achieved. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report 87 FINANCIAL REPORT 3 3.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 3.2 APPENDIX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 3.3 5-YEAR REVIEWS 12 3.4 SIKA AG FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  15 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET in CHF mn Notes 12/31/2016 12/31/2017 Cash and cash equivalents 1, 26 1,155.0 1,037.9 Accounts receivable 2, 26 1,043.1 1,188.1 Inventories 3 600.8 729.5 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 89.0 116.2 Other current assets 4, 26 9.1 12.7 Current assets 2,897.0 3,084.4 Property, plant, and equipment 5 959.2 1,065.2 Intangible assets 6 1,021.2 1,314.2 Investments in associated companies 7 6.3 6.2 Deferred tax assets 8 159.7 228.1 Other non-current assets 4, 26 55.8 94.1 Non-current assets 2,202.2 2,707.8 ASSETS 5,099.2 5,792.2 Accounts payable 9, 26 587.0 730.9 Accrued expenses and deferred income 10 223.9 253.4 Bond 12, 13, 26 0.0 150.0 Income tax liabilities 92.0 147.0 Current provisions 14 20.8 20.0 Other current liabilities 11, 13, 26 44.3 48.7 Current liabilities 968.0 1,350.0 Bonds 12, 13, 26 698.7 549.0 Non-current provisions 14 57.5 56.4 Deferred tax liabilities 8 110.2 129.3 Employee benefit obligations 15 274.6 260.0 Other non-current liabilities 11, 13, 26 42.5 36.4 Non-current liabilities 1,183.5 1,031.1 LIABILITIES 2,151.5 2,381.1 Capital stock 1.5 1.5 Treasury shares -11.0 -6.6 Reserves 2,933.8 3,389.8 Equity attributable to Sika shareholders 2,924.3 3,384.7 Non-controlling interests 23.4 26.4 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 16 2,947.7 3,411.1 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 5,099.2 5,792.2 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements 89 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FROM JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 % 2016 % 2017 Change in CHF mn Notes in % Net sales 17, 29 100.0 5,747.7 100.0 6,248.3 8.7 Material expenses 18 -44.7 -2,566.6 -45.6 -2,849.2 Gross result 55.3 3,181.1 54.4 3,399.1 6.9 Personnel expenses 19 -20.1 -1,159.1 -19.4 -1,212.1 Other operating expenses 20 -18.4 -1,056.3 -17.9 -1,118.5 Operating profit before depreciation 16.8 965.7 17.1 1,068.5 10.6 Depreciation and amortization expenses 5, 6, 21 -3.0 -170.4 -2.8 -172.2 Operating profit 29 13.8 795.3 14.3 896.3 12.7 Interest income 23 0.0 2.6 0.0 1.9 Interest expenses 22 -0.3 -20.4 -0.3 -18.3 Other financial income 23 0.1 5.2 0.2 5.9 Other financial expenses 22 -0.5 -27.4 -0.4 -24.0 Income from associated companies 23 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.3 Profit before taxes 13.1 755.8 13.8 862.1 14.1 Income taxes 8 -3.2 -189.2 -3.4 -213.1 Net profit 9.9 566.6 10.4 649.0 14.5 Profit attributable to Sika shareholders 9.8 563.1 10.3 643.5 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 24 0.1 3.5 0.1 5.5 Undiluted/diluted earnings per bearer share (in CHF) 25 221.81 253.52 14.3 Undiluted/diluted earnings per registered share (in CHF) 25 36.97 42.25 14.3 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements 90 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME % 2016 % 2017 Change in CHF mn Notes in % Net profit 9.9 566.6 10.4 649.0 14.5 Actuarial gains (+)/losses (-) on employee benefit obligations 15 0.7 44.4 1.0 63.9 Income tax effect 8 -0.1 -6.4 -0.2 -11.6 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 0.6 38.0 0.8 52.3 Exchange differences taken to equity 0.0 0.1 0.1 5.8 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.0 0.1 0.1 5.8 Other comprehensive income 0.6 38.1 0.9 58.1 Comprehensive income 10.5 604.7 11.3 707.1 16.9 Attributable to Sika shareholders 10.4 600.7 11.2 702.1 Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 4.0 0.1 5.0 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements 91 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Capital Capital Treasury Currency Retained Equity Non-conTotal stock surplus shares transearnings attributable trolling equity lation to Sika interests differsharein CHF mn ences holders January 1, 2016 1.5 203.1 -0.9 -543.3 2,870.4 2,530.8 21.3 2,552.1 Net profit 563.1 563.1 3.5 566.6 Other comprehensive income -0.4 38.0 37.6 0.5 38.1 Comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 601.1 600.7 4.0 604.7 Transactions with treasury shares 1 -10.1 -8.6 -18.7 -18.7 Share-based payments 7.7 7.7 7.7 Dividends 2 -198.0 -198.0 -1.9 -199.9 Inflation adjustment 4 1.8 1.8 1.8 December 31, 2016 1.5 203.1 -11.0 -543.7 3,274.4 2,924.3 23.4 2,947.7 January 1, 2017 1.5 203.1 -11.0 -543.7 3,274.4 2,924.3 23.4 2,947.7 Net profit 643.5 643.5 5.5 649.0 Other comprehensive income 6.3 52.3 58.6 -0.5 58.1 Comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.3 695.8 702.1 5.0 707.1 Transactions with treasury shares 1 4.4 -8.7 -4.3 -4.3 Share-based payments 5.4 5.4 5.4 Dividends 3 -243.7 -243.7 -2.0 -245.7 Inflation adjustment 4 0.9 0.9 0.9 December 31, 2017 1.5 203.1 -6.6 -537.4 3,724.1 3,384.7 26.4 3,411.1 1 Including income tax of CHF 0.4 million (CHF 0.1 million) in retained earnings. 2 Dividend per bearer share: CHF 78.00, dividend per registered share: CHF 13.00. 3 Dividend per bearer share: CHF 96.00, dividend per registered share: CHF 16.00. 4 H yperinflation accounting has been applied since January 1, 2010, and concerns the subsidiary in Venezuela. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements 92 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS in CHF mn Notes 2016 2017 Operating activities Profit before taxes 755.8 862.1 Depreciation and amortization expenses 5, 6, 21 170.4 172.2 Increase (+)/decrease (-) in provisions/ employee benefit obligations and assets 12.3 -9.6 Increase (-)/decrease (+) in net working capital 1 -29.5 -86.5 Non-liquidity-related other financial expenses (+)/income (-) as well as cash flow from hedging transactions 1 26.4 -38.2 Other adjustments 1 28 0.7 5.9 Income taxes paid -200.4 -254.0 Cash flow from operating activities 735.7 651.9 Investing activities Property, plant, and equipment: capital expenditures 5 -149.5 -158.5 Property, plant, and equipment: disposals 5.5 8.3 Intangible assets: capital expenditures 6 -5.4 -4.9 Intangible assets: disposals 0.2 0.0 Acquisitions less cash and cash equivalents -23.6 -320.4 Acquisitions (-)/disposals (+) of financial assets 0.1 -2.7 Cash flow from investing activities -172.7 -478.2 Financing activities Increase in financial liabilities 13 13.0 17.0 Repayment of financial liabilities 13 -3.8 -55.4 Repayment of a bond 12 -250.0 0.0 Purchase of treasury shares -56.7 -31.4 Sale of treasury shares 24.1 26.3 Dividend payment to shareholders of Sika AG -198.0 -243.7 Dividends related to non-controlling interests -1.9 -2.0 Cash flow from financing activities -473.3 -289.2 Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents -9.1 -1.6 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 80.6 -117.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 1,074.4 1,155.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 1,155.0 1,037.9 Cash flow from operating activities contains: Dividends from associated companies 0.6 0.5 Interest received 2.6 1.8 Interest paid -20.4 -14.4 1 Prior year restated due to the reclassification and separate disclosure of non-liquidity related other financial expenses/income as well as cash flows from hedging transactions. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements 93 APPENDIX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION AND VALUATION CORPORATE INFORMATION Sika is a specialty chemicals company active in the development and production of systems and products for bonding, sealing, damping, reinforcing, and protecting in the building sector and the motor vehicle industry. ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements of the Sika Group have been prepared in conformity with the provisions of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). All standards (IAS/IFRS) and interpretations (IFRIC/SIC) applicable as of December 31, 2017, were taken into account. The financial statements have been prepared according to the going-concern principle. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost principle with the exception of financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements are disclosed on page 97 of the download version of this report. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURES The accounting standards applied conform to those standards that were valid in the prior year. Exceptions are the following revised and new standards, which Sika applies since January 1, 2017. The application of these standards does not have any material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group. –– Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses –– Amendments to IAS 7 – Cash flow statement disclosure initiative (see note 13 “Reconciliation of financial liabilities”) –– Annual improvements (2014 – 2016 Cycle) – Collective standard with amendments to various IFRS standards with the primary goal of eliminating inconsistencies and clarifying terminology SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 94 A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for the financial year 2018 and later, and have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements. If they had been applied in 2017 they would have had no significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, except for IFRS 16: –– Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions (effective as of January 1, 2018) –– Amendments to IFRS 7, IFRS 9 and IAS 39 – Hedge accounting (applicable as of January 1, 2018) –– IFRS 9 – Financial instruments (applicable as of January 1, 2018) –– IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration (applicable as of January 1, 2018) –– IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (applicable as of January 1, 2019) –– IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers (applicable as of January 1, 2018): Entities need to apply a five-step model to determine when to recognize revenue, and at what amount. The model specifies that revenue should be recognized when (or as) an entity transfers control of goods or services to a customer at the amount to which the entity expects to be entitled. Based on an detailed analysis there is no material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, only certain additional disclosures will be required. Sika’s customer contracts primarily include the delivery of goods with no separate performance obligations. –– IFRS 16 – Leases (applicable as of January 1, 2019): The new leases standard will substantially change the financial statements. The differentiation between finance and operating lease arrangements which was required until now under IAS 17 is dropped in future for the lessee. The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognize liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is twelve months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. In addition, a right to use the underlying asset needs to be recognized. The current operating lease commitments (see note 5) provide an indication of the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 on the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. In the income statement a shift from other operating expenses towards depreciation expenses will be caused. The leasing and rent payments will be replaced by the deprecation expenses of the recognized underlying assets. Operating profit will be released from the interest rate component on the leasing liability and charged to interest expenses. New standards and interpretations are usually applied on the applicable date. However, the options for early adoption are considered individually by Sika. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 95 CONSOLIDATION METHOD BASIS The Consolidated Financial Statements are based on the balance sheets and income statements of Sika AG, Baar, Switzerland, and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017, prepared in accordance with uniform standards. SUBSIDIARIES Companies which are controlled by Sika are fully consolidated. The consolidation includes 100% of their assets and liabilities as well as expenses and income; non-controlling interests in shareholders’ equity and net income for the year are excluded and shown separately as part of non-controlling interests. ASSOCIATED COMPANIES The equity method is applied to account for investments ranging from 20% to 50%, provided that Sika exercises significant influence. The investments are included in the balance sheet under “Investments in associated companies” based on the Group’s percentage share in net assets including goodwill; in the income statement the Group’s share in the net income for the year is disclosed in “Income from associated companies”. OTHER NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Other non-controlling interests are carried at fair value. INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS Transactions within the Group are eliminated as follows: –– Intra-Group receivables and liabilities are eliminated in full. –– Intra-Group income and expenses and the unrealized profit margin from intragroup transactions are eliminated in full. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquired company. For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interests in the acquired company either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquired company’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognized at fair value on the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognized in the income statement. A contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not revalued, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of noncontrolling interest over the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in profit and loss. Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test. Impairments are recognized in the income statement. The impairment is not reversed at a later date. When subsidiaries are sold, the difference between the selling price and the net assets including goodwill plus cumulative translation differences is recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements as an operating result. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition of control or up to the effective date of loss of control. SEGMENT REPORTING Sika carries out its worldwide activities according to regions. Heads of regions are members of Group Management. Group Management is the highest operating executive body measuring the profit and loss of segments and allocating resources. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 96 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, as well as details of other key sources of estimation uncertainty on the balance sheet date, that entail a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL The Group tests for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units are determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates such as expected future cash flows and discount rates. The carrying value of goodwill as of December 31, 2017, was CHF 889.3 million (CHF 678.7 million). Further details are presented in note 6. FAIR VALUE OF ACQUISITION In connection with acquisitions, all assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities are valued at fair value. Newly identified assets and liabilities are also recognized in the balance sheet. Fair value is determined in part based on assumptions regarding factors that are subject to a degree of uncertainty, such as interest rates and sales. TRADEMARKS WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES Trademarks with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for impairment. The impairment test is performed on the cashgenerating unit or group of cash-generating units to which the trademark is allocated. This group can comprise several operating segments. The calculations of the recoverable amount require the use of estimates such as expected future cash flows and discount rates. The carrying value of trademarks with indefinite useful lives as of December 31, 2017, was CHF 72.4 million (CHF 72.4 million). Further details are presented in note 6. CUSTOMER RELATIONS Customer relations are amortized over their estimated useful life. The estimated useful life is based on estimates of the time period during which this intangible asset generates cash flows, as well as historic empirical data concerning customer loyalty. Calculation of the present value of estimated future cash flows includes significant assumptions, particularly in respect of future sales. Additionally, discounting is also based on assumptions and estimations concerning business-specific capital costs, which are themselves dependent on country risks, credit risks, and additional risks resulting from the volatility of the respective business. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets resulting from the carry forward of unrealized tax losses or timing differences are recognized to the extent that a realization of the corresponding tax advantage is probable. Assessing the probability of realizing the tax benefit requires assumptions based on planning data. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group maintains various employee benefit plans. Several statistical analysis and other variables are used in the calculation of expenses and liabilities to estimate future developments. These variables include estimations and assumptions concerning the discount rate established by management within certain guidelines. In addition, actuaries employ statistical information for the actuarial calculation of benefit liabilities such as withdrawal or death probabilities, which can deviate significantly from actual results due to changes in market conditions, the economic situation as well as fluctuating rates of withdrawal and shorter or longer live expectancy of benefit plan participants. PROVISIONS The calculation of provisions requires assumptions regarding the probability, size, occurrence, and timing of a cash outflow. As long as an outflow of resources is probable and a reliable estimation is possible, a provision is recognized. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 97 VALUATION PRINCIPLES CONVERSION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional (local) currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency on every balance sheet date by applying exchange rates valid on the balance sheet date. The resulting exchange rate differences are recognized in the income statement. The financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swiss francs as follows: –– Balance sheet at year-end rates –– Income statements at annual average rates The effects from the translation of the functional currency into Swiss francs are recognized in other comprehensive income. The rates listed below were applied: Currency Quantity 2016 2016 2017 2017 Balance sheet 1 Income Balance sheet 1 Income CHF statement 2 CHF statement 2 Country CHF CHF Egypt EGP 100 5.59 10.05 5.49 5.52 Argentina ARS 100 6.41 6.68 5.10 5.95 Australia AUD 1 0.74 0.73 0.76 0.75 Brazil BRL 100 31.30 28.19 29.45 30.87 Chile CLP 10,000 15.23 14.55 15.87 15.16 China CNY 100 14.67 14.83 14.99 14.56 Euro zone EUR 1 1.07 1.09 1.17 1.11 Great Britain GBP 1 1.24 1.33 1.32 1.27 India INR 100 1.50 1.47 1.53 1.51 Indonesia IDR 100,000 7.58 7.40 7.21 7.36 Japan JPY 100 0.87 0.91 0.87 0.88 Canada CAD 1 0.76 0.74 0.78 0.76 Colombia COP 10,000 3.39 3.23 3.27 3.33 Mexico MXN 100 4.93 5.28 4.95 5.21 Poland PLN 100 24.35 25.00 28.02 26.05 Russia RUB 1,000 16.70 14.66 16.86 16.86 Sweden SEK 100 11.24 11.52 11.89 11.52 Thailand THB 100 2.85 2.79 2.99 2.90 Turkey TRY 100 28.97 32.70 25.74 27.00 USA USD 1 1.02 0.98 0.98 0.98 Vietnam VND 100,000 4.48 4.40 4.30 4.33 1 Year-end rates. 2 A nnual average rates. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 98 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS This position includes cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of less than three months. RECEIVABLES Accounts receivable are recorded following the deduction of an allowance for doubtful debts necessary for business purposes. A specific provision for impairment is carried out on accounts receivable balances for which payment is considered at risk. INVENTORIES Raw materials and merchandise are stated at historical cost and finished and semi-finished products are stated at production cost, however not exceeding net realizable sales value. The production costs comprise all directly attributable material and manufacturing costs as well as other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Acquisition or production costs are determined using a standard cost approach, or alternatively using the weighted average cost method. Net realizable value corresponds to the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the selling costs. Allowances are made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories. PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME This item includes prepaid expenses and accrued income unrelated to accounts receivable. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment are carried at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation required for business purposes. The capitalization is made based on components. Value-enhancing expenses are capitalized and depreciated over their useful lives. Repair, maintenance, and replacement costs are charged directly to the income statement. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method and is based on the anticipated useful life of the asset, including its operational usefulness and age-related technical viability. The acquisition costs include borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. DEPRECIATION SCHEDULE Buildings 25 years Infrastructure 15 years Plants and machinery 5 – 15 years Furnishings 6 years Vehicles 4 years Laboratory equipment and tools 4 years IT hardware 3 – 4 years SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 99 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Internally generated patents, trademarks, and other rights are not capitalized. Research and development expenditures for new products are recognized in the income statement, since these do not fulfill the recognition criteria. Acquired intangible assets are usually capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method. Development costs for software are capitalized as intangible assets, provided that the software will generate a future economic benefit through sale or through use within the Group and that its cost can be reliably measured. Conditions for capitalization are the technical feasibility of the asset and the intention and ability to complete its development, as well as the availability of adequate resources. Sika has created an SAP platform with standard processes that a number of companies have been using since 2010. The further rollout will take several years to complete. The capitalized costs are transferred to the companies in the year of first use. AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE Software 3 – 5 years 1 Patents 5 – 10 years Customer relations 1 – 20 years Trademarks 3 – 10 years 1 Software is usually written off over three years with the exception of the SAP platform. For details see note 6. Acquired trademarks are amortized insofar as a useful life can be determined. Otherwise trademarks are not amortized. The indefinite useful life assessment is reviewed annually. IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS The recoverability of property, plant, and equipment as well as intangible assets is reviewed if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life as well as goodwill are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, a special depreciation allowance is recorded on the higher of fair value less cost to sell and the value in use of an asset which corresponds to the discounted, anticipated future cash flows. For the purpose of impairment tests, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). LEASING Fixed assets acquired under finance leasing contracts and therefore owned by the Group in respect to risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. Such assets are carried at the fair value of the lease property or, if lower, present value of the minimum lease payments and are reported as non-current assets and financial liabilities. Assets classified as finance leasing are depreciated over their estimated useful life or any shorter term of the lease. Unrealized earnings from sale and leaseback transactions that fall under the definition of finance leasing are shown as a liability and are realized over the lease term. Payments for operating leases are recorded as operating expenses and are charged accordingly to the income statement. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 100 DEFERRED TAXES (ASSETS/LIABILITIES) Deferred taxes are calculated using the liability method. According to this method the effects on income taxes resulting from temporary differences between Group-internal and taxable balance sheet values are recorded as deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities, respectively. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is recognized or the liability is settled based on the rates (and tax laws) that have been substantively enacted. Changes in deferred taxes are reflected in the income tax expense, the statement of comprehensive income, or directly in equity. Deferred income tax liabilities are provided for taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets including those that can be applied to carried forward tax losses are recognized to the extent that their realization is probable. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences insofar as the accounting regulations foresee no exception. LIABILITIES Current liabilities consist of liabilities with maturities of less than twelve months. Income tax liabilities include taxes due and accrued. Non-current liabilities include loans and provisions with a term of more than one year. PROVISIONS Provisions required for liabilities arising from guarantees, warranties, and environmental risks as well as restructuring costs are recognized as liabilities. Provisions are only recognized if Sika has a third-party liability that is based on a past event and can be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities (see note 27) are not recognized in the balance sheet but only for acquisitions. Potential losses due to future incidents are not recognized in the balance sheet. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group maintains various employee benefit plans that differ in accordance with local practices. Group contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement. Defined benefit plans are administered either through self-governed pension funds (funded) or recognized directly in the balance sheet (unfunded). The amount of the liabilities resulting from defined benefit plans is regularly determined by independent experts under application of the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized directly in the statement of other comprehensive income and are not reclassified subsequently to profit and loss. Asset surpluses of employee pension funds are considered under application of IFRIC 14 only to the extent of possible future reimbursement or reduction of contributions. CAPITAL STOCK The capital stock is equal to the par value of all issued bearer and registered shares. CAPITAL SURPLUS This item consists of the value of paid-in capital in excess of par value (less transaction costs). TREASURY SHARES Treasury shares are valued at acquisition cost and deducted from shareholders’ equity. Differences between the purchase price and sales proceeds of treasury shares are shown as a change in retained earnings. CURRENCY TRANSLATION DIFFERENCES This item consists of the differential amount that arises from the translation into Swiss francs of assets, liabilities, income, and expenses of Group companies that do not use Swiss francs as their functional currency. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 101 HYPERINFLATION In countries experiencing hyperinflation, prior to conversion into the presentation currency the annual financial statements are adjusted for local inflation in order to eliminate changes in purchasing power. Adjustment for inflation is based on the relevant price indices at the end of the period under review. RETAINED EARNINGS Retained earnings mainly comprise accumulated retained earnings of the Group companies that are not distributed to shareholders as well as profit/loss of treasury shares. Profit distribution is subject to local legal restrictions. FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified into the following categories: –– Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading as well as designated by the Group and derivatives, “at fair value through profit and loss”: these are initially recognized at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial result. The designation as at fair value through profit and loss is consistent with the entity’s risk management and investment strategy. –– Loans and receivables: this category includes loans granted and credit balances. The valuation occurs at nominal value insofar as repayment within one year is foreseen. Otherwise they are classified as assets carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. –– All other financial assets are classified as available-for-sale. The assets are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in other comprehensive income. Upon sale, permanent depreciation in value or other divestiture, the cumulative gains and losses that had been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified from equity to the income statement. –– Non-current financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost. Once they have been settled, financial liabilities are derecognized. All purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities are recognized on the settlement date. Financial assets are derecognized when Sika loses the rights to receive cash flows from the investment. Normally this occurs through the sale of assets or the repayment of granted loans or accounts receivable. The financial liabilities include financing debts that are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. On each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether a financial asset is impaired. If objective evidence exists that an impairment of financial assets carried at amortized cost has occurred, then the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. If in the case of accounts receivable there is objective evidence that not all amounts due will be rendered according to the originally agreed invoicing conditions (for example when there is a high probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties at a debtor), an impairment is recognized through use of an allowance account. The derecognition of receivables occurs when they are assessed as uncollectible. If an available-for-sale asset is impaired in its value, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value – is removed from equity and recognized in the income statement. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 102 INCOME STATEMENT NET SALES Proceeds from the sale of goods and services are only reported in the income statement if risks and rewards of ownership have been substantially transferred to the purchaser, revenue can be reliably measured and when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity. Net sales include all revenues from the sale of goods and services less discounts granted. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS Contract revenue and contract costs are recognized in accordance with the stage of completion. An expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately. PERSONNEL EXPENSES Personnel expenses include all payments to persons operating in an employment relationship with Sika. This item also encompasses such expenditures as pension fund contributions, health insurance contributions, and taxes and levies directly associated with personnel compensation. EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PLAN – SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans. The total amount to be recognized in profit and loss is determined by reference to the fair value at grant date of the equity instrument. The expenses are recognized in personnel expenses over the vesting period. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research expenses are recognized in the income statement. Development expenses are not capitalized if the recognition criteria have not been met. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION EXPENSES Property, plant, and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method based on the expected useful life of the asset. Intangible assets are ususally amortized using the straight-line method. INTEREST EXPENSE/OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENSES In general, all interests and other expenses paid for the procurement of loans are recognized in the income statement. Any borrowing costs accrued in the course of development projects, e.g. the construction of new production facilities or software development, are capitalized together with the assets created. INTEREST INCOME/OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME Interest income is recognized pro rata temporis using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established. INCOME TAXES Income tax expenses include income taxes based on current taxable income and deferred taxes. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 103 SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION AND ACQUISITIONS The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Sika Group comprise the financial statements of Sika AG, Zugerstrasse 50, 6340 Baar, Switzerland, as well as its subsidiaries (see list starting on page 135 et seq. of the download version of this report) and associated companies (see note 7). In the year under review the scope of consolidation was expanded to include the newly acquired companies (see the next pages) and the following companies: –– Sika El Salvador S.A. de C.V., Antiguo Cuscatlán, El Salvador –– Sika Sénégal SARLU, Dakar, Senegal –– Sikalkoat de México, S.A. de C.V., Corregidora, Mexico –– Sika Bangladesh Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh The scope of consolidation was reduced to exclude the following companies: –– Schönox GmbH, Rosendahl, Germany, was merged with Sika Deutschland GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany. –– FRC Fiber, Limited Company, Tuscaloosa, USA, was merged with Sika Corporation, Lyndhurst, USA. –– Sika Automotive Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil, was merged with Sika SA, Osasco, Brazil. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 104 ACQUISITIONS 2016 In 2016, Sika acquired various companies or parts of companies. The purchase prices and their allocation (PPA) did not change and are now final. ACQUIRED NET ASSETS AT FAIR VALUES in CHF mn Acquisitions 2016 1 Cash and cash equivalents 3.6 Accounts receivable 4.3 Inventories 3.3 Other current assets 0.5 Property, plant, and equipment 4.7 Intangible assets 12.0 Total assets 28.4 Current bank loans 0.2 Accounts payable 2.0 Other current liabilities 2.0 Provisions 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 Other non-current liabilities 0.4 Total liabilities 7.0 Acquired net assets 21.4 Goodwill 23.7 Total purchase price 45.1 Cash in acquired assets -3.6 Use of Sika bearer shares -14.0 Payments still due (per December 31, 2016) -3.9 Net cash outflow 23.6 1 L .M. Scofield, FRC Industries, Ronacrete (Far East) Ltd.; individually not material. Since the purchase, the acquisitions have contributed sales of CHF 15.9 million and net profit of CHF 0.5 million in 2016. If the acquisitions had taken place on the first day of the accounting period, their additional contribution to consolidated net sales would have been CHF 21.1 million. Consolidated net profit would have been CHF 1.3 million higher. The directly attributable transaction costs of all acquisitions amounted to CHF 0.5 million and were charged to other operating expenses. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 105 ACQUISITIONS 2017 In 2017, Sika acquired various companies. Company Type of transaction Stake in % Closing date Rmax Operating LLC, USA Share deal 100.0 1/31/2017 Bitbau Dörr GmbH, Austria Share deal 100.0 2/21/2017 ABC Sealants, Turkey Share deal 100.0 8/23/2017 KVK Holding a.s., Czech Republic Share deal 100.0 10/5/2017 Butterfield Color Inc., USA Share deal 100.0 10/31/2017 Grupo Industrial Alce, Mexico Asset deal 12/15/2017 Emseal Joint Systems, Ltd., USA Share deal 100.0 12/19/2017 RMAX OPERATING LLC On January 31, 2017, Sika acquired Rmax Operating LLC, an US-based market leader in the production of insulation products for complete building envelope solutions (roofing and wall systems). The acquisition brings technology and know-how that will accelerate Sika’s growth in the North American market. Since the purchase, Rmax has contributed sales of CHF 66.6 million and net profit of CHF 5.7 million. If the acquisition had taken place on the first day of the business year, its additional contribution to consolidated net sales would have been CHF 5.4 million. Consolidated net profit would have been CHF 0.8 million higher. Accounts receivable of Rmax had a gross value of CHF 8.2 million and were adjusted since CHF 0.5 million were classified as non-recoverable. KVK HOLDING A.S. In October, Sika further acquired KVK Holding headquartered in Prague, Czech Republic. KVK is a leading manufacturer of waterproofing and roofing systems and produces a wide range of mortar products. With the strategically located facilities Sika will strengthen its production platform and expand its geographical footprint in the Czech market. Furthermore, KVK’s strong relationships with major builders’ merchants will allow Sika to significantly enhance its presence in the Czech market. Since the purchase, KVK has contributed sales of CHF 11.9 million and net loss of CHF 1.2 million. If the acquisition had taken place on the first day of the business year, its additional contribution to consolidated net sales would have been CHF 38.0 million. Consolidated net profit would have been CHF 3.2 million higher. Accounts receivable of KVK had a gross value of CHF 10.1 million and were adjusted since CHF 0.1 million were classified as non-recoverable. EMSEAL JOINT SYSTEMS, LTD. On December 19, 2017, Sika acquired Emseal Joint Systems, Ltd., an US-based market leader in the development and manufacturing of structural expansion joint products for new construction and refurbishment. The acquisition perfectly complements Sika’s range of sealing and bonding products and offers extensive cross-selling opportunities for other Sika technologies. With manufacturing in Westborough, Massachusetts, and Toronto, Canada, Emseal is well-positioned geographically to supply the North American market. As the acquisition was completed shortly before the end of the year, Emseal has not yet contributed any share of sales. Due to the tax rate reduction in the USA, however, there has been a profit since the purchase of CHF 5.0 million. If the acquisition had taken place on the first day of the business year, its additional contribution to consolidated net sales would have been CHF 39.7 million. Consolidated net profit would have been CHF 4.1 million higher. Accounts receivable of Emseal had a gross value of CHF 3.9 million and none were classified as non-recoverable. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 106 OTHER ACQUISITIONS In February, Sika further acquired Bitbau Dörr GmbH, a leading waterproofing system manufacturer, headquartered in Innsbruck, Austria. The acquisition of Bitbau Dörr will enable Sika to expand its product portfolio. The product portfolio includes complete waterproofing systems for roofs, buildings, and civil engineering applications. In August, Sika acquired ABC Sealants, a leading manufacturer of sealants and adhesives, headquartered in Istanbul, Turkey. The acquisition will strengthen Sika’s market position in Turkey and further establish Sika as a comprehensive supplier of solutions for interior finishing applications. On October 31, Sika further acquired Butterfield Color, Inc., a US-based market leader in the production of decorative concrete floor products and systems. The products range from colors and sealers to innovative tools for stamping and texturing. Acquiring Butterfield now adds an unmatched contractor presence and, establishes Sika as the clear market leader in this fast-growing market. In addition, Sika acquired certain assets of Grupo Industrial Alce, Mexico, in mid-December to expand its own portfolio of waterproofing systems for roofs and buildings and to further expand its manufacturing footprint in Mexico. The product offerings will allow Sika to become market leader in bituminous membranes and number two in liquid-applied membranes. The other acquisitions have contributed sales of CHF 58.8 million and a net profit of CHF 1.9 million. If the acquisitions had taken place on the first day of the accounting period, their additional contribution to net sales would have been CHF 42.8 million. Consolidated net profit would have been 3.5 million higher. Accounts receivable have a gross value of CHF 11.2 million and were adjusted since CHF 1.4 million were classified as non-recoverable. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 107 ACQUIRED NET ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE Rmax KVK Emseal Other in CHF mn acquisitions 1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.9 0.3 5.2 Accounts receivable 7.7 10.0 3.9 9.8 Inventories 5.6 8.6 2.4 12.2 Other current assets 0.7 1.9 0.7 0.8 Property, plant, and equipment 5.1 22.1 1.9 11.2 Intangible assets 45.9 12.6 38.4 23.4 Total assets 65.0 56.1 47.6 62.6 Short-term loans and bank overdrafts 1.2 6.9 0.0 4.2 Accounts payable 3.0 5.2 2.2 6.8 Other current liabilities 1.1 3.2 1.5 2.5 Long-term loans and financial liabilities 0.0 20.0 9.4 0.5 Provisions 0.9 1.2 0.5 0.0 Employee benefit liabilities 0.0 0.3 0.0 1.9 Deferred tax liabilities 0.1 4.0 13.8 1.8 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities 6.4 40.8 27.4 17.7 Acquired net assets 58.6 15.3 20.2 44.9 Goodwill 53.1 25.0 66.1 44.9 Total purchase consideration 111.7 40.3 86.3 89.8 Cash in acquired assets 0.0 -0.9 -0.3 -5.2 Payments still due (per December 31, 2017) 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.3 Net cash outflow 111.7 39.4 86.0 83.3 1 Bitbau Dörr, ABC Sealants, Butterfield, and Grupo Industrial Alce; individually not material. The purchase price of the other acquisitions include performance-related contingent considerations for which a market value of CHF 1.3 million was estimated. Since the purchase prices and the purchase price allocations for all acquisitions still entail some uncertainty, all positions with the exception of “Cash and cash equivalents” are provisional. Product synergies and combined distribution channels and product portfolios justify the goodwill recognized. Goodwill in the amount of CHF 82.0 million is tax-deductible. The directly attributable transaction costs of all acquisitions amounted to CHF 3.9 million and were charged to other operating expenses. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 108 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CHF 1,037.9 MN (CHF 1,155.0 MN) The cash management of the Group includes cash pooling, in which cash and cash equivalents available within the Group are pooled. The item “Cash and cash equivalents” includes cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of less than three months, bearing interest at a respectively valid rate. 2. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE CHF 1,188.1 MN (CHF 1,043.1 MN) The following tables show accounts receivable, the development of the allowance for doubtful debts as well as the portion of not overdue and overdue receivables including their age structure. Accounts receivable are non-interest-bearing and are generally due within 30 to 90 days. MOVEMENTS ON THE ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL DEBTS in CHF mn 2016 2017 January 1 65.4 65.9 Additions to or increase in allowances 17.1 18.2 Reversal of allowances -5.3 -7.0 Utilization of allowances -9.7 -9.4 Exchange differences -1.6 0.8 December 31 65.9 68.5 AGE DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE in CHF mn 2016 2017 Net accounts receivable 1,043.1 1,188.1 Of which Not overdue 793.7 908.5 Past due < 31 days 158.1 174.7 Past due 31 – 60 days 43.8 48.1 Past due 61 – 180 days 36.5 43.9 Past due > 181 days 11.0 12.9 The increase and decrease of allowances for doubtful debts are recognized in other operating expenses. Amounts entered as allowances are usually derecognized when payment is no longer expected. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 109 3. INVENTORIES CHF 729.5 MN (CHF 600.8 MN) in CHF mn 2016 2017 Raw materials and supplies 182.4 227.6 Semi-finished goods 44.4 52.7 Finished goods 311.3 378.5 Merchandise 62.7 70.7 Total 600.8 729.5 4. OTHER ASSETS CHF 106.8 MN (CHF 64.9 MN) The assets contained in this category and any changes in them can be seen in the following table. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS in CHF mn 2016 2017 Derivatives (at fair value through profit and loss) 4.3 5.1 Loans (loans and receivables) 3.0 5.3 Securities (at fair value through profit and loss) 1.8 2.2 Other financial assets 9.1 12.6 Other non-financial assets 0.0 0.1 Other current assets 9.1 12.7 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS in CHF mn 2016 2017 Securities (at fair value through profit and loss) 38.3 45.3 Loans (loans and receivables) 1.7 1.5 Other financial assets 40.0 46.8 Employee benefit assets 1 15.8 47.3 Other non-current assets 55.8 94.1 1 Includes the excess of assets for employee benefit plans with defined benefits, see note 15. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 5. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT CHF 1,065.2 MN (CHF 959.2 MN) Property Plant Equipment Plants and Total buildings under in CHF mn construction At January 1, 2016 Acquisition cost 113.5 641.0 1,489.6 83.1 2,327.2 Cumulative depreciation and impairment -1.4 -388.7 -1,012.2 -0.6 -1,402.9 Net values at January 1, 2016 112.1 252.3 477.4 82.5 924.3 Additions 2.9 10.5 59.7 76.4 149.5 Acquired on acquisition 1.7 1.1 1.8 0.1 4.7 Exchange differences 0.3 0.0 1.7 1.4 3.4 Disposals -0.7 -1.2 -1.9 0.0 -3.8 Reclassifications 1 7.5 41.4 57.5 -107.0 -0.6 Depreciation charge for the year 0.0 -20.9 -97.4 0.0 -118.3 At December 31, 2016 123.8 283.2 498.8 53.4 959.2 As January 1, 2017 Acquisition cost 125.3 692.5 1,582.6 53.4 2,453.8 Cumulative depreciation and impairment -1.5 -409.3 -1,083.8 0.0 -1,494.6 Net values at January 1, 2017 123.8 283.2 498.8 53.4 959.2 Additions 2 7.7 31.9 41.3 102.1 183.0 Acquired on acquisition 6.3 6.6 25.0 2.4 40.3 Exchange differences 1.7 4.8 6.6 0.1 13.2 Disposals -2.6 -0.9 -2.7 0.0 -6.2 Reclassifications 1 0.1 7.3 60.4 -67.8 0.0 Depreciation charge for the year 0.0 -21.2 -103.1 0.0 -124.3 At December 31, 2017 137.0 311.7 526.3 90.2 1,065.2 Acquisition cost 138.7 748.6 1,702.0 90.2 2,679.5 Cumulative depreciation and impairment -1.7 -436.9 -1,175.7 0.0 -1,614.3 Net values at December 31, 2017 137.0 311.7 526.3 90.2 1,065.2 1 Plants and buildings under construction are reclassified after completion within property, plant, and equipment as well as intangible assets. 2 T he cash outflows from investments amount to CHF 158.5 million. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 111 In principle all plants are owned by subsidiaries. Some smaller plants as well as the adhesive plant in Düdingen, Switzerland, and a Swiss logistics center are financed by operating leases. Operating leases also relate to data processing equipment and copiers as well as vehicles used by the sales force. Leasehold contracts are insignificant. Plant and equipment includes machinery, vehicles, equipment, furnishings, and hardware. Rent and operating lease expenses in the amount of CHF 112.4 million (CHF 104.7 million) were recognized. Operating leases Finance leases 2016 2017 2016 2017 Minimum Minimum Minimum Interest Present Minimum Interest Present payments payments payments value payments value in CHF mn of payments of payments Within 1 year 88.9 88.8 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.2 1 – 5 years 170.7 151.2 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.3 Over 5 years 57.6 67.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 317.2 307.8 0.4 0.0 0.4 0.5 0.0 0.5 6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CHF 1,314.2 MN (CHF 1,021.2 MN) Goodwill Software Trademarks Customer Other Total in CHF mn relations intangibles At January 1, 2016 Acquisition costs 669.2 147.9 124.8 319.9 102.0 1,363.8 Cumulative amortization and impairment -7.5 -106.0 -22.4 -133.7 -56.3 -325.9 Net values at January 1, 2016 661.7 41.9 102.4 186.2 45.7 1,037.9 Additions 0.0 5.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 5.4 Acquired on acquisition 23.7 0.0 3.7 6.7 1.6 35.7 Exchange differences -6.7 0.1 0.5 0.0 -0.1 -6.2 Disposals 0.0 -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 Reclassifications (net) 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 -0.2 0.6 Amortization for the year 0.0 -13.8 -7.1 -22.8 -8.4 -52.1 At December 31, 2016 678.7 34.1 99.5 170.1 38.8 1,021.2 At January 1, 2017 Acquisition costs 685.7 148.4 108.5 310.4 103.2 1,356.2 Cumulative amortization and impairment -7.0 -114.3 -9.0 -140.3 -64.4 -335.0 Net values at January 1, 2017 678.7 34.1 99.5 170.1 38.8 1,021.2 Additions 0.0 4.4 0.3 0.0 0.2 4.9 Acquired on acquisition 189.1 0.1 19.0 87.7 13.5 309.4 Exchange differences 21.5 0.8 0.0 4.1 0.2 26.6 Amortization for the year 0.0 -9.2 -6.4 -24.7 -7.6 -47.9 At December 31, 2017 889.3 30.2 112.4 237.2 45.1 1,314.2 Acquisition costs 896.4 154.1 127.9 403.8 117.6 1,699.8 Cumulative amortization and impairment -7.1 -123.9 -15.5 -166.6 -72.5 -385.6 Net values at December 31, 2017 889.3 30.2 112.4 237.2 45.1 1,314.2 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 112 The intangible assets (except for goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful lives) each have finite useful lives over which the assets are amortized. The internally developed SAP platform used since 2010 will be amortized on the basis of its effective use within the Group. The carrying value was CHF 20.4 million (CHF 23.3 million) as of December 31, 2017. The remaining useful life is estimated to be between 4 and 7 years. Trademarks may have an indefinite useful life because they are influenced by internal and external factors such as strategic decisions, competitive and customer behavior, technical development, and changing market requirements. The carrying value of trademarks with indefinite useful lives amounts to CHF 72.4 million (CHF 72.4 million) and is subject to an annual impairment test. GOODWILL ITEMS TESTED FOR IMPAIRMENT. Impairment tests were performed on all goodwill items. The carrying amounts of trademarks with indefinite useful lives are allocated to the carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in accordance with the proportionate share of sales. The impairment tests are based on the discounted cash flow method. The calculation of the value in use is based on the target figures and cash flow forecasts. The forecasting horizon is three years as approved by the Board of Directors. The growth rates upon which the forecast is set correspond to the market expectations of the cash-generating units and range between 4.7% and 11.8% (4.3% and 10.0%) per year. The sensitivity analysis carried out shows that a realistic change in the key assumptions (-1% in growth rates or +0.5% of the discount rate) would not result in the realizable value falling below the book value. The cash flow forecast beyond the planning period is extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.0% to 3.9% (2.5% to 4.5%). The discount rates are determined on the basis of the weighted average cost of capital of the Group, with countryand currency-specific risks within the context of cash flows taken into consideration. The business segments within the regions constitute the cash-generating units. GOODWILL ASSIGNED TO CASH-GENERATING UNITS Growth Discount Trademarks Goodwill rates (%)1 rates (%)2 with indefinite in CHF mn useful lives December 31, 2016 Construction business EMEA 2.5 8.3 29.1 403.0 Industrial manufacturing EMEA 2.6 8.3 19.6 Construction business North America 2.8 10.6 43.3 107.4 Construction business Latin America 4.5 18.4 11.0 Construction business Asia/Pacific 3.5 10.7 89.2 Automotive 3.2 9.6 48.5 Total 72.4 678.7 December 31, 2017 Construction business EMEA 2.1 7.2 27.7 466.5 Industrial manufacturing EMEA 2.2 7.4 20.9 Construction business North America 2.3 9.8 44.7 238.3 Construction business Latin America 3.9 17.7 22.3 Construction business Asia/Pacific 2.5 9.8 90.1 Automotive 2.0 8.7 51.2 Total 72.4 889.3 1 Growth rate beyond the planning period. 2 Pre-tax discount rates (%). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 113 7. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES CHF 6.2 MN (CHF 6.3 MN) The following associated companies are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017: Condensil SARL, France (Sika stake 40%), Part GmbH, Germany (50%), Sarna Granol AG, Switzerland (50%), Hayashi-Sika Automotive Ltd., Japan (50%), Chemical Sangyo Ltd., Japan (50%), and Seven Tech Co. Ltd., Japan (50%). The stakes are unchanged compared to the prior year. The following amounts represent the Group’s stake in net sales, and net income of associates. ASSOCIATED COMPANIES (PARTICIPATIONS BETWEEN 20% AND 50%) in CHF mn 2016 2017 Sales 20.2 21.7 Profit 0.4 0.3 8. INCOME TAXES CARRY FORWARD OF TAX LOSSES, FOR WHICH NO DEFERRED TAX ASSETS HAVE BEEN RECOGNIZED in CHF mn 2016 2017 1 year or less 0.0 0.0 1 – 5 years 5.6 7.8 Over 5 years or non-expiring 2.6 6.0 Total 8.2 13.8 The underlying average tax rate is 27.1% (24.8%). RECONCILIATION OF NET DEFERRED TAX ASSETS in CHF mn 2016 2017 January 1 16.3 49.5 Credited (+)/debited (-) to income statement 40.0 81.0 Credited (+)/debited (-) to other comprehensive income -6.4 -11.6 Exchange differences 1.8 -0.4 Acquisitions/divestments -2.2 -19.7 December 31 49.5 98.8 ORIGIN OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2016 2017 in CHF mn Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Tax losses brought forward 20.1 20.1 13.6 13.6 Current assets 22.5 -10.1 12.4 22.1 -13.3 8.8 Property, plant, and equipment 7.9 -31.7 -23.8 8.1 -28.8 -20.7 Other non-current assets 1 29.3 -56.4 -27.1 115.9 -70.3 45.6 Liabilities 79.9 -6.0 73.9 68.4 -7.7 60.7 Withholding taxes on dividends 0.0 -6.0 -6.0 0.0 -9.2 -9.2 Total 159.7 -110.2 49.5 228.1 -129.3 98.8 1 Increase in deferred tax assets of CHF 94.6 million in 2017 due to the transfer of intangible assets for CHF 1,000.0 million from Sika AG to Sika Technology AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sika AG. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 114 In the year under review, deferred tax assets from carried forward tax losses of CHF 5.6 million (CHF 4.0 million) were offset and deferred carried forward tax losses of CHF 0.7 million (CHF 0.6 million) were generated. As a result of valuation adjustments, they increased by CHF 0.5 million (reduction of CHF 12.9 million). The tax rate decreased to 24.7% (25.0%). Income taxes of CHF 213.1 million (CHF 189.2 million) consist of: INCOME TAXES in CHF mn 2016 2017 Income tax during the year under review 227.9 291.9 Deferred income tax -40.0 -81.0 Income tax from prior years 1.3 2.2 Total 189.2 213.1 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN ANTICIPATED AND EFFECTIVE TAX EXPENSE in CHF mn % 2016 % 2017 Profit before taxes 755.8 862.1 Anticipated tax expense 24.0 181.4 23.4 201.7 Non-taxable income/non-tax-deductible expenses 0.4 3.5 0.6 5.6 Change in anticipated tax rate 0.0 0.1 -0.1 -1.0 Adjusted tax expense from earlier periods 0.2 1.3 0.2 2.2 Valuation adjustment on deferred tax assets -1.4 -10.8 0.2 1.7 Withholding tax on dividends, licenses, and interests 2.2 16.9 2.5 21.4 Other 1 -0.4 -3.2 -2.1 -18.5 Tax expense as per consolidated income statement 25.0 189.2 24.7 213.1 1 In 2017, this includes a net tax effect of CHF -16.3 million (income taxes of CHF 78.3 million and deferred tax income of CHF 94.6 million) resulting from the sale of intangible assets for CHF 1,000 million from Sika AG to Sika Technology AG. The anticipated average Group income tax rate of 23.4% (24.0%) corresponds with the average tax on profits of the individual Group companies in their respective fiscal jurisdictions. The change in the anticipated tax rate is attributable to changing profits of the Group companies in their respective fiscal jurisdictions and to changes in their tax rates in some cases. 9. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE CHF 730.9 MN (CHF 587.0 MN) Accounts payable do not bear interest and will usually become due within 30 to 60 days. 10. ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME CHF 253.4 MN (CHF 223.9 MN) Accrued expenses and deferred income relate to outstanding invoices and liabilities for the past financial year, including performance-based compensation payables to employees and social security expenses in the following year. In addition, deferred revenues for warranty extensions in the amount of CHF 4.0 million (CHF 4.1 million) are included (see note 17). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 115 11. OTHER LIABILITIES CHF 85.1 MN (CHF 86.8 MN) OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES in CHF mn 2016 2017 Derivatives (at fair value through profit and loss) 10.5 5.7 Bank loans 19.8 22.6 Other financial liabilities 14.0 20.4 Other current liabilities 44.3 48.7 A number of Group companies have their own credit lines. The total amount is insignificant in scale. The credit lines are used in individual cases when intra-Group financing is not permitted or there are benefits from local financing. OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES in CHF mn 2016 2017 Bank loans 0.0 0.9 Other financial liabilities 8.7 3.4 Other non-financial liabilities 1 33.8 32.1 Other non-current liabilities 42.5 36.4 1 Includes deferred revenue in the amount of CHF 32.1 million (CHF 33.8 million). For details see note 17. 12. BONDS CHF 150.0 MN SHORT-TERM/CHF 549.0 MN LONG-TERM (CHF 0.0 MN/CHF 698.7 MN) Sika AG has the following bonds outstanding: 2016 2017 in CHF mn Book value Nominal Book value Nominal 1.000% 2012 – 2018 149.9 150.0 150.0 150.0 1.125% 2013 – 2019 199.7 200.0 199.8 200.0 1.750% 2012 – 2022 149.9 150.0 149.9 150.0 1.875% 2013 – 2023 199.2 200.0 199.3 200.0 Total 698.7 700.0 699.0 700.0 13. RECONCILIATION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Bank loans Bonds Other Total financial financial in CHF mn liabilities liabilities As January 1, 2017 19.8 698.7 33.2 751.7 Proceeds 14.4 0.0 2.6 17.0 Repayments -46.9 0.0 -8.5 -55.4 Cash flow -32.5 0.0 -5.9 -38.4 Acquired on acquisition 37.2 0.0 5.0 42.2 Exchange differences -1.0 0.0 0.4 -0.6 Other changes 0.0 0.3 -3.2 -2.9 Non-cash movements 36.2 0.3 2.2 38.7 At December 31, 2017 23.5 699.0 29.5 752.0 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 116 14. PROVISIONS CHF 76.4 MN (CHF 78.3 MN) Provisions for guarantees reflect all known claims anticipated in the near future. The amounts of the provision are determined on the basis of experience and are therefore subject to a degree of uncertainty. The outflow of funds depends on the timing of the filing and conclusion of warranty claims. Provisions for sundry risks include loan guarantees as well as open and anticipated legal and tax cases with a probability of occurrence above 50%. From the sum of provisions, CHF 56.4 million (CHF 57.5 million) are shown as non-current liabilities, since an outflow of funds is not expected within the next twelve months. For provisions of CHF 20.0 million (CHF 20.8 million), an outflow of funds is expected during the next twelve months. These amounts are shown as current provisions. Provisions in CHF mn Warranties Sundry risks Total Current provisions 13.1 6.9 20.0 Non-current provisions 29.2 27.2 56.4 Provisions 42.3 34.1 76.4 Reconciliation At January 1, 2017 45.8 32.5 78.3 Additions 16.9 8.6 25.5 Assumed on acquisition 0.3 2.3 2.6 Exchange differences 0.9 0.1 1.0 Utilization -15.6 -5.3 -20.9 Reversal -6.0 -4.1 -10.1 At December 31, 2017 42.3 34.1 76.4 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 117 15. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS To complement the benefits provided by state-regulated pension schemes, Sika maintains additional employee pension plans for a number of subsidiaries. In principle these fall into the following categories: DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION FUNDS. The majority of Sika subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension plans. In these, employees and employer regularly contribute to funds administered by third parties. This does not give rise to any assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUNDS. Defined benefit pension plans for staff exist at 41 Group companies. The biggest plans are in Switzerland, accounting for 78.5% ( 79.5 %) of Sika’s entire defined benefit pension obligations and 96.2% (96.2%) of plan assets. SWISS PENSION PLANS. Sika companies in Switzerland have legally independent foundations for this purpose, thereby segregating their pension obligation liabilities. In accordance with local statutory requirements, Sika has no obligations to these pension plans beyond the regulatory contributions and any recapitalization contributions that may become necessary. According to IAS 19, the Swiss pension plans qualify as defined benefit plans, so the actuarially calculated surplus or deficit is recognized in the consolidated balance sheet. The supreme governing body of the pension fund is composed of equal numbers of employee and employer representatives. There is also a management pension scheme and a welfare foundation, which provide statutory benefits, and a scheme that enables employees to take early retirement. Both the Sika pension fund and the welfare foundation bear the investment risks and the age risk themselves. As the supreme governing body of the pension fund, the Board of Trustees is responsible for investment. The investment strategy is defined so as to ensure that the benefits can be provided when they become due. The pension fund has concluded a contract for matching reinsurance for the risks of death and invalidity. The insurance-related and investment risks of the management pension scheme are fully reinsured. The retirement pension is calculated using the retirement assets available at the time of retirement multiplied by the conversion rates specified in the regulations. The employee has the opportunity to withdraw pension benefits in the form of a lump sum. The Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors’, and Disability Pensions (BVG) governs the way in which employees and employer must jointly participate in any restructuring measures in the event of a significant deficit, such as by making additional contributions. In the current year, as in the prior year, the Swiss pension plans are showing a surplus under BVG and it is not expected that additional contributions will be necessary for the next year. This year the benefits of the insurance plan were adjusted by reducing the conversion rate and increasing the savings contributions. This led to an adjustement in the pension plan and is therefore recognized in the income statement as a gain on a plan curtailment (CHF 9.9 million). 2016 2017 in CHF mn Assets 1 Liabilities Net Assets 1 Liabilities Net Employee benefit plans with defined benefits 15.8 210.0 194.2 47.3 184.5 137.2 Other employee commitments 29.2 64.6 35.4 35.3 75.5 40.2 Total 45.0 274.6 229.6 82.6 260.0 177.4 1 Includes employee benefit assets recognized in balance sheet for employee benefit plans with defined benefits (see note 4) as well as financial assets for non-qualifying pension plans recognized in other non-current financial assets (securities). Other long-term liabilities arise from long-service bonuses and similar benefits that Sika grants to its employees. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 118 MOVEMENT IN THE NET DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Present value Fair value Impact Total in CHF mn of obligation of plan assets of asset ceiling At January 1, 2016 -883.9 657.7 -0.9 -227.1 Current service cost -31.4 -31.4 Interest expense/interest income -10.6 6.5 -4.1 Total expense recognized in income statement -42.0 6.5 -35.5 thereof Switzerland -31.7 5.7 -26.0 thereof others -10.3 0.8 -9.5 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 24.3 24.3 Gains (+)/losses (-) from change in financial assumptions 4.3 4.3 Gains (+)/losses (-) from change in demographic assumptions 10.3 10.3 Experience gains (+)/losses (-) 4.6 4.6 Change in asset ceiling 0.9 0.9 Total remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income 19.2 24.3 0.9 44.4 thereof Switzerland 35.8 22.3 0.9 59.0 thereof others -16.6 2.0 0.0 -14.6 Exchange differences 1.1 -0.3 0.8 Contributions by employers 18.4 18.4 Contributions by plan participants -12.1 12.1 0.0 Benefits paid 28.9 -22.8 6.1 Settlements paid 1.5 -1.5 0.0 Acquired in a business combination and others -1.3 0.0 -1.3 At December 31, 2016 -888.6 694.4 0.0 -194.2 thereof Switzerland -706.7 667.7 0.0 -39.0 thereof others -181.9 26.7 0.0 -155.2 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 119 Present value Fair value Impact Total in CHF mn of obligation of plan assets of asset ceiling At January 1, 2017 -888.6 694.4 0.0 -194.2 Current service cost -28.7 -28.7 Interest expense/interest income -8.4 5.3 -3.1 Past service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments 9.9 9.9 Total expense recognized in income statement -27.2 5.3 -21.9 thereof Switzerland -16.8 4.7 -12.1 thereof others -10.4 0.6 -9.8 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 61.1 61.1 Gains (+)/losses (-) from change in financial assumptions 4.2 4.2 Gains (+)/losses (-) from change in demographic assumptions -0.1 -0.1 Experience gains (+)/losses (-) 0.3 0.3 Change in asset ceiling -1.6 -1.6 Total remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income 4.4 61.1 -1.6 63.9 thereof Switzerland 0.3 62.3 -1.6 61.0 thereof others 4.1 -1.2 0.0 2.9 Exchange differences -12.9 1.7 -11.2 Contributions by employers 19.1 19.1 Contributions by plan participants -13.2 13.2 0.0 Benefits paid 40.7 -32.0 8.7 Settlements paid 0.1 0.0 0.1 Acquired in a business combination and others -1.7 0.0 -1.7 At December 31, 2017 -898.4 762.8 -1.6 -137.2 thereof Switzerland -705.6 734.0 -1.6 26.8 thereof others -192.8 28.8 0.0 -164.0 The contributions that are expected to be paid into the defined benefit pension plans for 2018 amount to CHF 21.3 million. The Group’s total expenses for employee benefits are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements under “Personnel expenses”. The stated deficit results mainly from the defined benefit obligation of the unfunded benefit plans of CHF 146.9 million (CHF 139.2 million). Schemes in Germany, in particular, do not have segregated assets. For the Swiss pension plans the result is a surplus of CHF 26.8 million (underfunding of CHF -39.0 million). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 120 MAJOR CATEGORIES OF TOTAL PLAN ASSETS 2016 2017 Switzerland Others Total SwitzerOthers Total in CHF mn land Cash and cash equivalents 25.0 14.2 39.2 45.7 6.4 52.1 Equity instruments 269.7 2.6 272.3 308.1 2.5 310.6 Debt instruments 235.8 1.8 237.6 230.7 1.9 232.6 Real estate investments 114.2 0.0 114.2 126.7 10.2 136.9 Other assets 23.0 8.1 31.1 22.8 7.8 30.6 Total 667.7 26.7 694.4 734.0 28.8 762.8 Most of the plan assets of the pension schemes are invested in assets with quoted market prices. In the year under review, 10.6% (12.7%) of the investments in real estate and 8.5% (6.1%) of the other assets did not have a quoted market price. AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN PLAN ASSETS in CHF mn 2016 2017 Shares Sika AG 23.9 31.7 Own property occupied by Sika 9.4 11.0 Total 33.3 42.7 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE) 2016 2017 Switzerland Others Switzerland Others Discount rate in the year under review (%) 0.7 1.9 0.7 2.1 THE SENSITIVITY OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION TO CHANGES IN THE PRINCIPAL ASSUMPTIONS in CHF mn Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Switzerland Others Discount rate +0.25% -27.0 -7.3 Discount rate -0.25% 28.9 7.7 NUMBER OF PLANS AND INSURED PERSONS 2016 2017 Switzerland Others Switzerland Others Total number of defined benefit plans 5 37 5 38 thereof number of defined benefit plans funded 4 10 4 10 thereof number of defined benefit plans unfunded 1 27 1 28 Average weighted duration in years 16.2 16.8 15.9 16.2 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 121 16. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY CHF 3,411.1 MN (CHF 2,947.7 MN) Equity accounts for 58.9% (57.8%) of the balance sheet total. CAPITAL STOCK in CHF mn Number 2016 2017 Registered shares, nominal value CHF 0.10 2,333,874 0.2 0.2 Bearer shares, nominal value CHF 0.60 2,151,199 1.3 1.3 Capital stock 1.5 1.5 The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting payment of a dividend of CHF 18.50 per registered share and of CHF 111.00 per bearer share, in the total amount of CHF 281.8 million, to the shareholders of Sika AG. The capital stock is divided into the following categories: Bearer shares 1 Registered shares Total 1 nominal value CHF 0.60 nominal value CHF 0.10 12/31/2016 (units) 2,151,199 2,333,874 4,485,073 Nominal value (CHF) 1,290,719 233,387 1,524,107 12/31/2017 (units) 2,151,199 2,333,874 4,485,073 Nominal value (CHF) 1,290,719 233,387 1,524,107 1 Includes treasury shares, 1,098 bearer shares, and 270 registered shares (2,666 bearer shares), which do not carry voting and dividend rights. 17. NET SALES CHF 6,248.3 MN (CHF 5,747.7 MN) Sales of goods account for practically all net sales. In comparison with the prior year, net sales denominated in Swiss francs increased by 8.7%. Taking currency effects amounting to -0.3% into consideration, sales increased in local currencies by 9.0%, including a growth from acquisitions of 2.7%. Extended warranty contracts are sold for certain products on installed roofing systems. Revenue for separately priced extended warranties is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the extended warranty period. In 2017, revenues of CHF 4.2 million (CHF 4.2 million) were recognized. The contract balances are included in accrued expenses and deferred income (see note 10) as well as in other non-current non-financial financial liabilities (see note 11). 18. MATERIAL EXPENSES CHF 2,849.2 MN (CHF 2,566.6 MN) Material expenses increased as a percentage of net sales by 0.9 percentage points mainly due to higher raw material costs and acquisition effects. The gross result decreased from 55.3% to 54.4%. Material expenses include the value adjustment expenses for unsaleable goods and depreciation and amortization due to inventory differences in the amount of CHF 25.5 million (CHF 24.0 million). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 122 19. PERSONNEL EXPENSES CHF 1,212.1 MN (CHF 1,159.1 MN) Personnel expenses decreased in relation to sales from 20.1% to 19.4%, mainly due to further efficiency improvements and selective structural adjustments in some countries. in CHF mn 2016 2017 Wages and salaries 941.0 990.9 Social charges 218.1 221.2 Personnel expenses 1,159.1 1,212.1 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS in CHF mn 2016 2017 Employee benefit plans with defined benefits 1 31.4 18.8 Other employee benefit plans 38.5 41.3 Employee benefit costs 69.9 60.1 1 Includes pension expense recognized in income statement (see note 15) without interest income/interest expenses. EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION PLAN – SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Sika operates the following share-based compensation plans: PERFORMANCE BONUS (SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE). Sika Senior Management (by definition, Sika Senior Management includes the management level reporting into Group Management, 167 participants) and Group Management receive shares of Sika AG as a component of their variable compensation. The shares are granted at the average market price of the first five trading days in April of the subsequent business year. The allocated shares are subject to a blocking period of four years. The following different share plans are in place: Sika Senior Managers may draw optionally 0%, 20% or 40% of the performance bonus in the form of shares of Sika AG. As remuneration for the services rendered by them in 2016, they drew 591 shares at a fair value of CHF 3.6 million in 2017 (CHF 6,075 per share). In 2016, the fair value of the compensation for 2015 amounted to CHF 3.2 million (824 shares at CHF 3,870). Members of the Group Management may draw optionally 0%, 20% or 40% of the performance bonus in the form of shares of Sika AG. As compensation for the services rendered by them in 2016, in 2017, they drew 103 shares at a fair value of CHF 0.6 million (CHF 6,075 per share). In 2016, the fair value of the compensation for 2015 amounted to CHF 1.2 million (303 shares at CHF 3,870). LONG-TERM INCENTIVE (LTI-PLAN). The long-term incentive for members of the top management (extended Group Management) is granted in performance share units (PSU) that will be paid out in shares of Sika AG after a three-year vesting period. In 2017, 1,242 shares at a fair value of CHF 7.5 million (CHF 6,075 per share) were allocated to the members of the top management as part of the LTI. In 2016, the fair value of the compensation for 2015 amounted to CHF 5.7 million (1,477 shares at CHF 3,870). The long-term variable remuneration for Sika Senior Managers is granted in performance share units (PSU). The PSUs are paid out in cash after a three-year vesting period. For senior managers who are transferred to another country during the vesting period, a pro-rata payout is made immediately in form of shares for the time of the vesting period that has elapsed until the transfer. The shares are granted at the fair value of the grant date and are blocked until the end of the vesting period. In 2017, 63 shares at a fair value of CHF 0.5 million were allocated. In 2016, the fair value of the compensation for 2015 amounted to CHF 0.2 million (40 shares). Share-based remunerations are made by means of the transfer of treasury shares of Sika AG. The personnel expenses recognized for services received in the 2017 business year totaled CHF 30.1 million (CHF 26.7 million) of which the amount of CHF 5.4 million (CHF 7.7 million) was taken to equity and the amount of CHF 24.7 million (CHF 19.0 million) was recognized under liabilities. No dilution effect has resulted because no additional shares have been issued. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 123 20. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES CHF 1,118.5 MN (CHF 1,056.3 MN) Other operating expenses showed a below-average development compared to volume growth, with the cost ratio improving from 18.4% to 17.9%. Cost savings were recorded in particular in other administrative expenses and warranty costs. Furthermore, the costs for logistics and distribution have developed slightly above average. in CHF mn 2016 2017 Production and operation 1 373.0 398.8 Logistics and distribution 264.6 295.1 Sales, marketing, and travel costs 206.2 218.5 Administration and other costs 2 212.5 206.1 Total 1,056.3 1,118.5 1 T his position includes primarily rental and lease expenses as well as costs for maintenance, repairs, and energy. 2 T his position includes primarily costs of services and consulting in the fields of law, tax, and information technology. Furthermore it covers training costs and government fees as well as costs for warranty settlements and legal claims. Expenditures on research and development in the Group during the year under review totaled CHF 180.8 million (CHF 172.1 million), roughly equivalent to 2.9% (3.0%) of sales. Research and development expenses are included in personnel expenses, other operating expenses, as well as in depreciation and amortization expenses. 21. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION EXPENSES CHF 172.2 MN (CHF 170.4 MN) The amount includes the regular depreciation and amortization expenses of tangible and intangible assets. 22. INTEREST EXPENSES/OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENSES CHF 42.3 MN (CHF 47.8 MN) Interest expenses consist mainly of interest expenses for bond issues outstanding in the amount of CHF 10.4 million (CHF 12.2 million). Other financial expenses include foreign exchange gains and losses from the management of foreign currency as well as net gains and losses from hedging and revaluation of loans to Group companies denominated in foreign currencies. Other financial expenses decreased to CHF 24.0 million (CHF 27.4 million). A net loss of CHF 56.0 million (net loss of CHF 13.4 million) on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss was recognized in the income statement under other financial expenses. 23. INTEREST INCOME/OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME/INCOME FROM ASSOCIATED COMPANIES CHF 8.1 MN (CHF 8.3 MN) Short-term surpluses in liquidity in various countries led to interest income of CHF 1.9 million (CHF 2.6 million). Income from associated companies is CHF 0.3 million (CHF 0.5 million). 24. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS CHF 5.5 MN (CHF 3.5 MN) Most important companies with non-controlling interests: –– Sika Arabia Holding Co. WLL, Bahrain (49%) –– Sika UAE LLC, UAE (49%) –– Sika Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd., Saudi Arabia (49%) –– Sika Gulf B.S.C., Bahrain (49%) –– Sika Qatar LLC, Qatar (49%) SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 124 25. EARNINGS PER SHARE CHF 253.52 (CHF 221.81) 2016 2017 Undiluted (“basic EPS”) Net profit (in CHF mn) 563.1 643.5 Weighted average number of shares 1 Bearer shares 2/units 2,149,695 2,149,317 Registered shares 3/units 2,333,874 2,333,739 Earnings per share Bearer share 2/CHF 221.81 253.52 Registered share /CHF 3 36.97 42.25 1 E xcluding treasury shares held in the Group. 2 Nominal value: CHF 0.60. 3 Nominal value: CHF 0.10. Earnings per share (EPS) amount to CHF 253.52 (CHF 221.81). The EPS have been calculated on the basis of net profit after non-controlling interests and the number of shares entitled to dividend, weighted over the course of the year. No dilution effect resulted because no options or convertible bonds are outstanding. For the business year 2016 the dividend amounted to CHF 96.00 per bearer share and to CHF 16.00 per registered share. 26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The financial instruments and the related risk management of the Sika Group are presented in this note. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2016 2017 Level Book Fair Book Fair in CHF mn value value value value Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,155.0 1,037.9 Loans and receivables 1,047.8 1,194.9 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 1 40.1 40.1 47.5 47.5 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (derivatives) 2 4.3 4.3 5.1 5.1 Total 2,247.2 2,285.4 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 19.8 23.5 Bonds 2 698.7 738.0 699.0 736.6 Accounts payable 587.0 730.9 Other financial liabilities 22.7 23.8 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 1,328.2 1,477.2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (derivatives) 2 10.5 10.5 5.7 5.7 Total 1,338.7 1,482.9 The book value of cash and cash equivalents, loans and receivables, bank overdrafts, accounts payable, and other financial liabilities almost equals the fair value. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 125 The hierarchy below classifies financial instruments, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: –– Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. –– Level 2: procedures in which all input parameters having an essential effect on the registered market value are either directly or indirectly observable. –– Level 3: procedures applying to input parameters that have an essential effect on the registered market value but are not based on observable market data. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing data on an ongoing basis. Sika does not own any financial instruments requiring evaluation according to level 3 procedures. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS BASIC PRINCIPLES. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks (primarily foreign exchange risks, price risks, and interest rate risks), credit risks, and liquidity risks. The Group’s financial risk management program focuses on hedging volatility risks. The corporate finance department identifies, evaluates, and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. PLEDGED OR CEDED ASSETS (ENCUMBERED ASSETS), TO SECURE OWN OBLIGATIONS in CHF mn 2016 2017 Receivables 1.7 0.0 Property, plant, and equipment 0.6 1.1 Total book value of encumbered assets 2.3 1.1 OPEN DERIVATIVES Contractual value upon maturity Replacement value Contract Up to 3 to 12 value 3 months months in CHF mn (+) (-) Open derivatives 2016 Forward contracts (foreign exchange) 2.4 -2.1 183.9 50.6 133.3 Swaps (foreign exchange) 1.9 -8.4 965.6 328.0 637.6 Total derivatives 4.3 -10.5 1,149.5 378.6 770.9 Open derivatives 2017 Forward contracts (foreign exchange) 0.3 -1.7 166.9 90.8 76.1 Swaps (foreign exchange) 4.8 -4.0 1,013.0 335.8 677.2 Total derivatives 5.1 -5.7 1,179.9 426.6 753.3 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 126 FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISKS. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro and the US Dollar. Foreign exchange risks arise when commercial transactions as well as recognized assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The Group makes every effort to offset the impact of exchange rate movements as far as possible by utilizing natural hedges. Foreign exchange forward contracts/swaps are used to hedge foreign exchange risks. Gains and losses on foreign exchange hedges and assets or liabilities carried at fair value are recognized through profit or loss. The Group does not apply hedge accounting. Sika carries out a sensitivity analysis for the dominant foreign currencies Euro and US Dollar. The assumption is that the Euro and US Dollar respectively change against all other currencies by +/10%. The other currencies remain constant. The assumed possible currency fluctuations are based on historical observations and future prognoses. Incorporated into calculations are the financial instruments, Group-internal financing, and foreign currency hedge transactions in the corresponding currencies. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of consolidated net profit before tax to a reasonably possible shift in exchange rates related to financial instruments held in the balance sheet. All other variables are held constant. The impact on shareholders’ equity is insignificant. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ON EXCHANGE RATES Impact on profit before tax in CHF mn 2016 2017 EUR: +10% -6.3 -6.0 EUR: -10% 6.3 6.0 USD: +10% -5.8 -12.1 USD: -10% 5.8 12.1 PRICE RISKS. The Group is exposed to purchasing price risks because the cost of materials represents one of the Group’s largest cost factors. Purchasing prices are influenced far more by the interplay between supply and demand, the general economic environment, and intermittent disruptions of processing and logistics chains, ranging from crude oil to purchased merchandise, than by crude oil prices themselves. Short-term crude oil price increases have only limited impact on raw material prices. Sika limits market price risks for important products by means of maintaining corresponding inventories and Group contracts (lead buying). The most important raw materials are polymers such as polyurethane, epoxy resins, polyvinyl chloride and cementitious basic materials. Other measures such as hedging are not practical because there is no corresponding market for these semifinished products. INTEREST RATE RISK. Interest rate risks result from changes in interest rates, which could have a negative impact on the Group’s financial position, cash flow, and earnings situation. Interest rate risk is limited through the issue of fixed-interest long-term bonds (nominal CHF 700.0 million). A change in the rate of interest would therefore alter neither annual financial expenses nor shareholders’ equity materially. Local bank loans and mortgages are insignificant. Interest rate developments are closely monitored by management. CREDIT RISK. Credit risks arise from the possibility that the counterparty to a transaction may not be able or willing to discharge its obligations, thereby causing the Group to suffer a financial loss. Counterparty risks are minimized by only concluding contracts with reputable business partners and banks. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis via internal reporting procedures. Potential concentrations of risks are reduced by the large number of customers and their geographic dispersion. No individual customer represents more than 2.0% of the Group’s net sales. The Group held no securities for loans and accounts receivable at year-end 2016 nor at year-end 2017. The largest possible risk represented by these items is the carrying amount of the accounts receivable and any warranties granted. LIQUIDITY RISK. Liquidity risk refers to the risk of Sika no longer being able to meet its financial obligations in full. Prudent liquidity management includes maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and securing the availability of liquidity reserves which can be called upon at short notice. Group Management monitors the Group’s liquidity reserve on the basis of expected cash flows. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 127 The table below summarizes the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at the balance sheet date based on contractual undiscounted payments. MATURITY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Less than Between 1 Over Total in CHF mn 1 year and 5 years 5 years December 31, 2016 Bank loans 19.8 0.0 0.0 19.8 Bonds 10.1 381.5 360.1 751.7 Accounts payable 587.0 0.0 0.0 587.0 Other financial liabilities 14.0 7.8 0.9 22.7 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 630.9 389.3 361.0 1,381.2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 10.5 0.0 0.0 10.5 Total 641.4 389.3 361.0 1,391.7 December 31, 2017 Bank loans 22.6 0.9 0.0 23.5 Bonds 160.1 377.8 203.7 741.6 Accounts payable 730.9 0.0 0.0 730.9 Other financial liabilities 20.4 2.7 0.7 23.8 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 934.0 381.4 204.4 1,519.8 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 5.7 0.0 0.0 5.7 Total 939.7 381.4 204.4 1,525.5 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy equity ratios in order to support its business. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. No changes were made in the objectives, policies, or processes during the years ended December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016. The Group monitors its equity using the equity ratio, which is shareholders’ equity divided by total capital. 27. FUTURE OBLIGATIONS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES. Given the Group’s international operations, there are inherent tax risks which cannot be conclusively estimated. In ongoing business activity the Group may be involved in legal proceedings such as lawsuits, claims, investigations, and negotiations due to product liability, mercantile law, environmental protection, health, and safety, etc. There are no current proceedings of this nature pending which could have significant influence on business operations, or on the Group’s financial position or income. The Group is active in countries in which political, economic, social, and legal developments could impair business activity. The effects of such risks which can occur in the normal course of business is unforeseeable. In addition, their probability of occurrence lies below 50%. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS. Significant capital expenditure for property, plant, and equipments contracted for as at December 31, 2017, but not recognized as liabilities is CHF 61.8 million (no material commitments at the end of 2016). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 128 28. CASH FLOW STATEMENT DETAILS TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT. Compared with the prior year, cash flow was influenced by: –– a higher net profit before taxes (CHF 106.3 million) –– an increase in net working capital (CHF -57.0 million) –– changes of non-cash financial income as well as cash flows from hedging transactions (CHF -64.6 million) –– higher tax payments (CHF -53.6 million) –– a strongly higher acquisition activity (CHF -296.8 million) –– no repayment of bonds (CHF 250.0 million) –– a higher dividend payment (CHF -45.7 million) in CHF mn 2016 2017 Operating activities 735.7 651.9 Investment activities -172.7 -478.2 Financing activities -473.3 -289.2 Exchange differences -9.1 -1.6 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 80.6 -117.1 FREE CASH FLOW AND OPERATING FREE CASH FLOW in CHF mn 2016 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 735.7 651.9 Net investment in Property, plant, and equipment -144.0 -150.2 Intangible assets -5.2 -4.9 Acquisitions less cash and cash equivalents -23.6 -320.4 Acquisitions (-)/disposals (+) of financial assets 0.1 -2.7 Free cash flow 563.0 173.7 Acquisitions / disposals less cash and cash equivalents 23.6 320.4 Acquisitions (+)/disposals (-) of financial assets -0.1 2.7 Operating free cash flow 586.5 496.8 OTHER ADJUSTMENTS. Included in “Other adjustments” are: in CHF mn 2016 2017 Non-liquidity-related interest expenses (-)/income (+) -6.7 0.0 Profit (-)/loss (+) from disposals of non-financial assets -1.8 -2.1 Personnel expenses settled through treasury shares 7.7 5.4 Others 1 1.5 2.6 Total 0.7 5.9 1 Prior year restated due to the reclassification and separate disclosure of non-liquidity related other financial expenses/income as well as cash flows from hedging transactions. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 129 29. SEGMENT REPORTING Sika conducts its worldwide activities according to regions. Heads of regions are members of Group Management. Group Management is the highest operative executive body measuring the profit and loss of segments and allocating resources. The key figure of profit by which the segments are directed is that of operating profit, which stands in correlation with the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financing (including financial expenditures and revenues) as well as income taxes are managed uniformly across the Group and are not assigned to the individual segments. The composition of the regions is shown on page 77 of the download version of this report. Products and services from all product groups are sold in all regions. Customers derive from the building and construction industry or from the area of industrial manufacturing. Sales are assigned according to company locations. Taxes and any effects of financing are allocated to other segments and activities. Transfer prices between segments are calculated according to generally accepted principles. “Other segments and activities” include the automotive segment, expenditures for Group headquarters, and the proceeds from services. In addition they contain expenses and income that cannot be allocated to an individual region. The acquired companies Rmax Operating LLC, USA, Butterfield Color Inc., USA, and Emseal Joint Systems, Ltd., USA, were assigned to region North America. Bitbau Dörr GmbH, Austria, and ABC Sealants, Turkey, as well as KVK Holding a.s., Czech Republic, were assigned to region EMEA. The assets of Grupo Industrial Alce, Mexico, were allocated to region Latin America. NET SALES 2016 2017 With third With other Total With third With other Total in CHF mn parties segments parties segments EMEA 2,695.3 111.5 2,806.8 2,874.9 125.4 3,000.3 North America 922.6 22.1 944.7 1,094.0 18.3 1,112.3 Latin America 564.3 0.3 564.6 590.0 0.7 590.7 Asia/Pacific 1,080.7 12.8 1,093.5 1,132.7 13.9 1,146.6 Other segments and activities 484.8 – 484.8 556.7 – 556.7 Eliminations -146.7 -146.7 -158.3 -158.3 Net sales 5,747.7 – 5,747.7 6,248.3 – 6,248.3 Products for construction industry 4,518.9 4,905.4 Products for industrial manufacturing 1,228.8 1,342.9 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 130 CHANGES IN NET SALES/CURRENCY IMPACT 2016 2017 Change compared to prior year (+/in %) In Swiss In local Currency in CHF mn francs currencies impact By region EMEA 2,695.3 2,874.9 6.7 7.5 -0.8 North America 922.6 1,094.0 18.6 18.4 0.2 Latin America 564.3 590.0 4.6 3.3 1.3 Asia/Pacific 1,080.7 1,132.7 4.8 5.2 -0.4 Other segments and activities 484.8 556.7 14.8 14.0 0.8 Net sales 5,747.7 6,248.3 8.7 9.0 -0.3 Products for construction industry 4,518.9 4,905.4 8.6 9.0 -0.4 Products for industrial manufacturing 1,228.8 1,342.9 9.3 8.7 0.6 OPERATING PROFIT 2016 2017 Change compared to prior year in CHF mn (+/in %) By region EMEA 395.6 425.8 30.2 7.6 North America 166.0 193.6 27.6 16.6 Latin America 109.2 112.5 3.3 3.0 Asia/Pacific 205.7 221.2 15.5 7.5 Other segments and activities -81.2 -56.8 24.4 n.a. Operating profit 795.3 896.3 101.0 12.7 RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT RESULT AND NET PROFIT in CHF mn 2016 2017 Operating profit 795.3 896.3 Interest income 2.6 1.9 Interest expenses -20.4 -18.3 Other financial income 5.2 5.9 Other financial expenses -27.4 -24.0 Income from associated companies 0.5 0.3 Profit before taxes 755.8 862.1 Income taxes -189.2 -213.1 Net profit 566.6 649.0 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 131 2016 2017 Depreciation/ Capital expenditures Depreciation/ Capital expenditures in CHF mn Amortization Amortization EMEA 84.6 75.2 85.2 60.4 North America 21.4 20.6 24.4 33.4 Latin America 11.2 18.6 12.4 24.3 Asia/Pacific 25.4 23.4 25.2 25.1 Other segments and activities 27.8 17.1 25.0 44.7 Total 170.4 154.9 172.2 187.9 The following countries had a share of greater than 10% of at least one of the Group’s key figures: Net sales Non-current assets 1 in CHF mn 2016 % 2017 % 2016 % 2017 % Switzerland 316.5 5.5 363.4 5.8 474.2 23.9 474.8 19.9 USA 955.3 16.6 1,131.0 18.1 254.6 12.8 495.7 20.8 Germany 663.7 11.6 668.0 10.7 239.0 12.0 252.9 10.6 All other 3,812.2 66.3 4,085.9 65.4 1,018.9 51.3 1,162.2 48.7 Total 5,747.7 100.0 6,248.3 100.0 1,986.7 100.0 2,385.6 100.0 1 Non-current assets less financial assets, deferred tax assets and employee benefit assets. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 132 OTHER INFORMATION RELATED PARTIES As of the balance sheet date of December 31, 2017, Sika had received notification of three significant shareholders whose voting rights exceed 3%: (1) The Burkard-Schenker family, who, according to information provided by the family, held 52.92% of all voting rights via Schenker-Winkler Holding AG (SWH) as of December 31, 2017. On December 8, 2014, the Burkard-Schenker family announced the sale of their Sika participation to Compagnie de Saint-Gobain (“Saint-Gobain”), and, on December 11, 2014, the Burkard-Schenker family and Saint-Gobain announced the formation of a group. On April 7, 2015, the Burkard-Schenker family and Saint-Gobain announced the dissolution of their group. Saint-Gobain itself announced on April 7, 2015, that it held 52.92% of all voting rights via SWH. Legal proceedings are ongoing in connection with the planned transaction, which, as far as the company is aware, has not yet been completed. (2) A group consisting of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited, Threadneedle Investment Services Limited, Threadneedle Management Luxembourg S.A., FIL Limited, William H. Gates III and Melinda French Gates as well as Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, which owned 4.77% of all voting rights on the balance sheet date. (3) BlackRock, Inc., which owned 3.41% of all voting shares on the balance sheet date. A list of changes in significant shareholdings reported to the Disclosure Office of SIX Swiss Exchange during the year under review can be found at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html. There are no cross-shareholdings exceeding 3%, either in terms of capital or votes. As of the balance sheet date of December 31, 2016, Sika had received notification of three significant shareholders whose voting rights exceed 3%: (1) The Burkard-Schenker family, who, according to information provided by the family, held 52.92% of all voting shares via Schenker-Winkler Holding AG as at December 31, 2016. (2) BlackRock, Inc., which owned 4.93% of all voting shares on the balance sheet date. (3) A group consisting of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited, Threadneedle Investment Services Limited, Threadneedle Management Luxembourg S.A., FIL Limited, William H. Gates III, Melinda French Gates and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, which owned 5.00% of all voting shares on the balance sheet date. ASSOCIATED COMPANIES. In the year under review, goods and services totaling CHF 10.4 million (CHF 10.6 million) were delivered to associated companies. These transactions occurred on the usual conditions between wholesale partners. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. In Switzerland, employee benefit plans are handled through independent foundations, to which a total of CHF 24.0 million (CHF 23.5 million) was paid in the year under review. As of the balance sheet date, no material receivables or payables were due from these foundations. Sika offices are located in a building leased from the pension fund foundation. Rent for 2017 amounted to CHF 0.6 million (CHF 0.6 million). All transactions were conducted at market conditions. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors and Group Management are entitled to the following remuneration: in CHF mn 2016 2017 Current benefits 7.0 8.1 Share-based payments 1 9.5 6.4 Pension benefits 1.2 1.2 Total 17.7 15.7 1 Refer to note 19, employee participation plan share-based payments. Detailed information regarding remuneration of the Board of Directors and Group Management are included in the compensation report (as of page 53 of the download version of this report). Information regarding participations of the Board of Directors and Group Management of Sika AG can be found in the Sika AG’s Financial Statements (on page 147 of the download version of this report). RELEASE OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR PUBLICATION The Board of Directors of Sika AG approved the Consolidated Financial Statements for publication on February 21, 2018. The financial statements will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting on April 17, 2018. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 133 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The following events occurred between December 31, 2017, and the release of these Consolidated Financial Statements: ACQUISITIONS. On January 15, 2018, Sika acquired a 75% majority stake in Index S.p.A. Construction Systems and Products, Italy, a leading manufacturer of roofing and waterproofing systems. By acquiring Index, Sika will extend its product range and significantly strengthen its position in the Italian market. Its product portfolio consists of technologically advanced bituminous membranes for roofing and waterproofing, products for thermal and acoustic insulation, as well as waterproofing and repair mortars. In 2017, Index generated annual sales of around CHF 115 million. A put-and-call agreement has been concluded with the seller for the remaining 25% shares in the company. The owner of the minority interests can exercise his put option from April 2018. Sika can exercise the call option from the beginning of 2019. Therefore, Sika considers the outstanding minority interests to have already been acquired and will consolidate the stake to 100%. The total expected cash outflow is estimated at CHF 185 million. Since the final determination of the purchase price and the conversion of the accounting from a successfully managed family business to Sika’s international accounting standards have not yet been completed, the information required to prepare a detailed purchase price allocation is not yet available. In February 2018, Sika further acquired Faist ChemTec Group, a leading manufacturer of high-performance engineered, structure-borne acoustic solutions for the automotive industry. Faist ChemTec has strong technology and process know-how in modified bituminous and rubber-based extruded products for the structure-borne noise management in the automotive industry. Sika’s strength in airborne noise treatments and reinforcing parts is complemented by these acquired technologies. In addition, Sika will gain knowledge in acoustic technology for the white goods market and the construction industry. Faist ChemTec achieved sales of around CHF 190 million in 2017. The cash outflow for the acquisition amounted to CHF 348 million. The antitrust authorities approved the transaction at the beginning of February 2018. The detailed figures were accessed when the transaction was completed on February 16. As the transaction was only completed so shortly before the publication of the Consolidated Financial Statements, it has not yet been possible to make independent valuations of the assets and liabilities. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 134 LIST OF GROUP COMPANIES Country Company 1 Capital stock Votingand Certifiin thousands capital share cation in % EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Albania C Sika Albania SHPK, Tirana ALL 40,471 100 Algeria A Sika El Djazaïr SpA, Les Eucalyptus DZD 313,400 100 F Austria B Sika Österreich GmbH, Bludenz EUR 2,500 100 FG B Bitbau Dörr GmbH, Innsbruck EUR 37 100* Azerbaijan B Sika Limited Liability Comp., Baku AZN 5,311 100 F Bahrain B Sika Gulf B.S.C., Adliya BHD 1,000 51* FGH D Sika Arabia Holding Company WLL, Manama BHD 6,000 51 Belarus B S I K A Bel LLC, Minsk USD 300 100 Belgium B Sika Belgium NV, Nazareth EUR 10,264 100 FG C Sika Automotive Belgium S.A., Saintes EUR 1,649 100 FG BosniaHerzegovina C Sika BH d.o.o., Sarajevo BAM 795 100 Bulgaria C Sika Bulgaria EOOD, Sofia BGN 340 100 FG Cameroon C Sika Cameroon SARL, Douala XAF 982,500 100 Croatia C Sika Croatia d.o.o., Zagreb HRK 4,000 100 FG Czech Republic B Sika CZ, s.r.o., Brno CZK 30,983 100 FG D KVK Holding a.s., Prague CZK 2,058 100* B KVK PARABIT, a.s., Svoboda nad Upou CZK 97,232 100* B Krkonošské vápenky Kunčice, a.s., Kunčice nad Labem CZK 25,000 100* Denmark B Sika Danmark A/S, Farum DKK 6,000 100 FG Djibouti C Sika Djibouti FZE, Djibouti City USD 300 100 Egypt B Sika Egypt for Construction Chemicals S.A.E., Cairo EGP 10,000 100 FGH B Sika Manufacturing for Construction, S.A.E., Cairo EGP 2,000 100 FGH Estonia C Sika Estonia Oü, Tallinn EUR 3 100 Ethiopia B Sika Abyssinia Chemicals Manufacturing PLC., Addis Abeba ETB 49,760 100 Finland B Oy Sika Finland Ab, Espoo EUR 850 100 FG France B Sika France SAS, Paris EUR 18,018 100 FGH B Axson France SAS, Cergy-Pontoise Cedex EUR 1,343 100* FGH Germany D Sika Holding GmbH, Stuttgart EUR 26,000 100* B Sika Deutschland GmbH, Stuttgart EUR 75 100* FG B Sika Automotive GmbH, Hamburg EUR 5,300 100* FG B Sika Trocal GmbH, Troisdorf EUR 4,000 100* FG E Sika Bauabdichtungs-GmbH, Stuttgart EUR 50 100* Greece B Sika Hellas ABEE, Kryoneri EUR 9,000 100 FGH Hungary C Sika Hungária Kft., Budapest HUF 483,000 100 FG Iran B Sika Parsian P.J.S. Co., Tehran IRR mn 203,424 100 Iraq B Sika for General Trading LLC, Erbil IQD 1,000 100 Ireland C Sika Ireland Ltd., Dublin EUR 1,270 100 F Italy B Sika Italia S.p.A., Peschiera Borromeo EUR 5,000 100 FGH B Sika Engineering Silicones S.r.l., Peschiera Borromeo EUR 1,600 100* FG B Sika Polyurethane Manufacturing S.r.l., Cerano EUR 1,600 100 FGH C Axson Italia S.r.l., Saronno EUR 50 100* SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Country Company 1 Capital stock Votingand Certifiin thousands capital share cation in % Ivory Coast B Sika Côte d’Ivoire SARL, Abidjan XOF 804,200 100 Jordan C The Swiss Construction Chemicals Co. Ltd., Amman JOD 50 100 Kazakhstan B Sika Kazakhstan LLP, Almaty KZT 690,394 100 FG Kenya B Sika Kenya Ltd., Nairobi KES 50,000 100 Kuwait C Sika Kuwait for Construction Materials & Paints Co WLL, Shuwaikh Industrial Area KWD 55 51* Latvia B Sika Baltic SIA, Riga EUR 1,237 100 Lebanon B Sika Near East SAL, Beirut LBP 400 100 Mauritius B Sika (Mauritius) Ltd., Plaine Lauzun MUR 2,600 100* F Morocco B Sika Maroc, Casablanca MAD 55,000 100 FGH Mozambique B Sika Moçambique Limitada, Maputo Province MZN 205,691 100 Netherlands B Sika Nederland B.V., Utrecht EUR 1,589 100 FGH Nigeria B Sika Manufacturing Nigeria Limited, Lagos NGN 510,350 100 Norway B Sika Norge AS, Skjetten NOK 42,900 100 FG Oman C Sika LLC, Muscat OMR 150 51 Pakistan B Sika Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd., Lahore PKR 499,969 100 Poland B Sika Poland Sp.z.o.o., Warsaw PLZ 12,188 100 FGH Portugal B Sika Portugal – Productos Construção Indústria SA, Vila Nova de Gaia EUR 1,500 100 FG Qatar C Sika Qatar LLC, Doha QAR 200 51* F Romania B Sika Romania s.r.l., Brasov RON 1,285 100 FGH Russia B Sika LLC, Lobnya RUB 535,340 100 FG Saudi Arabia B Sika Saudi Arabia Co Ltd., Riyadh SAR 41,750 51 FG Senegal B Sika Sénégal SARLU, Dakar XOF 900,000 100 Serbia B Sika Srbija d.o.o., Simanovci EUR 373 100 Slovakia C Sika Slovensko spol. s.r.o., Bratislava EUR 1,131 100 FG B Axson Central Europe s.r.o, Zlaté Moravce EUR 7 100 FG C KVK Slovakia, s.r.o., Bratislava EUR 7 100* Slovenia C Sika Slovenija d.o.o., Trzin EUR 1,029 100 FG South Africa B Sika South Africa (Pty) Ltd., Pinetown ZAR 25,000 100 FGH Spain B Sika S.A.U., Alcobendas EUR 19,867 100 FGH C Axson Technologies Spain S.L., Les Franqueses del Valles EUR 80 100* Sweden B Sika Sverige AB, Spånga SEK 10,000 100 FG Switzerland B Sika Schweiz AG, Zurich CHF 1,000 100 FGH D Sika Services AG, Zurich CHF 300 100 FGH D Sika Technology AG, Baar CHF 300 100 FG D Sika Informationssysteme AG, Zurich CHF 400 100 E SikaBau AG, Schlieren CHF 5,300 100 F D Sika Finanz AG, Baar CHF 2,400 100 B Sika Manufacturing AG, Sarnen CHF 14,000 100 FGH D Sika Supply Center AG, Sarnen CHF 1,000 100 FG B Sika Automotive AG, Romanshorn CHF 3,000 100 FGH D Sika Europe Management AG, Zurich CHF 100 100 B Klebag AG, Ennetbürgen CHF 100 100* Tanzania B Sika Tanzania Construction Chemicals Limited, Dar es Salaam TZS mn 3,459 100 Tunisia A Sika Tunisienne Sàrl, Douar Hicher TND 150 100* FG SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 136 Country Company 1 Capital stock Votingand Certifiin thousands capital share cation in % Turkey B Sika Yapi Kimyasallari A.S., Tuzla TRY 6,700 100 FGH B ABC Kimya Sanayi ve Dış Ticaret Anonim Şirketi, Istanbul TRY 5,200 100* UAE B Sika UAE LLC, Dubai AED 1,000 51* FGH C Sika International Chemicals LLC, Abu Dhabi AED 300 51* Ukraine B LLC «Sika Ukraina», Kiev UAH 2,933 100 F United Kingdom B Sika Ltd., Welwyn Garden City GBP 10,000 100 FGH B Everbuild Building Products Ltd., Leeds GBP 21 100* FGH B Incorez Ltd., Preston GBP 1 100 FGH C Axson UK Ltd., Suffolk GBP 1 100* North America Canada B Sika Canada Inc., Pointe Claire/QC CAD 5,600 100 FG USA B Sika Corporation, Lyndhurst/NJ USD 72,710 100 FG D Sarnafil Services Inc., Canton/MA USD 1 100* G B Axson Tech US Inc., Madison Heights/MI USD 4,602 100* FG B L.M. Scofield Company, Commerce/CA USD 32 100* B Rmax Operating LLC, Dallas/TX USD 11,220 100* B Butterfield Color, Inc., Aurora/IL USD 1 100* B Emseal Joint Systems Ltd., Westborough/MA USD 1,040 100* B Emseal LLC, Westborough/MA USD 1 100* FG Latin America Argentina B Sika Argentina SAIC, Caseros ARS 7,600 100 FGH Bolivia B Sika Bolivia SA, Santa Cruz de la Sierra BOB 1,800 100 F Brazil B Sika S/A, Osasco BRL 280,981 100 FGH Chile B Sika S.A. Chile, Santiago de Chile CLP mn 4,430 100 FG Colombia B Sika Colombia SA, Tocancipá COP mn 14,500 100 FG Costa Rica B Sika productos para la construcción S.A., Heredia CRC 825,005 100 Dom. Republic B Sika Dominicana SRL, Santo Domingo Oeste DOP 12,150 100 Ecuador B Sika Ecuatoriana SA, Guayaquil USD 1,982 100 FG El Salvador C Sika El Salvador S.A. de C.V., Antiguo Cuscatlán USD 2 100 Guatemala B Sika Guatemala SA, Ciudad de Guatemala GTQ 2,440 100 Mexico B Sika Mexicana SA de CV, Corregidora MXN 270,053 100 FG B Sikalkoat de México, S.A. de C.V., Corregidora MXN 15,050 100* B Axson Mexico S.A. de CV, Mexico City MXN 700 100* F Nicaragua C Sika Nicaragua S.A., Managua NIO 20,000 100 Panama B Sika Panamá SA, Ciudad de Panamá USD 200 100 D Sika Latin America Mgt. Inc, Ciudad de Panamá USD 10 100 Paraguay B Sika Paraguay S.A., Asunción PYG mn 40 100 Peru B Sika Perú S.A.C., Lima PEN 3,500 100 FG Uruguay B Sika Uruguay SA, Montevideo UYP 22,800 100 FG Venezuela B Sika Venezuela SA, Valencia VEF 29,441 100 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Country Company 1 Capital stock Votingand Certifiin thousands capital share cation in % Asia/Pacific Australia B Sika Australia Pty. Ltd., Wetherill Park AUD 4,000 100 FGH Bangladesh C Sika Bangladesh Limited, Dhaka BDT 809 100 Cambodia B Sika (Cambodia) Ltd., Phnom Penh KHR 422,000 100 China B Sika (China) Ltd., Suzhou USD 35,000 100 FGH B Sika Sarnafil Waterproofing Systems (Shanghai) Ltd., Shanghai USD 22,800 100 FGH B Sika Guangzhou Ltd., Guangzhou CNY 80,731 100 FG C Sika Ltd. Dalian, Dalian CNY 45,317 100 C Sika (Guangzhou) Trading Company Ltd., Guangzhou CNY 3,723 100* B Sika (Sichuan) Building Material Ltd., Chengdu CNY 60,010 100* F B Sika (Jiangsu) Building Material Ltd., Zhengjiang CNY 60,010 100* FGH B Sika (Hebei) Building Material Ltd., Zhengding County CNY 30,000 85* FGH B Axson Technologies Shanghai Co. Ltd., Shanghai CNY 2,666 100* F B Ronacrete (Guangzhou) Construction Products Limited, Guangzhou CNY 16,924 100* Hong Kong B Sika Hong Kong Ltd., Shatin HKD 30,000 100 FG C Ronacrete (Far East) Ltd., Shatin HKD 450 100* India B Sika India Private Ltd., Mumbai INR 45,000 100 FG C Axson India Private Limited, Pune INR 3,000 100* Indonesia B Sika Indonesia P.T., Bogor IDR mn 3,282 100 FG Japan B Sika Ltd., Shinagawa JPY 490,000 100 FG C Dic Proofing Co. Ltd., Tokyo JPY 90,000 100* B Dyflex Co. Ltd., Tokyo JPY 315,175 100 FG E DCS Co. Ltd., Toda-shi JPY 30,000 100* B Axson Japan K.K., Okazaki-shi JPY 10,000 100* Korea B Sika Korea Ltd., Seoul KRW mn 5,596 100 FG Malaysia B Sika Kimia Sdn. Bhd., Nilai MYR 5,000 100 FG D Sika Harta Sdn. Bhd., Nilai MYR 10,000 100 B LCS Optiroc Sdn. Bhd., Johor Bahru MYR 100 100 FGH Mongolia B Sika Mongolia LLC, Ulaanbaatar MNT mn 7,091 100 Myanmar B Sika Myanmar Limited, Dagon Myothit (South) Township MMK 541,363 100 New Zealand B Sika (NZ) Ltd., Auckland NZD 1,100 100 FG Philippines B Sika Philippines Inc., Las Pinas City PHP 55,610 100 FG Singapore B Sika Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore SGD 400 100 F D Sika Asia Pacific Mgt. Pte. Ltd., Singapore SGD 100 100 B LCS Optiroc Pte. Ltd., Singapore SGD 1,000 100 FGH Sri Lanka B Sika Lanka (Private) Limited, Ekala LKR 129,100 100 FG Taiwan B Sika Taiwan Ltd., Taoyuan County TWD 40,000 100 FG Thailand B Sika (Thailand) Ltd., Chonburi THB 200,000 100 FGH Vietnam B Sika Limited (Vietnam), Dong Nai Province VND mn 44,190 100 FG A Production, sales, construction contracting B Production and sales C Sales D Real estate and service companies E Construction contracting F ISO 9001 (Quality Management) G ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) H OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety) 1 For associated companies see note 7. * Company indirectly held by Sika AG. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 138 REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SIKA AG, BAAR STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Sika AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2017, and the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and appendix to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion the consolidated financial statements (pages 89 to 138 of the download version of this report) give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law. BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession, as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIFE – VALUATION AREA OF FOCUS. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life represent 17% of the Group’s total assets and 28% of the Group’s total shareholders’ equity as at December 31, 2017. Intangible assets with indefinite useful life is a brand. Goodwill recorded by the Group represents the purchase price in excess of the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. As stated in the accounting principles included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life is tested annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. The Group performed its annual impairment tests of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life in the third quarter of 2017 and determined that there was no impairment. Key assumptions as well as the results of the impairment tests are disclosed in note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. In determining the recoverable amount of cash-generating units (“CGU”), management must apply judgment when using assumptions in respect of future market and economic conditions such as the economic growth and expected inflation rates. Due to the significance of the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life and the judgment involved in performing the impairment test, this matter was considered significant to our audit. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 139 OUR AUDIT RESPONSE. We assessed the Group’s internal control over its annual impairment test and key assumptions applied as well as the proper authorization and approval. Further, we assessed whether the CGU structure is aligned with the organizational structure. We included in our team a valuation expert to assist us with our assessment of the WACC, expected inflation rates and the model used. We assessed sensitivities in the available headroom of CGUs and whether a possible change in assumptions such as forecasted EBITDAs, growth rate in the first year, long-term growth rate, and WACC could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. We also assessed the historical accuracy of the Group’s estimates and long-term business plans. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures included in note 6 of the consolidated financial statements about those assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment test is most sensitive. OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information in the annual report. The other information comprises all information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the stand-alone financial statements, the remuneration report, and our auditor’s reports thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information in the annual report and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information in the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 140 AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse: http://www.expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In accordance with article 728a para. 1 item 3 CO and the Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists, which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. Zurich, February 21, 2018 ERNST & YOUNG LTD CHRISTOPH MICHEL MARC RÜEGSEGGER Licensed audit expert Licensed audit expert (Auditor in charge) SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Appendix to the Consolidated Financial Statements 141 FIVE-YEAR REVIEWS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31 in CHF mn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 1,028.3 898.8 1,074.4 1,155.0 1,037.9 Accounts receivable a 912.7 1,006.0 1,014.5 1,043.1 1,188.1 Inventories b 539.0 591.3 584.9 600.8 729.5 Other current assets 1 110.9 100.0 104.3 98.1 128.9 Current assets 2,590.9 2,596.1 2,778.1 2,897.0 3,084.4 Property, plant, and equipment 920.2 958.3 924.3 959.2 1,065.2 Intangible assets 1,066.9 1,074.6 1,037.9 1,021.2 1,314.2 Other non-current assets 2 157.9 188.9 183.5 221.8 328.4 Non-current assets 2,145.0 2,221.8 2,145.7 2,202.2 2,707.8 ASSETS 4,735.9 4,817.9 4,923.8 5,099.2 5,792.2 Accounts payable c 557.9 605.4 581.1 587.0 730.9 Bond 299.7 0.0 249.9 0.0 150.0 Other current liabilities 3 334.6 345.7 332.1 381.0 469.1 Current liabilities 1,192.2 951.1 1,163.1 968.0 1,350.0 Bonds 946.9 947.6 698.4 698.7 549.0 Non-current provisions, employee benefit obligations 282.6 373.3 360.8 332.1 316.4 Other non-current liabilities 4 178.0 162.6 149.4 152.7 165.7 Non-current liabilities 1,407.5 1,483.5 1,208.6 1,183.5 1,031.1 LIABILITIES 2,599.7 2,434.6 2,371.7 2,151.5 2,381.1 Capital stock 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 Treasury shares -13.7 -10.8 -0.9 -11.0 -6.6 Reserves 2,132.3 2,376.4 2,530.2 2,933.8 3,389.8 Equity attributable to Sika shareholders 2,120.1 2,367.1 2,530.8 2,924.3 3,384.7 Non-controlling interests 16.1 16.2 21.3 23.4 26.4 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY d 2,136.2 2,383.3 2,552.1 2,947.7 3,411.1 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY e 4,735.9 4,817.9 4,923.8 5,099.2 5,792.2 1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income, other current assets. 2 Investments in associated companies, deferred tax assets, and other non-current assets. 3 A ccrued expenses and deferred income, income tax liabilities, current provisions, and other current liabilities. 4 Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Five-year reviews 142 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FROM JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 in CHF mn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales 5,142.2 5,571.3 5,489.2 5,747.7 6,248.3 Material expenses -2,446.6 -2,620.0 -2,518.4 -2,566.6 -2,849.2 Gross result 2,695.6 2,951.3 2,970.8 3,181.1 3,399.1 Personnel expenses -1,031.1 -1,093.7 -1,106.5 -1,159.1 -1,212.1 Other operating expenses -988.6 -1,059.3 -1,027.0 -1,056.3 -1,118.5 Operating profit before depreciation 675.9 798.3 837.3 965.7 1,068.5 Depreciation/amortization/impairment -152.4 -165.1 -164.0 -170.4 -172.2 Operating profit 523.5 633.2 673.3 795.3 896.3 Interest income/interest expense -30.9 -27.8 -22.0 -17.8 -16.4 Financial income/financial expense/income from associated companies -15.9 -14.8 -29.4 -21.7 -17.8 Profit before taxes 476.7 590.6 621.9 755.8 862.1 Income taxes -132.0 -149.4 -156.8 -189.2 -213.1 Net profit 344.7 441.2 465.1 566.6 649.0 Free cash flow 19.0 349.8 379.5 563.0 173.7 Gross result as % of net sales 52.4 53.0 54.1 55.3 54.4 Operating profit as % of net sales 10.2 11.4 12.3 13.8 14.3 Net profit as % of net sales (ROS) 6.7 7.9 8.5 9.9 10.4 Net profit as % of shareholders’ equity (ROE) 16.1 18.5 18.2 19.2 19.0 KEY BALANCE SHEET DATA in CHF mn Calculation 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net working capital (a+b-c) 893.8 991.9 1,018.3 1,056.9 1,186.7 Net working capital as % of net sales 17.4 17.8 18.6 18.4 19.0 Net debt 1 f 271.4 82.5 -94.0 -415.6 -293.8 Gearing in % (f : d) 12.7 3.5 -3.7 -14.1 -8.6 Equity ratio in % (d : e) 45.1 49.5 51.8 57.8 58.9 1 Net debt: interest-bearing indebtedness (short and long-term bank debt, bonds and other current and non-current liabilities «other») less interest-bearing current assets (cash and cash equivalents and securities). VALUE-BASED KEY DATA in CHF mn Calculation 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capital employed 1 2,662.6 2,782.0 2,760.2 2,772.4 3,246.3 Annual average of capital employed g 2,498.4 2,722.3 2,771.1 2,766.3 3,009.4 Operating profit h 523.5 633.2 673.3 795.3 896.3 Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % (h : g) 21.0 23.3 24.3 28.7 29.8 1 Capital employed: current assets, PPE, intangible assets less cash and cash equivalents, current securities, current liabilities (excluding bank loans and bond). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Five-year reviews 143 SEGMENT INFORMATION EMEA North America in CHF mn 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales 2,470 2,734 2,600 2,695 2,875 711 746 839 923 1,094 Operating profit 281 369 368 396 426 89 103 134 166 194 in % of net sales 11.4 13.5 14.2 14.7 14.8 12.5 13.8 16.0 18.0 17.7 Depreciation/amortization 79 85 81 85 85 23 21 20 21 25 Capital expenditures 75 71 67 75 61 11 12 16 21 33 Latin America Asia/Pacific in CHF mn 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales 623 638 600 564 590 974 1,040 1,017 1,081 1,133 Operating profit 116 114 110 109 112 138 153 177 206 221 in % of net sales 18.6 17.9 18.3 19.3 19.1 14.2 14.7 17.4 19.1 19.5 Depreciation/amortization 9 11 11 11 12 21 23 24 25 25 Capital expenditures 27 25 16 19 24 25 24 25 23 25 Other segments and activities Total in CHF mn 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales 364 413 433 485 556 5,142 5,571 5,489 5,748 6,248 Operating profit -101 -106 -116 -81 -57 523 633 673 795 896 in % of net sales 10.2 11.4 12.3 13.8 14.3 Depreciation/amortization 20 25 28 28 25 152 165 164 170 172 Capital expenditures 16 21 19 17 45 154 153 143 155 188 1 Restated. A change in internal reporting practice was implemented effective January 1, 2014. Certain internal allocations were no longer charged to the segment results. Essentially, these internal allocations are understood to be the charges for central marketing as well as production support. In keeping with internal reporting practice, the segment reporting presented here has been adjusted accordingly. The prior-year figures have been restated to allow like-for-like comparison. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Five-year reviews 144 EMPLOYEES 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employees by region (at December 31) EMEA 8,658 8,708 9,079 9,083 9,822 Switzerland 2,012 2,029 2,022 2,001 1,970 Germany 1,784 1,777 1,832 1,778 1,808 United Kingdom 712 728 772 817 837 France 643 637 754 727 701 North America 1,438 1,488 1,653 1,818 2,142 USA 1,216 1,275 1,432 1,580 1,911 Latin America 2,329 2,609 2,437 2,349 2,479 Brazil 504 755 617 577 574 Asia/Pacific 3,868 4,090 4,112 4,169 4,041 China 1,287 1,220 1,083 1,099 1,066 Japan 614 629 670 673 661 Total 16,293 16,895 17,281 17,419 18,484 Personnel expenses (in CHF mn) Wages and salaries 849 894 900 941 991 Social charges, other 182 200 207 218 221 Personnel expenses 1,031 1,094 1,107 1,159 1,212 Personnel expenses as % of net sales 20 20 20 20 19 Key data per employee (in CHF 1,000) Net sales 326 336 321 331 348 Net value-added 1 98 103 103 112 117 1 See next page, five-year reviews, value-added statement. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Five-year reviews 145 VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT in CHF mn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Source of value-added Corporate performance (net sales) 5,142 5,571 5,489 5,748 6,248 Intermediate inputs -3,440 -3,691 -3,572 -3,631 -3,994 Gross value-added 1,702 1,880 1,917 2,117 2,254 Non-liquidity related expenses Depreciation and amortization -152 -165 -164 -170 -172 Change in provisions -8 0 2 -12 10 Net value-added 1,542 1,715 1,755 1,935 2,092 Distribution of value-added To employees Wages and salaries 849 894 900 941 991 Social charges 188 205 212 222 224 To governments (income taxes) 132 149 157 189 213 To lenders (interest expenses) 28 26 21 16 15 To shareholders (dividend payout, incl. non-controlling interests) 130 146 183 200 246 To the company Net profit for the year 345 441 465 567 649 Less dividend payout -130 -146 -183 -200 -246 Net value-added 1,542 1,715 1,755 1,935 2,092 Number of employees End of year 16,293 16,895 17,281 17,419 18,484 Annual average 15,763 16,594 17,088 17,350 17,952 Net value-added per employee (in CHF 1,000) 98 103 103 112 117 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Five-year reviews 146 SIKA AG, BAAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIKA AG BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31 in CHF mn Notes 2016 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 1 448.6 362.8 Securities 0.1 0.1 Other current receivables from subsidiaries 2 1,508.5 2,560.9 Other current receivables from third parties 2 2.3 2.1 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2.4 4.4 Current assets 1,961.9 2,930.3 Investments 3 1,364.7 1,612.7 Property, plant, and equipment 0.3 0.2 Other non-current assets 4 20.7 5.8 Non-current assets 1,385.7 1,618.7 ASSETS 3,347.6 4,549.0 Accounts payable to subsidiaries 5 7.9 1.7 Accounts payable to third parties 5 1.0 0.8 Current interest-bearing liabilities to subsidiaries 6 181.7 228.7 Current interest-bearing liabilities to third parties 6 0.0 150.0 Other current liabilities to subsidiaries 0.0 2.0 Accrued expenses and deferred income 7 40.4 90.7 Current provisions 9 1.9 2.4 Current liabilities 232.9 476.3 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 6 700.0 550.0 Other non-current liabilities 8 2.5 2.1 Non-current provisions 9 2.6 1.9 Non-current liabilities 705.1 554.0 LIABILITIES 938.0 1,030.3 Share capital 1.5 1.5 Legal capital reserves 56.5 56.5 Legal retained earnings 4.0 4.0 Voluntary retained earnings 121.7 121.7 Profit brought forward 2,236.9 3,341.6 Treasury shares 10 -11.0 -6.6 Shareholders’ equity 11 2,409.6 3,518.7 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 3,347.6 4,549.0 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 147 SIKA AG INCOME STATEMENT FROM JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 in CHF mn Notes 2016 2017 Dividend income 12 337.4 391.9 Financial income 13 20.3 37.5 Trademark licenses income 14 71.8 48.6 Other income 15 19.3 22.5 Income 448.8 500.5 Financial expenses 16 -23.4 -24.5 Personnel expenses -16.2 -16.5 Other operating expenses 17 -35.6 -20.8 Operating profit before depreciation 373.6 438.7 Impairment losses (-)/reversal of an impairment loss (+) on investments -2.8 -1.8 Depreciation and amortization expenses 18 -8.0 -0.1 Extraordinary, non-recurring or prior-period income 19 289.0 1,000.0 Extraordinary, non-recurring or prior-period expenses 20 -1.0 0.0 Net profit before taxes 650.8 1,436.8 Direct taxes 21 -28.4 -88.4 Net profit for the year 622.4 1,348.4 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 148 NOTES TO THE SIKA AG FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRINCIPLES GENERAL The 2017 financial statements were prepared according to the Swiss Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting. The significant accounting and valuation principles applied are as described below. SECURITIES Securities are valued at historical costs. RECEIVABLES The receivables are recorded at nominal value. If necessary, an allowance for doubtful debts is made on receivables from third parties, whereas for receivables from subsidiaries no allowance for doubtful debts is considered. INVESTMENTS Investments are initially recognized at cost. On an annual basis the investments are assessed individually and adjusted to their recoverable amount if required. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT, AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets are valued at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on the useful life of the asset. CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet at nominal value. Discounts and issue costs for bonds are recognized as other non-current assets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the bond’s maturity period. Premiums (less issue costs) are recognized in the other non-current liabilities and amortized on a straight-line basis over the bond’s maturity period. PROVISIONS Provisions are recognized to cover general business risks based on the most probable cash outflow, considering the principle of prudence. TREASURY SHARES Treasury shares are recognized at acquisition cost and disclosed as a negative position within shareholders’ equity. In case of a resale, the gain or loss is recognized through the income statement as financial income or financial expenses. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS For treasury shares used for share-based payment programs, the difference between the acquisition cost and the value at vesting date is recognized as personnel expenses. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 149 INFORMATION ON BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS 1. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CHF 362.8 MN (CHF 448.6 MN) All bank deposits are held in interest-bearing accounts, whereof CHF 330.3 million (CHF 406.7 million) are invested in Swiss francs and CHF 32.5 million (CHF 41.9 million) in foreign currencies. 2. OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND THIRD PARTIES CHF 2,563.0 MN (CHF 1,510.8 MN) Receivables consist of short-term loans to subsidiaries in the amount of CHF 2,548.9 million (CHF 1,497.0 million). The increase is due to the sale of the umbrella brand to Sika Technology AG of CHF 1,000.0 million. In addition, Sika AG has receivables of CHF 12.0 million (CHF 11.5 million) from Sika subsidiaries and receivables from third parties in the amount of CHF 2.1 million (CHF 2.3 million). 3. INVESTMENTS CHF 1,612.7 MN (CHF 1,364.7 MN) The change in shareholdings is essentially attributable to the acquisition of new subsidiaries and capital increases. Major participations are indicated on the list of Group companies beginning on page 135 of the download version of this report. 4. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS CHF 5.8 MN (CHF 20.7 MN) The other non-current assets contain the discounts and issue costs for bonds as well as non-current receivables from subsidiaries. 5. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE TO SUBSIDIARIES AND THIRD PARTIES CHF 2.5 MN (CHF 8.9 MN) The total includes liabilities to subsidiaries in the amount of CHF 1.7 million (CHF 7.9 million) and liabilities to third parties in the amount of CHF 0.8 million (CHF 1.0 million). 6. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES CHF 378.7 MN CURRENT/CHF 550.0 MN NON-CURRENT (CHF 181.7 MN/CHF 700.0 MN) The current interest-bearing liabilities consist of loans to subsidiaries resulting from the worldwide cash management concept. Furthermore, included in interest-bearing liabilities is the following bond: 1.000% fixed-interest bond 2012 to 7/12/2018 CHF 150.0 mn The following bonds are disclosed in the non-current interest-bearing liabilities: 1.125% fixed-interest bond 2013 to 11/14/2019 CHF 200.0 mn 1.750% fixed-interest bond 2012 to 7/12/2022 CHF 150.0 mn 1.875% fixed-interest bond 2013 to 11/14/2023 CHF 200.0 mn 7. ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME CHF 90.7 MN (CHF 40.4 MN) Accrued expenses and deferred income include pro rata interest, employee-related accruals as well as other accrued expenses. Furthermore, accrued taxes in the amount of CHF 82.1 million (CHF 23.6 million) are included in 2017, resulting from the sale of the umbrella brand to Sika Technology AG. 8. OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES CHF 2.1 MN (CHF 2.5 MN) The other non-current liabilities contain the premium, less issue costs of the bonds in the amount of CHF 1.5 million (CHF 2.0 million). SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 150 9. PROVISIONS CHF 2.4 MN CURRENT/CHF 1.9 MN NON-CURRENT (CHF 1.9 MN/CHF 2.6 MN) The current provisions contain commitments of CHF 2.0 million to the Sika pension fund as well as liabilities from forward contracts and conditional purchase price obligations. The non-current provisions contain accruals for long-term employee retention and bonus programs as well as jubilee payments. 10. TREASURY SHARES CHF 6.6 MN (CHF 11.0 MN) Treasury shares are appropriated for Group-wide share-based payment plans and used to invest liquid assets. The shares are traded at market price; in 2017 the average trading price was CHF 6,450 (CHF 4,119). in CHF mn Units Share value At January 1, 2016 343 0.9 Reductions -8,349 -33.0 Additions 14,358 56.8 Acquisition Scofield -3,686 -13.7 At December 31, 2016 2,666 11.0 At January 1, 2017 2,666 11.0 Reductions -6,114 -33.7 Additions 5,153 31.3 Acquisition Scofield -337 -2.0 At December 31, 2017 1,368 6.6 11. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY CHF 3,518.7 MN (CHF 2,409.6 MN) The shareholders’ equity exceeds the prior year’s level. The ratio of shareholders’ equity to balance sheet total increased from 72.0% to 77.4%. Capital Legal capital Retained Treasury Sharestock reserves 1 earnings 2 shares holders’ in CHF mn equity January 1, 2016 1.5 56.5 1,938.2 -0.9 1,995.3 Dividend payment -198.0 -198.0 Transactions with treasury shares -10.1 -10.1 Net profit for the year 622.4 622.4 December 31, 2016 1.5 56.5 2,362.6 -11.0 2,409.6 January 1, 2017 1.5 56.5 2,362.6 -11.0 2,409.6 Dividend payment -243.7 -243.7 Transactions with treasury shares 4.4 4.4 Net profit for the year 1,348.4 1,348.4 December 31, 2017 1.5 56.5 3,467.3 -6.6 3,518.7 1 T hereof CHF 0.3 million capital contribution reserves. 2 Retained earnings: legal retained earnings, voluntary retained earnings, and profit brought forward. The capital stock remains unchanged. The increase in net profit is mainly due to the sale of the umbrella brand to Sika Technology AG. In April 2017, the dividend of CHF 243.7 million was paid to shareholders from the profit carried forward from 2016. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 151 There is CHF 155,893.20 in contingent capital, unrestricted in time, comprising 259,822 bearer shares with a per-share nominal value of CHF 0.60. These shares are reserved for the exercise of option or conversion rights. The capital stock consists of: Bearer shares 1 Registered shares Total 1 nominal value CHF 0.60 nominal value CHF 0.10 12/31/2016 (units) 2,151,199 2,333,874 4,485,073 Nominal value (CHF) 1,290,719 233,387 1,524,107 12/31/2017 (units) 2,151,199 2,333,874 4,485,073 Nominal value (CHF) 1,290,719 233,387 1,524,107 1 Includes treasury shares which do not carry voting and dividend rights. 12. DIVIDEND INCOME CHF 391.9 MN (CHF 337.4 MN) Dividends from subsidiaries are recognized in this position. 13. FINANCIAL INCOME CHF 37.5 MN (CHF 20.3 MN) Financial income includes interest income and gains from foreign exchange transactions. 14. TRADEMARK LICENSES INCOME CHF 48.6 MN (CHF 71.8 MN) Sika AG receives license fees for the use of trademarks from subsidiaries. In the previous year, royalties were collected for the umbrella brand and product brands. In the year under review, only royalties for the umbrella brand were collected, as all royalties on product brands are collected by Sika Technology AG. 15. OTHER INCOME CHF 22.5 MN (CHF 19.3 MN) Other income includes valuation adjustments and income from the allocation of cost to subsidiaries. 16. FINANCIAL EXPENSES CHF 24.5 MN (CHF 23.4 MN) Financial expenses include the interest costs on bonds as well as foreign currency losses on loans to subsidiaries. 17. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES CHF 20.8 MN (CHF 35.6 MN) This position includes the holding company’s general expenses. Other operating expenses mainly include legal and consulting fees, costs related to management training as well as marketing expenses. In addition, a provision in the amount of CHF 8.1 million was released in the year under review in connection with trademark rights. 18. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION CHF 0.1 MN (CHF 8.0 MN) The decrease in depreciation and amortization is due to the fact that, in the previous year, product brand rights which were transferred to Sika Technology AG as of December 31,2016, were still being amortized. 19. EXTRAORDINARY, NON-RECURRING OR PRIOR-PERIOD INCOME CHF 1,000.0 MN (CHF 289.0 MN) Extraordinary income includes the gain from the sale of the umbrella brand to Sika Technology AG, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sika AG, in the amount of CHF 1,000.0 million. The previous year’s income of CHF 289.0 million is attributable to the sale of the product trademarks. 20. EXTRAORDINARY, NON-RECURRING OR PRIOR-PERIOD EXPENSES CHF 0.0 MN (CHF 1.0 MN) The extraordinary expenses in the previous year include a one-off cost allocation from a subsidiary. 21. DIRECT TAXES CHF 88.4 MN (CHF 28.4 MN) In the reporting period the increase in direct taxes is based on the non-recurring profit made from the sale of the umbrella brand to Sika Technology AG. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 152 OTHER INFORMATION FULL-TIME EQUIVALENTS The number of full-time equivalents for the reporting year is 46 (41) employees. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Letters of guarantee and letters of comfort are issued to finance business transactions. No guarantees are required for the established zero-balance cash pooling. Sika AG is part of Sika Schweiz AG’s value-added tax group and is jointly liable to the tax authorities for the value-added tax obligations of the tax group. in CHF mn 2016 2017 Letters of guarantee Issued 92.2 84.9 Used 0.0 0.0 Letters of comfort Issued 5.0 8.7 Used 0.3 0.5 Credit lines to subsidiaries Issued 0.0 0.0 Used 0.0 0.0 NET RELEASE OF HIDDEN RESERVES There is no net release of hidden reserves. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS On December 31, 2017, the company had 51 (50) registered shareholders. Information regarding major shareholders can be found on page 133 of the download version of this report. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 153 PARTICIPATIONS IN SIKA AG Members of the Board of Directors and Group Management hold the following participations in Sika AG: Number of shares 2016 2017 Board of Directors Paul Hälg, Chairman 577 577 Urs F. Burkard 1 67 67 Frits van Dijk 92 92 Willi K. Leimer 67 67 Monika Ribar 89 89 Daniel J. Sauter 2,067 2,067 Ulrich W. Suter 67 67 Jürgen Tinggren 99 99 Christoph Tobler 167 167 Group Management Paul Schuler, CEO 828 942 Jan Jenisch 1,650 n.a. Mike Campion n.a. 117 Christoph Ganz 431 431 Heinz Gisel 504 n.a. Thomas Hasler 265 259 Frank Höfflin n.a. 103 Yumi Kan 86 99 Ivo Schädler n.a. 92 Ernesto Schümperli 913 n.a. José Luis Vásquez 877 678 Adrian Widmer 241 261 Total 9,087 6,274 1 Urs F. Burkard also has an interest in Schenker-Winkler Holding, which holds 2,330,853 registered shares and, according to information provided by the Burkard-Schenker family, 42,634 bearer shares in Sika AG. In connection with share-based compensation plans the following number of shares were allocated. The shares are granted at the average market price of the first five trading days of April of the subsequent business year. In the year under review the average market price was CHF 6,290 (CHF 3,870). 2016 2017 in CHF thousands Units Nominal Units Nominal Board of Directors 0 0.0 0 0.0 Group Management 599 2,315.7 406 2,553.7 Employees 213 823.5 139 874.3 Total 812 3,139.2 545 3,428.0 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 154 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT BROUGHT FORWARD THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROPOSES TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THE FOLLOWING APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT BROUGHT FORWARD: in CHF mn 2016 2017 Composition of the profit brought forward Net profit for the year 622.4 1,348.4 Results carried forward from prior year 1,614.5 1,993.2 Profit brought forward 2,236.9 3,341.6 Dividend payment Dividend payment out of the profit brought forward 1 243.7 281.8 Results carried forward 1,993.2 3,059.8 1 Dividend payment for shares entitled to dividends (without treasury shares as per December 31, 2017). For the year 2016, the Board of Directors’ dividend proposal amounted to CHF 102.00 per bearer share and CHF 17.00 per registered share, totalling CHF 258.8 million. Instead, the annual general meeting approved a dividend of CHF 96.00 per bearer share and CHF 16.00 per registered share, resulting in a distribution of CHF 243.7 million in the current financial year. As the general statutory reserve currently exceeds 20% of shareholders’ equity, a further allocation to the reserve was waived. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 155 On approval of this proposal, the following payment will be made: in CHF 2016 2017 Bearer share 1 nominal value CHF 0.60 Gross dividend 96.00 111.00 35% withholding tax on gross dividend 33.60 38.85 Net dividend 62.40 72.15 Registered share nominal value CHF 0.10 Gross dividend 16.00 18.50 35% withholding tax on gross dividend 5.60 6.48 Net dividend 10.40 12.03 1 B earer shares held by Sika AG are non-voting shares and do not qualify for a dividend. Payment of the dividend is tentatively scheduled for Monday, April 23, 2018. Registered shareholders will receive payment of the dividend at the address provided to the company for the purposes of dividend distribution. The Annual General Meeting of Sika AG will be held on Tuesday, April 17, 2018. Baar, February 21, 2018 For the Board of Directors The Chairman: DR PAUL HÄLG SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 156 REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SIKA AG, BAAR REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As statutory auditor, we have audited the financial statements of Sika AG, which comprise the balance sheet, income statement, and notes to the financial statements (pages 147 to 156 of the download version of this report), for the year ended December 31, 2017. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. This responsibility includes designing, implementing, and maintaining an internal control system relevant to the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. OPINION In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. REPORT ON KEY AUDIT MATTERS BASED ON THE CIRCULAR 1/2015 OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the auditor’s responsibilities section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 157 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AREA OF FOCUS. Sika AG holds investments in subsidiaries that represent 35% of the total assets on stand-alone level. The various investments are disclosed in note “List of Group Companies” of the consolidated financial statements of Sika AG. Total investments are material to the entity and may be subject to changes in value. Accordingly, management performs regular impairment considerations and calculations to determine the value of each single investment. The investments in subsidiaries were considered significant to our audit as the amounts concerned are material and the assessments involve judgment in preparing the underlying key assumptions for the valuation. OUR AUDIT RESPONSE. Our audit work for the valuation of the investments consisted of auditing management’s valuation assessment and the underlying key assumptions. We also assessed the historical accuracy of the Company’s estimates and long-term business plans. We performed our own calculations to assess the valuation of each investment. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA) and independence (article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with our independence. In accordance with article 728a para. 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists, which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of profit brought forward complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. Zurich, February 21, 2018 ERNST & YOUNG LTD CHRISTOPH MICHEL MARC RÜEGSEGGER Licensed audit expert Licensed audit expert (Auditor in charge) SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SIKA AG, Baar, Financial Statements 158 FINANCIAL CALENDAR SALES FIRST QUARTER 2017 Tuesday, April 17, 2018 50TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Tuesday, April 17, 2018 DIVIDEND PAYMENT Monday, April 23, 2018 HALF-YEAR REPORT 2018 Thursday, July 26, 2018 RESULT FIRST NINE MONTHS 2018 Thursday, October 25, 2018 NET SALES 2018 Tuesday, January 8, 2019 FULL YEAR RESULT 2018 Friday, February 22, 2019 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial Calendar 159 IMPRINT PUBLISHED BY Sika AG Zugerstrasse 50 6341 Baar Switzerland Phone +41 58 436 68 00 Fax +41 58 436 68 50 sikagroup@ch.sika.com www.sika.com PROJECT TEAM Corporate Communications & Investor Relations and Corporate Finance, Sika AG, Baar, Switzerland CONCEPT, DESIGN, REALIZATION ehingerbc AG, Zurich, Switzerland COPY Sika AG, Baar, Switzerland EDITORIAL WORK ehingerbc AG, Zurich, Switzerland PRINT Kalt Medien AG, Zug, Switzerland PHOTOGRAPHY Marc Eggimann, Basel, Switzerland Henrik Spohler, Hamburg, Germany All Sika Annual Report content is available in German and English, and can also be accessed on our website www.sika.com/annualreport. The German version of the download pdf is legally binding. SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Imprint 160 Sika AG Contact Zugerstrasse 50 Phone +41 58 436 68 00 6341 Baar Fax +41 58 436 68 50 SIKA ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Switzerland www.sika.com Imprint 161
