Communication on Progress 2017 PT AICON GLOBAL INDONESIA Submitted to UN Global Compact PT Aicón Global Indonesia Indonesia Sustainability Centre, 4th Fl. Harmoni Plaza Complex, Block B No. 5 Jl. Suryopranoto No. 2, Jakarta Pusat Indonesia 10160 Telp. / Facs.: +62 21 6386 1918 E-mail: office@aicon.co.id Website: www.aicon.co.id Introduction About This Report This Communication on Progress (COP) or the Report is a stand-alone report prepared by PT Aicón Global Indonesia (Aicón) and submitted to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). This report covers the progress of Aicón in integrating the Ten Principles of UNGC into its operations for the period of January 1st, 2017, to December 31st, 2017. Report Content The Report is divided into two sections. The first section contains statement from the Director, introduction to Aicón, and its engagement with UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The second section presents deeper discussions on the application of the Ten Principles of UNGC under four categories: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a consulting company, Aicón does not engage in environmental issues in comprehensive manner. However, in this COP, Aicón describes some initiatives that address the environmental impacts within the scope of its activities. Transparency Aicón has not yet incorporated high transparency standard or disclosure and has not yet appointed an independent party to assess its COP. In the future, external assessment by a credible and independent third-party will be conducted when Aicón is ready to develop a COP that refers to a sustainability-reporting framework such as GRI Standards. Inquiry This document can be found only at the UN Global Compact website. Stakeholders who want to inquire information about Aicón or this COP may contact the following: Mr. Gandiwo Sri Mahatmo Finance and Administration Manager Telp. / Facs. +62 21 6386 1918 Email: gsmahatmo@aicon.co.id Section 1 Statement of support from CEO Dear Stakeholders, Having participated in the United Nations Global Compact for three years, I am pleased to confirm that PT Aicón Global Indonesia remains fully supportive of the Ten Principles of UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. In our Third Communication on Progress, we describe what progress we have made to integrate the principles into our company structure, processes, and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As we look forward to 2018, we are committed to improve our services and processes further in order to align our goals and efforts to comply with the Ten Principles of United Nations Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Jimmy Tanaya President Director PT Aicón Global Indonesia Section 1 Short Profile PT Aicón Global Indonesia, hereinafter referred to as “Aicón”, is a consulting company providing services for corporations or organizations that aspire to integrate sustainability principles into their business processes. Aicón was founded in October 2010, by five individuals that have interests, passion, and expertise in social responsibility and sustainability. During its seven years operation, Aicón has committed to actively promote sustainability and sustainable development. Located in Jakarta, Aicón has served state-owned, multinational, and large national companies from various industry sectors. Its service portfolio includes social and stakeholder mapping, training and workshop, consultation, corporate reporting, research, whitepaper development, program evaluation, international seminars, and impact assessment. Aicón is also engaged in a number of international organizations, such as United Nations Global Compact through Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN), Social Value International, Global Reporting Initiative (as a Gold Community member), and Social Responsibility Asia (SR Asia). Legal Name PT Aicón Global Indonesia Brand Name Aicón Date of Establishment October 10th, 2010 Office Address Indonesia Sustainability Centre, 4th Fl. Harmoni Plaza Complex, Block B No.5 Jl. Suryopranoto No.2, Jakarta Pusat , Indonesia 10160 E-mail Address office@aicon .co.id Website www.aicon.co.id Telephone / Facsimile +62 21 6386 1918 Type of Organization Non-listed, limited liability company Type of Industry Management consulting services Services Aicón Learn, Aicón Coach, Aicón Research, Aicón Communication, Aicón Tools Client Multinational companies, national companies, state-owned companies, international agencies Industry Served Oil and gas, food and beverages, financial services, mining and energy, construction, fertilizer, telecommunication, palm oil, pulp and paper, consumer goods, petrochemical Section 1 Aicon and Sustainable Development Goals Aicón’s core business is to support other organizations to adopt sustainability or sustainable development principles into their daily practices. The adoption may address various issues in the aspects of economy, social, and environment. In relation to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Aicón’s role is to advocate sustainability management and endorse partnership and collaboration with other stakeholders. This is in line with goal number 17 of SDGs, where Aicón is positioned as a facilitator that strengthens the means of implementation of different organizations. Implementing the Ten Principles As a consulting company, Aicón has a simple organizational structure as described below. Picture 1. Organizations Structure of Aicón Board of President Commissioner Director / CEO Corporate Secretary Business Account Finance & GA Development Services Director Director Director Accounting & Business Project Tax Manager Development Managers Members Consultants Office (Pool of Manager Expert) Sustainability is placed at the heart of organization where all company’s functions are responsible to the execution of sustainability principles at practical level. All individuals must also ensure that there is no conflict between business activities with sustainability commitments and activities. Each person is encouraged to collaborate with different internal functions and external stakeholders to implement corporate sustainability. Section 1 In terms of measuring performance, Aicón’s human resources aim to achieve the highest results, not only in terms of business profits and clients’ satisfaction but also in avoiding negative impacts to the stakeholders and environment. Furthermore, Aicón has a very short value chain. The business partners are the suppliers including writers, graphic designers, professional translators, and peer consultants. Human Rights Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Aicón is founded upon the talent, commitment and enthusiasm of its employees and partners. Aicón believes that it needs a safe, stimulating and supportive working environment for the employees and partners in order to deliver excellent services to the clients. Aicón has the Human Rights Policy to ensure the human rights principles in place in its business operations and human resources development. Implementation Aicón ensures the employees, partners, and clients to understand its commitment to human rights and holds an open-door policy throughout its business structure. It is of great importance to Aicón that should the employees, partners, or clients witness or experience any wrongful doing, it is easy and convenient for them to report and for Aicón management to take immediate action. Outcomes Aicón believes in diversity as a great strength of the organization. Aicón does not discriminate in employees, partners, and clients. They are all treated equally disregarding the race, skin color, age, national origin, gender, disability, religion, wealth status, and sexual orientation. Grievance mechanism in Aicón has recorded zero human rights incident in 2017. The following table presents human rights cases or disputes reported to the company in the last three years. Table 1. Human Rights Incidents in Aicón in 2015-2017 Description 2015 2016 2017 Number of Incidents Reported 0 0 0 Number of Incidents Solved 0 0 0 Number of Incidents Carried Over to The Next Period 0 0 0 Section 2 Labour Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Aicón has the Labour Policy that indicates its commitment to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the applied manpower regulations in Indonesia. The Labour Policy includes the rights to freedom of association, anti child labour, anti forced labour, health and safety in workplace, social protection, and equal opportunities. Aicón believes that core competitiveness of its organization is placed at the heart of the talents, which they can carry out tasks and duties with dignity and fearless working environment. Implementation Aicón values commitments of employees to the organization and supports the employees to achieve greater work-life balance. Five working days and national holidays are applied in Aicón, and the employees have the rights to take sick leave and personal leave. When needed, flexible working hour might be put in practice under the management’s approval. Furthermore, employees’ health is important to Aicón and prevention of accidents is the top priority in workplace. the employees are also registered to the Indonesia social protection program on health insurance, called BPJS. Aicón strongly encourages all employees to own their personal career development and maximize their potentials, such as taking advanced education or joint training programme. Annual performance review also includes the decisions on compensation, benefits, and career development. Outcomes In the past year, Aicón had zero complaint and the employees experienced no injury. The employees also followed health and safety requirements in workplace, including in the clients’ sites or operational areas. Section 2 The following table presents labour cases or disputes reported to the company in the last three years and number of employees based on gender. Table 2.1. Labour Complaint and Injury in Aicón in 2015-2017 Description 2015 2016 2017 Number of Complaints Reported 0 0 0 Number of Complaints Solved 0 0 0 Number of Complaints Carried Over to The Next Period 0 0 0 Number of Injuries in Workplace 0 0 0 Table 2.2. Total of Employee Divided by Gender Description Male Female Number of Employees 6 7 Environment Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Aicón has the Environmental Policy in respect to its business characteristics as a consulting company. It becomes a reference for the employees to concern about the environmental impacts of business operations. That includes the efficient use of energy, water, and papers, the use of public transportation, and the prevention of negative environmental impacts in clients’ sites or operational areas. Implementation Aicón minimizes transportation costs as much as possible. Employees use public transportation, such as taxis, public buses, or commuter line (train). Used papers are used to print drafts or internal memos. Temperature of the air conditioners is usually set at 20-22 degree Celsius and all electronic equipment must be turned an and off by the users, including when they are having lunch. For long distance communications, the employees utilize applications, such as Skype or WhatsApp. As Aicón assists the companies to develop reports, the companies are encouraged to reduce number of printed reports or to use recycled papers for their reports. Section 2 Outcomes Aicón has not yet measured its efficiency in electricity and water usage. However, we still keep the shredded-used papers in our office,from june 2017 up until now, we able to gather 5 kilograms of shredded-used papers which we will send to a small-scale paper recycling business in Jakarta. The following table presents environmental incidents reported to the company in the last three years. Table 3. Environmental Incidents in Aicón in 2015-2017 Description 2015 2016 2017 Number of Incidents Reported 0 0 0 Number of Incidents Solved 0 0 0 Number of Incidents Carried Over to The Next Period 0 0 0 Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Aicón has the Anti-Corruption Policy that guides individuals in the company to avoid and prevent gratification and bribery practices. The Policy also gives access to employees to file grievances or to report potential corruption incidents. Leadership and transparency are in place, where conflict of interests are recognized and addressed at any organizational level. Implementation Aicón ensures the employees understand the commitment to anti-corruption. Periodically, the founders discuss the latest business issues and conditions regarding anti-corruption practices. Project agreements and payments are transparent to all founders; where accounting and financial function in the organization is accessible for them. Section 2 Outcomes In 2017, Aicón experienced zero corruption incidents. The following table presents corruption incidents reported to the company in the last three years. Table 4. Corruption Incidents in Aicón in 2015-2017 Description 2015 2016 2017 Number of Incidents Reported 0 1 0 Number of Incidents Solved 0 1 0 Number of Incidents Carried Over to The Next Period 0 0 0 -o0oSection 2
