SK E&C 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SK E&C 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CSR REPORT 2017 CSR REPORT DEEP CHANGE FOR THE GREAT Address : SK E&C, 32, Insadong 7-gil, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea TELEPHONE : 82-2-3700-7114 FAX : 82-2-3700-8200 ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS This is SK E&C's third CSR report with a focus on our social responsibility activities and performance in 2017 based on our CSR strategy. This report consistently presents SK E&C's contributions to the sustainable development of society and our efforts to proceed toward Deep Change, the direction SK E&C targets in its pursuit of social value. CEO MESSAGE 03 MATERIAL ISSUES SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT 45 Reporting Period ISSUE 1. FAIR TRADE / COMPLIANCE WITH CODE QUALITY MANAGEMENT 47 This report covers SK E&C’s activities and performance from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. Furthermore, it also includes significant activities in 2018 INTRODUCTION OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 21 SHARED GROWTH 49 affecting management operations and thus worth mentioning. When it comes to the major achievements towards fulfilling our social responsibility, we report the data CORPORATE OVERVIEW 05 ISSUE 2. SAFETY AND HEALTH 25 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 51 from the last three years as well to make it easier to identify the quantitative trend. MAIN BUSINESS AREAS 07 ISSUE 3. QUALITY 29 TALENT MANAGEMENT 53 Reporting Boundary MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY 09 ISSUE 4. SHARED GROWTH 33 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 57 This report includes the social responsibility activities and performance of the headquarters as well as domestic and overseas projects of SK E&C. With regards to GOVERNANCE 10 ISSUE 5. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS 37 APPENDIX performance in 2015, also included are data related to SK TNS, a corporate spun off in September 2015 from the u-business division of SK E&C. In the event of any CSR OVERVIEW CSR PERFORMANCE 63 other exceptions in the reporting boundary, they will be indicated separately in the content. CSR SYSTEM AND MATERIALITY TEST 13 CSR MANAGEMENT GRI STANDARDS INDEX 65 Reporting Standard PURSUIT OF SOCIAL VALUE 17 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT 43 MEMBERSHIPS AND AWARDS 67 This report references the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Standards. It presents SK E&C’s performance as transparently as possible, reflecting the ten principles of the UN Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs). DEEP CHANGE FOR THE GREAT 03 04 CEO MESSAGE SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report We Build the Great SK E&C is making every effort to realize our mission with our top technological and engineering capabilities acknowledged in the respective areas including plant, infrastructure, and architecture & Great Life, Great World housing business. Dear valued shareholders, customers and Biz Partners, I am deeply grateful for your ongoing encouragement and support. “We Build the Great Great Life, Great World” SK E&C is making every effort to realize our mission with our top technological and engineering capabilities acknowledged in the respective areas including plant, infrastructure, and architecture & housing business. In 2017, our corporation posted a pretax profit surplus for the third consecutive year, in a business environment that has been more uncertain and challenging than ever. This achievement was the result of a balanced portfolio and the consolidated principle of substantial management. At the same time, we are strengthening our position as a globally respected enterprise acquiring large sized projects consistently from the Middle East, Turkey, Southeast Asia, and other regions notwithstanding the severe competition in the worldwide market. Today, SK E&C is poised to sustainably enhance ‘Social Value’ together with ‘Economic Value’ as an enterprise responsible towards society. Declaring 2018 as the starting point of creating social value, the company and employees will together do our best through our dedication to the engineering & construction business and strive towards upgrading the social contribution activities that have been implemented continuously up to now. SK E&C is incessantly making efforts towards building a sustainable society in the areas of safety, health, ethical management, and shared growth. Our project leaders are implementing Safety-RM(Risk Management) activities to prevent risks to workers' safety and health and this initiative is expanding into Biz Partners. In addition, we are enhancing quality control standards by establishing a COPQ(Cost of Poor Quality) management system and consolidating a transparent management system through enactment of ethics code and providing ethical management training for employees. Furthermore, SK E&C is pursuing ‘Happy management’ through shared growth and fair trade activities for realizing a win-win business model. As the result of these efforts, we received the only best grade among domestic construction and engineering companies at evaluation of Win-Win Index from the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership as well as the award for the Grand Prize of the Improvement of Cooperation in Construction Industry and the best grade of Mutual Cooperation Evaluation from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. These awards and accolades have raised the positive image of SK E&C as a leading enterprise of shared growth and superior reliability in the engineering and construction industry. In 2018, we are going to propose a new paradigm of co-prosperity improving the standard of shared growth further and Ki-Haeng Cho Jae-Hyun Ahn sharing the management infrastructure of SK E&C with Biz Partners. In this way, SK E&C is not sparing any efforts towards SK E&C CEO/Vice Chairman SK E&C CEO/President distinguished and systematic support for strengthening the base for mutual prosperity with Biz Partners. Dear valued shareholders, customers and Biz Partners, We are presenting the 3rd CSR Report this year. SK E&C is committed to do its best to build a sustainable society and meet the expectations of our diverse stakeholders. We hope you will continue to support SK E&C with your affectionate trust this year, too. Thank you. SK E&C CEO/Vice Chairman Ki-Haeng Cho SK E&C CEO/President Jae-Hyun Ahn 8,389 07 08 INTRODUCTION Oil & Gas SK E&C is commanding a broad portfolio covering all areas of chemical plant including oil refinery, SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Plant petrochemicals, petroleum/gas processing facilities, oil-sands and LNG projects, etc. We have proven our distinguished competency as a global top-tier business based on high-end engineering technology, Main Business management and engineering capabilities accumulated through a vast array of large sized domestic Company Name | SK Engineering & Construction and overseas projects. Based on an immaculate track record of successful implementations, we are Established Date | August 1, 1977 leaping up as a total solution provider covering business development, basic design, EPC and O&M. CEO | Ki-Haeng Cho, Jae-Hyun Ahn Areas Recently, we are focusing on diversification of our portfolio implementing world’s largest oil-sands plant Head Office Address | 32, Insadong 7-gil, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea project of Canada as well as acquiring Polyols plant project of Thailand and large ethylene complex project of Vietnam. Power SK E&C is providing top-notch, optimized services to customers in business areas including not only Plant coal-fired electrical power, combined cycle power, nuclear power, and renewable power but also IPP(Independent Power Producer). Through our work on the Goseong Green Power Project, Korea’s largest private coal-fired electrical power plant, we are strengthening our position as an IPP business 36,880 43.0 while also successfully performing large sized power plant EPC projects in overseas markets such as Turkey, Panama, Chile, etc. We will be doing our best to diversify future business through expanding our market worldwide and locating new business prospects. Industrial SK E&C has a rich history of achievement through various projects including semiconductor, battery Plant materials for electric car (LiBS), pharmaceutical production facilities, etc. Notably, we are implementing 1,579.3 a semiconductor project at Wuxi and Chongqing area of China based on our clean room technologies and know-how accumulated through the SK Hynix M14 and M15 projects. This way, we are upgrading our business performance capacity through accumulation of know-how and securing technologies and Plant human resources for various products and markets. Our ultimate goal is to maximize value of our Infrastructure Sales customers and our company and gain the basis for sustainable growth. Architecture & Housing 6,439.8 Others (Product, Leases) (KRW 1 billion) 1,129.5 3,688.0 43.0 InfrastrucSK E&C is improving the quality of human living through different infrastructure such as roads, railroads/ 3,073.5 9,016.7 Order ture subways, bridges, tunnels, cavern, port, hydroelectric power, industrial complex/residential land, etc. New Orders 8,830.5 3,416.3 Backlog Our projects for the Eurasia Tunnel and the 3rd bridge at Bosporus of Turkey have demonstrated our 8,268.2 technological prowess to the entire world. Based on the firm foundations of business experiences and (KRW 1 billion) 21,427.9 expertise accumulated in Korea and overseas for many years, we will develop into a ‘Global Asset (KRW 1 billion) Player’ with stable profit portfolio based on reserved assets. We are constantly pursuing expansion of the global EPC market and consolidating our achievements from development projects. ArchitecSK E&C is drawing global attention as leader of constructing environment-friendly buildings and knowledge 1,735.4 3,580.7 ture & industry complexes based on the newest construction methods and leading-edge systems. We are also persisting in our research and development efforts for developing comfortable and flexible spaces. SK Housing VIEW, introducing the concept of architectural esthetics, focuses on ‘comfort’ and ‘convenience’, the intrinsic values of a residence space and realizes the value of customer happiness. In recognition of our best efforts to satisfy customers with optimum quality and leading designs, our company received a host of awards related with well-being, environment-friendly engineering, marketing and design. 09 10 INTRODUCTION SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Philosophy Governance SKMS(SK Management System) contains SK’s own unique management philosophy which is shared and We are committed to making the right decisions with respect to the management of SK E&C. Although SK agreed by all SK affiliates including SK E&C. SKMS has been greatly helpful in making constant development E&C is not publicly traded, we aspire to the highest standards of corporate governance by filling the majority and growth up to now. of our board with outside directors with a view towards enhancing the transparency and independence of decision-making. SKMS, which was established in 1979, has become a foundation in building corporate culture of Currently, the Board of Directors of SK E&C is composed of seven directors (four of them are Foundation of SK and criteria for effective decision-making regarding management activities and everyday work. Board of Directors outside directors). They provide supervision and support to the management activities of the CEO All members of SK believe that the happiness of stakeholders can be achieved with the culture of through three Board-level Committees: (1) the Audit Committeecharged with auditing corporate Sustainability SUPEX Quest through Voluntarily & Willingly Brain Engagement(VWBE). activities and ensuring accounting transparency and; (2) the Outside Director Recommendation Management, SKMS Committeeresponsible for the nomination of outside director candidates to the general meeting SK E&C considers the long-term happiness among stakeholders to be harmonious and balanced, of shareholders and; (3) the Management Committeeestablished to enable effective decisionboth in the present and future. This is the true definition of ‘Sustainability Management’ in SK E&C. making with respect to management activities. In addition, the BoD Secretariat supports the outside directors in the performance of their duties. * SUPEX : The abbreviation for super-excellent level, which means the highest performance level attainable Customers Board of Directors BoD Secretariat Provide customer Support through trust value and patronage Creating Culture and Environment of SUPEX Quest through VWBE Audit Committee Outside Director Recommendation Committee Management Committee All SK People are voluntarily creating a favorable environment for the • Members: 3 (Outside Directors: 3) • Members: 3 (Outside Directors: 2, Inside • Members: 2 (Inside Directors: 2) SK People • Auditing financial statements, submitting Directors: 1) • Resolutions on items and issues as delegated Create corporate A sense of achievement Create social and SUPEX Quest, while at the same time implementing and developing it audit reports / evaluation of internal control • Recommendation of outside director by BoD and growth in work over financial reporting candidates to be appointed at the general value economic values as SK’s culture. Contribute to assembly of shareholders corporate growth Through this effort, SK People are committed to strengthening Pae-gi, Trust and support Invest business activities which means the determination to succeed in one’s work, and making CEO Pae-gi SK’s own unique culture. Shareholders Community The relationships and roles In 2017, SK E&C addressed forty nine agenda items over a total of ten BoD meetings. The of the company and its Operation of the committees also addressed twelve agenda items over a total of nine meetings – six of the meetings stakeholders by the Management Committee, two by the Audit Committee and one by the Outside Director Board of Directors Recommendation Committee. <BoD Activities> <Committee Activities> Mission & Vision Category No. of Items No. of Reports Main Activities Committee No. of Meetings No. of Items Agenda Items General shareholders’ Convening of the general shareholders Changes to branch meeting, BoD, 5 1 meeting, revisions to BoD regulations, Management representatives, MISSION VISION corporate governance appointment of CEO, etc. Committee 6 6 establishment of branches, Investments, planning Liquidation, share sales, security etc. 4 0 & management provision, etc. WE BUILD THE GREAT GLOBAL TOP TIER Approval of financial statements, Audit Committee 2 5 Financial statements, audit Accounting, financial reports, etc. GREAT LIFE, GREAT WORLD CITY DEVELOPER & INFRASTRUCTURE BUILDER management 7 3 capping debt and payment guarantees, Outside Director Recommendation of etc. Recommendation 1 1 candidates for director Other 9 15 Key management issues, etc. Committee position, etc. We realize happiness and better life for human beings. The company whose main business is the global city development while planning/developing, working on composite EPC Workshop 0 5 SK E&C quality management, etc. Total 9 12 and providing solutions. Total (49 items) 25 24 CSR OVERVIEW MATERIAL ISSUES CSR MANAGEMENT CSR APPENDIX OVERVIEW Pohang-Yeongil Bay Port South Breakwater 13 14 CSR OVERVIEW Education for Employees SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR Awareness Activities SK E&C has been providing online education on sustainability management for all employees each year since 2013. In 2017, a total of 4,649 employees availed the education program CSR System and that focused on not only concept and activities of sustainability management but also on helping employees understand the company’s pursuit of social value. At the same time, SK Letter (Sustainability Knowledge Letter), issued biweekly to employees through internal email, contributed to enhancing employees' awareness. Released a total of 21 times in 2017, the letter published Materiality Test contents related to trends in social responsibility activities in Korea and overseas and the direction of SK group’s pursuit of social value. CSR System SK E&C has set up a system for implementation of CSR in pursuit of its mission, ‘We realize Online sustainability management training SK Letter CSR Implementation happiness and a better life for human beings’. We are striving to realize the target value and achieve harmony and balance among them by setting goals for each stakeholder groups. Through System this, we hope to contribute towards creating a sustainable future where economic, environmental and social values can be harmonized. S-Progam(Sustainability Program) In order to raise awareness of sustainability management and induce employees to practice it proactively and positively, SK E&C has been conducting an initiative known as S-program. S-program enables employees to easily practice mandatory activities during their work hours such Mission as health checkups and training for prevention of sexual harassment, and take part in programs WE BUILD THE GREAT GREAT LIFE, GREAT WORLD such as pledges, training related to social responsibilities and social contribution activities based on the 4 core strategies of CSR(strategic management, project-oriented management, talent Society management, social sharing management). We are also constantly monitoring and encouraging Stakeholders Shareholders Customers Employees Biz Partner Communities Future employees to ensure compliance with the ‘S-point’. Generations Efficiency, Growth & Distribution Satisfaction Safety, health & equality Fair & shared growth Social contribution Value proposition Sustainability Management Awareness Survey SK E&C has been conducting a survey on sustainability management awareness for all employees. Increase the overall Value proposition Strengthen corporate value and Foster competency Pursue shared Establish a society Strengthen eco-friendly This is to diagnose the level of employees’ awareness of the sustainability management, and quality that nurtures hopes and value continuously quality of life for growth value creation of careers for employees dreams understanding of the company’s approach to sustainability management and level of practice as customers reflected in business activities. The results of the survey were measured based on cognitive index, Practice fair comprehension index, and activity index. The awareness index for 2017 was 76 points, higher Value Tireless innovation Provide total Establish great competition and Perform strategic Implement green by 2.9 points than 2016, thanks to diverse awareness activities such as online sustainability drives value solutions workplaces win-win CSR activities management practices partnerships training, publishing of SK Letters, etc. We will continuously improve the awareness index of SK’s sustainability management through reminding and encouraging employees to join the campaign. SK E&C has established four core strategies– strategic management, project-oriented management, 2017 2016 76.0 CSR Strategy talent management and social sharing management. They are comprised of 13 sub-areas that 73.1 encompass ethics, quality, safety and health, environment, human resource development, shared growth, social contribution, etc. Each department in charges of the respective detailed areas 82.6 82.8 79.9 are responsible for efforts to control risks and enhance standards through optimization of the 76.8 internal system and processes, securing competency and recognition of all employees. In addition, 65.4 59.6 we have assigned the sustainability management team as the control tower for monitoring and encouraging activities and performance in each area. 02 PROJECT-ORIENTED 04 SOCIAL SHARING 01 STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT 03 TALENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Cognitive index Comprehension Activity index index We relentlessly pursue innovation to We maximize customer satisfaction We provide an enjoyable workplace We seek to create an ecosystem Awareness index create new values for the future. We through exceptional project where employees have ample growth that benefits everyone through will earn trust through transparent management and overall opportunities based on a strong collaboration with local communities. and ethical management. optimization. corporate culture. • Social contribution • Foster new business model • Customer-oriented management • Strong corporate culture • Shared growth • Strategic risk management • Quality management • Human resource development • Transparent and ethical • Safety and health management • A great workplace management • Environmental management • Research & Development 15 16 Materiality Test SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report STEP 2. MATERIALITY TEST In line with the SKMS(SK Management System), SK E&C defines stakeholders as shareholders, Communication with customers, employees and society. We are striving to reflect stakeholders’ opinions and Among the 29 issues derived from the issue pool, we have identified priorities through materiality test with internal and external expectations to management activities, and operating diverse communication channels depending stakeholders. Stakeholders upon the characteristics of stakeholders. We intend to enhance transparency of management · Materiality test of external stakeholders : Analysis of 1,165 positive and negative reports related to SK E&C exposed to media as activities of SK E&C and secure stakeholders’ trust in the long term. news and others. Reflected weight in the social issues related with construction industry occurred in 2017. · Materiality test of internal stakeholders : Survey done on materiality of 29 issues targeting all employees of SK E&C. External 1 1 Compliance with fair trade laws 10 Compliance with code of ethics and anti2 3 corruption 2 3 Safety and health Public disclosure, 9 7 generalshareholders' meeting, 4 Quality annual reports, etc. 6 5 Creating revenue 8 5 4 6 Risk management 7 Shared growth Shareholders 8 Compliance with environmental regulations 7 Compliance with the labor laws and 8 9 agreements 10 Recruiting and developing human resources 6 11 Enter into new markets/business Future Customers SK E&C homepage, 9 Generations SK VIEW homepage, 12 Fair evaluation and rewards customer service center, 13 Social contribution Happy Green School, press releases, etc. 5 11 13 14 Governance participation in CDP, 15 Work and life balance etc. 10 4 21 16 Protection of diversity and human rights Corporate image enhancement and 17 23 14 communication with customers 19 18 Resolving grievances 3 26 16 19 Unique corporate culture 20 20 Responsibility for products 24 15 2 27 17 21 R&D 12 22 22 Information security Employees 23 Indirect economic effects on society Community 1 28 18 24 Coping with the climate change 25 Establishment of eco-friendly culture Social Corporate intranet, 29 25 contribution SK E&C magazine, Eco-friendly technology development and 26 investment activities including Management the Hope Maker and Development Council, 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 27 Development of eco-friendly products Improvement of Residential awareness survey, Internal 28 Protecting biodiversity and ecosystems Society Environment etc. 29 Purchasing/transporting eco-friendly materials Biz Partner With US(Biz Partners’ website), Shared Infrastructure website, Happy Wings Committee, etc. STEP 3. SELECTION OF CORE ISSUES AND REPORTING STRUCTURE SK E&C is making efforts to address major issues that concern internal and external stakeholders Materiality Test through materiality test to identify key issues and reporting them at [MATERIAL ISSUES]. For the Based on the results of materiality test for stakeholders, we have selected the topmost 6 issues as core issues. For the selected core future, we are preparing to identify issues of concern to stakeholders as well as their influence on issues, we have established [MATERIAL ISSUES] for reporting intensively on activities and performances in 2017, while basic business activities, and intensively report them. management activities related to core issues such as management policy and organization are being published through [CSR MANAGEMENT]. Further, issues not selected as core issues are also being reported in equilibrium. However, among CSR issues, those related with economic aspects are excluded and issues related with social or environmental aspects handled in this report. Stakeholders Core Issues MATERIAL ISSUES Page Share Future Customers Employees Biz P. Community holders Generation STEP 1. COLLECTING OF ISSUE POOL 1 Compliance with fair trade laws 1. Fair Trade / Compliance with Compliance with 21-24 Code of Ethics and Anti-corruption 2 code of ethics and anti-corruption We have reviewed global standards, competitors’ tendencies, direction of SK E&C’s management strategy, etc., and selected 29 issues related with SK E&C’s business activities to organize an issue pool. 3 Safety and health 2. Safety and Health 25-28 · Global standards : International standards such as GRI Standards, DJSI, ISO 26000, SDGs, etc., and analysis of assessment results. 4 Quality 3. Quality 29-32 · Tendency of competitor companies : Benchmarking of CSR trends in construction industry through analysis of CSR issues. · SK E&C’s direction of management strategies : SK E&C’s internal issues that are identified by review of internal management 7 Shared growth 4. Shared Growth 33-36 strategies. Compliance with 5. Compliance with Environmental 8 environmental 37-40 Regulations regulations CSR OVERVIEW ISSUE 1. FAIR TRADE / COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MATERIAL ISSUES ISSUE 2. SAFETY AND HEALTH ISSUE 3. QUALITY CSR MANAGEMENT ISSUE 4. SHARED GROWTH MATERIAL ISSUE 5. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL APPENDIX REGULATIONS ISSUES New Dongtan SK VIEW Park II 21 22 ISSUE 1. Link to SDGs Operation of Fair Trade Compliance Program SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fair Trade Compliance At the end of 2007, SK E&C enacted the company’s regulations for operating the fair trade compliance program as parts of the efforts to ensure compliance with the regulations on fair trade. Program Fair Trade / Since 2008, we have been systematically operating seven key elements based on the CEO's strong determination to comply with fair trade laws and regulations. Compliance with Code of Management's commitment to compliance CEO announces commitment to pursue fair trade compliance Ethics and Anti-corruption Establishment of the document Designated a compliance manager Assigned a manager to deal with employee compliance management system issues, and gave them real A head of department designated for CP responsibility and authority related document management to provide FAIR TRADE accurate and up-to-date information COMPLIANCE SK E&C is practicing various campaigns to promote ethical compliance in our management PROGRAM Created and distributed the Compliance Handbook Why It Matters activities as the importance of fair trade and compliance to ethical and anti-corruption norms is Created a business practice receiving enhanced recognition based on changed external environment and strengthened laws guide that included examples to Sanctions imposed on employees and regulatory systems. enable employees comply with who violate the law fair trade regulations Transition of the business Strengthened laws and Established penalty measures such as concepts regulations humanitarian sanctions, proportional Indispensable to the degree of violation • Recognizing ethical management as an • The improper solicitation and graft act enforced Training program operation indispensable factor for management in September 2016 condition for Improving the • Proactive thinking toward corporate social • Punishment getting severer against unethical global corporate image Provided at least two hours per responsibilities practices(including Class Action lawsuit) • Ethical management is now a core factor for competitiveness half semester of specialized competitiveness Practicing training tailored to departmental ethically Construction of an internal characteristics Change of the international Change of the domestic compliant supervision system environment environment management Established a system to supervise and Companies not Enhancement • Anti-corruption movements such as OECD • Demand for strengthening corporate social practicing ethical of reliability in report violations to convention launched responsibilities management will domestic and • Standardization and obligation of ethical • Enhanced anti-corruption culture the board of directors fall behind overseas management with ISO, EOA*, etc. at the center • Stronger government will to enact anti-corruption laws and punishment (including regulations against bid-rigging) *EOA : Ethics Officer Association Fair Trade Compliance Program Activities SK E&C is pursuing ethical compliance activities in both hardware and software aspects, SK E&C is operating various activities such as yearly fair trade training and audit by core factors How We Approach establishing implementation systems in order to practice compliance of ethical norms and to following the operation manual of the fair trade compliance program. Particularly, in 2017, we strengthen the fair trade culture on a company-wide scale. From the hardware aspect, rules, took proactive action to prevent possible violation of laws by reviewing 83 advanced reports after systems, processes and systems were arranged and in terms of software, diverse activities are overall enforcement of advanced reporting of meetings with companies in the same field with the being implemented so as to raise employees’ awareness of ethics and compliance. intent to eradicate bid-rigging. Also, we contributed to fair trade practices taking roots in our corporate culture through training against unfair internal transactions and improvement of the advanced review process for internal Achievements of 2017/ Education for understanding the internal transaction transactions. In addition, we shared 57 cases related with fair trade through the compliance program bulletin board on intranet while assuming the responsibility of consultancy and report Plans of 2018 by fair trade law Achievements of 2017 Plans of 2018 gathering on violation cases. • Enhancement of ethical mindset of Biz Partners through sharing infrastructure related code of ethics (such as ethics training, etc.) Education Consultancy and reporting for Advanced reporting of meetings • Establishment of a culture that encourages ACTION PLAN FOR JOINING MEETINGS participationratio ethical management with companies in the same voluntary compliance with fair trade rules WITH COMPANIES IN THE SAME FIELD 100% 158 cases field for preventing bid-rigging through upgrading the fair trade compliance 83 cases program 1. In case there is a possibility of violating the fair trade law or such an actual incident, immediately • Online ethical management training report to the person in charge of compliance administration through the division fair trade • Online training for preventing bid-rigging compliance officer. 2. Do not, under any circumstances, engage in discussions on bid-rigging related matters such as INTERVIEW WITH STAKEHOLDERS price (bid price, selection of successful bidder, supporting role, etc.) and bidding condition that are prohibited by the fair trade law. “A global top tier culture, which encourages employees to voluntarily comply with fair trade rules, takes root” 3. Since bid-rigging is punishable as long as there is an agreement even without implementation, Starting 2008, SK E&C has been practicing diverse compliance activities and programs to voluntarily comply with fair trade attendee should clearly express intention of non-participation if any discussion or resolution violating rules for fair competition and efficient management. Every year, the CEO send out a message conveying the company’s firm fair trade law is expected . determination and policy and all employees are expected to sign a pledge to practice fair trade voluntarily. We are also 4. Even silence without expression of active consent is regarded as implicit violation. Therefore, our making efforts to enhance awareness among employees through fair trade campaigns and trainings by job categories as personnel shall clarify opposite intention (if meeting minutes are created, request a copy) and make well as different internal publications and broadcasts. In addition, audits of head office and projects are held twice a year the rejection intention of bid-rigging clear by way of leaving the place immediately, etc. to prevent behaviors in violation of fair trade; audit results are reported to the board of directors. Furthermore the company 5. If record on any subject not discussed in the meeting or simple opinions by certain participants are encourages voluntary joining of compliance activities through operation of the consultative group for voluntary compliance found in documents like meeting minutes, create an information report or activity report, since such by each business division. As the manager in charge of the fair trade compliance program, I am committed to exerting my best efforts to ensure matters can be misunderstood as bid-rigging or misused as evidence of bid-rigging. Therefore, make constant and sustainable development of the company by settling down a global top tier compliance culture. This fair trade sure that documents are written based on truth and that there is no false report (check the meeting compliance program is a manifestation of SK’s will to contribute to transparent and fair business management activities. related documents thoroughly) Hyung Bae Lee Manager of Compliance Operation Team, SK E&C 23 24 Hardware Aspect Overseas Anti-Corruption Compliance Program SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Compliance with Code of • Establishing ethical regulations and the business procedure guide Putting ethics, transparency and honesty as the top-priority values in implementing the overseas SK E&C, starting from establishment of ethical regulations, also enacted rules for internal audits, projects, SK E&C is strengthening its competitiveness and integrity to jump up to be a Global Top Ethics and Anti-corruption a guide for reporting procedure, standards for protection of individuals reporting violations, Tier enterprise, through active and pre-emptive elimination of corrupt behaviors and compliance Activities and a procedure guide to comprehensively prohibit corruption, bribery and bribe granting in with anti-corruption laws and regulations. line with ethical regulations. In December 2014, SK E&C clarified the CEO’s firm will to eliminate corrupt and illegal activities during overseas projects and established Anti-Corruption Compliance Program to effectively and • Operating consultation and report channel for ethical management efficiently implement the CEO’s will. The Anti-Corruption Compliance Program regulates the ethical We are operating various communication channels such as internet, email, post mail, telephone, management procedure and internal rules for voluntary compliance with law and ethical behaviors fax, etc., to consult and report for ethical management. Stakeholders including employees, Biz by employees when pursuing and/or performing overseas projects. Partner and customers can report unfair behaviors of employees and reported contents shall Internally, SK E&C enacted the International Anti-Corruption Compliance Policies, based on remain confidential. We are maintaining reporter protection program including secrecy, identity the anti-corruption laws of Korea, USA and UK, which set specific rules and standards for the security, protective custody, prohibition on discrimination, etc., so that they can comfortably employees to abide by in order to lead the entire company to comply with anti-corruption laws. report in any case. SK E&C educates employees on international anti-corruption issues by implementing educational programs customized according to the compliance needs of the business department, project • Operating the Risk Sensing System and the employee’s position by holding workshops and issuing internal newsletters including In order to strengthen constant monitoring and internal control function based on IT, SK E&C latest cases. Additionally, SK E&C is regularly providing online and offline trainings to enhance Webpage for online consulting/report of ethical developed and is running a Risk Sensing System. It helps to respond to risks proactively and employees’ awareness of anti-corruption culture and operate the Compliance Help Desk at management implement a self-cleansing mechanism leading to change of employees’ ethical awareness compliance bulletin board of the intranet. and mindset. Externally, SK E&C updated the ethical management web page to introduce its Anti-Corruption Compliance Program to create and spread its culture of compliance and conducts due diligence • Opening the internal ethical management portal processes on the Biz Partners with an aim to prevent and minimize any risks that may arise to the Through operating an internal ethical management portal for ethical management activities, company from third parties committing corrupt acts. code of ethics, and Q&A for active communication with employees, we are enhancing the In 2017, SK E&C reorganized its Anti-Corruption Compliance Program by checking any violations power to practice ethical management. and defects found at the initial operation stage and reinforced in-depth due diligence against Biz Partners having compliance issues to fully protect the company’s interests. In 2018, SK E&C will continuously and effectively implement global ethics and its Anti-Corruption Compliance Program to have itself stand as a global enterprise leading anti-corruption. Internal portal site for ethical management Compliance Program with the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act SK E&C has implemented compliance program consisting of making and distributing guidebooks Software Aspect containing a self check list, FAQ and case studies as the ‘The Improper Solicitation and Graft • Signing a pledge to abide by ethical regulations Act’ was enforced effective September 28, 2016. Furthermore we stipulated internal punishment At the beginning of every year, SK E&C is getting signature on the pledge to abide by ethical rules against violation of regulations prohibiting corrupt request and exchange of valuables. In this regulations from all executives and employees so as to assure complying with code of ethics regard, we operate an online Q&A bulletin board for employees on intranet continuously posting and anti-corruption. various cases and latest issues that can happen in the business to reinforce employees’ awareness. Specifically, in 2017, we carried out online training to all employees for establishing a culture of • Execution training and workshop for ethical management Training of the improper solicitation and graft act voluntary compliance with the improper solicitation and graft act and collective training to 400 SK E&C is implementing ‘Education on Ethical Management and Audit Cases’ for new officers in charge from related divisions, thereby minimizing risks of violation of the improper employees and career employees. And providing ‘Ethical Management Execution Training’ solicitation and graft act. Ethical management execution training for project employees to internalize sustainable practice of ethical management and ethical mindset. And discussion oriented workshop to tackle dilemma cases for leaders (executives/ team leaders) are helping raising ethical decision making capabilities through debate among leaders and employees. • Distribution of • Declaration of CEO’s • Ethical management online training company rules and message All SK E&C employees completed SK group’s online ethical management training course. We guidebooks • Signing of voluntary have enhanced execution power through strengthening consensus on ethical management • Operation Q&A System improvement compliance pledge practices among employees, and reinforced practice with training on realistic implementation bulletin board and manual updates Reinforcement of • Survey on awareness Ethical management practicing workshop methods and the sense of meaning that ethical management provides to SKMS. employees’ • Propagation of alarms mindset • Survey on practice of ethical management Compliance In order to find points of improvement related to employees’ mindset, practice and ethical Program with management system/culture, we enacted a survey on practice of ethical management for all the Improper employees. The results of the investigation show high levels of awareness on overall compliance Solicitation and Graft Act • Operation of Task Force with code of ethics, but the awareness on employees’ reciprocal ethics and transparent business practices was lower than average. Thus, we are seeking to strengthen the foundations, training Continuous training Enhancing to comply with the effectiveness through activities and activation of reporting channels for reinforcing employees’ ethical management and audit refurbishment at improper solicitation Ethical management online training mindset. organizational and graft act and level • Enacting online/offline organization in charge training and auditing of family occasion for every half-year public officials 25 26 ISSUE 2. In 2017, SK E&C completed risk management system with implementation of Safety-RM(Risk Link to SDGs SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Major Activities of 2017 Management) through collective intelligence organized by project leaders. We intended to materialize an accurate and righteous system by modifying the company wide operating system Safety and Health for safety and health and formulated a clear compliance environment for safety and health. And, to secure expertise for reducing safety and health risks and strengthening the basic attitude, we operated diverse programs not only for internal employees but also for Biz Partners and optimized operation of safety and health activities by reflecting the business characteristics of each division. Safety-RM (IT & Mobile System) From setting of the project to working that day, SK E&C established a risk management system to be led by the project manager. The system was set on mobile, and the IT system and mobile application were connected to provide speed and convenience, organizing a 24/7 monitoring system between head office and projects. <Safety-RM Operation Process> Initial stage of project Before start of work Working that day Society’s sensitivity toward safety and health is growing day by day and this means that businesses Risk assessment Pre-meeting Initial risk assessment Permit to work TBM Inspection (For 2 weeks) (Working D-1) Why It Matters are expected to respond with a more responsible attitude to safety and health management. Together with the reinforcement of domestic and international law and standards related with Biz Partner Establishment of initial Presentation Establishment of risk Training before Check & of initial risk risk assessment assessment work Inspection safety and health, clients are suggesting stricter standards. Keeping pace with these evolving assessment trends, SK E&C cherishes safety and health as the core value of business management. Project Supporting and training Risk assessment Check & (construction and Providing and explaining Final review committee Inspection safety manager) guideline for Biz Partners SK E&C stipulated three basic principles that represent the CEO’s philosophy of safety and health, Review and approval of permit to work How We Approach applying these to all safety and health activities and implementing established activity standards in detail to convert the value of safety into action. Review Simulation Check & Inspection Project Permit to work/TBM Reconfirmation of risks Inspection of risk assessment (Project manager) /Inspection item selection, by dangerous work items and checking overall work Discussion categories in advance process Achievements of 2017 / Strengthening monitoring & feedback Plans of 2018 Providing standard safety Management Group SHE Department Business Division work procedures, similar Head office accident cases, material Operation System maintenance / Check whether project is complying Achievements of 2017 Plans of 2018 for safety training monitoring & feedback improvement with the risk management system Checking operation and adequacy of the risk management system The accident rate Governmental Certification of The accident rate Governmental Certification of 0.43* Healthy Workplace 0.344** Healthy Workplace Enhancement of Understanding and Practicing Level of Biz Partners 3 Project 5 Project Various programs including ‘Biz Partner Safety Culture & Leadership Enhancement Program’, ‘Biz Partner Safety and Health Operations Enhancement Training’, and ‘Supporting Consultations for * announced by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in June 2017 ** to be announced by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in June 2018 Acquisition of KOSHA18001 Certification’ were enacted to empower and raise the practicing abilities of Biz Partners who are the practice agents of safety and health activities. INTERVIEW WITH STAKEHOLDERS Biz Partner Safety Leader Training Frontier of safety in construction industry, SK E&C Since safety is an indispensable factor for sustainable growth, SK E&C strives to be a good model in the construction industry. Securing safety at a construction site is very hard due to its temporariness and excessive mobility and particularly, establishing a safety culture that demands a long term effort is even more difficult. Going by the present status of construction Safety Culture & Leadership Enhancement Operation Enhancement Training for Building a safety infrastructure through industry in Korea, there are several barriers to establishing safety culture; the numbers of skillful engineers are rapidly Program for executives and team leaders project manager and construction diagnosis and support of Biz Partners’ decreasing while involvement of foreign laborers is growing. Nevertheless, SK E&C is internalizing safety as a core value of Biz Partners manager of Biz Partners head office safety system and sharing safety culture with all employees to materialize ideal operations of construction sites, promoting the awareness of safety as a ongoing process. As I visited sites and training places, it was evident that the company is pursuing incessant improvement. As far as confidence which is the starting point of safety and health management system is concerned, SK E&C prioritizes safety as the highest value that cannot be compromised. This is a good role model for competitors, and the company’s operation of safety and health management is evaluated at the best level. Particularly, the company wide safety management system, where the SHE(Safety∙Health∙Environment) Department preemptively evaluates and controls, sends out important implications to domestic practice of construction where shortage of resources can happen easily. Going forward, SK E&C’s safety activities contributing to safety of communities over the construction sites will accomplish its ultimate mission of serving society, and bring innovation to construction industry. I feel grateful that SK E&C’s efforts in the safety and health Hong Seop Ahn Current professor of Department of Architecture area is serving as a ray of hope for construction industry that has been stained by accidents and distrust. As a member of and Building Engineering at Kunsan National construction industry, I thank the company and send my applause and compliments. A total of 149 Biz Partners joined A total of 394 Biz Partners’ employees joined 11 Biz Partners acquired the University Current president of Korea Institute of A total of 4 collective training done A total of 14 training by regional groups KOSHA18001 Certificate Construction Safety done Previous president of Industrial Safety & Health Training of SHE Value & Culture, SK E&C Safety-RM Operation Enhancement Training, exercise Consulting for KOSHA18001 certification Education Center in Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency systems/procedures, Safety-RM, etc. for improving risk prediction competency, etc. (Supporting establishment of the documentation system and its operation) 27 28 <IoT Gate Management Process Management of Physical Risk for Workers through IoT Gate Management 120 Million Safe Man-hours Achieved (Wasit Gas Plant Project) SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report for Workers> System Major Achievements in As SK E&C accomplished the mechanical completion of the Wasit gas plant project ordered With the advent of the 4th Industrial Revolution, SK E&C is managing physical risk of workers, by ARAMCO, the national petroleum company of Saudi Arabia, on November 23, 2017, the 2017 combining IoT technology with workers’ health management and introducing a Smart Tag based company updated its safe man-hours record to 120 million man-hours. real-time management system by health risk class. This is a great record that was achieved through 1,000 workers performing construction work 2) Measuring blood pressure 10 hours per day without any accidents for 32 years and 8 months, marking one of the best safe man-hours record of an overseas project in the Korean construction industry history. The Wasit project is an extra large project where 15,000 workers were engaged on a daily average along Physical Risk Management System for Workers with more than 500 vehicles and equipment. Even worse, the workplace condition was extremely 1) Registration of entry 3) Safety and health bad with strong sand winds of the Middle East desert, coupled with heat wave over 50 degree & exit Data Interface training centigrade and high humidity. Furthermore, project officers had to manage local workers coming from 15 countries of different languages and cultures. Construction industry recognizes that this 4) Providing personal protection equipment achievement could not have been possible without high quality safety control capabilities. Certificate for120 million safe man-hours ‘Smart Tag’ •Location-based information Monitoring Tracking/Feedback The Excellence Prizes Awarded for Best Practices Presentation of Safety and •Working control •Emergency alert Health Activities in Construction Industry •Workers' information •Health high risk group working status 2014 Grand Prize SK E&C was awarded the excellence prize for its presentation on ‘Safety Management Seeking Youngtong SK VIEW Project •Workers’ health checkup Tracking Feedback 2015 Grand Prize Harmony between Strong Principles and Soft Principles’ at the ‘2017 Best Practices Presentation status Paengseong-Oseong Road Construction Project of Safety and Health Activities’ competition. This competition is organized by Korea Occupational •Status of safety and health •Emergency alert system for •Automatic transmission of 2016 Best Prize training implementation Safety and Health Agency and best practices of safety and health activities are selected and high risk workers feedback results including Woryeong SK Ocean VIEW Project workers’ blood pressure records 2017 Excellence Prize awarded. SK E&C received the grand prize in 2014 and 2015, best prize in 2016 and Integrated Wastewater Treatment Facility Construction Project excellence prize in 2017, consolidating its position as a leader in safety and health activities. Operating the Health Enhancement Center SK E&C is operating a Health Enhancement Center for workers as a part of efforts to realize our vision of ‘comfortable workplace, healthy workers, and happy project’. Under the slogan of ‘Health together with work’, everyone at projects can join the health enhancement program and health consulting. Furthermore, we are providing diverse services ranging from regular cardiopulmonary training to virtual experience-based safety and health training. Governmental Certification of Healthy Workplace, 2017 Governmental Certification of Healthy SK E&C is unfolding various health enhancement activities for employees of SK E&C and Biz Workplace, 2017 ∙ Woryeong SK Ocean VIEW Project Partner and workers to secure healthy and safe workplaces. In 2017, a total 3 projects were ∙ Daeyeon SK VIEW Hills Project ∙ Songdo SK VIEW Project selected as excellent projects for enhancing workers’ health. The projects are certified by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency and the certifications are given to projects that are excellent for building health management system and operating health enhancement program. SK E&C is constantly supporting this kind of health Health Enhancement Center Cardiopulmonary training Health consulting enhancement activities so that rather than getting a taste of the benefits just once, employees and workers can plan and implement healthy life in the long term. Operation of Show Case Certification System The Show Case Certification System since 2015 is based on certification by an external expert, a representative activity for settling down a voluntary safety culture of project. Excellent cases selected by the Show Case Certification System are disseminated to other projects as a role model, thereby raising the standard of safety culture to upward level. Since introduction, a total of 33 projects acquired certification. In 2017, as two overseas projects acquired certification, it was applied extensively to all projects in domestic and overseas, positioning the system as a unique Woryeong SK Ocean VIEW Project Daeyeon SK VIEW Hills Project Songdo SK VIEW Project Show Case Certification of Singapore culture of SK E&C leading change and innovation in safety. NS2 project 29 30 ISSUE 3. SK E&C’s quality planted many trees for the forest of quality under absolute support from top SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Major Achievements of 2017 management. Quality Reflecting stakeholders’ requests Establishing a quality support system Enhanced efficiency of 12 cases Integrated 6 processes Quality training carried out: 413 sessions, 8,353 employees Absolute support from top management SK E&C’s power to consolidate customer satisfaction and social value comes from quality which 2,321 employees participated in Quality COPQ improvement amount: Why It Matters is the original competitiveness of the construction business. ‘Top quality’, in order to produce top Rewarding System KRW 7.26 billion quality goods that are acceptable to ourselves and acknowledged by customers, SK E&C is (9 rating by Q-Point ) facing construction with a consistent attitude of abiding by the fundamental principles as well as Analysis of internal scrupulousness not missing even the most trivial details. Harnessing the eagerness and focus of quality inspection results every employee, SK E&C is fabricating quality that will deliver happiness to customers. COPQ SK E&C maintains the system to set goals for realizing customer satisfaction and maximizing Major Activities of 2017 COPQ is abbreviation for Cost of Poor Quality. It includes all unnecessary losses incurred in the How We Approach company profit and strives to implement, check, analyze and generate feed back as the basic company as a result of poor quality. SK E&C accurately apprehends how failure expense occurs foundation of company management. In pursuit of long term success through customer satisfaction, through COPQ management (aggregation, analysis, improvement) and attempts to minimize we are operating a company-wide integrated quality management system to utilize the overall quality failures. tools as well as employees’ participation in the whole management activities. Notably, we introduced the COPQ management system in 2016. SK E&C is dreaming of leaping toward the • COPQ improvement activities “Standard” of construction industry providing zero defect goods and services. In 2017, 704 employees from 70 organizations and 127 task areas joined COPQ improvement activities. We identified large COPQ improvement tasks that were expected to have improvement effect after analyzing the measured COPQ of 2017. As the result of COPQ Enhancement training for quality improvement improvement activities, we realized improvements worth KRW 7.26 billion. Achievements of 2017/ leaders Plans of 2018 • COPQ training Achievements of 2017 Plans of 2018 We constantly expanded COPQ training through visiting project in field and implemented enhancement training for quality improvement leaders for maximization of improvement performance which led to sharing of know-how on effective improvement methods. • Presentation of excellent cases Fostering quality Presentation of excellent cases of COPQ improvement was enacted so as to share achievements, Uncompleted long-term Uncompleted long-term improvement experts Quality improvement achievement equivalent to defect ratio defect ratio and expand and share a culture of constantly pursuing improvement company-wide. Five 5.7% 5% KRW 7.26 billion Presentation of excellent cases of COPQ excellent teams were selected from 14 teams that joined the event. Those improvement cases improvement including the five selected cases were shared with all employees through an exhibition. INTERVIEW WITH STAKEHOLDERS <Excellent Cases Awarded for COPQ Improvement> Award Name of Organization Title of Excellent Case for Improvement “Very satisfied with the services provided through proactive communication” I am much satisfied with the design and quality of the complex that was built utilizing the characteristics of large scale Hynix ENGG Team Improvement of FAB unit temporary facility engineering method apartments considering residents’ convenience and safety. Particularly, the trail created as a differentiated landscape in the complex provides full satisfaction and is visited frequently by residents. Besides, even after completion, the Happiness Lounge New Dongtan SK VIEW Park Project Reduction of concrete galvanizing/plastering through process setup manager and customer service team for maintenance are staying inside the complex unlike other brand apartments. Thanks Quality Improvement Prize Icheon integrated wastewater treatment facility & to this, residents are happy with the services reflecting active communication with the residents. We are always grateful as COPQ improvement by PC Wall engineering method Hynix M15 OBL Project they take care of even minor requests or complaints quickly and seriously. Last summer, I was impressed to see customer service team making best efforts in the sweltering heat to operate the swimming US Army Garrison(USAG) Humphreys Land Reduction of loss expense at turnover phase playground and checking water quality for our children’s safety and health. It was very impressive that they fixed the Development swimming playground newly so as to provide a better environment. One thing I would regret is that equipment and facilities Quality Innovation Prize JZR & TP Project Minimization of project rework with early setting of TML* utilizing 3D modeling at the community center including fitness center need to be upgraded to fit the latest trends. Still, I think Incheon SK Sky VIEW was an excellent choice for me. I am highly satisfied with the brand value and feel proud as I personally reside at SK VIEW . *TML(Thickness Measurement Location) : Measurement location where the remaining usage period for machinery or pipes are checked Yoo Jeong Chung Representative of Incheon SK Sky VIEW residents 31 32 Enhancing Efficiency of the Quality Process • Model house show SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12 cases to enhance efficiency of the quality process were performed so that focus and This is an inspection activity to find potential customer complaints such as difference between concentration would be on the core processes. And to ensure improvement in connectivity blueprint and model house, expected spot of defect, inconvenient parts, etc., in advance. It is between the quality system and achivement, 6 processes were integrated and operated. attended by experts of design, product and construction. • Sample house inspection <12 Cases to Enhance Efficiency of the Quality Process> This is an on-site joint inspection activity carried out by project technicians and experts from head office(design, product, technology, etc.) for the sample units by sizes before starting Eliminated (4 cases) Improved (5 cases) Internal tasks (3 cases) finishing works. Quality Execution Plan Committee Biz Partner Quality Gate Reporting Quality Implementation Rules Quality Best Practice Certification Quality risk prevention activities : Discontinued Status Reporting on the Responsible Real-name System Project support/evaluation/audit Quality Improvement Committee : Discontinued • Quality check in advance (D-82~35) CQMI collecting of Infra and Building & Housing Improvement to double reporting of Quality issues LL DB validity review : Deleted 2,200 items After finishing all works, inspection managers composed of experts from head office(design, projects Management of project quality resource demob. plan product, technology, etc.), project technicians and housewives perform inspections ahead of the customers’ invitation event. Self-motivation among Employees for Enhancing Quality Implementation Capability • Customers invitation event (D-30) The Quality Rewarding System was applied in an expanded scale to induce participation from Customers invitation event Event wherein customers visit the newly built units for moving-in. They inspect all the items in their employees. By this, over 2,300 employees were devoted to expansion of quality culture. In units to make sure the quality and find defects. addition, the ‘Always Can Meeting’ was held to induce voluntary participation of employees in quality management activities together with operating of Quality Mindset Enhancement • Test of machinery /power performance (D-27) Workshops and sharing of excellent and poor design cases by divisions to induce self motivation In order to prevent expected inconveniences during actual occupancy, advanced test of among employees. machinery and electricity products is performed such as performance check and supplementary action. Implementation of Quality Rewarding System Since 2017, Rewarding System with points saving was launched in order to encourage quality • Operation of the Happiness Lounge activities and provide differentiated benefits to employees’ quality efforts and achievements. Operation of the Happiness Lounge Based on the cooperation with the professional moving-in management company, specialized Ultimately, we aim to save project costs and enhance the company’s financial performance happiness managers stay at the site for the moving-in period, resolves inconveniences faced by through quality improvement activities and also enhance employees’ quality capabilities. the customers, as a measure for pursuing customer satisfaction. Publication of ‘Channel Q’, the Quality News Magazine Reinforcing Measures for Prevention of Recurring Defects and Sharing of Previously, quality related news was delivered in a limited contents, segregated by different Cases sources. Now, the ‘Channel Q’, quality news magazine is being published for sharing quality news SK E&C is implementing quality improvement activities through measures for preventing recurrence regularly with all employees. The magazine is positioned as the representative communication of defects and sharing of cases such as improvement of product∙design∙engineering standard, risk channel for expansion of the equality culture and enhancement of positive attitude toward quality identification in advance, Monthly CS! Letter, etc. among employees. Quality news magazine, Channel Q Service on-site Operation of Quality Best Practices Certification System SK E&C has three customer centers to resolve customer inconvenience through operating service To ensure optimum quality and pursue sustainable improvement activities, SK E&C is operating teams composed of technicians in each field such as painting, wall papering, carpentry, facility Quality Best Practice Certification System. This is intended to help a ‘The quality starting first and plastering at customer centers(Customer centers are located in Seoul, Gyeonggi-do and with my work’ take root as the unique quality culture of the company. We are systematically Busan). settling down the quality culture through implementation of quality best practices and awarding certification by evaluating the level of quality culture. Besides, the best practices that had been E-book Library previously enacted in limited to the construction organizations was recently applied in expanded SK E&C is operating an online electronic books library which customers can not only borrow & scale to cover the design and procurement organizations. return e-books, also reserve and extend borrowing period at anytime, anywhere through internet Acquired Quality Best Practice Excellency Level as they do in a traditional library. Provided free of charge to SK E&C housing customers, one with JZR&TP project household can borrow up to maximum 5 volumes at a time and read with PC, dedicated terminals or smart phones. Prior Quality Control Activities Customer Happiness Center Mobile inspection application Customer Satisfaction SK E&C is carrying out preliminary self-inspection activities to meet the quality requirements SK E&C is listening to customers’ voices through the ‘Customer Happiness Center(Call center)’. It Activities for its housing projects from design to construction. In addition, we are committed to customer receives A/S request and complaints. After completing services, a survey on customer satisfaction satisfaction and quality through the various inspection systems such as receiving the evaluation is carried out by means of a ‘Happy call’. In 2017, 94.1 points were achieved according to from the customers after finishing the construction and before the beginning of moving-in. survey. We are checking if customers faced any inconvenience regarding A/S and considering all complaints to improve quality and services continuously. <9 Steps of the Moving-in Management Process for Newly Built House> Pilot inspection CS inspection HQ inspection Wrap-up self Wrap-up Re-inspection Customers invitation Test of Open for moving-in (D-82) (D-77) (D-76) inspection(D-70) (D-35) event (D-30) machinery/power performance (D-27) 1 2 3 4 6 7 9 5 8 Re-inspection after repair Inspection and Mobile inspection with smartphone (D-69~36) confirmation by customers (D-29~1) 33 34 ISSUE 4. Training on Subcontracting Law Link to SDGs SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Compliance with Since 2014, SK E&C has been operating the training courses on subcontracting law aiming to achieve a ZERO status of subcontracting issues, thereby settling down a culture of shared growth. Subcontracting Law Shared Growth 2017 Training on Subcontracting Law During the latter half of 2014, we developed our own online training course on subcontracting law for the first time in the construction industry, providing training on the outline of subcontracting laws, responsibilities of the ordering company, prohibited measures for the ordering company, thereby enhancing understanding among employees. Subcontracting Status Audit 1,624 934 employees employees SK E&C introduced project status audit as the 2015 Subcontracting Risk Management system in On-line training order to fulfill our long term vision of ‘Fair Trading Clean Company’. We are auditing status of Off-line training (55 times) (Ongoing) compliance with the subcontracting law and Framework Act on the Construction Industry for major projects of each business division during 1st and 2nd half of the year. In 2017, we expanded the Number of project audited on subcontracting status targets for auditing project and improved the auditing process so as to strengthen status audit. We 35 are establishing a fair trade compliance culture among employees. 21 11 Biz Partner’s competitiveness is SK E&C’s competitivenss. SK E&C is enhancing the competitiveness 2015 2016 2017 Why It Matters of Biz Partners through actual supporting programs that meet Biz Partners’ needs. We are also going to settle down fair trade culture through proactive introduction and implementation of fair trade programs. Financial Support and Improving Payment Terms Supporting Biz Partner SK E&C is extending practical economic help to Biz Partners through financial support and improving the terms of payment. We also provide operating funds and facilities funds to Biz Guided by the firm conviction that ‘Growth of Biz Partners is growth of SK E&C’, SK E&C is Partners without interest as a loan through the Shared Growth Loan System. How We Approach always considering ways to nurture our Biz Partners. For this, we have developed and operated In addition, we are providing indirect support to help Biz Partners avail loans as well as favorable programs that are practically helpful in funding, employment, management, etc. and carried out interest rates and upgrading of loan limit from financial institutions based on the trading records programs aiming to reform the mindset of employees through training on the subcontracting law. through network loan agreement with the financial institutions. We provided financial support This has aimed to prevent violation of the law, through auditing project status and introducing to 8 Biz Partners, presenting loan and savings of loan interest based on the SK Shared Growth diverse systems proactively. In addition, we are planning to launch shared infrastructure to create Fund organized by SK E&C, SK affiliates, and financial institutions. On the other hand, we are social value through fundamental growth of Biz Partners. Shared infrastructure is intended to share gradually improving the subcontracting payment terms for our Biz Partners to secure cash flow and tangible and intangible assets of SK E&C with Biz Partners to create new value and contribute specifically, we are enhancing the fundamental competitiveness and securing cash flow for Biz to society. Partners by paying subcontracting money within 10 days. <Financial Support> 46 0.3 Achievements of 2017/ (Unit : KRW 100 million) 6 46 Plans of 2018 Shared Growth Loan 46 SK Shared Growth Fund Achievements of 2017 Plans of 2018 Network Loan 178 210 258 2015 2016 2017 Shared Growth Loan Training at Shared Growth Contracting through Benefit Shared Growth Loan Reinforcement of subcontracting Creating social value through Technology Development and Protection KRW 25.8 billion Academy Sharing KRW 30 billion training and auditing project Shared Infrastructure 731 employees from KRW 3.7 billion with status Benefit Sharing System SK E&C is promoting new technologies developed by Biz Partners and seeks active utilization 57 Biz Partners 6 Biz Partners 6 cases and application of new products and technologies developed by joint research with Biz Partners. (KRW 7,120million) Besides, we have introduced Technology Material Escrow system to prevent leak of technologies developed by Biz Partner and to use relevant technologies safely, thereby protecting the technology developed by small and medium-sized Biz Partners. Further, the Benefit Sharing System allows us INTERVIEW WITH STAKEHOLDERS to prepare the basis to actually grow together with Biz Partners. The Benefit Sharing System is “SK E&C willingly cooperate with “Building stable trust through the a contracting model that supports achieving of common goals such as cost saving, R&D, etc., Biz Partner beforehand” Happy Wings Committee” 2 cases agreed in advance with Biz Partners. SK E&C is vigorously operating win-win We were able to strengthen mutual trust activities, maintaining diverse shared through the Happy Wings Committee (KRW 7.4million) 1 case growth programs over 10 times a year and shared growth programs from Biz Partner Task name (KRW 16.5million) based on the ‘Happy Wings Committee’, the New Year’s Greetings and Green Value Engineering through design standardization collaboration of the Knowledge in difficult times such as now when Meeting. In these confusing times at Shinpoong Stone Industry Complex moving forward is very risky without home and abroad and under the present Cost saving through application of firewall/insulated sliding door and insulated companion. Particularly, we are happy difficult business environment, we have White Metal stainless windows to be together with SK E&C that shows taken steady steps of shared growth. We 2015 2016 2017 Kukyoung G&M Process and management improvement through industry innovation movement 3.0 servant leadership attitude of cooperate hope this good relation will persist and with Biz Partners proactively. We wish wish year 2018 will see even further White Metal Process and management improvement through industry innovation movement 3.0 the next year will bring us opportunities growth of the Happy Wings Committee. Quality improvement through the construction technology of dew condensation Sewon Electric Instrumentation to prosper together as Biz Partner of SK preventing electricity box and pipes adjacent to air E&C and as a member of the Happy Cost saving and enhancement of process efficiency through applying Wing Wing Young Sik Kang In-Soo Seo Jang Pyoung Construction CEO of NamBuk Electric Co.,Ltd. Wings Committee. CEO of Sungdo ENG Anchor 35 36 Training Support SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Supporting Biz Partner • SK E&C Shared Growth Academy SK E&C is providing training for our Biz Partners to develop human resources through the SK Shared Shared Growth Academy, which aims at nurturing the competitiveness of our Biz Partners. The Academy offers a course called ‘Shared Growth CEO Seminar’ to improve the management Infrastructure capability of the Biz Partners’ CEOs and ‘Shared Growth MBA Course’ for middle-level managers of the Biz Partners. ‘Shared Growth e-Learning’ is an online training program for all the executives and employees of our Biz Partners and has more than 100 free courses on general management, marketing, financial accounting, etc. Classification CEO Seminar MBA e-Learning ‘Shared infrastructure’ means that enterprises share assets Biz Partner middle-level Biz Partner all executives and Audience Biz Partner CEO manager employees WHAT IS SHARED (infrastructure) to strengthen mutual competitiveness and Contents Management, Economic trend, Compulsory management Management general, IT, etc. INFRASTRUCTURE? create new value. It is a concept that expands the principle Leadership, etc. know-how Number of of ‘sharing economy’ among individuals to sharing among 10 10 37 Biz Partner business entities. Number of 10 10 711 Audience • Overseas Projects Manager Training Course Overseas Projects Manager Training Course is process to enable Biz Partners to employ excellent personnel who completed training with good score as the manager of overseas construction projects. The training was supported by the Ministry of Employment and Labor SK E&C has consistently and completed 6 terms till 2017. SK E&C supported the training expenses necessary for the implemented diverse activities course and provided special lectures from its own Global OIT(Operation Intensive Training), for shared growth with Biz our training course for employees assigned to overseas projects. We also supported education, Partners. However, the industrial training and recruitment, actively practicing shared growth. Furthermore, from 2018, we plan environment is changing fast to add another course for training managers for domestic projects following request from Biz Background and needs from clients have Partners. and Contents become more and more varied, BACKGROUND of SK E&C’s OF SHARED with the level of demand also Completed Job acquired Classification Period persons persons Biz Partner that employed trainees Shared InfraINFRASTRUCTURE getting higher. Now that there is 1st group July 2013 ~ 19 13 Sungdo ENG, Sebo MEC and 2 other Biz Partners structure limit to separately strengthening November 2013 October 2013 ~ Sungdo ENG, Kumyang Electric and 6 other Biz competitiveness of SK E&C and 2nd Group 24 22 March 2014 Partners Biz Par tners, we are sharing November 2014 Sungdo ENG, Dongah Geological Engineering and 3rd Group ~ March 2015 20 18 5 other Biz Partners core assets with Biz Partners, 4th Group August 2015 ~ 21 19 Sungdo ENG, Daejung Eng & Const. and 3 other refurbishing the paradigm of winFebruary 2016 Biz Partners August 2016~ Dongah Geological Engineering, Daejung Eng & win management for empowering 5th Group 14 13 January 2017 Const. and 5 other Biz Partners competitiveness. July 2017 ~ Dongah Geological Engineering, Daejung Eng & 6th Group 17 17 November 2017 Const. and 7 other Biz Partners Acquired the Only Best Grade of Win-Win Index in the Construction Industry Major Achievements of SK E&C received the best grade from the Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership in 2017, the only one to receive the best grade in the construction industry. This was in recognition of our 2017 systematized efforts through shared growth programs and diverse systematic support notwithstanding the difficult construction market environment. We also got the best score in the Mutual Cooperation As of January 2018, SK E&C is sharing Management Infra SHARED Evaluation by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. We have acquired the best grade in INFRASTRUCTURE with Biz Partners of Happy Wings Committee and going to the construction industry, the first one in the history of construction field and again acquired the same OF SK E&C expand sharing partners gradually. best grade, the only one to post such achievements in the industry in 2017. Received Grand Prize for the Improvement of Cooperation in Construction • Management system (122 sets of management systems, 104 sets of construction Management Industry standard documents) Infra • IT system (33 IT systems of the SK E&C’s own development) SK E&C received Grand Prize from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport for the Improvement of Cooperation in Construction Industry sponsored by the Korea Commission for • Equipment and materials (Pool of partners who signed an agreement with Supply Chain SK E&C) Corporate Partnership, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and Ministry of SMEs and Infra • Project operation support (Order/Order receiving / Macro economy information, Startups, and organized by CNEWS. The award committee selects a company that contributed rental car service etc.) to win-win collaboration and Shared Growth. And the assessing team evaluates training, • Online courses (187 of construction specialized courses, 110 of general management, finance, and other measures implemented by the awardee. By receiving the Grand Training management courses) Program • Offline courses (On-request lectures , Collective training) Prize, we hope that the reliability of SK E&C in the construction industry will be enhanced and that we will have a more positive image as a company leading shared growth. EPC Related • Construction business related trouble shooting Consulting • Expertise and know-how on products, country/culture, and construction type Space Infra • SK E&C’s training room, meeting room, parking space, project office, etc. Webpage of Shared Infrastructure Award for the best grade winner of Win-Win Index 37 38 ISSUE 5. Link to SDGs SK E&C systematically collects and manages data on energy use and greenhouse gas emission SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Coping with Climate from the project and head office to actively cope with climate change. Based on this, we are identifying greenhouse gas reduction activities that can be practiced. Change Compliance with Goals to Reduce GHG Emissions Midand long-term goals set by SK E&C are to reduce GHG emissions by at least 2.1% every year, by 20% up to 2020 and by 45% up to 2040 compared to GHG emissions of 2012. Environmental Regulations We are making efforts to reduce GHG emissions by systematically managing emissions and implementing reduction activities Category Goal Expected reduction ratio Mid-term goal Reduction by more than 2.1% each year by 2020 Reduction of 20% by 2020 compared to emissions in 2012 Long-term goal Reduction by more than 2.1% each year by 2040 Reduction of 45% by 2040 compared to emissions in 2012 GHG Emissions Management SK E&C accurately aggregates the data on energy consumption and GHG emissions of all domestic and overseas head office and projects through the GHG inventory every year. Currently, Since the December 2015 Paris Agreement, Korea is also obliged to reduce greenhouse gas SK E&C's GHG emissions are below 50,000 tCO2-eq per year, which does not meet the target Why It Matters emissions by 37% compared to the expected emissions volume(BAU) until 2030. Therefore, set by the ‘Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System' in Korea. However, we existing local laws and regulations will be strengthened and carbon management information submit 'greenhouse gas emission and energy usage statement' every year to the government. We Coping request from stakeholders is also expected to grow. Thus, we must adopt carbon management with are also making various efforts to reduce GHG emissions. climate company-wide in response to environmental regulation. Besides, with enhanced quality of life change and launching of new government in Korea, the demand is getting stronger for management Compliance with capacity to minimize impact on the environment throughout the entire process of engineering and <Domestic GHG Emissions(tCO2-eq)> <Domestic Energy Usage(TJ)> environmental regulations Minimization construction. 38,250 Environmentof impact on friendly 34,040 697 environment products 30,660 627 600 SK E&C has been making consistent efforts to create new values through environment management How We Approach activities beyond those mandated by common environment regulation or simple environmental 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 preservation activities, to suggest the direction of environment management throughout the whole Domestic GHG emissions intensity (tCO2-eq/ KRW 100 million) Domestic energy usage intensity (GJ/KRW 100 million) business process. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 0.81 1.06 0.72 14.8 19.4 14.1 Achievements of 2017/ Reduction Activities of GHG Emissions Plans of 2018 Since 2011, SK E&C has been carrying out reduction activities of GHG emissions for domestic Achievements of 2017 Plans of 2018 projects in order to cope with climate change, and has achieved significant reductions in GHG Securing global competitiveness for carbon management performance index • Achieving certification standards of Science Based Targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy savings. In particular, the goal for 2017 was to reduce 7% of the total emissions in the mid to long-term expected GHG emissions. As a result, we were able to reduce GHG emissions by approximately • Improvement of environmental IT system to secure accuracy and reliability of greenhouse gas information inventory 53,321 tCO2-eq through active involvement of the entire project. In addition, GHG emission • Cooperation with Biz Partners in reducing use of energy and emission of greenhouse gas and reduction management is systematically and accurately managed through the Environmental Expanding the current risk management system focused on construction phase Management Information System(EMIS), an integrated system operated by SK E&C. to the overall process of marketing-design-construction-operation Greenhouse gas emission • Adding function to review and diagnose environment issues inside the business risk volume reduced by 9.92%(3,380 tCO2-eq) No Environmental Accident management system <2017 GHG Reduction Performance by Factors> over the last 3 years • Establishing cooperation processes to review legal issues for the whole process of designcompared to previous year (2015~2017) construction-operation Indirect Direct reduction Reduction by Biz Partner Minimizing environmental accidents by upgrading project environment reduction Reduction factor Total management Fixed Construction Purchased • Management through the classification of project environment risk and enhancement of Vehicle Materials Waste Others combustion machinery power environment pollution prevention facilities GHG (tCO2-eq) 167.37 70.52 2,590.27 81.62 17,859.45 50.06 32,502.22 53,321 INTERVIEW WITH STAKEHOLDERS “Environment–friendly management is not a choice but essential” As the Paris Agreement was adopted in 2015 and Emission Trading System was enacted in Korea, enterprises are being CDP Participation requested to set higher goals towards reduction of greenhouse gas. Thus, response to climate change through environmentDespite not belonging to the corporates that requested the CDP response, SK E&C voluntarily friendly management is one of the most critical issues companies face; it is no longer regarded as an option but prerequisite participated in the CDP response in 2016 and obtained Management B grade. This was a to securing competitiveness and survival. To respond to change of environment in domestic and overseas, SK E&C has been actively practicing environment-friendly measure to transparently disclose environmental information to the outside. As a result of voluntary management from the perspective of the whole process. And furthermore, the company need to approach from the strategic participation, in 2014, SK E&C was awarded the carbon management special prize at the dimension to offset the environmental destruction impact that is intrinsic to construction industry. I hope SK E&C will proceed to be recognized as the enterprise that creates social value and ultimately contribute to sustainable development of society by Carbon Management Honors Club hosted by the CDP Korea Committee. We have been combining environment management with management strategy. continuously participating in this initiative through 2017 and making efforts to raise the level of environmental management at SK E&C. Jeong Mo An Chairman of Korea Construction Environment Association 39 40 SK E&C is identifying risk expected during the construction phase by implementing initial environmental Certification of Environment-friendly Buildings SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Efforts to Minimize Impact diagnosis and reflecting results to construction plans. Projects check legal compliance status of Green Product SK E&C considers energy reduction, water reduction, care for ecology and development of a major works based on permit to work system. Furthermore, we strengthen support and monitoring suitable living environment as top priority from the design stage in order to provide sustainable on Environment by projects evaluating comprehensively energy, carbon emissions and environmental accidents. In buildings. We aim to realize energy-optimized buildings by applying diverse high-efficient and case an environmental issue occurs, we make all efforts to prevent spread of damage by operating environment-friendly technologies to provide prominent products of high quality to our customers. contingency report and response system. In addition, we strive to develop environment-friendly technologies and construction materials that can reduce environmental impacts in order to respond proactively to government policy of Initial Risk Diagnosis / Establishing the Execution Plan promoting zero energy houses. Plan Through advanced simulation on the risk of noise, water quality, soil, and waste, we design and Based on these efforts, SK E&C acquired various domestic and international green building plan facilities for prevention of environmental pollution during construction and support and check certifications in 2017. We will continue our efforts to create social values by reinforcing our Environmental Act impact prevention Do implementation so that residents of adjoining areas are safeguarded from environmental damage. competitiveness in environment-friendly design and engineering in line with government policy of sysem promoting zero energy houses in 2018. <Initial Risk Diagnosis Process> Check Project name Certification Grade Order/ Action/ • Building Energy Efficiency Certification • 2nd grade contract Execution Plan Construction Environmental issue prevention of recurrence Geomdan SK VIEW Geomdan SK VIEW • G-SEED Certification • Green 2 grade • Building Energy Efficiency Certification • 2nd grade Gangbyeon SK VIEW • G-SEED Certification • Green 2 grade • Building Energy Efficiency pre-Certification • 2nd grade Uiwang Bugok Area 1Redevelopment • G-SEED pre-Certification • Green 2 grade Initial risk diagnosis • Building Energy Efficiency pre-Certification • 2nd grade Cheongju Bongmyeong Area 1Reconstruction • G-SEED pre-Certification • Green 4 grade • Building Energy Efficiency pre-Certification • 2nd grade Daejeon Sinheung Area 3 • G-SEED pre-Certification • Green 4 grade • Environmental pollution simulation program • Building Energy Efficiency Certification • 1st grade Munjeong SK V1 GL Metrocity SK E&C looks for optimum alternatives through performing advanced simulation of environmental • G-SEED Certification • Green 2 grade impact that can arise during construction. In 2017, we performed a total of 22 simulations concerning Mullae SK V1 center • Building Energy Efficiency pre-Certification • 1st+ grade noise for 11 projects that accounts for 90% of environmental impact at projects among noise, water Abu Dhabi PI Staff Accommodation • ESTIDAMA* • 2 Pearls quality and soil/waste factors, to identify optimum alternatives like quantity of equipment, change of Munjeong SK V1 GL Metrocity *ESTIDAMA : Environment-friendly building evaluation system set by Abu Dhabi City Planning Committee engineering method, etc. and minimize environmental risk. to minimize environmental pollution due to construction under the high temperature and humid environment of Abu Dhabi.In Arab word, it means ‘Sustainability’. Noise simulation Project Environment Management Plan • Upgrading of environment management by pollutants Renewable Energy Environmental SK E&C is managing environmental impacts that affect the surroundings during construction, classifying SK E&C is actively pursuing renewable energy business at home and abroad including solar impact Act Do prevention sysem them into air quality, water quality, waste, soil and noise/vibration are ensuring compliance with legal energy and wind power with special focus on fuel cell power plant. Fuel cell power generate standards for environmental pollution, standardizing and upgrading each pollution prevention facilities. electricity and heat through electrochemical response mixing hydrogen and oxygen without Check burning fossil fuel which has a high annual operating hours. This new technology consumes only a Fuel Cell small space and is an environment-friendly energy source optimized for distributed power source. In July 2017, we signed ‘Joint Development Agreement’ to develop renewable energy businesses AIR QUALITY WATER QUALITY WASTE Renewable with Seoul Metro and are preparing for a 20 MW fuel cell power plant inside Godeok Metro • Water curtain to control flying dust in tunnels • Operation of facility for reduction of environment-friendly • Recycling in project to reduce occurrence of waste Energy • Auto wheel washing sensor machine nonpoint pollution and wastewater treatment facility • Operation of waste asbestos disposal process Garage as the first project. Furthermore, in September 2017, we started construction of a pilot • Thermal system preventing freeze and rupture in the auto • Maintenance and operation of emergency control • Installation of waste separating storage and assigning of wheel washing space equipment for wastewater treatment facility and dedicated personnel plant for LPG/LNG dual model inside SK Gas basement at Ulsan. It is the first of its kind to be • Standardization and upgradation of flying dust control operation of water quality automated measurement tested on site and will be expanded as another business. facility • Real-time measurement of flying dust Solar Wind Bundang 6th phase fuel cell power plant is Korea’s first project where SOFC(Solid Oxide Fuel Energy Power Cell) was applied. SOFC has superb competitiveness in terms of efficiency, stable output and SOIL NOISE AND VIBRATION OTHERS demanded space over other fuel cell technologies with no white smoke and little carbon dioxide, • Introduction and proceduralization of soil pollution initial • Establishment and implementation of noise integration • Disclosure of information on imported toxic chemical and is regarded as the optimum environment-friendly power plant considering its location adjacent diagnosis process plan through initial diagnosis of project noise materials following the Law on Registration and • Operation of sandy soil disposal process • Installation and operation of exterior electronic display Assessment of Chemical Materials to the center of Bundang city. for noise measuring • Disclosure of information on imported toxic material and In the first quarter of 2018, we will start construction a fuel cell power plant in the frozen logistics • Use of low noise equipment plastics following the Law on Saving and Promotion of Recycling of Resources complex at the Pyeongtaek Oseong and are seeking another fuel cell business of 20MW volume inside the Arisu water purification center of Amsa-dong, Seoul city. Moreover, we are also planning to start engineering of hydrogen fuel cell power generation business applying new • Permit to Work power generation technology to use low purity byproduct hydrogen, which is unprecedented in During construction, we select five construction types that most negatively impact environment and Korea. have project engineers check compliance with all environment regulations and ensure pollution In addition, we are taking part in renewable energy business focusing on solar energy and wind prevention facilities is installed and ready 1 day before start of work. This is our effort not only to fulfill power responding to the government’s renewable energy promotion policy. We are developing legal standards but also to prevent environmental inconvenience for local residents and this process solar energy projects over middle and small sized reservoirs and lakes as well as land-based solar Fuel cell power plant in the frozen logistics complex applies to all projects of SK E&C. energy projects. In case of wind power generation, we are seeing visible achievement mainly at Pyeongtaek Oseong Plan on the sea as the feasibility was proven in line with recent development of relevant technologies. Operation of Comprehensive Environment Evaluation System Environmental impact SK E&C is monitoring performance of environment and economy through activities to save projects Act Do prevention sysem and offices energy and reduce carbon emission every year. Also, we enact regular inspections to Check evaluate the overall status including environmental risks for projects below 90% of construction progress and reflect it to the SHE monthly report of environment index and evaluation point by project units and classify. By the result, we are upgrading the standard of project environment management level through improvement of weak points. In addition, we award the projects with excellent evaluation with the Best Green Prize and spread the excellent case so that projects voluntarily try to prevent environmental risks. CSR OVERVIEW ETHICAL MANAGEMENT SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES QUALITY MANAGEMENT SHARED GROWTH CSR MANAGEMENT CSR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TALENT MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT Ulsan Complex 43 CSR MANAGEMENT Concept of Fair Trade Compliance Program SK E&C · CSR REPORT Fair Trade Compliance Fair trade means to pursue free and fair competition and transactions without abusing one’s status for economic gain. Compliance means voluntary compliance with laws and regulations. Program Ethical Management Biz Partner Subcontracting Consumer Law Standardized Fair Trade Terms Act Regulating Act Merchant Indication and Business Advertisement Act Act Voluntary compliance Establishment of Ethical Regulations with fair trade related law Ethical Management SK E&C has established an ethical management system to integrate ethical management into Product Electronic the corporate culture. In January 1998, based on SK E&C's standards of conduct and value Liability Commerce System Act Act judgment, SK E&C enacted the code of ethics and made it mandatory for all operations to be Fair Trade = “Free, Fair” carried out in compliance thereof. The code of ethics, which is updated regularly, applies to all SK Group affiliates and Biz Partners as well as all employees. Framework Act Door to on Consumers Door Sales Act Installment Code of Ethics (Chapter 1) Detailed Ethical Rules Transaction Act SK E&C aims to become a world-class corporate by sincerely pursuing SKMS practice 1. Politely refuse any money offered by stakeholders in connection with business. and SUPEX that are agreed upon by all as the subjects of corporate management. Never accept such money from them or give it to them. We understand the rapidly changing business environment, participate in management 2. Do not accept any offer of entertainment or hospitality from stakeholders in relation activities in a fair manner, and achieve mutual trust and transparent management. to work. Do not offer them such entertainment or hospitality either. For this purpose, the code of ethics is formulated as the basis of our rational thinking 3. Do not receive any convenience in connection with work from stakeholders. Do not and appropriate behavior and we are determined to practice it. provide such convenience to them either. 4. Do not make any payment or repay on behalf of stakeholders for their credit cards, First, customers debts, loans, etc., in connection with business. Competitors • I shall always respect the opinions of our customers, understand their needs, and 5. Do not receive any equity or loan guarantees for property offered by stakeholders provide world-class products that could satisfy them and gain their trust. in connection with business. Do not engage in any joint investment in movables, Second, Biz partners real estate, securities, goodwill, membership, etc., in the interests of stakeholders. Fair Trade Compliance Organization • I shall create a clean trade climate by granting equal opportunities to all qualified 6. Do not borrow money from stakeholders in relation to work. Do not engage in companies in accordance with the principle of free competition and fair trading monetary or personal property purchases from stakeholders for less than the In order to systematically operate the Fair Trade Compliance Program, we have been organizing procedures. And I shall pursue mutual development with them through providing normal price to take substantive profits. a self-compliance organization every year and providing professional training to the personnel technical support and management guidance. 7. Do not lease assets to or receive collateral from stakeholders in relation to business Third, the corporate for your convenience or profit from stakeholders. in charge. We are striving to maximize synergy by strengthening the organic mutual cooperation • As a manager of our corporate, I shall carry out transparent and fair management 8. Do not accept guarantees of employment, employment contracts, and trade system between each division and disseminating a culture of voluntary compliance with fair trade activities with a professional attitude. I shall also strive to create a healthy corporate contracts offered by stakeholders in connection with business. climate, and fulfill my responsibilities and mission for our corporate's permanent 9. Do not send or receive money, entertainment or hospitality from stakeholders. Do laws. survival and development. not provide such things to stakeholders. Fourth, the country and society 10. When engaging in international commerce, do not promise or donate money or • I shall contribute to the development of the country and society by establishing benefits that can be construed as bribes, or indicate any willingness to do so in Pledging Voluntary Compliance with Fair Trade exemplary moral values and observing the national economic order and social norms. connection with business. SK E&C is practicing a system of inducing employees to take a pledge to comply voluntarily with fair trade every year since 2015 to strengthen their will and settle down a culture of voluntary compliance with fair trade. Execution Elements of Ethical Management In order to seek sustainable development of the company through decision-making that fits social norms and ethical standards, 3C(Code, Compliance, Consensus) was set up as the execution CODE COMPLIANCE elements of ethical management. Statement of Oath for Fair Trade Compliance 3 Elements of Ethical • Code of ethics and practice guidelines I resolve to actively participate in the operation of the Fair Trade Compliance Program Management The responsibilities for stakeholders were defined based on the standards of business ethics, for the establishment of fair competition and transparency, and specific and codified guidelines such as code of ethics and practice guidelines were and will strive for the creation of a corporate culture of self-regulated fair trade compliance. established for the employees. I hereby take an oath in writing as follows: CONSENSUS • Operation of the system l. I, an employee of SK E&C, will not engage in unfair trade practices by abusing superior SK E&C comprises various systems for practicing ethical management, dedicated organization bargaining positions against Biz Partners, or participate in any bid-rigging. for ethical management, functions of consultation/reporting, and ethical audit, etc. l. I will never be engaged in bid rigging incident. l. I will faithfully abide by Fair Trade Act based on trust and sincerity while making efforts to prevent • Consensus relevant incidents in advance. We try to establish consensus among employees about how to practice ethical management l. If breach of laws or regulations regarding Fair Trade is likely to occur, I will immediately notify by providing systematic and periodic education, CEO’s Messages, and campaign activities. the Compliance Secretariat of my findings. 45 46 CSR MANAGEMENT Safety and Health Organization System SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Safety and Health The SHE(Safety∙Health∙Environment) Department under the direct management of CEO is responsible for suggesting the direction, setting the strategy and managing the implementation Management Governance of company wide safety and health. SHE Teams are separately operated under each division of Safety and Health Infra, Building & Housing and Plant/Hynix to consolidate specialized expertise of SHE for relevant business divisions. SHE Teams of each business division are strengthening operation competency through support and inspection of projects and making efforts to spread culture of safety and Management health and to optimize implementation by organically operating SHE Department/SHE Team at head office and each division and projects. Starting 2015, safety inspection meeting presided by the CEO is held bimonthly for sharing important issues with management group and promoting prompt decision-making to solidify responsible management of safety and health. • SHE Team • Plant /Hynix SHE Team SK E&C has emphasized safety and health as corporate culture and declared it as the core value SHE CEO Safety and Health Policy for the pursuit of stakeholders’ happiness in July 2014. Notably in 2017, SK E&C renewed its Department safety and health management policy, reflecting the CEO 's safety and health philosophy, mission, • Infra SHE Team and ISO safety and health policy standards. We are continuing our efforts to realize accidentfree through ‘constructing safe workplace’ and ‘thorough implementation of safety and health principles’. • Building & Housing SHE Team Safety and Health Policy For settling down a voluntary safety and health management system, we have introduced and SK E&C will thoroughly implement constructing safe workplace and safety and health principles to maintain Safety and Health operated safety and health management system for domestic and overseas. We are operating the KOSHA18001* system certified by Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency and perfect safety in order to pursue happiness of employees and diverse stakeholders. Management System OHSAS18001** system for overseas. Uphold Safety & Health as a core value for decision-making in all * KOSHA(Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency)18001 : The name of the safety and health Top Mgmt. • Core Value Practice management activities. considers management system developed by Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency. Certification based on SHE concerns the government’s support responsibility for establishing voluntary safety and health management system at Comply with Safety & Health laws and company’s rules, and do not perform the place of business. • Compliance ** OHSAS(Occupational Health & Safety Management System)18001 : International standard for health the work till safety is secured. and safety management system of organizations stipulated by British Standards Institution(BSI). Develop Enhance Safety & Health performance at worksite through continuous • S&P Innovation management improvement and development of Safety & Health system and process. Consider the SHE For securing technology safety, we are operating a technology review process between the policies for Mission safety and health Management shall lead employees to participate in and practice Safety & Design/Construction Safety head office and projects to analyze the technology risks related to design and construction. The • Improve Leadership committee comprehensively reviews technology safety, construction plan, possibility of applying Health activities by taking the initiative. Review Committee a new engineering technology method, etc. for the items requested by projects facing dangerous • Gain Competency All employees shall develop the capability of predicting and preventing construction work. The feedback on review is provided to projects for consistent confirmation and Consider the Safety & Health risks. certification checking of the process. criteria for ISO safety and health All employees, workers and Biz Partners shall strive to realize Zero-Accident policy • Establish Safety by establishing a worksite culture of safety and health based on mutual Culture respect. Category Major review items • Blasting work using explosives near impediment on or under the land Infra • Review of bearing power of heavy equipment • New engineering method for movable temporary structure • Constructing temporary scaffolding above 31 meters <Behavior Principles by Classes> Building & Housing • Waterproof method for excavation work over 10 meters • High pressure test Plant Accidents should never happen and we shall have Safety is a non-negotiable value; it should be the • Review of bridge safety for heavy rigging and transport Safety is our core value and corporate culture strong belief that we can prevent it topmost priority in corporate management SK E&C is operating a reporting system for all kinds of accident and emergency situations that may Accident Reporting System arise in domestic and overseas projects. We are operating a company wide response system in order to prevent spread of damage through prompt assistance. Each project and head office are Classification Role Theme Behavior Keyword / Emergency Response strengthening response capability for respective emergency cases through providing emergency •Safety value management by leadership •Suggesting Safety Policy/Targets Training •Exercising Safety Leadership response training to all employees. Management Group Lead initiatives to secure competitiveness of safety, setting management •Organizing the right atmosphere for safety direction and suggesting vision activities •Taking initiative in leading change toward safety •Spread and improve safety consciousness SK E&C is operating Biz Partner Safety Gate System to identify, evaluate and manage excellent Team Leader & Project Manager Induce safety behavior and practice for achieving safety performance of •Active communication organization and dissemination of culture •Taking initiative & inducing practice Biz Partner Safety Gate Biz Partners who are equipped with safety implementation capability. This system is playing •Recognize safety as the basics and principle an important role in upgrading and consistently improving the implementation capability of Biz •Practice of safety behavior by voluntary participation System Employees (Head office/Project/ •Confirmation and practice of safety during Partners through evaluating and managing Biz Partners’ safety culture level from the phase of Every employee develops competency for achieving safety goal and Safety Manager) the work pracice safety in daily work registration, start of construction and implementation of project. •Embodiment of safety practices in daily life 47 48 CSR MANAGEMENT In order to consolidate the execution power of quality management policy, we operate various SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Quality Management conferences to discuss quality management issues of the company wide and each unit organization and regularly check their strategies and practices of quality management. In particular, the Quality Governance Management Review Meeting is led by the CEO and is attended by executives of each division to Quality Management check the status of quality management status and issues at corporate level and lead improvement activities to solve the issues establishing quality as the core value of SK E&C. Meeting/ Participants Interval Discussed contents Conference Quality Management CEO, managing directors of each business division, · Improving quality awareness based on top-down drive Bi-monthly Review Meeting E/P/C related director/head, manager of quality · Strengthening implementation of management leadership · Improving project quality and strengthening the capability of the Quality Seminar Once in a quality manager Project quality manager of each division for each Division half year · Discussion of issues related with quality and sharing quality management work status · Preventing quality risk through lessons learned from other projects Project quality manager of each division, Video Conference Every month · Establishing proactive responding system by sharing cases quality team of each division inspected by external organizations SK E&C is committed to making it a part of life to practice removing the root cause of quality failures Under the mission “To create customer satisfaction by the stronger quality culture starting with me”, Spreading of through leadership practice of quality management and encouraging voluntary participation by Quality Management SK E&C is improving its quality system to the level of a global top tier and continuing to build a Quality Culture employees. strong quality culture. Policy Strengthening Quality Leadership SK E&C defined Quality Leadership by classes and practices materialized behavior principle to realize it so that all employees recognize quality culture and practice the same. Quality To create customer satisfaction by the stronger Proactive Quality Implementer Mission quality culture starting with me Recognition of basics and principles for Execution of quality failure quality minimization • Awareness of Value/Policy/Goal of Quality • Obligatory confirmation of quality and application to work (Awareness of Policy/ procedures before the start of every work Quality To improve 5% of the project ITC by having the Goal/Standard/Procedure) (Complying with responsible real-name • Establishment of quality risk prevention plan process) Vision global top class quality competitiveness for assurance of quality (Execution Plan, Plan Do • Execution of prevention plan for achieving Requirement Review) quality goal (Compliance with quality practice & requirement) SelfLeadership Confirmation and execution of work for Identification and execution of Quality constant improvement processes to improve constantly Culture • Spread of Best Quality Practice and constant Act Check • Constant identification of quality risks improvement(Result analysis and sharing • Finding nonconformance cases excellent/improvement cases) • Analysis of COPQ • Removing root cause of nonconformance cases and prevention of recurrence (Joining Quality Improvement Conference, correction measures In order to create a virtuous cycle for business process optimization and to ensure compliance activities for nonconformance cases) • COPQ improvement activity Quality Management with basics and principles, every year SK E&C constantly improves and adds sophistication to the quality management system by reviewing the effectiveness of total 4,772 types of manuals, System procedure documents and others. In addition, for maintaining adequacy and effective execution Strengthening Employees’ Quality Capability of quality management system and inducing sustainable quality improvement, we implement We are developing various quality training contents by trainees following expansion of the scale regular internal quality inspection for domestic and overseas projects. and area of business. In addition, we believe in recognizing and embodying quality as core value through operation that focuses on effectiveness. We also share know-how acquired during work Quality Management System Certification through regular quality seminar for development of each employee. SK E&C acquired and maintains quality certification from reputable certification organizations such as International Organization for Standardization(ISO9001), Korea Electric Power Industry Quality manager capabilities enhancement training Code(KEPIC), and American Society of Mechanical Engineers(ASME) to provide our customers with credibility in quality. In addition, to rebuild the risk based quality management system, we Quality management capacities of Biz Partners determine the quality of construction. From this fully renewed the ISO9001(quality management system) of the head office and Singapore branch office to 2015 edition. Biz Partner Quality Gate point of view, we operate a quality competence verification and reinforcement system for each stage of Biz Partner registration/bidding/contract/execution. System We also encourage Biz Partners to actively take part in quality activities by regularly assessing Certification Certification contents Certification authority the quality of their construction work and strengthening control over the Biz Partners with poor Quality management system for the ISO9001 LRQA Korea Ltd. construction quality. construction industry KEPIC Korea Electric Power Industry Code KEA(Korea Electric Association) Certification by American Society of ASME(The American Society of Mechanical Gate 3 Contract ASME Mechanical Engineers(ASME) Engineers) Gate 1 – Registration Gate 2 Bidding Gate 4 Execution Validation of project Evaluation of new/renewal Evaluation for selection of Evaluation of project manager of Biz Partner registrations participating Biz Partners quality performance and approval project quality management plan 49 50 CSR MANAGEMENT Biz Partner Monitoring and Evaluation SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report SK E&C has built and run the response system for Biz Partners insolvency coming from the long term economic downturn largely in the construction industry. Utilizing credit rating agencies, we overhaul the Biz Partners with signs of any abnormality and manage risk proactively. We have Shared Growth also established proactive monitoring system using information on the Biz Partners’ financial status. When a Biz Partner goes bankrupt, we have deposit claims process to follow. Biz Partner Sustainability Assessment SK E&C has developed the ‘Biz Partner Sustainability Assessment Indicators’ and evaluate the sustainability of Biz Partners. The subject of sustainability assessment includes a) the economic factors such as technology, equipment status, quality, and capacity, etc., b) five areas such as labor, human rights, anti-corruption, health and safety, and the environment. And then we take appropriate steps for the Biz Partners with any risk. For instance, we can reconsider the transactions or offer competence enhancement training depending on the level of risk. Biz Partner Employee Participation in Overseas Project Biz Partner Employee Participation in Overseas Project is a system to send employees of Biz Partners to overseas projects of SK E&C and support education and training which provides them SK E&C uses the name of “Biz Partners” instead of the name “subcontractors . The reason for this is with a bridgehead for successful approach to overseas market. In this system, SK E&C supplies Shared Growth Strategy to grow and develop together with our Biz Partners. SK E&C has been practicing management for a part of salary, residence, furniture and fittings for a limited period. Since 2010, employees of the shared growth through a variety of institutional support and training programs for Biz Partners. Biz Partners were dispatched to and are working for ongoing projects in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Laos, etc. We plan to achieve a successful joint approach to overseas market by helping in the recruitment and enhancing the overseas project performance capabilities. “Shared Growth Management” Operation of Happy Wings Committee Recognizing the necessity of official regular communication channel with Biz Partners, SK E&C Biz Partner launched 'Subcontractors Happy Wings Committee' focusing on excellent subcontracting Biz Support in Support in Partners in March 2011 and 'Procurement Happy Wins Committee' focusing on Biz Partners Financial support technology Support in finding training and Support for Communication development and new market management involved in procurement in March 2013. Both committees continue their efforts to closely share recruitment protection information and establish trust with Biz Partners by arranging meetings, CEO's visit to Biz Partners, Joint Walking Program, etc. <Outline of SK E&C Happy Wings Committee> Classification Subcontractors Happy Wings Committee Procurement Happy Wings Committee Strict Compliance with Subcontracting Law Launched date March 2011 March 2013 Creating a Shared SK E&C has introduced a standard field manual, standard subcontract agreements, and standard Participants 58 Biz Partners 47 Biz Partners work instruction to thoroughly comply with Article 3 of the Subcontracting Law. We have Machinery & Inspection, Piping, Civil & Architecture, Growth Culture established standardized field manual guidelines and use standard work instructions to improve Subcommittee Civil, Architecture, Mechatronics, Plant, Communication(5 subcommittees) Electric & Instrument, Larger companies Biz Partner (5 subcommittees) old field manual that contained obscure and unclear work and over-estimates. We banned all kinds of verbal order that used to be practiced in the past. SK E&C CEO’s visit to Biz Partner Operation of Shared Growth Committee SK E&C is operating an internal Shared Growth Committee to establish company-wide Main Programs of Happy Wings Committee subcontracting trade policies and foster a culture of fair trade and shared growth. The committee SK E&C holds CEO New Year Meeting and shares greetings, company performance and is composed of managing directors of each division and shares trends of government policies and plan with Biz Partners and listens to suggestions about current issues. We also sign Fair Trade reviews/takes decisions on subcontracting issues. The Shared Growth Committee has a subsidiary Agreement with Biz Partners and shares opinions. Besides, during the subcommittee meetings, we Shared Growth Working Committee, which is comprised of executives of each division. The role listen to difficulties and recommendations by business division and discuss reasonable solution for of Shared Growth Working Committee includes reviewing subcontracts and checking the status of shared growth. At the end of the year, year-end meeting is held inviting major Biz Partners and subcontracting improvement activities. Top management group also calls for continued attention we express our gratitude for active cooperation for the year and give awards to selected excellent and action on these roles. In particular, the committee was operated both in the first and second Biz Partners as encouragement. half of 2017 and established method to expand project status auditing activities and to manage Biz Partners with poor performances. Awarding to excellent Biz Partners Transparent Selection of Biz Partners Shared Growth SK E&C has been strictly practicing the four important principles in relation to the subcontracting transactions. Every year, we recruit new Biz Partners publicly through a fair judgment and Activities constitute a Win-Win Cooperation Committee to deliberate on fairness and legitimacy of the pricing process. In addition, we use a standard subcontracting agreement in accordance with the subcontracting rules. Fair Trade Agreement Signing Ceremony of Happy Wings Committee 51 52 CSR MANAGEMENT SK E&C is constantly renewing certifications after acquisition of ISO14001, International SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Environment Management Environment Management Standard, in 1997 and acquired certification of newly converted ISO14001:2015 Standard in 2017. Based on this, we are evaluating potential environmental System risks and operation status of company-wide environment management system. Environmental Management Operation of Eco-friendly Integrated Model Green Site Environmental The Green Site is an eco-friendly integrated model unique to SK E&C. It is designed to meet the needs of various stakeholders of domestic and overseas, including system upgrading through Management Activities compliance, consideration of community, use of clean energy to cope with climate change, and improvement of resource circulation efficiency. In 2015, we created and published the Green Site Guidebook containing the corresponding checklist and detailed installation guidebook. In this regard, we designated each field officer and conducted detailed training. Projects across the country are operating a Green Site that matches the characteristics of their projects. New Dongtan SK VIEW Park III Goseong Green Power Project Cheongju Hynix Project Eco-roof Environment-friendly Energy Eco-fond In 2009, SK E&C established the vision of Think Green, Build Green, Contributing to the Eco-friendly integrated model, Green Site image (Reduction of power for air-conditioning) (Solar /Wind power) (Eco-friendly grit chamber) Environmental sustainable development of society through environmental management activities“. We have established Green Culture, Green Process, and Green Product as the execution axis for achieving Management Promotion such a vision and are pursuing consistent environmental management. In addition, ECO-2020, System ECO-2020 middle and long term promotion system for environmental management, aims to contribute to the establishment of a low-carbon, resource-recycling society, which is emerging as a countermeasure Rainfall Storage Bank Reuse of processed water Environmental flower road against global climate change and resource depletion. Think Green Build Green Vision We contribute to the sustainable development of society through environmental management activities Eco-friendly Communication EcoValue Efficiency ECO-2020 Creation SK E&C shares environmental news through various channels to raise environmental awareness Create profits by internalizing of employees. We have published an article called Beyond Green in the monthly corporate Promotion eco-friendly values magazine to introduce environment-friendly projects, and to introduce our environmental practices System in our lives. We also share green activities such as best practices of Green Site and Happy Green Green Culture Green Process Green Product School with all employees through media such as internal broadcasting channel. Established eco-friendly Low-carbon production and Transforming old products into green integrated model, Green Site risk management in all processes products, Development of green products Participation at Voluntary Agreement on Reduction of Flying Dust SK E&C started to join voluntary agreement on reduction of flying dust between Ministry of Environment and construction companies in 2016 and has been continuing activities to report As for Green Culture area, we aim to minimize the environmental burden in all business areas performance to the Ministry and managing activities shall be implemented at all projects. by demonstrating our company-wide eco-friendly practice capabilities centered on Green Office In addition, though not included at the agreement, we have executed partial recommendations and Green Site. Greening of processes through improvement of environmental efficiency and the from the Ministry to reduce flying dust effectively as part of efforts to minimize damage to Green Process area configured to prevent environmental risk in advance are strengthened, thus surrounding places. visible results are being created. SK E&C strives to fulfill customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility by supplying products and services that are eco-friendly, which is our core value. Participation at voluntary agreement on reduction of flying dust SK E&C is implementing eco-friendly activities in compliance with the SK E&C's Environmental Environmental Management Policy. Flying dust measurement station Installation and operation of Paving of nearby temporary road Spraying flying dust restrainer Management Policy anemometer Environmental Policy SK E&C aims to contribute to sustainable development by ensuring that all employees are aware of the importance and value of environmental protection and by engaging all our business activities with green environmental management. 1. Minimize any negative environmental impacts by implementing process innovation for preventing fundamental problems of environmental pollution 2. Comply with all domestic and international environmental legislations and regulations by applying rigorous standards 3. Transparently disclose the performance of environmental management and actively communicate with various stakeholders to make a better community 4. Establish global leadership by voluntary participation and engagement in activities to reduce carbon emissions in response to climate change 5. Cultivate green culture in which all employees are encouraged to discover environment-friendly solutions throughout the entire business processes 6. Make incessant efforts to provide differentiated green products for our customers by developing frontier technologies to solve the root causes of environmental problems 53 54 CSR MANAGEMENT Major Training Systems and Programs SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report • CDP (Career Development Program) This is a program that provides information on the necessary training/competency(CDP Map) for each career goal, and supports job experience and job transfer accordingly. Through the Talent Management CDP Map, employees can see what growth path to follow and what capability to build to achieve career goals. • IDP (Individual Development Plan) SK E&C considers CDP Map in setting career goal to suit individual employees and established competency enhancement plan(Rotation Plan/Job Training/Nurturing through Work) to achieve these goals. We support each employee to achieve voluntary and effective competency enhancement through self-initiated career development called 'IDP establishment', and induces participation of leaders and employees through performance check regarding individual nurturing activities at the end of the year. Throughout the year, we arrange face to face meetings with leader and employee as part of our efforts to enhance practicing capability of nurturing. • PMU (Project Management University) Course In order to improve project management capability, SK E&C conducts the self-developed PMU The employees of SK E&C share the mission and belief to “Build the Great Great Life, Great (Project Management University) course, which is the highest level of the in-house training system. SK E&C People Model World”, visualize the clear image of happiness and success, and carry out every work with passion The PMU aims to nurture project professionals with insights as field managers, strategic thinking and enthusiasm. This is the definition of SK E&C People Model “Caring Professional”. It indicates and business management skills. In addition to the PMU courses, we have developed and are desirable attitudes and competencies to guide employees into happier and more successful life operating the PMU Basic Courses for junior employees and the PMU Advanced Courses for and help them contribute to stakeholder happiness enhancement. Moreover, it provides specific managers/general managers. behavioral principles for employees to use them willingly as personal guidelines and corporate standards for operational policies to strengthen implementation of SKMS. • Nurturing female talent PMU courses SK E&C conducts the 'W-network Program', to promote networking for female human resources and to help leadership development into next leaders. Under the subject 'Leadership Coaching', Mutual individual tasks like 'establishment of improvement direction for women related systems' are Self-Esteem Teamwork Consideration performed in addition to book reading, discussion and group mentoring to pursue nurturing through work. We support establishment of desirable women leadership inside organization through constant nurturing of female talent. Caring Professional Evaluation System Professional Setting SUPEX Thorough and Knowledge Evaluation and SK E&C operates an evaluation system based on performance oriented system so that employees Knowledge Goals Enthusiastic Execution Sharing can achieve high performance based on superior value. The evaluation factors consist of value Compensation measurement and performance measurement. Value measurement considers SK E&C People Model SK E&C operates transparent procedures to recruit excellent individuals that meet the concept of as rating. Since we introduced an absolute evaluation system, the strength/weakness of individual is intensively analyzed to help voluntary practice of SK E&C People Model of employees. In case Recruiting Outstanding SK E&C People Model and provide equal opportunity to all applicants. In 2017, we recruited total 35 new employees through 'blind recruitment', a form of public recruitment, in order to of performance measurement, evaluation is done half-yearly through performance check on task. Human Resources overcome the problems in the existing method which is based on profile information in the resume After evaluation, one on one coaching is done about improvement points, nurturing direction, and to recruit individuals that meet the concept of SK E&C People Model and job competency. etc., through feedback meeting with the employee. In addition, for fairness and transparency of In collaboration with Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled, we implemented special evaluation, we make diverse efforts such as disclosing evaluation result and strengthening claim recruitment for the disabled wherein we provided one month of customized training and 3 months process and are constantly complementing the system to settle down evaluation system by listening of internship program. After training and internship, we hired them as non fixed-term employees to opinions of employees about the system. exceptionally in construction industry. Besides, we conducted 4 sessions of SK Employment Stepping Stone Program so as to resolve mismatch between Biz Partners who suffer from labor Compensation System shortage and young job seekers who suffer from finding jobs. SK E&C provides job training and SK E&C adheres to 'Differentiation of compensation level based on Performance Orientation' internship opportunities for young job seekers to enhance their competitiveness in finding jobs, and and operates performance-related pay and IB(Incentive Bonus) system to implement it. Through excellent human resources for Biz Partners to help strengthen their competitiveness. performance-related pay, we pay according to the performance of each individual, and the eligibility and scale of IB is decided depending on the performance level of organization and In order to achieve mission and vision, SK E&C is striving to cultivate human resources that meet individuals. Base pay and allowance differ depending on position, but there is no differentiation by gender or age. Human Resource its human resources standards based on its philosophy of human resource development. The “Corporate” will nurture a competent group of leaders and experts, which will ultimately enhance Development the company's competitiveness. The “Employees” will develop their career goals by developing personal competence and growing as experts. Developing human resources that meet the concept of SK E&C People Model Mission ‘Caring Professional’ The human resource development system of SK E&C for achieving company’s mission & vision aims • To provide systematic and typical/atypical learning contents and Philosophy infrastructure to fit individual career path and attain the required competency level • To effectively enhance employees’ competency through self-initiated learning 55 56 Maternity Protection Program Protecting Human Rights and Dealing with Grievances SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Work & Life Balance In July 2015, SK E&C introduced a maternity protection program to reduce the burden of female Building Desirable SK E&C pledges that it will support, respect and faithfully abide by the Universal Declaration of employees' birth and childcare and to prevent their career interruption. We are compliance Human Rights and the major conventions of the International Labor Organization. In 2016, SK E&C Corporate Culture with legal obligations related to maternity protection and female employees within 12 weeks or announced its human rights policy, stating that it would fulfill its social responsibilities as a member after 36 weeks of pregnancy can work shorter for 2 hours a day. There is a system in place to of the international community. In addition, SK E&C operates a Grievance Committee to listen to ensure that they are not disadvantaged during the performance evaluation, with which maternity and handle the grievances of employees. Besides, SK E&C operates Grievance Committee with leave and parental leave are strongly recommended. And we made it possible with unused officers in charge at each business division for creating happy and great workplace and resolving annual leave transfer system for employees to use annual leave anytime when necessary after sexual harassment and related grievances. We are also conducting sexual harassment prevention they get back to work from parental leave as a part of our efforts to lessen the burden of child education once a year for all employees to prevent possible sexual harassment in the company raising. In addition, SK E&C has introduced a new system to allow female employees suffering and to create an atmosphere in which employees can work safely. from subfertility to take some time off from work in order to mitigate their difficulty and to support solving the social problem of low fertility. Finally, SK E&C is actively letting employees know about diverse systems for protecting maternity so that the systems can take root stably and also providing SK E&C Human Rights Policy guidance separately to each team leader so that pregnant employees can use maternity protection programs without any burden. SK E&C shall make effort on social responsibility through respecting for human rights and diversity to fulfill our mission, “We Build the Great, Great Life, Great World”. SK E&C shall support, respect and declare to comply with principles faithfully for protecting Happy Wings Day Care Center human rights and labor standards as stipulated in the ‘The Universal Declaration of Humans Rights’ and ‘The International Labor SK E&C operates Happy Wings Day Care Center in a workplace to participate in resolving the Organization’. Also, SK E&C has joined UN Global Compact and shall support and promote 10 principles of UN Global Compact problem of low fertility in the Korean society and to resolve employees' difficulties in childcare. officially. This center was certified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare with an excellent score and secured extended certification with good evaluation score as confirmed by the Korea Childcare Subject of Application and Detail Principles Promotion Institute. As of January 2018, total 11 teachers, including representative of the center are caring 49 infants. The center is making its efforts to support work & life balance of SK E&C • SK E&C does not discriminate against employees on recruitment and work for reasons for gender, nationality, religion, social status etc. • SK E&C protects freedom of association and collective bargaining pursuant to constitutional law and laws related to labor relationship. employees and provide optimum care environment for our infants who will lead the 21st century. • SK E&C seeks sympathy and cooperation of employees to management issues under the equality principle between labor and management. Notably, at the time of admission, priority is granted to the socially disadvantaged, such as single Employees • SK E&C sets safety and comfortable workplace for employees’ health and takes necessary measurements proactively for preventing accident. Happy Wings Day Care Center • SK E&C treats employees equally, creates voluntary self-development atmosphere and supports training opportunities actively for employees. parent families and female employee as part of the company's efforts to alleviate their difficulties in childcare. Welfare Program • SK E&C does not make undue profits by unfair means and works against corruption in all its forms including bribery on the business activities SK E&C operates a variety of welfare programs to improve the quality of life for employees. • SK E&C respects legitimate rights, demands and intentions of stakeholders. Stakeholders Every year, we support health checkup for all employees. Based on the results of the checkup, employees with symptoms of 6 major diseases(hypertension, diabetes, triglyceride, abnormal lipid, obesity, and liver dysfunction) are provided with alarm messages and health-related information. For employees who belong to a high-risk group, hospital reservation is made for • SK E&C respects diversities of ethnicity, race, religion and linguistic minorities in all domestic and overseas project sites and offices. Also, SK E&C makes efforts to realize equal opportunities of these people. consultation and treatment and we support customized health management program consisting Customers and • SK E&C complies with global standard and law associated with protecting environment and makes every effort to protect environment during of meal, exercise, lecture. There is also an in-house affiliated dentistry that employees and their Community the entire business activities. SKetch Book(In-house library) families can use at low costs. Also, we are implementing a program to measure the level of the employees’ stress to protect their mental as well as physical health. In case of high-risk employees, we are helping their psychological healing through psychological counseling, 4 times a year. we support a certain amount of money when employees buy eco-friendly agricultural and marine products. We also Management Development Council operate a fitness center in the company to support voluntary efforts of employees for taking care Composed of representatives from management group and employees group, the Management of their health. Development Council, is a consultative body to promote SK E&C’s development through mutual In addition, we support the tuition expenses of middle school, high school, and university for the understanding and cooperation. The management group consists of the CEO and the executives children of employees. And we operate the SKetch Book, an in-house library with 6,900 books appointed by the CEO. Employees group is made up of 10 employees elected by direct/secret Fitness center and 49,205 e-books for self-development of our employees. ballot in proportion to the number of employees per division. As a general rule, the Management Development Council shall hold one regular meeting every quarter. They share information Classification Title of program Health checkup, Health promotion service, Health lecture, Health magazine, on major management issues, including management plans and quarterly performances and Employees’ health Health care center, Mental checkup, Eco-friendly agricultural and marine discuss matters related to employee benefits. In order to strengthen communication, they are also support products, Affiliated dentistry, Fitness center, Group accident insurance Regular meeting of Management Development discussing their opinions and grievances through monthly Sympathy Meetings as well as regular Birth/Childcare support Nursing room, Female employees’ rest room, Children Day Care Center Council meetings. In addition, they strive to reflect the voices of employees through various channels. In Self development / 2017, 4 regular meetings and 12 sympathy meetings were held. Through these meetings, we Club, In-house library, Selective welfare point, Children’s school expenses Children education sought to fully gather opinions from employees about matters that are closely related to the working support support environment of our employees, such as the HR system, welfare, and relocation of the corporate Health lecture building. The management group and employees group of SK E&C have such opportunities to communicate frankly about the management issues facing the corporate and contribute to building mutual trust. 57 58 CSR MANAGEMENT Hope Maker SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Representative Social SK E&C's Hope Maker is the flagship program of SK E&C, which has been continuing for 8 years to resolve social polarization with the slogan of “True sharing through donation . All employees of Contribution Program SK E&C are affiliated to 600 children and youth of low-income families in 7 districts of Gangnam, Social Contribution Guro, Dobong, Dongjak, Seongdong, Seongbuk and Junggu in Seoul and providing them with economic and emotional support continuously. Through the “Good Workplace” campaign where SK E&C employees and sponsored parties meet which was attended by 650 employees across 54 such events in 2017, we conduct cultural performances such as watching sports games regularly. Through emergency support and talent development support, we also make efforts to help people in need to grow into healthy members of society. In addition, through the Hope Giving Comment Posting Campaign, emergency support is provided to children and youth in Restroom repairing at Dong Tien Elementary School, need. For the children who need urgent operations, we support their expenses. We also support Tamdao Prefecture, Vinh Phuc Province, Vietnam building restrooms at poverty area of Vietnam. SK E&C's Hope Maker caters to both home or abroad. Here’s how. A story of a person in need of urgent support is posted on the intranet in the beginning of each month and whenever our employees make their supporting comment on the posting, KRW 2,000 is supposed to be donated through the company matching fund. The social contribution of SK E&C is based on the philosophy of SK Group's “happiness Performance of Hope Giving Comment Good Workplace Achievement in 2017 Postings Campaign in 2017 Social Contribution maximization”. In order to fulfill its social responsibilities and realize a sustainable society, SK E&C has selected eco-friendly activity and social welfare as key areas. In line with this direction, System SK E&C ultimately aims at spreading the culture of sharing for happiness of stakeholders and leading a respected corporate culture through social contribution activities participated by employees along with the disadvantaged, contributing to a healthy and safe eco-friendly lifestyle KRW by implementing eco-friendly management measures such as environment purification activities 54 650 12 and environment education. teams/project employees people 51.34 joined million participated Supported raised SK E&C Mission We Build the Great Great Life, Great World Social Contribution Mission Build a Dream Happy Green School Eco-friendliness Social Welfare Accumulated students number who SK E&C operates an eco-friendly social contribution program called Happy Green School. This is participated in Happy Green School a program that our employees become elementary school teachers for one day and teach students ’Happy Green School’ Representative Programs ‘Hope Maker’ about the right eco-values and a sustainable society. The Happy Green School started in 2009 Provide education on environmental and was expanded to cover elementary schools all over the nation in 2012. From 2014, the issues for elementary school students Support living / education expenses 60,258 across the country (Employees for children from low-income families 2017 program is also covering Vietnamese schools near the project sites. By 2017, a total of 60,258 participate as instructors) 54,930 students from 2,042 classes in 583 schools were participated, we increased ratio of project 2016 oriented operation so that SK E&C can intensify communication with local communities and a Head office Project employees employees 48,120 good quality education opportunity can be provided for them. 2015 In the aspect of education contents, the program handles climate change, sustainable • Regular visits to social welfare facilities • Caring 1 mountain, 1 river, I road consumption, eco-friendly practices, etc., focusing on eco-friendly science and technologies that • Visit to community welfare facility for volunteer service • Meeting sponsored parties (at all times) • Safety traffic service for children are differentiated from existing contents of other environment education limited to environment Major Volunteering Activities protection. And we try to deliver latest eco-friendly issues and technologies to meet elementary • Professional volunteer service (Residential environment improvement activities, SK pro bono, supporters on social performance incentives *Pro bono and supporters activities are for volunteers only school students' level through regular updates of text books. Notably, in 2013, the program was selected as Certified Environmental Education Program by the Ministry of Environment • Volunteering by employees with families • Collective activities of SK Group (SK happiness sharing Bazaar) and was renewed in 2016, proving again superiority and reliability of the contents. We are Other Volunteer Activities • Happiness Sharing Can Meeting volunteer service • Happy Sharing charity Race committed to developing this social contribution program constantly so that SK E&C employees can proudly contribute to enhancing the students' understanding of righteous eco-friendly values • Social contribution activities near the overseas project site and sustainable society. Global Social Contribution • Social contribution activities using internet postings (Surgery expense for African sick children, Construction of meal place, etc.) <Award History> Social Contribution Management Governance Certification of Environmental Education Program Silver Award from Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport at Creative and 2011 SK E&C operates ‘Social Contribution Committee’ and ‘Social Contribution Working by the Ministry of Environment Innovative Best Practice Competition Selected as Certified Environmental Education Program by the Ministry of Subcommittee’. Coordinators selected from each division/department as members of the Social 2013 Environment Contribution Working Subcommittee are in charge of fair execution of contributed fund and are Encouragement Prize for Excellent Environmental Education Program by 2014 taking role of supporting the social contribution activities of respective organizations. the Ministry of Environment 59 60 Volunteer Activities by Employees SK E&C, which is now expanding its business areas overseas, is engaged in various global SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Social Contribution Since 2004, Volunteer Corps, consisting of whole employees of SK E&C has been conducting Global Social Contribution social contribution activities in the countries where the company carries out projects. In 2017, we constant volunteer activities such as visiting welfare facilities of local communities, environmental donated educational computers to The Islamic Educational Center at Baish, Jarzan Economic City Activities by Employees Activities cleanup activities near project sites, etc. During traditional holidays and year end, we try to help of Saudi Arabia. When an earthquake struck Ecuador in South America in 2016, SK E&C visited by activities that can be of practical assistance such as food sharing, kimchi sharing, and coal the village affected by the earthquake to help it recover and delivered relief supplies. In 2015, briquette in collaboration with welfare center of local communities. we also supported renovation of facilities and IT equipment such as computers to Jaime Hurtado González elementary school in Esmeraldas. We also provided medical services such as medical Volunteer Activities by Employees with Families treatment and delivery of medicines to low-income residents in the area. In North America, when a SK E&C performs volunteer activities involving families of employees 4 times a year so that massive forest fire occurred in Fort McMurray, Alberta, we donated 100,000 Canadian dollars to employees and families can take part in and appreciate the importance of family and feel the joy the Calgary branch of the Alberta Red Cross at Fort Hills to help them recover from damage due to of volunteer activities. Various events such as Seoul Forest Gardening, Traditional Holidays Food forest fire. In the Middle East, where SK E&C works actively, we built and donated ‘Smart Classes’ Sharing, etc., are held. Total 5,100 people participated across 43 events up to 2017. utilizing IT facilities and the internet to elementary school at Ahmadi area in southern Kuwait. We continue to support scholarship and educational equipment for schools and communities near Happy Sharing Charity Race our construction projects, not only in the Middle East but also in Asian countries such as India, SK E&C Marathon Club is holding ‘Happy Sharing Charity Race‘ in the first and second halves Vietnam and Laos. of each year. The ‘Happiness Fund’ prepared by donation of employees is delivered to the disadvantaged at the end of the year. Using the fund, we provided support to children of lowincome families in the form of school uniforms, urgent operation, winter clothes for disabled Every month, SK E&C performs improvement of residential environment nationwide helping lowchildren and career mentoring. In January 2017, SK E&C Marathon Club received an award Improvement of Residential income families including the families to be sponsored by Hope Maker, which started in April 2006 from the Minister of the Interior and Safety at the ‘Award Recommended by Citizens’, an awarding titled ‘Helping children of families without parents’. Each month, we discuss with welfare centers Environment event in which citizens take a direct part and is encouraged by government. The award was at local communities such as Hope Maker affiliated organizations to select some households to a recognition of the fact that they steadily contributed in supporting low-income families and create a comfortable residential space through plastering, room flooring and wall tiling, focusing SK E&C Marathon Club got award from the Minister of practiced sharing. on areas to be improved urgently. We have performed total 474 events, such as improvement the Interior and Safety of residential environment and year end sharing till December in 2017. Since 2015, we have performed improvement of residential environment for poor people aligned with Happiness Sharing Seasonal Event of SK Group. Our improvement of residential environment received a lot of prizes including Award by the Minister of Health and Welfare as an acknowledgement of our Accumulated Performance of Volunteer Accumulated Performance of contribution. In 2018, we are going to enhance effect by focusing on ‘functional improvement’ Activities by Employees Charity Race with Families such as insulation, heating and windows/doors rather than the existing focus on ‘improvement of appearance’, in order to improve the quality of our activities. Number of Fund volume Number Number of employees who KRW of people events participated at 43 participated fund raising 262.18 5,100 19,664 million CSR OVERVIEW MATERIAL ISSUES CSR MANAGEMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX PACO CFPP Project 63 64 APPENDIX SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance* Classification Item Unit Year 2015 Year 2016 Year 2017 Classification Item Unit Year 2015 Year 2016 Year 2017 Total number of employees Person 6,165 5,404 5,130 Greenhouse gas emission tCO2-eq 80,648 81,531 78,780 Male employees Person 5,422 4,714 4,482 Greenhouse gas emission Intensity tCO2-eq/KRW 100 million 0.8 1.1 0.7 Female employees Person 743 690 648 Fossil fuel emission tCO2-eq 11,483 9,469 3,727 Executives Person 91 83 82 Electricity emission tCO2-eq 20,291 18,970 23,137 Non fixed-term employees Person 4,722 4,384 4,164 Greenhouse gas Vehicles fuel emission tCO2-eq 2,761 2,139 2,814 emission Fixed-term employees(project based) Person 820 497 388 Construction machinery fuel tCO2-eq 46,113 50,953 49,101 emission Status of employees Fixed-term employees(foreigners) Person 58 14 8 Scope 1 tCO2-eq 17,871 15,070 7,523 Fixed-term employees(site based) Person 474 426 488 Scope 2 tCO2-eq 20,291 18,970 23,137 Disabled employees Person 81 94 78 Scope 3 tCO2-eq 42,486 47,491 48,120 Foreign employees Person 91 32 20 Ready-mixed concrete m3 1,100,841 901,154 2,058,558 Total number of new employees Person 239 306 286 Cement m3 59,845 61,066 55,147 New male employees Person 179 219 222 Aggregates m3 602,715 1,318,069 243,985 New female employees Person 60 87 64 Recycled aggregates m3 41,514 11,406 43,709 Total number of parental leave Person 52 51 46 Resource consumption Asphalt concrete m3 46,080 45,663 73,896 Maternity protection Male parental leave Person 11 10 11 Reinforcing bar ton 1,993,388 500,028 549,204 program Female parental leave Person 41 41 35 Steel frame ton 34,766 14,984 9,757 Return rate after parental leave % 84 81 80 Mold m2 5,472,839 2,143,888 2,125,599 Number of employees who completed Person 1,021 892 426 Total water consumption ton 362,263 236,571 475,837 offline ethical management training Ethical management Number of punishment for violation of Piped water ton 233,772 142,941 233,920 Person 25 25 6 ethical regulations Water consumption Stream water ton 88,054 18,695 47,541 Human resource Total training hours Hour 296,258 203,798 159,790 Underground water ton 18,823 43,747 160,269 development Total number of employees who joined Recycled water ton 21,614 31,188 34,107 Person 4,362 5,116 4,691 Social contribution social contribution Sandy soil emission Sandy soil emission m3 1,118,776 1,786,642 1,545,998 Social contribution hours per employee Hour 20.2 14.5 14.3 Construction waste ton 454,345 476,045 372,669 Waste concrete ton 97,131 177,442 110,364 Waste asphalt concrete ton 28,550 32,962 55,437 Mixed waste ton 57,478 44,561 58,815 Construction wastes grit ton 48,694 32,900 74,274 Environmental Performance* Waste sludge ton 148,132 176,792 59,521 Waste wood ton 12,386 2,353 3,892 Classification Item Unit Year 2015 Year 2016 Year 2017 Waste synthetic resin ton 56,682 6,481 8,234 Total energy consumption GJ 1,299,819 1,300,035 1,282,212 Waste emission Others ton 5,293 2,552 2,132 Energy Intensity GJ/KRW 100 million 14.8 19.4 14.1 Recycled ton 382,791 442,277 324,506 Gasoline L 595,927 369,842 527,250 Incinerated ton 65,168 20,972 16,654 Diesel L 17,859,022 21,399,609 19,090,779 Landfilled ton 6,386 12,796 31,509 Kerosene L 2,850,841 81,633 182,287 Waste from business premises ton 1,908 155 866 LPG kg 164,354 446,048 29,516 Energy consumption Designated waste ton 8.8 19.8 13.0 LNG Nm3 1,687,371 1,468,455 1,362,775 Waste asbestos ton 8.8 7.0 1.8 Lignite kg 210,817 91,120 105,700 Waste oil ton 0.0 12.8 11.2 Electricity kWh 43,519,803 40,686,017 49,624,221 Scope 1 GJ 280,150 236,656 123,945 * Environmental performance data covers head office and domestic projects. Scope 2 GJ 417,790 390,586 476,393 Some data of 2015 and 2016 was corrected due to error findings.(Reinforcing bar at Resource consumption, Waste concrete, Mixed waste, Waste wood and Scope 3 GJ 601,879 672,794 681,875 Waste synthetic resin at Waste emission) * Environmental performance data covers head office and domestic projects. 65 66 APPENDIX SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI 200 Economic Topics Disclosure GRI Standards Index Topic Disclosure Title Page Number Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6-7 performance 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 22 24 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 63 GRI 300 Environmental Topics Disclosure Topic Disclosure Title Page Number 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 64 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 64 GRI 100 Universal Standards 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 63 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 63 Disclosure Topic Disclosure Title Page Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 63 Number 102-1 Name of the organization 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 38 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 38,40 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 64 Water 102-4 Location of operations 5-6 303-3 Water recycled and reused 64 102-6 Markets served 5-6 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 64 Organization 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 63 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 64 profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 63 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect GHG emission (Scope 3) 64 102-9 Supply chain 5 6, 33 34, 49 50 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 64 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain ABOUT THIS REPORT 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 38 102-12 External initiatives 38, 56, 67 Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 64 102-13 Membership of associations 67 waste 306-3 Significant spills None Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3-4 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 37 compliance Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 43 Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 50 integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 22 24 environmental assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 50 102-18 Governance structure 10 102-19 Delegating authority 18 Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 18 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 10 GRI 400 Social Topics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 Disclosure engagement Topic Disclosure Title Page 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 Number 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15 16 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 63 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 15 16 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 55 102-47 List of material topics 16 401-3 Parental leave 63 102-48 Restatements of information 64 Occupational Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 403-2 25 health and number of work-related fatalities 102-49 Changes in reporting ABOUT THIS REPORT safety 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 27 Reporting 102-50 Reporting period ABOUT THIS REPORT Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 63 practice 102-51 Date of most recent report ABOUT THIS REPORT education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 54 102-52 Reporting cycle ABOUT THIS REPORT Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 63 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Cover and equal opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 54 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards ABOUT THIS REPORT Human rights 102-55 GRI content index 65 66 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 56 assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 57 60 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 21, 25, 29, 33, 37 communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 39 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 46, 50 assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 50 67 68 APPENDIX SK E&C · CSR REPORT SK E&C 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Memberships and Awards Memberships 2017 Awards Date Award Awarding Institution Fair Competition Federation Korea Federation of Construction Contractors Korea Plant Industries Association 2017.01.17 Happy Sharing Charity Race Award by recommendation from citizens Ministry of the Interior and Safety Seoul Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Ports & Harbours Association Korea Geotechnical Society Korea Occupational Safety and Health 2017.03.21 Occupational Accident Prevention Awards Korea Housing Association Korean Environment Construction Association Architectural Institute of Korea Agency 2017.03.29 2017 Grand Prize for Overseas Construction Money Today News Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea National Committee on Large Dams Fuel Cell Industry Promotion Association 2017.04.19 Award for Excellent Construction of Residential Facilities Korea Land and Housing Corporation Korea Road Association Korean Railway Construction Association Construction Association of Korea 2017.05.31 2017 Best Community Award for Korea Residential Service Money Today News Korea Railway Association Korean Society of Civil Engineers International Contractors Association of Korea Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and A total of 61 memberships joined 2017.06.09 2017 Grand Prize for Representative Environment-friendly Apartments of Korea Transport Award for Devotion to Safety Management and Establishment of Advanced Construction 2017.06.13 Gangnam District of Seoul City Culture Award for Well-being Apartment in Residential Culture Evaluation for the first half year of 2017.06.27 The Korea Economic Daily 2017 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and 2017.07.19 2017 Eco-friendly Construction Industry Award In 2016, SK E&C joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC), a voluntary social responsibilities Transport UN Global Compact initiative, and endeavors to implement its 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, 2017.07.20 2017 Construction Day Award President labor, environment and anti-corruption as we deeply empathize with these. We pledge 2017.08.30 Best Prize for 2017 Korea Masterpiece Housing Money Today News continued support to the principles and are disclosing our activities and performance to 2017.09.14 Grand Prize in Win-Win Sector of the 12th Asian General Construction Awards Asia Economic Daily abide by the 10 principles and this report will submitted as COP(Communication on Progress) 2017.10.13 Award for Role Model Construction Site In Handling Flying Dusts Eunpyeong District of Seoul City to UN Global Compact. SK E&C will continue to expand its sincere activities internalizing the 10 principles into management activities for the future. International Contractors Association of 2017.10.17 2017 e-Today Best Prize for Overseas Industry Sector of Smart Construction Awards Korea LH Gwangmyeong-Siheung Business 2017.10.24 LH Award for Excellent Defects Repairing Practice Division of Incheon City headquarters 2017.10.30 Best Prize for Eco-friendly Sector of 2017 Asia Today Green Construction Awards Asia Today Grand Prize for Overseas Construction Sector in 2017 Aju Business Daily Construction Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Areas 10 Principles Report Contents Page 2017.10.30 Awards Transport 1. Businesses should support and respect the SK E&C is committed to abide by domestic Labor Standards Act and labor related laws as Grand Prize for Overseas Construction Sector in 2017 e-Daily Construction Industry Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and 2017.11.22 protection of internationally proclaimed well as to support and faithfully follow the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and major Awards Transport Human human rights. conventions of the International Labor Organization(ILO). The human rights policy of SK 56 The National Assembly of the Republic of Rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are E&C includes guidelines for employees/shareholders/customers/society and we operate a Korea Environment & Labor Committee, not complicit in human rights abuses. Grievance Committee for respecting human rights of employees, in particular. 2017.11.24 Award for 2017 Best Practices Competition for Construction Environment Management Ministry of Environment, Ministry of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Land, Infrastructure and Transport association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Grand Prize for Well-being Apartments in Residential Culture Awards for the second half 2017.12.05 The Korea Economic Daily 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of SK E&C protects freedom of association and right to collective bargaining guaranteed by of 2017 the labor related laws through human rights policy. In addition we make efforts to prevent all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 50, 53, 2017.12.06 2017 Grand Prize for Green View in Green Housing Awards Hankook Ilbo Labor forced labor and child labor by adding these to Biz Partner sustainability evaluation 5. Businesses should uphold the effective 54, 56 process. Also, we prohibit all forms of discrimination in employment and work through Maeil Business News Korea, abolition of child labor. th Best Prize for Overseas Civil Engineering Sector in the 13 Korea Civil Engineering and operation of blind recruitment and fair evaluation & compensation process. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination 2017.12.19 Architectural Institute of Korea, Construction Technology Awards of discrimination in respect of employment Korean Society of Civil Engineers and occupation. 2017.12.29 Award for Devotion to Safe Management of Hazard Gyeonggi-do Province 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In order to respond to climate change and to minimize effect of construction on environment, 2017.12.29 2017 Award for Job Creation at Private Construction Projects Seongnam City 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives SK E&C prevents risks through greenhouse gas reduction activities and initial diagnosis to promote greater environmental of environment pollution and trying to be responsible for environment by sophistication 37 40, Environment responsibility. of projects environment management and operation of Green Sites. We also endeavor to 51 52 9. Businesses should encourage the spread environment-friendly products through environment-friendly buildings and renewable development and diffusion of energy projects such as fuel cell, solar energy and wind power, etc. environmentally friendly technologies. SK E&C carries out activities to prevent all kinds of corruption including bribery and unfair 10. Business should work against corruption bargain since the establishment of ethical regulations in 1998, that were intended for Anti21 24, in all its forms, including extortion and settling down ethical management as its corporate culture. In particular, we endeavor to corruption 43 44 bribery. eradicate violations by conducting internal programs such as Compliance Program with fair trade and the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act. Contributors for the Report Contents Department Supervisor Sustainability Management Team Infra Planning Team Major Business Areas Building & Housing Planning Team Global Business Planning Team Management Philosophy SKMS Team Governance Board of Directors Office Sustainability Management Team CSR Overview Çanakkale SPC MATERIAL ISSUES 1. Fair Trade / Compliance with Code of Ethics Head of Internal Auditing and Anti-corruption Compliance Operation Team CSR MANAGEMENT Ethical Management International Legal Affairs Team MATERIAL ISSUES 2. Safety and Health SHE Team CSR MANAGEMENT Safety and Health Management MATERIAL ISSUES 3. Quality Quality Innovation Team CSR MANAGEMENT Quality Management C/S Team MATERIAL ISSUES 4. Shared Growth Shared Growth Management Team CSR MANAGEMENT Shared Growth Strategic Planning Team SHE Team MATERIAL ISSUES 5. Compliance with Environmental Regulations Building & Housing Technology Team CSR MANAGEMENT Environmental Management Head of New Renewable Energy Program SKMS Team Human Resources Team CSR MANAGEMENT Talent Management Talent Management Team General Admin. & Support Team CSR MANAGEMENT Social Contribution Head of PR SK E&C 2017 CSR REPORT
