CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT.......................................................................... 2 INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................................................ 3 ABOUT METZ A/S.................................................................................................................................... 4 OUR APPROACH TO CSR.................................................................................................................... 5 METZ STAKEHOLDER CSR ACTIVITY 2018................................................................................ 6 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ...................................................................... 7 RISK SEGMENTATION OF SUPPLIERS.......................................................................................... 7 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM RISK SEGMENTATION............................... 8 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM METZ CODE OF CONDUCT................... 9 OUR APPROACH TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG´S)........... 10 NEW COLLABORATION BETWEEN, ”SAVE THE CHILDREN” AND METZ................. 11 A CHRISTMAS TO REMEMBER.......................................................................................................... 11 UNGC A DIFFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT................................................................................. 12 PROMOTING A GOOD AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT.............................. 12 COMMUNICATION OUR EMPLOYEES..................................................................................................................................... 13 APPENDIX: METZ CSR POLICY......................................................................................................... 14 ON PROGESS CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The purpose of our Communication on Progress report (COP) is to document and communicate the way we work with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and how we address the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG´s), within our own organization as well as in our network of suppliers and customers. We strive to continually improve our CSR performance, both in our supply chain and within the daily operations of our organization. We are confident, that responsible business management will deliver sustainable business results. It is primarily the companies of the world that drive globalization, and it will only be through a global fellowship and cooperation that we can ensure progress for the benefit of the world’s economies and societies. This report is our fifth Communication on Progress and it is still my pleasure to inform you that Metz A/S reaffirms our support to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles. Yours sincerely, Claus Hedegaard CEO 2 INTRODUCTION Metz A/S signed up to the UN Global Compact in November 2013, as we wanted to adopt an internationally recognized framework for structuring and reporting on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts. With our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we recognize that we as a company are committed to continually improve and document our work within CSR, and we wish to communicate this to our stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers and employees. As a supplier of promotional products, we work as an intermediary between the end customer and the supplier. On some occasions, our suppliers are agents, who work as intermediaries just like us. Metz has a network of many suppliers and sub-suppliers, and therefore we have a responsibility to seek to influence our suppliers in terms of establishing responsible supply chains for the products that we ultimately sell to the end customer. In the following pages, we presents the Metz approach to CSR, our ambitions for working with the CSR principles as well as the CSR activities and projects that we have conducted or initiated during 2018. UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGESS 3 ABOUT METZ A/S UNGC Metz A/S was established in 1993 and is an owner-driven company that supplies promotional products and corporate gifts to more than 200 companies and COMMUNICATION ON PROGESS organizations. Metz is the leading and largest supplier in the industry in Denmark and employs 47 people at our headquarters North of Copenhagen in Denmark. Metz acts as a trend spotter and purchaser on behalf of their customers. As a supplier of promotional products and corporate gifts to Denmark’s largest companies, Metz has to be a responsible and trustworthy partner in all areas. Most of the products are produced, according to the customers’ wishes and needs. As the only Danish company, Metz has obtained membership and part ownership of the world’s largest procurement organisation, IGC Global Promotions. IGC was founded in 1956 and is a global network represented in 52 countries. Our mission is to provide high quality products while also influencing and improving conditions relating to labour rights, human rights and the environment in our supply chain. We do this by communicating and by providing guidance to our suppliers in order to help them improve their processes and to comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Since we are not a manufacturer, this is the area that we will be able to influence the most, and thus have the greatest impact on. 4 METZ GIFTS SHOWROOM OUR APPROACH TO CSR The backbone of the Metz CSR strategy is shaped by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Together with our suppliers and building on the UN Global Compact principles, we wish to work towards a more responsible supply chain for our customers and our other stakeholders. We do this by collaborating proactively with our suppliers and assessing our partnerships in order to strengthen their compliance with internationally proclaimed principles for Human Rights and Labor Standards, Environment and Anti-corruption. This approach is also defined in our company’s CSR policy that structures and motivates our efforts within CSR, see appendix. Our CSR policy builds on our ambition to make a positive difference to our stakeholders. One of the ways to do this is to create a transparent and responsible value chain. Our CSR efforts are driven by the following ambitions; • We believe that by working responsibly, over the long term, we can outperform competitors, who do not adhere to the same standards and practices. • We strive to monitor and manage the CSR risks associated with our business, as well as communicate our performance to our customers, so that we can support the success of their own businesses. • We know that responsible business conduct provides sustainable, long-term business results, and that responsibility is a prerequisite for retaining our customers’ trust and confidence. Metz is an organization with a global network of suppliers and customers. Our main area of impact from a CSR perspective is our supply chain, which due to our global value chain is the area where we can make the biggest difference in terms of integrating CSR principles into business practices. For Metz, responsible supply chain management (RSCM) is therefore a strategic CSR focus area that supports our overall business strategy. RSCM has been our main priority in terms of CSR and the primary focus of our CSR activities in the past years, and will continue to be in the future. 5 METZ STAKEHOLDER CSR ACTIVITY 2018 CUSTOMERS Over the last two years there has been a significant change, in the requirement from our customers. Most of our clients have procedures to ensure that there are no breaches in their supply chain. To accommodate this, we have been through an assessment from Achilles (who is a global supply chain risk management provider) in order to demonstrate our responsible business behavior. And we were approved in September 2018. THE FOLLOWING AREAS WERE COVERED IN THE ACHILLES ASSESSMENT SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY HEALTH & SAFETY INSURANCES MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY MANAGEMENT FINANCIALS INFORMATION AND DATA PROTECTION TEAM PROFILE ENVIRONMENTAL CORPORATE SOCIAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Services QUALIFIED SUPPLY CHAIN Our main area of impact from a CSR perspective is our supply chain, which is the area where we can make the biggest difference in terms of integrating CSR principles into business practices. It is important that our supply chain has a responsibility towards CSR and towards us, and we believe that building bridges between our companies will result in better products and better business relationships. From our recent factory visits we can see a positive development in the number of projects with the factories in question, and we can see that the factories take greater ownership of our projects when they get this extra attention and interest. We will therefore continue same approach from the previous years and keep visiting our primary factories and business partners every year. METZ GIFTS SHOWROOM 6 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY RISK SEGMENTATION CHAIN MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIERS At Metz we recognize the challenges and risks associated with managing global Our risk assessment is based on four steps, whereas some of our suppliers need only supply chains, and that our supply chain is the area where we have our biggest impact go through the first two. We make this distinction because it is important for Metz to and opportunity to influence social and environmental conditions. However, we also be able to implement a risk based but also resource efficient supplier management recognize that not having our own production poses a risk and to some extent limits system. the control and leverage we have in terms of improving the sustainability of our supply chain. Our business model is based upon sourcing either directly from the supplier or indirectly through an intermediary. We distinguish between direct suppliers, companies selling branded goods, recognized agents or other intermediaries. The latter group ON-BOARDING often manages an independent network of suppliers and will often represent higher NEW SUPPLIERS supply chain related risks than a single supplier. 1. Initiate dialogue and send out CoC For Metz, working with RSCM is about finding the right balance between the risks and the resources we have, and thus setting realistic goals for improvement. Our RSCM system is based on the UN Global Compact framework. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the principles in the ILO conventions and the UN Declara2. Risk segmentation 4. Reporting of suppliers tion on Human Rights form the basis of the demands we present to our suppliers. The Metz Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the requirements that we expect our suppliers to comply with. 3. Actions based on The purpose of our RSCM system is to have a systematic management system that risk segmentation enforces responsible business practices across the supply chain with the purpose of PHASING OUT monitoring significant risks and determining the effort needed to achieve reasonable SUPPLIERS confidence about suppliers’ level of compliance with the Metz Supplier Code of Conduct and international standards. 7 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE LEVEL 4 – 7% in level 4 (against last year´s 1%). FROM RISK SEGMENTATION Phasing out level The phased-out suppliers´ contact details will be blocked in our system once we find a replacement, this ensures that there could not be sent inquiries or new orders to the blocked supplier. Two years ago, we optimized our internal supplier database, and added levels to the listed suppliers. This provides a quick overview of the supplier´s present compliance stage and the requirements needed for the suppliers to move to the next level. This database contains all suppliers. Not all are used for productions and are therefore not categorized as primary suppliers. However, this does not mean that they can’t be Result of our 2017 risksegmentation, Result of our 2018 risksegmentation, in the future, that is why it is also important to review and improve their compliance. based on high risk area (4 steps). based on high risk area (4 steps). From this year’s review, we can see an improvement in new and existing suppliers that meet our requirements for documentation. Once again, we have made an extra effort to improve our existing supplier’s performance. We have used extra time on guidance and support. Because of this specific task we have been able to move some of the suppliers to level 1. However, we also had to move a few suppliers to level 4. Due to lack of documentation and cooperation 56% LEVEL 1 61% LEVEL 1 21% LEVEL 2 15% LEVEL 2 LEVEL 1 This year 61% were placed in level 1 (against last year´s 56%) 23% LEVEL 3 17% LEVEL 3 Compliant no supporting documents are needed; however minor improvements 1% LEVEL 4 7% LEVEL 4 may be necessary. Explanation to the review; If documents have expired, the supplier will be moved down to level 2 or 3 until new documents are received and evaluated. LEVEL 2 – 15% is placed in level 2 (against last year´s 21 %) Partial compliance supporting documents and/or major improvement needed. Our target for year 2020 is that 95% of our primary factories (1) in high-risk areas will Explanation to the review; If a supplier does not manage to close their major nonmeet the requirements of our Code of Conduct, today 89% of the factories that have compliance findings, if documents have expired or if there has been changes in their been used for production are in compliance. We will meet our target by phasing out organization that affected their compliance, they will be moved a level down until they the factories where it has not been possible to improve their CSR performance, by regain the needed documentation. Similarly, they will be moved to level 1 if they trying to move our primary factories up to our level, and by entering into new partmanage to close their caps, get new documentation etc. nerships with factories that demonstrate high commitment to the work with CSR. Ideally, we would like to inspire the factories to take responsibility and to understand LEVEL 3 – 17% is placed in level 3 (against 23% last year) the importance of social responsibility, so in time it is not a matter of whether they are Not in compliance – Compliance documents are needed. compliant or non-compliant, but a question of what they are doing extra on CSR within Explanation to the review; When we evaluate if a supplier should be moved to the their industry. phasing out level or if they should be moved to level 1 or 2, we look at the overall picture; social compliance, quality of the productions and business cooperation. If all these areas are below what we could expect from our business partners, we will move __________________________________________________________ them to the phasing out level and focus our effort on finding a supplier who can fulfill (1) A primary factory is defined by the number of orders placed and produced in our requirements. a two years period. 8 HIGH RISK SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE FROM METZ CODE OF CONDUCT Our risk assessment system provides us with a quick overview of our suppliers’ performance and identifies which areas that need extra guidance and effort on our part. Please find below the findings (in percentage) from the audit reports that were assessed in 2018 against Metz Code of Conduct. DISCRIMINATION 0% FORCED LABOUR 0% FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND RIGHT TO ORGANIZE 0% CHILD LABOUR 0% HEALTH AND SAFETY 69% WORKING C0NDITIONS 17% RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT 14% CORRUPTION 0% Like the previous years, we can see from the assessed documents, that it is the area of Health and Safety that needs extra attention. It is important that both the management team and the workers understand why they need to follow these rules (preventing injuries, sickness, fire etc.) and how they can all benefit from having a safe workplace. 9 OUR APPROACH TO THE SUSTAINABLE Gender Equality. Gender equality is one of the foundation for a sustainable world. DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG´S) SDG 5 At Metz, equality is an essential part of our internal culture and both our employees and our management team consist of men and women. We embrace the fact that all our employees have different work ethics, styles, skills, responsibilities The UN Sustainable Development Goals are a framework of international priority and goals. As part of our CSR policy we would not engage with business partners areas as part of the 2030 Sustainable Development agenda. who do not wish to sign the non-discrimination area in our Code of Conduct. Our approach to the 17 SDGs focuses on the below nine goals. We don’t have a direct Clean Water. Ensuring access to safe drinking water is a basic human need, but impact on all nine SDG´s and their underlying targets, but by addressing these SDGs unfortunatly not all have access to clean water sources. And it requires internais a way to identify our contribution to the biggest global challenges. SDG 6 tional cooperation. Sustainable management of water waist and access to clean water are essential for the cooperation with our business partners. We request as a minimum that they give their employees access to clean water. As well as manage Below is a brief description of our activities within each area, a more detailed descriptheir production water waste. By having an effectively system that identify and tion of SDG 1, 3, 5, 12 are communicated in this report. minimize their potential hazards to the environment. THESE ARE OUR SDG FOOTPRINTS Responsible consumption and production. One of the extensive global challenges is to integrate sustainability with economic growth and welfare and doing more SDG 12 with less. At Metz we always try to find innovative solutions that enables sustainable consumption and production. For instance, we have developed a system that No Poverty. While global poverty rates have been cut by more than half since focuses on minimizing product waste by 15-20% on our costumer’s web shops. 2000, one in ten in developing countries are still living below the international SDG 1 poverty line. Metz and many other leading companies have been working through different CSR programs for several years to make progress in some of the world’s Climate Actions. Global warming is already having effects on the climate. And we poorest economies. In this process, it is easily forgotten that Denmark also have all need to take actions. To make our impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas people who needs help. A new collaboration between,” Save the Children” organiSDG 13 emissions and lower other potential production hazard. That could influence the zation in Denmark and Metz makes it possible for Danish companies to donate part environment and impact climate changes. We ask our business partners to have of this year’s Christmas gift to ”Save the Children”. an effective system on the factories that identifies and minimize their potential hazards to the environment. Relating to their production energy consumption, emissions to air, land and water. Zero Hunger. One third of the food produced worldwide is wasted – according to “The UN Food and Agriculture Organization”. Despite combined efforts and raised SDG 2 awareness for food waste, we all tend to buy more food than we need. To reduce Life Below Water. Plastic and other forms of waste entering marine environments the food waste at Metz, each employee should record if they are attending lunch poses a significant challenge. We need to keep the oceans safe and clean and the following day. This way there will only be ordered food for those who are in SDG 14 reduce the number of plastic bags ending up in the water. At Metz, we promote office. the use of reusable shopping bags instead of plastic bags. As a result we have decreased our production of plastic bags by 67% since 2016. Healthy lives. Good health is a determinant of quality of life, well-being and social participation. It´s important for Metz to promote a healthy life style and good Life on Land. Land and forests are essential for a sustainable world. To protect SDG 3 working environment. In our opinion healthy and satisfied workers will deliver the forests we need to prevent illegally-harvested timber. This can be done in many better quality and better service and in the end, this will result in greater success SDG 15 ways. We have chosen only to purchase notebooks from FSC certified factories for the company. in China. To make sure that our paper productions are as responsible as possible. And do not have a negative effect on the forest. 10 NEW COLLABORATION BETWEEN, ”SAVE THE CHILDREN” AND METZ Poverty is more than the lack of income. One of its manifestations include for instance social discrimination and exclusion. The organization “Save the Children”, provides experiences to children from the poorest families in Denmark and helps them become part of a community. According to “Save the Children”, more than 62,000 children lived in poverty by the end of 2016. Common for the children living in poverty, is that they often isolate themselves and have fewer friends than their surroundings. Children from poor families often carry a feeling of being different and try to conceal the family’s economy for the outside world. It’s hard to be a poor child in a rich country when you do not have the same opportunities to participate in social activities, vacations and leisure facilities like others. Growing up in social isolation has consequences for a child’s development. Therefore, “Save the Children” tries to ensure that all children in Denmark have access to become part of a community (1) A CHRISTMAS TO REMEMBER ALL KIDS DESERVES A MERRY CHRISTMAS Metz and many other leading companies have been working with different CSR programs for several years to make progress in some of the world’s poorest economies. In this process, it is easily forgotten that Denmark also have people who needs help. A new collaboration between ”Save the Children” organization in Denmark and Metz makes it possible for Danish companies to donate part of this year’s Christmas gift to ”Save the Children”. By choosing the exclusive Cobra bowls from Georg Jensen, a contribution will be made to ”Save the Children” and will among other projects be used for special Christmas events for vulnerable families around in Denmark. COMPANY CHRISTMAS GIFTS – firmajulegaver.metz.dk We are committed every year to develop and produce 100,000 Christmas gifts that are worth remembering. Besides our customer defined Christmas web shops (with their own gift choice). We have a predefined Christmas web shop with a minimum of 25 different gifts within each budget. As a standard, one of the 25 gifts is a donation gift. ___________________________________________ (1) https://redbarnet.dk/vores-arbejde/fattigdom-i-danmark/ 11 A DIFFERENCE FOR PROMOTING A GOOD THE ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT We are dedicated to continuously improving our influence to the environment. That is why we always look at new ways to optimize our processes and improve our products to minimize our environmental impact. Good health is a determination of quality of life, well-being and social participation. As part of this, we believe that a good working environment is just as important and that it CUSTOMER WEBSHOPS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS contributes to our employees good health. One of our core business areas is worldwide distribution of promotional items through our web shops. For this reason, we have years ago developed a system that focuses A good working environment is not only about the way we talk to each other, on minimizing waste by 1520%. This includes all aspects that are associated with the it´s about giving the employees the right tasks, challenge their expertise, and about finished item like production, storage and delivery. Furthermore, this also prevents our supporting a good team spirit. It´s important that the employees get proper answers customers from spending money on ordering quantities that are not used. and guidance to their questions and feel that they are listened to when they present their suggestions and ideas. In other words, each employee should feel important and FSC CERTIFIED NOTEBOOKS FROM CHINA valued. To make sure that our paper productions are as responsible as possible, we have made an internal policy only to purchase notebooks from FSC certified factories in We believe that employees that are healthy and satisfied, have fewer sick days and China. By using FSC certified paper we are assured that the harvested trees are replaced or allowed to regenerate naturally. Metz is approved as a distributor of FSC® are more productive on the job. Not only does this the investment in our employees certified products and have a trademark license: FSC-N001788 have cost benefits for Metz, but also for the individual. This is not something we only practice in Metz but also something that we promote to our business partners. REDUCTION OF PLASTICBAG PRODUCTIONS Therefore, we will keep focusing on promoting the benefits of having a good and Plastics is a huge environmental problem and impacts the oceans and marine life. healthy working environment, what it can do for the company by giving the workers We want to make our contribution to keep the oceans safe and clean and reduce the the right tasks, challenge their individual areas of expertise, but also the benefits number of plastic bags ending up in the water. Therefore, we promote the use that comes from a good team spirit in the workplace. of reusable shopping bags instead of plastic bags to our customers. As a result, we have decreased our production of plastic bags by 67% since 2016. ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS IN OUR SHOWROOM This year we have dedicated a part of our showroom to display environmentally friendly products. Like, re-cycled pens, re-cycled and FSC notebooks, umbrellas, shopping bags, mugs, drinking bottles etc. We hope that this will contribuate to more sustainable product purchases. IT IS THE SMALL THINGS THAT CAN HELP MAKE A DIFFERENCE Through the years we have reduced our water waste, battery waste, food waste and reduced our CO2 emission by moving our warehouse location. 12 OUR EMPLOYEES STATEMENTS FROM A DIFFERENCE TO BE REMEMBERED BY OUR EMPLOYEES Our payoff: “A difference to be remembered by” reflects not only on the promotional items that we sell to our clients. But it also reflects the culture within Metz and is the center of our daily work in the organization in relation to the service we provide to our customers, what we can do to help others and how we treat our colleagues. MUTUAL RESPECT OUR EMPLOYEES ROLE IN THE SUCCESS POSITIVE, GOOD AND DYNAMIC WORK ENVIRONMENT At Metz, we acknowledge that each employee plays a vital role in the success of the INSPIRING company. We continuously focus on the elements that advances their commitment, TEAM SPIRIT job satisfaction and their wellbeing at work. We do this by having annual one-on-one development interviews, by offering a private health insurance for our employees and CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH their children, by fostering a good team spirit (e.g. by frequently organizing social HIGH JOB SATISFACTION events) and by giving the employees access to fitness, spinning, yoga, healthy lunch programs, free fruit etc. GREAT, DEDICATED AND WONDERFUL COLLEAGUES FREEDOM WITH RESPONSIBILITY CULTUR COMMITTEE As Metz grows and more new colleagues arrives we have in 2018 founded a social OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT steering group called ”Metz cultur committee”. The purpose is to build relationships ROOM FOR ALL PERSONALITIES across the different departments by gathering colleagues for social events (like; social MANY CHALLEGING AND DIFFERENT CASES walks, petangue competition, dinners, theaters etc.). It has been well received and the project will therefore continue in 2019. TWO DAYS ARE NEVER THE SAME GOOD AND VALUABLE LEADERS GENDER EQUALITY Equality is an essential part of the Metz cultur. We believe that gender equality in our FUN PROJECTS employment staff and management team together with a supporting and communicaFANTASTIC STRONG TEAM SPIRIT tive management style delivers innovative results for our company. ADAPTABLE A FUN PLACE TO BE METZ EMPLOYEES INNOVATIVE BY OCTOBER MALE FEMALE TOTAL 2018 AMBITIOUS EMPLOYEES 16 31 47 MANAGEMENT 3 4 7 TEAM METZ IS LIKE ONE BIG FAMILY 13 APPENDIX: METZ CSR POLICY Metz wishes to be a responsible and trustworthy business partner as a supplier of promotional products and corporate gifts to Denmark’s largest companies. Metz does not have any in-house production, but acts as a trend spotter and purchaser for our customers. By delivering the right products, by providing high quality service, and by creating a transparent valuechain, we want to support a successful business for our customers. Metz was founded upon these values and principles. We created our CSR policy with the goal of making a positive difference. Responsible supply chain management and the collaboration with our suppliers are the areas in which we have our biggest CSR impact, and where we can make the biggest difference in relation to advancing responsible business practices. The framework for, and backbone of, our CSR strategy and activities are based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact that we joined in November 2013. By building on the UN Global Compact principles, we will work towards a more responsible supply chain. We do this by proactively influencing and collaborating with our suppliers in order to comply with internationally recognized principles for Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 14
