COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Christensen & Co. Architects 2018 Communication on Progress 2018 Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. Architects. To us, sustainability is about creating beautiful architecture with progressive, innovative energy solutions that ensure long-lasting quality of life for people and the environment. This means that our buildings, both in terms of their aesthetics, social ambition, materials, and technology are made to last. We believe good architecture makes a difference, and that architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness can create buildings that actively change people’s lives. We continue to use our screening tool, mapping all stages of new projects. From the early stages of setting the team to the evaluation of the suppliers. We screen potential collaborators in order to ensure Human rights, Labour rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption standards are upheld. Our continued focus on the global compact principles we are an active part of the CSR charter for the Danish Building Industy. As a new strategic focus we are working on implementing the SDG framework into our projects and create new partnerships based on the framework. As a first step we are mapping our existing projects within the framework. This exercise is intended as both a tool for mobilizing internal comprehension of the SDG framework and an analysis that will feed into our defining our priorities going forward. Copenhagen, 2018 Michael Christensen Creative Director and founder Christensen & Co. Architects. 1 Communication on Progress 2018 Practical Actions 2017 Response to the four issue areas of the Global Compact 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved We continue our corporate social responsibility as a part of our risk analyses screening tools, on our projects. Monitoring compliance with the principles of the Responsible Construction charter. 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility We conduct screening of collaborators and throughout our supply chain. Thus enabling us to offer client advice on how suppliers perform according to international CSR guidelines. 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders We have a close collaboration with all relevant parties and labour organisations. We have a constant dialogue with Danish building industry organisations, networks, The Danish Association for Responsible Construction, as well as playing an active part in CSR events and conferences. We continue implementation of CSR optimizing models and the systematic involvement of users on our projects. 4. We work for sustainable solutions Sustainability is an integrated part of our architectural design. We consider sustainability and energy optimization equal to a building´s architectonic and functional discourse. We strive to use sustainable principles in all parts of our building projects. I.e. by the incorporation of international standards and certifications, such as DGNB, LEAD. 5. We have sound employment and working conditions At Christensen & Co. we hire architects and construction designers according to the Danish law of engagement. We acknowledge and respect the law on workers right regarding salary and work hours and the general right to have a good work/life balance. We choose collaborators who practice the same principles. 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices At Christensen & Co. we do not engage in any form of practice which in any way compromise our basic principles of social responsible and professional practice. We take steps to inform and seek dialogue with clients, collaborators and supplier should we find conflicts of interest. 2 Communication on Progress 2018 Hafnia Sports Hall created in close collaboration between the municipality of Copenhagen, the users of Hafnia Sports Hall, Rambøll engineers, CC contractors and Christensen & Co. Architects. Client: Copenhagen Municipality Area: 10.000 m² Year: Opening April 2017 3 Communication on Progress 2018 Measurement of outcome During 2017 we have worked on both projects and offices activities that supports the ten principles of Global Compact. In this report we highlight our transformation of the sportshall Hafnia-hallen, which showcase how we work to ensure high quality architecture that creates both social, economic and environmental sustainability. In terms of internal initiatives we highlight our strategic focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Hafnia Sports Hal On Christmas 2010, parts of roof the former Club Denmark Sports Hall in Valby collapsed as a result of an unusual amount of snow. Over the years, the sports hall fell into increasing stages of decay, until finally the Municipality of Copenhagen decided to purchase the hall and renovate it. Under the original glue laminated wooden beams the interior of the hall is transformed into a multifunctional sports universe with small and large football pitches, beach volley courts, handball and badminton courts, fitness area and a climbing wall for school, leisure and elite sport. Heated, semi-heated and unheated areas are organised around the hall’s clubhouse, which functions as the hall’s social epicenter, hosting a café, staff facilities and changing rooms. At both ends of the hall, spaces for activities are placed three storeys high, with views of the hall and the outside area through large panoramic windows. Along the hall’s edge, the original running track has been preserved for crossfit, parkour, table tennis, running etc. Sustainable Development Goals We have work in close collaboration with client, users, engineers, and contractor to create an architectural project, providing the ideal framework for physical activity in a learning environment for people across interests, ages, sex, culture etc. The hall’s energy consumption is minimized by using active and passive solutions where daylight plays a major role in creating a high quality of the experienced indoor climate. By integrating aesthetics and technical solutions seamlessly into the architecture we address the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: Goal 3 “Good Health and Well-being” By reducing energy consumption, the project helps to reduce polution of air, water and soil, and thereby reducing related health problems. Goal 4 “Quality Education” The project helps to promote educating about a lifestyle where body culture and physical activity become an integral part of shaping identity. The visual connection between facilities creates synergy across user groups, creating the foundation for appreciation of cultural diversity and socially sustainable development. Goal 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” Use of geothermal heating and cooling as well as the hall’s division into climate zones, where heated areas provide heat to semi-heated areas, which in turn provide heat to unheated areas, increases the level of sustainable energy in the global energy supply . Goal 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production” Contributing energy solutions in the hall to responsible energy consumption and production e.g. goal 7. The high degree of daylight also contributes to reducing the need for electrical light. Goal 17 “Partnerships for the Goals” the project is created in close cooperation between the municipality, advisors, users and main contractor, ie between the public sector, private sector and civil society. The result is a high-level project, where sectoral dialogue has created innovative solutions, realized through a wide range of experiences. 4 Communication on Progress 2018 Hafnia Sports Hall has become a multifunctional sports universe with facilities for school, leisure and elite sport. By integrating aesthetics and technical solutions seamlessly into the architecture we have addressed Sustainable Development Goals. 5 Communication on Progress 2018 Measurement of outcome During 2017 we have worked on both projects and offices activities that supports the ten principles of Global Compact. In this report we highlight our transformation of the sportshall Hafnia-hallen, which showcase how we work to ensure high quality architecture that creates both social, economic and environmental sustainability. In terms of internal activities we highlight our strategic focus on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Internal Activites We have started a policy process including a mapping of how our projects suppor the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The aim of the mapping is to analyze, which goals we naturally contribute towards achieving. The analysis will result in a short briefing document, intended both as a communication tool for future partners and as a learning tool, creating increased internal awareness of how our work as architects relates to the Sustainable Development Goals. Next fase, which is still running, focuses on defining future priorities, which should be in line with our core strategic focus, this includes defining targets for our activities. Our ambition for 2018 is • Actively participating in Global Compact Network Denmark, especially the working group on how to work hands-on with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. • Producing a document, which clearly communicates, which Sustainable Development Goals our architecture supports, including short and clear information about which of the 169 targets has been address in a project. • Further strengthening the focus on sustainable development through active participation in professional networks such Arkitektforeningen and Danish Association of Architects. • Use FAIR Demark to recycle our computer hardware. FAIR bridges the digital divide by providing children in Malawi with hardware. • Activating our partnership with Verdens Bedste Nyheder to communicate about how architecture can contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. • Supporting relevant independent media on architecture. • Change our coffee supplier from regular production to an organically grow product. 6 Communication on Progress 2018 7
