United Nations Global Compact 2017 Communication on Progress. Contents. 01. General Information 3 02. Human Rights Principles 4 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4 2.2 Implementation 4 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 5 03. Labour Principles 6 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 6 3.2 Implementation 6 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 7 04. Environmental Principles 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 8 4.2 Implementation 8 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 05. Anti-Corruption Principles 9 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 9 5.2 Implementation 9 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 2 General Information. 01. 12 February 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm ME reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our 2017 Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Jamie McPhee Chief Executive Officer UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 3 Human Rights Principles. 02. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals. Diversity and inclusion. ME has developed a formal commitment to diversity ME is committed to upholding the Universal and inclusion. This commitment defines what Declaration of Human Rights and all other diversity and inclusion mean at ME and explains international standards relating to the protection why diversity and inclusion are important to us. of these rights. In addition to the measures in This is overseen by the Board, who are committed to place to protect the human rights of our people promoting gender diversity across the organisation. relating to labour (see Labour Rights section of this document), ME abides by all legislation relating In FY16, employee focus groups met via an to human rights protection in Australia, where ME externally facilitated process to highlight a range conducts all of its business. ME is also committed of issues and opportunities for the bank to tackle. to ensuring it partners with suppliers which Further development of more formal initiatives demonstrate a considered approach to economic, and activities arising from this work have been social and environmental responsibility. determined, as the bank works to develop a detailed and robust diversity and inclusion strategy. While there are gender diversity actions in the bank’s plan, it is adopting a broader view to address inclusion. 2.2 Implementation. In the meantime, ME continues to promote and support a range of business and employee-initiated United Nations Principle for Responsible Investment. activities which promote and support diversity and ME is a signatory to the United Nations Principles inclusion in its workplaces. The activities in recent for Responsible Investment. As a professional years which foster diversity have included: services partner signatory, ME acknowledges the • Sponsorship and support of industry groups and relevance of environmental, social and governance forums such as Women in Super, Women in Risk issues within the investment sector, including the and Women in DiversITy, all designed to promote protection of human rights. Our participation in and develop the career opportunities for women this initiative represents a commitment to providing in these professions and promoting services which support the implementation of the principles by those • ME-branded presence at Melbourne’s within our business network, primarily our Midsumma festival to celebrate and support the industry superannuation funds shareholders. lesbian, gay bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community Dignity at Work Policy. • Engagement with an external agency to look Our Dignity at Work Policy outlines our at developing and promoting opportunities for commitment to providing all employees with mothers returning to the workforce the opportunity to pursue excellence in their • Workplace celebrations which recognise cultural workplace endeavours in a caring, healthy and and religious celebrations from some of the safe environment. Discrimination, harassment, various communities that make up ME’s workforce, vilification, bullying and workplace violence are not such as the company-wide celebration of the an acceptable part of the work culture at ME. Hindu festival Diwali which takes place every year. All ME employees are trained in our Dignity In FY18, ME is looking to launch a bank-wide at Work Policy. This training module must be ME Women’s Group. completed annually. Our complaints resolution procedure outlines employee options for addressing unacceptable behaviour, including discrimination, harassment and bullying. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 4 Supply chain. ME works closely with a wide range of suppliers in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility. When sourcing new suppliers, ME regularly assesses performance across a range of corporate responsibility indicators. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes. During the reporting period, ME has complied with all its obligations under the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. It has also complied with all Australian legislation relating to human rights protection. ME strongly supports diversity and inclusion in our workforce and recognises the rights of our LGBTI employees to live and work free of prejudice and discrimination, with all the essential freedoms enjoyed by other members of ME and the broader community. As such, in FY18, ME supported the push for marriage equality, which has since passed into law. The bank hosted its own YESFest – a week-long festival which featured the sale of limited edition ME-branded YES t-shirts as well as a lunch-andlearn-style event where LGBTI leaders from both within and outside the bank shared personal stories. The week culminated in rainbow colours being projected on to the outside of the ME building over a weekend in October. Between the fundraising activities of ME employees and the bank, ME was able to donate $10,000 to advocacy groups Australian Marriage Equality and Stand Up Events. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 5 Labour Principles. 03. 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals. ME also continues to actively listen to the needs of its employees through the annual howÜdoin? employee ME is committed to upholding the principles of engagement survey. the International Labour Organization (ILO) core instruments in all our operations. As a wholly AustralianWork, Health and Safety Policy. owned and operated company, ME complies with Australian laws and regulations relating to labour rights. ME is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for its employees, contractors and ME was the first Australian banking organisation visitors. The bank’s active consultation with employees to enter into a formal partnership with a union through the Health and Safety Committee as well as to work collaboratively to solve business issues. its network of health and safety representatives across ME’s partnership with the Finance Sector Union its workplaces aim to ensure that workplace issues can (FSU), forged in 2011, recognises that management, be readily raised and addressed, with its processes employees and the union have a mutual interest in the ensuring early incident reporting. Keep ME Safe, the ongoing success of the business and use collaboration bank’s occupational health and safety management as an important means of achieving our business system, supports the timely identification and objectives while improving employee satisfaction and management of preventable health and safety risks, engagement. The partnership is a more sophisticated and addresses issues across the organisation. way to engage on business issues such as change, modernisation, productivity, and employment terms In FY17, ME rolled out a range of health and wellbeing and conditions. It hinges on a shared understanding activities under its ‘Happy.Healthy.ME’ program, of, and working towards, agreed business objectives. designed to encourage preventative and proactive management of health and wellbeing in the bank’s ME’s Workplace Agreement contains a range of workplaces. The bank also continues to work towards facilitative provisions – including recognition of the implementing strategies that reduce the return to work role of union delegates as critical to building union (RTW) timeframe after an employee has sustained an capability. ME provides financial assistance towards occupational injury. an FSU membership or a professional association fee. Employees receive a contribution to a professional Employee Assistance Program. membership to receive ongoing professional development, a contribution to an FSU membership ME offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for support or training purposes, or a contribution to support employees in dealing with issues at home to an association useful for the development of or work. The EAP is a professional and confidential working relationships. counselling service provided to employees on a voluntary basis to assist them in managing the demands of their job, personal issues, and to increase their overall wellbeing. 3.2 Implementation. Performance Management, Dignity at Work Remuneration and Recognition Policy. and Misconduct Policies. ME aims to provide recognition and rewards which attract, ME’s Performance Management, Dignity at Work motivate and retain employees to achieve its purpose and and Misconduct Policies detail the procedures to be overall objectives within its risk framework. ME uses a range followed in the event of poor performance or behaviour of different remuneration elements to effectively reward by an employee. These policies support ME’s cultural employees. Any variable pay and performance-based aspirations to be a values-based, high performing components of remuneration are designed to encourage organisation. ME’s approach to managing performance behaviour that supports our long-term financial soundness or misconduct is to provide a transparent process which and our risk management framework. is consistent with the principles of procedural fairness. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 6 Collective bargaining. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes. ME’s Workplace Agreement covers all ME employees and provides the cornerstone for ME and its employees Workplace profile. to create a workplace culture in accordance with our At the end of June 2017, ME had 1,009 permanent commitments regarding labour rights. employees and 127 contractors. Our 12-month rolling ME worked closely with the FSU in negotiating the average workplace turnover for the year was 14.2%. most recent ME Workplace Agreement, guided by our partnership principles and a shared commitment Work, health and safety. to our business objectives. All ME employees had the A common health and safety benchmark is lost time opportunity to contribute to creating the agreement by injury frequency rate (LTIFR) which measures the submitting ideas and feedback. Following a successful number of lost time injuries per million hours worked. employee vote, the Workplace Agreement was approved ME’s LTIFR in FY17 was 0.66, which compares favourably by the Fair Work Commission effective from 12 January to the industry rate of 0.9 (source: SafeWork Australia). 2018 with a nominal expiry date of 30 June 2020. Diversity metrics. The agreement covers: ME’s gender diversity profile and the number of • employment categories employees utilising parental leave in FY17 are shown • hours of work in the table below. • job grading and remuneration • performance development and reward • leave GENDER DIVERSITY IN FY17* • workers compensation and make-up pay Non-managerial employees • redundancy, redeployment and retrenchment Female 51% • termination of employment Male 49% • workplace diversity and flexibility Business leaders • ME/FSU partnership Female 41% • workplace change Male 59% • dispute resolution Executive (including CEO) • work, health and safety Female 33% • training and development. Male 67% Board (including Chairman) Supply chain. Female 43% When partnering with new suppliers, particularly Male 57% those who conduct activities outside of Australia, ME asks them to demonstrate their approach to a range of corporate responsibility indicators. UTILISATION OF PARENTAL LEAVE IN FY17* Primary carer’s leave Female 31 Male 0 Secondary carer’s leave Female 3 Male 5 * From the 2016-17 public report form submitted by Members Equity Bank Limited to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 7 Environmental Principles. 04. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes ME is committed to upholding the principles of In FY15, ME produced 2,056 tonnes of greenhouse gas environmental stewardship. We understand that (GHG) emissions from its operations, including electricity our environmental impact extends beyond our use in offices, vehicle fleet usage and employee air travel own operations to include the products and services – a decrease of nearly 20% from the previous year. This we provide and procure as well as the investment figure decreased to 1,928 in FY16 and subsequently to decisions we make. 1,894 tonnes of GHG emissions in FY17. In FY17, ME publicly affirmed its position to not The largest source of GHG emissions for ME is electricity invest in fossil fuels, coal mining, coal ports, coal use in its offices, which accounted for 55.8% of the bank’s power, gas power or liquid gas natural plants. total emissions in FY17. In FY17, ME reduced its electricity usage by 59.2 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) ME prefers to partner with suppliers who demonstrate and vehicle fleet usage by 19.3 tonnes CO2-e. a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility. Our expectations of, ME’s overall paper consumption dropped from and how we work with, our suppliers with regard 106 tonnes in FY14 to 22 tonnes in FY15. This sharp to environmental management is outlined in ME’s reduction was due to the completion of a technology Procurement Policy. transformation program which ME undertook to digitise and streamline the processes involved in customer applications and the opening of new customer accounts. 4.2 Implementation. In FY16, ME used 18.2 tonnes of paper and in FY17, 18.8 tonnes of paper. While the bank’s customer Resource reduction. numbers increased by 15% on the prior year, the ME has measured the environmental impact of its increase in paper usage of only 3.3% reflects the bank’s operations – our major impacts are in energy and continued digitisation and streamlining of processes. paper use. We have initiatives underway to reduce ME has already made significant inroads to reduce our consumption in these areas. its paper consumption in FY18. From November 2017, Our head office in Melbourne, where the majority the bank is no longer offering paper application forms of our people are located, has a 5-star ‘Green for its Everyday Transaction Account, Online Savings Star – Office Interiors v1.1’ rating. The building we Account and Term Deposit products on its website, sit in has a 5-star assisted NABERS Energy Rating which is a significant step towards becoming paperless. and a 2.5-star NABERS Water Rating. The bank’s All the paper which ME uses is 100% Australian green star accommodation has provided significant made, certified carbon neutral and accredited by environmental benefits, including reduced electrical the Australian Forestry Standard, a not-for-profit consumption, largely due to improved heating, organisation promoting responsible forestry practices cooling and lighting efficiencies. throughout the entire supply chain. Supply chain. More details about ME’s resource use over the past year can be found in its 2017 Annual Review available ME’s Procurement Policy details how the bank is at www.mebank.com.au. committed to understanding and managing the social and environmental impacts of its procurement Supply chain. activities. Suppliers are expected to adhere to a Code of Conduct whereby at a minimum they comply with In FY17, ME again requested information on all potential all relevant laws and regulations regarding corporate suppliers’ economic, social and environmental impacts governance and ethics, workplace health and safety, and incorporated this information into its decisionenvironmental management, employment practices, making process when selecting suppliers. We also diversity and risk management. incorporated an assessment of the sustainability and environmental policies and performance of our existing business critical and material suppliers as part of our regular due diligence process. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 8 Anti-Corruption Principles. 05. 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals. The Board. ME’s directors have a duty to not place themselves ME is committed to the protection of its employees in a position which gives rise to a real or substantial and customers and to maintaining the integrity of possibility of conflict of interest or duty in relation to the bank’s operations and reputation. To this end, any matter which is or is likely to be brought before we have policies and systems in place to protect the Board. All directors are required to disclose any against corruption, fraud, crime or serious misconduct actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest within the organisation. prior to their appointment and on an ongoing basis. ME is committed to complying with all relevant Directors are required to keep these disclosures to Australian legislation and codes to prevent corruption. the Board up-to-date through formal standing notices. ME complies with Australia’s Anti-Money Laundering The bank’s conflicts of interest policy and board and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006. disclosure of interests and handling conflicts of ME has a number of policies and procedures to interest procedures set out disclosure obligations and prevent instances of corruption and these are procedures to be followed by directors in the event reviewed and updated every year. of a conflict or potential conflict of interest or duty. Code of Conduct. ME recognises the importance of being an inclusive 5.2 Implementation. employer and the value of a safe, fair and respectful workplace where there is no room for intolerance. Conflicts of Interest Policy. ME is a place where teamwork is valued and diversity The Staff. is celebrated. The bank is committed to embracing The bank’s conflicts of interest policy is responsible diversity and creating an environment where everyone for ensuring the bank’s conflict of interest systems can reach their full potential across the organisation. and controls are appropriately designed and ME has a Code of Conduct which provides an ethical effectively implemented across the bank’s and legal framework for all directors, employees and management and employees. contractors. The Code of Conduct sets out a number As part of managing actual, perceived or potential of overarching principles of ethical behaviour set out conflicts of interest, the conflicts of interest policy also under the following headings: provides guidance for the acceptance, non-acceptance • Integrity and reporting of gifts and benefits by ME employees. • Respect The policy is intended to reduce the actual or perceived risk that the acceptance of a gift or benefit might • Be Your Best influence or appear to influence an employee. • Live Our Values. Specific exclusions to this include the giving of gifts Training about the Code of Conduct is part of the to employees from other employees or management induction process for all new ME employees. It is also to mark occasions – such as birthdays, retirements, a requirement that ME employees complete annual resignations, promotions and where successes are online refresher training about the Code of Conduct. being celebrated – or token branded items such as As a values-based organisation, ME believes in free pens, golf balls or umbrellas. and open communication on even the most difficult This policy forms a part of the ME Risk Management of issues. ME’s values of Love Monday, Have a Framework and is applicable to all ME employees Swing, Ride the Subway, Stay Hungry and Go to the and contractors. Breaches of its requirements will be Moon – which were formulated in FY15 – allow for all subject to appropriate consequence management and employees to feel confident they may, in good faith, outcomes of non-compliance may include disciplinary raise concerns internally. The bank’s Code of Conduct action, up to and including termination. provides a mechanism to enable employees to report actual or suspected misconduct or unlawful activity. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 9 ‘Speak Up’ program. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes. ‘Speak Up’ is ME’s whistleblower program and In FY17, ME complied with both the Anti-Money operates in addition to the Code of Conduct. It Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing Act and supports all ME employees (both current and former), with the suspicious matter reporting requirements of contractors, officers, suppliers, brokers and third the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre. parties to raise concerns of suspected or actual misconduct or unlawful activity with the knowledge In FY17, ME also undertook four internal fraud that retaliation will not be tolerated. investigations which have either resulted in termination of employment or other disciplinary actions. The type of actual or suspected inappropriate conduct include things such as corruption, bribery, abuse of authority, wilful breaching of legislation, questionable accounting or auditing practice, unsafe work practice and health risks, bullying or harassment and wilful breaching of internal policies, among other things. program covers instances where the employee is reluctant to, or it would be inappropriate to, follow a standard notification process or if the person wishes to make the report anonymously. The processes within the policy aim to protect those who speak up by making sure that anyone who reports wrongdoing feels safe doing so, while at the same time, effectively investigating and managing concerns. Fostering a culture of speaking out is important as it gives ME the opportunity to improve processes; protect the interests of customers, employees, shareholders and the general public; and reduce financial loss and reputational damage. Misconduct Policy. The Misconduct Policy gives the bank a framework to guide its decisions, actions and behaviours in relation to misconduct and applies to all ME staff members – including employees, contractors and agency staff. ME expects all employees to meet acceptable standards of behaviour in connection with work at all times. If staff fail to comply with these standards, they may be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of their employment. If they engage in behaviour which is considered serious misconduct, they may be dismissed immediately. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 10 Brought to you by... 215852/0118
