Improving health, enabling better days 2016 Social Impact Report Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2 Table of contents Our approach to Social Impact 3 Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 28 An unwavering commitment to our employees 29 A letter to our stakeholders 4 A dedication to our communities 34 About Teva 5 Creating a culture of responsibility 37 Teva at a glance: 2016 6 A mindset of compliance 38 2016 Social Impact highlights 8 A strong commitment to ethics 40 2016 Social Impact performance summary 12 A continued focus on enhanced transparency 42 Our Social Impact priorities 14 Aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 15 Safeguarding the environment 43 A pledge to advance Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 16 management 44 A unique ability to increase access to affordable medicines 17 A concerted effort to reduce our impact 47 A commitment to getting generics to society’s most vulnerable 18 A holistic approach to addressing patient needs 19 About this report 49 A joint effort to improve healthcare systems 20 Reporting and disclosures 50 Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 22 United Nations Global Compact principles 51 A promising pipeline of novel medicines  23 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 52 A pursuit of better healthcare 25 Data tables and notes 56 A responsibility to ensure medicine safety 26 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report 3 Our approach to Social Impact OUR PURPOSE & VALUES ther toge one Our mission is to improve the health and well-being of people across the globe, at every stage of life. Rooted in it d where it mat g ivity tin eat ters our purpose and values, we strive to reach millions of people with our medicines and programs every day in a Get Cr oud responsible, sustainable way. s pr ilie am Today, remarkable healthcare advances allow people to live longer and better lives. Medicines transform onceMakin fatal diseases into conditions people live with for years. Technology detects illnesses and vulnerabilities sooner, go enabling us to harness data and focus medicines where they carry the greatest impact. We feel privileged and ur Our Improving f Purpose health, making Lea humbled to have contributed to these advancements over the past 116 years. & Values ding Yet, the science and delivery of care are more complex than ever. Healthcare systems once optimized to treat people feel the way diseases struggle to coordinate an individual’s overall well-being. Increasingly, people suffer from more than better one chronic condition, and too many face barriers to accessing the affordable treatments they need. We are committed to doing our part to address these challenges and demonstrate social value, knowing the way we act— and the way we conduct our business—matters. ng Cari Our responsibility encompasses: Everyone we touch. Everywhere we go. Everything we do. People are our priority—patients, caregivers, family We have a responsibility to communities across In an ever-changing world, we strive to constantly members, healthcare professionals, business partners, the globe. No matter where we are, we treat our evolve and improve, recognizing there is always and our own employees. With the world’s largest environment with respect by acting sustainably. more to learn—even from missteps. We are medicine cabinet and unique specialty medicines, dedicated to acting with integrity and transparency. we make reliable treatments more accessible and affordable and endeavor to change lives for the better, while forging solutions to future health needs. Through these efforts, we believe we can enhance our communities, protect our environment, and ultimately, enable our patients to live better days. To ensure our efforts are aligned with stakeholder expectations, the Corporate Responsibility Committee of Teva’s Board of Directors oversees and guides this approach. A dedicated team reporting to the Group Executive Vice President of Corporate Marketing and Communications furthers the processes required to embed the Social Impact spirit and practices into our culture everywhere we work. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report 4 A letter to our stakeholders From Dr. Yitzhak Peterburg, Teva’s Interim President & CEO Since our founding, Teva has aspired to deliver medicines and health solutions —— Developing therapies for conditions with great need and few options. to people who need them, when they need them the most. As a global We advanced specialty medicines that can change patients’ lives for the better, medicines company, we have a tremendous opportunity to improve lives including those with neurological and movement disorders, asthma, migraine, and make a positive social impact. To realize this potential good, we foster and multiple sclerosis. Pushing our understanding of therapy beyond the a culture of accountability, responsibility, and ethical business practices boundaries of medicine, we also continued to innovate devices, services, and throughout Teva. technologies that make care more personal, convenient, and effective. Over the past year, we faced several challenges, both as an industry and as a company. Yet, the ideals that led to Teva’s founding remain guiding principles This report tells the story of our actions in 2016—and the many ways in which for our organization today. In the current business environment, we make we endeavor to make our world better and healthier. Yet, there is much work every effort to focus on our core strengths and remember the millions of ahead. Our employees and leadership are more dedicated than ever to patients who depend on our medicines and services. Our commitment to improving the lives of the millions of people for whom we make a significant Social Impact allows us to address the needs of our diverse stakeholders, difference through our medicines, services, and solutions. including patients, our employees, physicians, and shareholders—both today and in the long-term. Thank you for your interest. The 2016 Social Impact Report describes how Teva has advanced long-term commitments, while refocusing our work to address new challenges and Dr. Yitzhak Peterburg opportunities. As I reflect on our progress, the following achievements stand out: Interim President & CEO Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. —— Codifying policies to foster transparency and integrity. We instituted policies and guidance to promote ethical, responsible, and transparent business activities everywhere we operate. Efforts included a new Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as guidelines for engaging with patient advocacy organizations, which foster strong relationships, based on trust. —— Fostering talent and diversity of ideas. Responsibility to society flourishes when it is rooted in how we care for those around us. This belief was manifested in one of our major accomplishments last year—welcoming our Actavis Generics colleagues. Our company, which began as a small, local firm 116 years ago, is now a diverse and gender-equal network of employees across the globe, inspired by our shared purpose of enabling better days. —— Increasing access to affordable, high-quality generic medicines. Unfortunately, many individuals around the world are living without access to much-needed therapies. Last year, we launched nearly 1,000 generic medicines, enabling millions of patients to access and afford safe and reliable treatments. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva About Teva 6 Teva at a glance: 2016 Teva is We are headquartered in a leading pharmaceutical company, committed to Israel, where Teva was founded in 1901. increasing access to high-quality healthcare for people across the globe, at every stage of life. Our legacy is We specialize in Our President & CEO is 116 years of making healthcare accessible and affordable, reaching more than 200 million developing, manufacturing, and delivering affordable Dr. Yitzhak Peterburg, who has been serving as Interim patients every day. generic medicines, as well as innovative and specialty President & CEO since February 2017. pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). We have a presence in We are publicly traded on Our future is more than 260 locations, with 84 manufacturing sites and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: TEVA) and 26 R&D facilities. the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE: TEVA). building on our legacy to integrate pharmaceutical products into new healthcare solutions to enable people to live better days. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 7 Production sites – 2016 Key markets —— Canada —— France —— Germany —— Israel —— Italy —— Japan —— Poland —— Russia —— Spain —— Switzerland Pharmaceutical production facilities —— United Kingdom —— United States Raw materials production facilities —— Venezuela Both Key brands CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM ONCOLOGY RESPIRATORY WOMEN’S HEALTH —— COPAXONE® —— BENDEKA® —— ProAir® —— PARAGARD® —— AZILECT® —— TREANDA® —— QVAR® Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 8 2016 Social Impact highlights Access, affordability & collaboration Launched nearly Expanded our 1,000 generics to reach new generic products 100 COUNTRIES Selected by international healthcare organizations and other non-profits to SUPPLY LIFE-SAVING MEDICINES Developed, implemented, REACHING FINALIZED OUR FIRST and operated MORE THAN POLICY to define and 63 patient support programs in 35 countries 300,000 clarify how we engage with patient organizations PATIENTS Became a member of the European Hosted inaugural IMPROVING HEALTH Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and GLOBAL PATIENT ADVOCACY DIALOGUE Associations (EFPIA) and the Pharmaceutical with health organizations from around the world Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 9 2016 Social Impact highlights Novel therapies & innovation Advanced our specialty portfolio with 6 new product approvals 8 new drug submissions 6 late-stage programs 9 new programs in the clinical pipeline Brought a Progressed NOVEL TREATMENTS for chorea associated with NEW TREATMENT OPTION Huntington's disease and for tardive dyskinesia to patients with severe asthma Advanced a Continued supporting ACADEMIC COLLABORATIONS and NEW MEDICINE to treat POST-DOCTORAL and PhD FELLOWSHIPS through our Network chronic and episodic migraine for Neuroscience Excellence Created a NEW MEDICAL SCIENTIFIC UNIT Worked with regulators to REMOVE THE PREGNANCY to proactively monitor the safety of medicines CONTRAINDICATION for COPAXONE® in the European throughout their lifecycles Union (EU) to offer new options for women suffering from relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 10 2016 Social Impact highlights Employees & communities Welcomed 14,000 ACROSS 60 COUNTRIES from our acquisition new team members of Actavis Generics Maintained a genderbalanced workplace, with 47% of our global 49% of managers REDESIGNED Teva’s performance and reward process to strengthen women representing: our high-performing culture workforce Donated medicines Improved employee safety with worth more than 15% reduction in our global recordable injury rate 13% reduction in our global lost days rate $22 MILLION for emergency relief Contributed $48.4 MILLION Surveyed our employees and found that in 28 countries to support patients and communities 83% believe Teva has a positive impact on society and communities Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 11 2016 Social Impact highlights Environment & supply chain Reduced total Decreased Recycled 43% water withdrawal by total waste by 4% 24% of waste Reduced Scope 1 and 2 Reduced ozone-depleting Increased renewable greenhouse gas emissions by substances by energy production by 11% 14% 56% INCREASED OUR WORK WITH DIVERSE U.S. BUSINESSES, including small companies and minority-, women-, and LGBT-owned enterprises Developed our first SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT and made it available to all suppliers Trained or retrained 98% of employees worldwide on our Code of Conduct Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 12 2016 Social Impact performance summary Employees Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Israel # 7,174 6,747 6,774 6,817 6,732 -1% Europe # 18,871 18,987 18,507 19,069 25,247 32% U.S. and Canada # 9,187 8,454 7,671 7,255 10,855 50% Rest of world # 8,606 8,093 8,126 8,142 11,866 46% Employees at year end # 43,838 42,481 41,078 41,283 54,700 33% Employees on permanent contract % 95% 94% 96% 95% 94% -1% Women in management positions % 49% 50% 49% -1% Employee new hires women # 2,212 1,641 2,708 2,497 -8% Employee new hires men # 2,069 1,823 2,440 2,624 8% Employee new hires # 4,281 3,464 5,148 5,121 -1% Employee leavers women # 2,386 2,027 2,456 4,144 69% Employee leavers men # 2,755 2,506 2,832 4,334 53% Employee leavers # 5,141 4,533 5,288 8,478 60% Employee turnover % 12% 11% 13% 15% 21% Safety Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Number of injuries Injuries 440 306 209 212 186 -12% Injury rate per 100 employees Rate 1.25 0.89 0.61 0.55 0.47 -15% Number of lost days due to injury Days 2,428 2,028 1,383 1,976 2,293 16% Lost day rate per 100 employees Rate 0.72 0.52 0.42 0.38 0.33 -13% Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 13 Environment Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Scope 1 Energy consumption TWh 1.86 1.76 1.71 1.64 1.53 -7% Scope 2 Energy consumption TWh 1.31 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.21 -4% Total energy consumption TWh 3.18 3.01 2.97 2.90 2.74 -6% Scope 1 GHG emissions Tons C02e 463,308 438,420 428,744 405,044 392,268 -3% Scope 2 GHG emissions Tons C02e 632,180 613,541 575,015 542,262 455,017 -16% Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Tons C02e 1,095,488 1,051,961 1,003,759 947,306 847,285 -11% Water withdrawal millions m3 8.49 8.34 7.46 8.11 7.75 -4% Water discharge millions m3 5.72 6.04 5.79 6.11 6.96 14% Percent water discharged % 67% 72% 78% 75% 90% 19% Waste to recycling Tons 64,644 101,092 93,708 -7% Waste to landfill Tons 18,972 10,419 15,229 46% Total waste Tons 224,189 288,688 219,144 -24% Percent waste recycled % 29% 35% 43% 22% Energy intensity MWH/employee 69.12 67.03 69.15 67.76 63.72 -6% GHG emissions intensity Tons C02e/ 23.34 23.41 23.34 21.11 19.74 -11% employee Water intensity m3/employee 184.71 185.57 173.42 189.20 180.48 -5% Waste intensity Tons/employee 5.21 6.74 5.10 -24% Notes: See Data tables for detailed notes and methodologies Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 14 Our Social Impact priorities In 2016, we confirmed an updated list of Teva’s ENABLING BETTER DAYS Social Impact priorities—10 areas that represent the most significant impacts of our business and Making medicines affordable the interests of our stakeholders. These areas inform the structure and content of this report. Delivering new and better This list follows years of extensive consultation treatments with both internal and external stakeholders, and revises our material priorities, which were established in 2013. In 2017-2018, we plan to Ensuring our medicines are safe conduct a new materiality assessment, which will include consultation with internal and external Expanding assistance for patients stakeholders through a structured process. Collaborating to improve healthcare systems DOING BUSINESS ETHICALLY AND RESPONSIBLY Engaging our employees in an empowering workplace Caring for our communities Reducing our impact on the environment Maintaining ethical business standards Strengthening compliance Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About Teva 15 Aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a framework for ending global poverty, fighting inequalities, and tackling climate change by 2030. The 17 Goals and their 169 targets were adopted by 193 Member States in 2015. Teva supports the SDGs and plays an active role in helping to achieve them. Our business particularly furthers Goal 3: ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Below are highlights of our economic, social, and environmental contributions to advancing the SDGs. We advance good health and well-being through our core business of making medicines affordable and developing specialty treatments to address unmet needs. We promote ethical and responsible business behavior, We make significant investments in research and advancing diversity, gender equality, and inclusion development to deliver treatments that address patient throughout our business. In 2016, we provided an attractive needs, while focusing on environmentally-conscious workplace for more than 57,000 individuals and many more production and increasing resource efficiency. through our suppliers of goods and services. We practice environmentally-sound management of We combat the impact of climate change by improving chemicals and waste throughout their lifecycles, engage in our energy and emissions efficiencies, and generating and ethical procurement practices, and publicly report on our purchasing renewable energy. sustainability practices. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing IN FOCUS access, Our promise is simple: enable better days. Making this are accessible and affordable. In our ever-changing promise real for the 200 million people we serve each environment, reducing barriers between patients and day is a central focus of every decision we make, every the treatment they need requires innovative thinking, affordability product we develop, and every therapy we bring to comprehensive approaches, knowledge-sharing, and market—yet, we can only have an impact when medicines collaboration. and IN PROGRESS collaboration Our vast portfolio of generic medicines helps people live their best lives—with increased access to affordable treatments. We look at our patients holistically to —— Collaborated with advocacy groups to provide information and educational resources to patients with conditions such as multiple sclerosis, migraine, understand how their conditions, as well as the asthma, and diabetes medicines that treat those conditions, affect their lives. —— Explored solutions to help patients in emerging In 2016, we expanded our generics reach to 100 countries markets gain remote access to care, improving through our acquisition of Actavis Generics. In addition, we: outcomes and allowing them to receive treatment —— Supplied medicines to international non-profit more quickly organizations for underserved populations IN FUTURE We will make healthcare more affordable to a wider such as e-health and smart devices, to help range of patients, including in emerging markets. In patients track their health and adjust treatments 2017, we plan to launch more than 1,500 generics, and to enhance outcomes. in the long-term, we aspire to offer affordable generics We will succeed when those we serve feel more in for nearly 85% of branded medicines with expiring control of their health and when they can say, more patents. We will explore innovative ways to connect new often, and with confidence, “Today is a better day.” and existing medicines with powerful technologies, 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 17 A unique ability to increase access to affordable medicines As a large generics manufacturer with through the use of generics. Generics nearly 13% of savings generated from a global footprint, we have proven now comprise 89% of prescriptions generics prescriptions in the U.S., and our dedication to making vital dispensed, but only 26% of total boasted similar or higher savings in treatments accessible. We drug costs. Further, patients are three other countries, such as the UK, where consistently introduce affordable, times more likely to collect their we accounted for 22% of savings for high-quality medications, while generic medication prescriptions the healthcare system and patients Generics have saved the tailoring treatments to patient needs. from the pharmacy than brand-name in 2016. U.S. healthcare system medication prescriptions—which translates into additional savings, Teva also originated 26 of 52 First$1.67 TRILLION USD Minimizing the burden as the economic impact of patients Time Generic Drug Approvals over the past decade1 of healthcare with not adhering to prescriptions can reach up to $289 billion USD each posted on the FDA website in 2016, demonstrating our pace of generic medicines year. The U.S. Congressional Budget developing new treatments, and Office estimates that without generics, our commitment to offering more Generic medicines create affordable the country would be burdened affordable medicines. alternatives to treat hundreds with an additional $120 billion USD of medical conditions, allowing in prescription costs each year.1 In 120 BILLION DOSES healthcare systems to better Europe, over the last 10 years, generic Expanding our reach of Teva’s generic products manage budgets, while offering medicines have more than doubled more therapies, coverage, and In 2016, we significantly boosted reach patients in about access to medicine in key therapeutic comprehensive care to patients. 100 markets every year areas with no impact on overall costs.2 our ability to provide generic In the U.S., between 2002 and 2014, Teva filled one of every six generic medicines to more patients with new generics reduced the cost of prescriptions in the U.S. in 2016, the acquisition of Actavis Generics, medicines by 51% to 66% in their first and one of every eight generic formerly a division of Allergan plc. year on the market, and by up to 80% prescriptions in the UK, making us Our newly combined portfolio of after five years. In 2016, U.S. patients instrumental in delivering savings to more than 1,000 molecules reached and taxpayers saved $253 billion USD healthcare systems. We accounted for patients in approximately 100 countries. Teva launched NEARLY 1,000 NEW GENERIC PRODUCTS in 2016 and expects to launch even more in 2017 1 QuintilesIMS Institute, 2017 2 IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, 2015 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 18 A commitment to getting generics to society’s most vulnerable Responding to national quality. In 2017, we will proudly supply about 900,000 capsules for thousands (MDR-TB), which affects as many as half a million people each year. TEVA WORKS WITH drug shortages of transplant patients in Argentina, Our generic is the only affordable ORGANIZATIONS TO Paraguay, and Brazil. alternative to the high-cost original Over the past year, we provided therapy, offering savings of more PROVIDE HIGH-QUALITY medications in times of emergency, than $2,000 per patient each year. TREATMENTS TO PATIENTS either directly, or in partnership Creating a simpler We supply millions of doses to WHO NEED THEM with non-profit humanitarian relief organizations. In one European contraception solution international healthcare organizations MOST, PARTICULARLY IN and will supply thousands more in country, we helped support the In 2016, we started a phase 1 clinical 2017. By providing this medication DEVELOPING COUNTRIES national health service in overcoming trial for an injectable contraceptive to lowand middle-income countries OR CRISIS ZONES, WHERE a shortage of a stomach cancer option that can provide women with in high volumes, we can increase our PEOPLE LACK ACCESS medication, which due to costs, left pregnancy protection for six months— manufacturing capacity, allowing us to TO THE MEDICINE many without a viable treatment. We double the amount of time offered maintain an affordable price and play provided 4,000 units to treat more by current injectable contraceptives. a role in the global fight to eliminate THEY NEED. With just two injections a year, MDR-TB. than 650 patients and offered flexible payment terms. women could benefit from less frequent administration and decrease the burden on medical systems, Supplying medications Bringing rare, reliable facilities, and providers. This project to medication suppliers treatments to Latin is a collaboration with FHI 360, a non-profit human development We are often the preferred supplier America organization, and is supported by the for governments and non-profit Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. organizations because of our broad In Latin America, where many people portfolio of affordable and reliable lack access to affordable care, we generic medicines. Volume sales worked with an international nonPartnering to help enable increased production, which profit organization to supply a generic prevent the spread results in lower costs for patients. We rare immunosuppressant medicine are also a regular supplier for other that improves acceptance of organ of multidrug-resistant major pharmaceutical companies, transplants. This medication requires tuberculosis who use our generics in clinical trials— absolute consistent quality—as even a demonstrating that our generics are slight variation can cost patient lives. Linezolid is a very rare medication not only lower-cost options, but also This organization selected our generic used as a last survival treatment option considered by the industry as equal in medicine based on cost and reliable for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis performance to the original therapies. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 19 A holistic approach to addressing patient needs TEVA’S GUIDING As patients and caregivers become more Patient Organizations is focused on improving the PRINCIPLES knowledgeable and proactive in treatment decisions, welfare of patients, their families, and other caregivers. FOR PATIENT they can provide vital insights on the acceptance ORGANIZATION and use of health-related products and services. Putting patient needs first ENGAGEMENT Engaging patients can improve quality of care, patient satisfaction, and health outcomes, while also reducing through open dialogue ETHICAL CONDUCT medical error and healthcare costs. We work with In May 2016, we hosted the inaugural Improving AND INTEGRITY patient advocacy organizations around the world to advance our understanding of patient needs, amplify Health Global Patient Advocacy Dialogue in TRANSPARENCY the patient voice within our company, and ultimately Amsterdam, where patient advocacy organization MUTUAL BENEFIT support patients who require specific solutions and representatives from around the world convened. assistance. More than ever, we value our relationships Working collaboratively with the patient advocacy INDEPENDENCE with these organizations and our shared commitment community, we identified common goals for COMPLIANCE to helping patients and caregivers on their journeys to supporting patients and those who care for them, improved health and better lives. NON-PROMOTION as well as opportunities for patients and their families to have a greater voice in developing treatments and Establishing a stricter co-creating solutions to cost and access barriers. A framework for engaging patient second meeting will be held in 2017 to discuss our proposed Patient Organization Engagement Policy organizations and receive valuable feedback. In 2016, we developed our first-ever global Patient Teva patient support Organization Engagement Policy, based on positive Promoting behavior change programs — 2016 past practice and aligned with our Code of Conduct. The Policy, which will be finalized in 2017, will define through patient support and clarify how we engage with patient organizations, grounded in putting patients first, without an programs 63 programs expectation of commercial benefit to our company. We develop, implement, and operate patient support As the breadth and influence of our engagement with programs worldwide that deliver high-impact patient organizations grows, it is important to frame our activity in a formal policy that makes our approach personalized services. These programs play a critical 35 countries clear to stakeholders and sets guidelines for our role in empowering patients and improving health activities. In addition to defining the nature of Teva’s outcomes by encouraging adherence to prescribed support and the principles that govern all interactions, medications and treatment plans, and achieving more 300,000+ patients the Policy will clearly underscore that our support for consistent results through positive behavior change. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 20 A joint effort to improve healthcare systems Improving the world’s health requires collaboration and knowledge-sharing so that effective solutions developed in one setting can be applied to We need changes that will require the cooperation challenges at national, regional, and global levels. of everyone—from policymakers to patients, healthcare INNOVATIVE MEDICINES providers, payers, and industry. The Value Added Medicines INITIATIVE (IMI) Progressing value group is currently engaging with different stakeholders, as is the largest public-private partnership in the world that aims added medicines it will require that each of us look at the challenges with to improve health by speeding up healthcare delivery, taking into account the whole of the the development of, and patient In 2016, we chaired the newly-formed access to, innovative medicines. “Value Added Medicines” group of patient’s journey, not just the parts each of us affect.” Medicines for Europe, comprised of 12 leading pharmaceutical Christoph Stoller, Chair, Value Added Medicines Group, Medicines for Europe, SVP Generics majoring in health economics or companies. Knowing up to 40% of and Commercial Operations Europe, Teva a related field the opportunity to healthcare spending is ineffective, intern at Teva, as well as participate the group focuses on reinventing, America (PhRMA) and formally We are also partnering with other in scientific healthcare symposiums rethinking, and optimizing existing became a member of the European large pharmaceutical companies and research projects. The scientific medicines to improve the delivery Federation of Pharmaceutical to develop two additional IMI strategy collaboration aims to develop of care. This is critical, as while Industries and Associations (EFPIA). consortia on neurodegenerative most existing treatments deliver future leaders in health policy, allowing diseases and tracking responses on their promises, some may need Through EFPIA’s representation in students to gain hands-on experience to medication during pregnancy. to be adapted to match specific the Innovative Medicines Initiative Our participation gives us access in health economics and health patient needs. To raise awareness (IMI), we are participating in IMI to new target identification tools, outcomes research. and gain support for this effort, the working groups exploring big data biomarkers, clinical trial infrastructure, group presented its recommended in health. We are also engaged and pharmacovigilance activities approach, which brings together with two consortia to advance that improve patient outcomes and Collaborating to the development of personalized policymakers, payers, patients, and healthcare professionals, to the medicine approaches to autism advance all stages of our work—from discovery to clinical development to explore disruptive European Parliament. spectrum disorders and acute or post-marketing activities. healthcare models chronic pain. These consortia provide a platform to contribute our research Together with Friends of Europe, a Partnering to extend and resources to a collaboration Developing future leading think tank, Teva participated in our research with other corporate and academic healthcare leaders three high-level roundtable discussions partners, which can help advance examining disruptive models for In 2016, we joined the Pharmaceutical new approaches to improving health In 2016, Teva partnered with Fudan overhauling and improving healthcare Research and Manufacturers of for patients with these conditions. University in China to offer students systems across Europe. The discussions Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Advancing access, affordability and collaboration 21 sought to illustrate how healthcare structures must adapt to keep pace Fighting antimicrobial Engaging to support Uniting for better health with diagnostic and clinical advances resistance ALS research in the United Kingdom and leverage digital health. They also assessed regulatory changes and Our society is facing a global public ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative Generic medicines save the UK’s the need for new business models. health crisis in which people are disorder affecting about 450,000 National Health Service (NHS) more With our support, three papers were developing resistance to known people worldwide. The ALS Biomarker than $18 billion USD per year. As the published following the discussions antibiotics and the pace of antibiotic Initiative, led by the non-profit UK’s largest generics company, our to provide an analysis of new policy development is slowing. About organization Target ALS, brings generic medicines account for more directions and solutions that could 700,000 deaths are attributed to together various players in the than $4 billion USD of these savings, transform both patient health and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) each healthcare sector to guide clinical about 22% of the total. We are involved healthcare economics. year, and the International Federation studies of potential ALS biomarkers in in several partnerships with NHS of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & up to 400 patients. We assisted with organizations to provide support to Associations estimates that if action is the initial multi-million-dollar design of patients and support the NHS mission not taken, AMR will lead to more than this study to move this groundbreaking to improve and modernize services 10 million annual deaths by 2050. initiative forward. As the only corporate while delivering cost efficiencies. Our During the 2016 World Economic member of the consortium, we also ongoing support led us to become a Forum, Teva engaged in a high-level support the ALS Neural Survival key partner in the 2016 NHS Health and discussion on AMR with peers and Crowdsourcing Challenge, run by Care Innovation Expo in Manchester. leading industry associations. Later in the non-profit organization Sage As the sponsor of the “Digital Health the year, a call-to-action was announced Bionetworks, which crowdsources Zone,” we helped bring together a to address this issue at the global level— support for tools that assess ALS neural range of distinguished thought leaders the Declaration by the Pharmaceutical, model imaging to help predict disease in digital and mobile health, as well as Biotechnology and Diagnostics pathology. our own experts, to share information Industries on Combating Antimicrobial with 5,000 delegates on innovation and Resistance—which had 100 signatories opportunities in digital health. by January 2017, including Teva. An ambitious vision for our patients We strive to help solve the health challenges of a changing world, putting patients at the center of our work. This means fully understanding the care they need now and anticipating their needs in the future. It requires developing solutions that transform care—and helping to ensure those solutions are within reach. It involves forming partnerships to help us have an even greater impact. The result of these efforts will exceed better health. Being healthier gives people options, control of their lives, time with loved one, and achieves our ultimate goal of enabling patients to live better days. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 22 Pioneering IN FOCUS novel Goal three of the United Nations Sustainable in recent years, the global mortality rate for children Development Goals lays out a bold objective: ensure under five was 43 per 1000 live births in 2015—totaling healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 5.9 million deaths. therapies, —— Estimates from 2012 attribute about 38 million deaths The mandate is clear, though the challenge is great. Healthcare systems already strained under the heavy per year to non-communicable diseases (NCDs). burden of disease and resource challenges must learn to Cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, and chronic improving care for the multiple health conditions of a growing and respiratory disease accounted for more than 75% of aging population. Despite innovations and improvements, deaths among individuals younger than 70. there is a growing need to address these issues: lives Statistics like these that illustrate that advancing global —— Infectious diseases, including HIV, tuberculosis, and health is a critical priority for sustainable development. malaria, are still threats to billions of people. Nearly Investments in research and healthcare infrastructure are half of the world’s population is at risk of contracting needed. Our dedication to increasing access to highmalaria. quality healthcare and developing specialty medicines —— Child mortality is an important measure of global makes us uniquely qualified to work collaboratively health. While there has been significant improvement toward achieving well-being for all. IN PROGRESS In addition to developing the world’s largest portfolio —— New ways of accessing and delivering care across of generic medicines, we focus on discovering and already stressed healthcare systems developing innovative new therapies that can change patients’ lives for the better. Beyond this, we recognize —— Advances in patient education and support therapies alone are not enough—a sensible, holistic solution In 2016, we sought to make a difference in each of these must encompass: areas. We invested in new strategies and technologies for medicine delivery. We also increased the number, types, —— Effective, targeted methods of delivering medicines and delivery options for our treatments and improved the into the body safety profile of certain medicines. —— An understanding of how medicines affect, and are affected by, genetic factors, lifestyles, and other medicines taken at the same time IN FUTURE We will continue to develop, personalize, and improve 16 programs in phase 2 through submission, our pipeline therapies for central nervous system, respiratory, is evidence of our commitment. To help make targeted oncology, women’s health, and select local/regional treatments available to more patients, we will also advance therapeutic areas. With 24 phase 1 programs or planned new approaches to healthcare, such as personalized Investigational New Drugs between now and 2019 and medicine, drug repurposing, and mobile health. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 23 A promising pipeline of novel medicines Our discovery programs in The goal of this formulation was to make patients’ lives in support of our treatment for chorea , a disorder 2016 yielded several new easier, allowing them to self-administer three times a week, characterized by involuntary movements and rather than daily. More than 80% of people who rely on this associated with HD. specialty medicines in our core therapeutic areas. Many medicine took advantage of the more convenient, longeracting product in 2016, offering greater flexibility in their —— TD affects about 500,000 people in the U.S. The condition is characterized by repetitive and other medicines advanced daily lives. uncontrollable movements of the tongue, lips, face, along the path to FDA and other parts of the body. In 2015, the U.S. Food submission and approval. and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation for our proposed treatment (deutetrabenazine) and highlighted it as a first-time 6 new product We are very proud to continue to make this therapeutic medicine for this condition, and in 2016, we pursued phase 3 trials in preparation for an FDA approvals important treatment available to patients and New Drug Application. physicians who trust its efficacy, safety, and 8 new drug tolerability.” Dr. Rob Koremans, President and CEO, submissions Global Specialty Medicines, Teva The involuntary movements of HD-associated 6 chorea make every day a major challenge for late stage programs advanced Making strides in movement patients, impacting activities such as eating and disorders getting dressed. This symptom can often lead to 9 new programs in the Patients affected by certain movement disorders have been stigmatization and social isolation. We are very underserved by the lack of effective therapies. This fact proud to be developing the first new treatment clinical pipleline was forefront in our minds as we sought to develop novel treatments for chorea associated with Huntington’s disease in more than 10 years to reduce the severity of Paving the way in (HD) and for tardive dyskinesia (TD). HD-associated chorea and bring some relief to The daily physical and social struggle of people living with those who suffer from it. Our hope is that this multiple sclerosis movement disorders motivated the urgency of our work: treatment will also gain approval for another The new, less-frequently dosed —— HD is a rare, fatal, degenerative brain disorder that movement disorder, TD, often a side effect of formulation of our leading poses a difficult challenge to those attempting to multiple sclerosis treatment was develop treatment. According to the World Health anti-psychotic therapy.” introduced in 2014 and is now Organization, it affects as many seven people per available in more than 50 countries. 100,000 in western countries. In 2016, the FDA Michael Hayden, MD, PhD, President of Global R&D and Chief Scientific accepted our resubmitted New Drug Application Officer, Teva Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 24 Making a difference As part of our efforts to improve the health of people living with asthma, We are advancing a new medicine, fremanezumab, which has the end of 2016, scientists supported by NNE had published 59 peer-reviewed for those with we look beyond medicine. For potential to treat chronic and episodic scientific papers in leading medical migraine. Phase 2 trials to date have severe asthma example, we have partnered with the shown fremanezumab significantly journals. UK National Health Service to offer In addition, we identified ways to The March 2016 FDA approval of pilot asthma programs and invested reduces monthly migraine days after integrate NNE research into our CINQAIR® (reslizumab) Injection in technology that collects meaningful just one administration. We have everyday work. In 2016 alone, was the culmination of years of data every time an asthma patient uses started phase 3 trials to confirm these we initiated collaborations with hard work to bring a new treatment findings, and early results represent their inhaler. The data produced helps six NNE grantee researchers in meaningful hope for patients suffering option to patients with a form of advise both patients and physicians neurodegenerative diseases, chronic from debilitating headaches—hope for severe asthma that is uncontrolled by on medication usage and adherence, pain, and Huntington’s disease. the kind of relief that leads to better other treatments. Following this first leading to deeper understanding and NNE supports the advancement of days. To provide further education approval of CINQAIR® (reslizumab) in better care. What we learned from outstanding science that can lead to and assistance, our online forum, the U.S., we also sought, and received, this pilot also provides greater insight new treatments, while augmenting MoretoMigraine.com, enables patients approval in Europe and Canada. into conditions that move the needle the body of knowledge about many to learn about migraine and seek on patient outcomes and inform our medical conditions in a way that advice. future work. benefits the entire scientific and healthcare community. Nurturing excellence Providing relief for in neuroscience The approval of CINQAIR® NNE THIRD COHORT migraine marks an important Inspired by the challenge of addressing 2016 We are deeply committed to existing and emerging health needs, advancement in the treatment understanding and bringing relief to we fund new research approaches and paradigm for asthma, as 9 academic people suffering migraine headaches. promising researchers. In 2013, we collaborations the therapy has demonstrated With more than one billion people established the National Network of affected worldwide, migraine is the Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE) to significant improvement third most prevalent illness globally foster collaboration between leading universities and teaching hospitals in 2 post-doctoral in multiple measures of and the sixth most disabling illness fellowships in the world. Chronic and episodic Israel, considered global leaders in asthma control.” neuroscience research. We committed migraine—where patients suffer up to $15 million USD over five years to Professor Mario Castro, Washington University multiple headache days each month— School of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary are particularly erosive to quality of life. sustain the NNE and support research 8 PhD fellowships on new therapeutic approaches for and Critical Care Medicine and Lead Investigator, Reslizumab Trial diseases of the brain and mind. By the Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 25 A pursuit of better healthcare Data empowers the development and delivery of new treatments to improve health and lengthen lives. Two key opportunities arising from new technologies and the evolution of available data include personalized medicine and drug repurposing. In the past year, we have examined the molecular profiles of thousands of compounds and built disease models for multiple Making medicines personal neurodegenerative diseases. This has enabled us to match specific The tailoring of treatment to the conditions and characteristics of a patient or drugs with specific diseases. We have leveraged our key partnerships group of patients—personalized medicine—has emerged over the last decade as a branch of healthcare with transformative potential. Merging our expertise in and big data resources to achieve these new insights.” genetic sequencing and analysis with the health records of the second largest health group in Israel, Maccabi Health Services, we are developing a body of knowledge in our primary therapeutic areas, which we expect will lead to Daphna Laifenfeld PhD, Senior Director, Personalized & Predictive Medicine and personalized treatment options for various patient groups. In 2016, we initiated Big Data Analytics, Teva a joint study to identify susceptibility to cluster headaches in about 300 patients. Using anonymized data and genetic profiling, we anticipate this data will help us generate more treatment options for patients. 2016 TEVA TECH Evolving medicines to do more INNOVATIONS: WEARABLE HEALTH-TECH Drug repurposing looks at medicines developed to treat one condition and evaluates their potential to treat an entirely separate condition. A medicine Teva collaborated with Intel to run that has been used in real clinical settings can not only be brought to market trials on a unique wearable device more quickly to address unmet needs, but also has more data affirming and machine learning platform for its safety and tolerability and is more cost effective than developing a Huntington’s disease (HD). novel treatment. The platform will continuously monitor and analyze key symptoms The IBM Watson Health Cloud is a health data platform that helps that impact daily living in an effort organizations derive individualized insights and obtain a more complete to better understand how patients are picture of factors affecting health. In 2016, we expanded our collaboration affected to treatment. This is the first with IBM to include a partnership with IBM Research that can help time such a technology platform has progress personalized medicines and drug repurposing. By combining our been used to help identify ways to therapeutic technologies with IBM’s cognitive computing, we can help patients, address HD. healthcare providers, and payers track treatment to better understand and control chronic conditions. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 26 A responsibility to ensure medicine safety It’s simple: the safety of the more than 200 million patients who use Teva PHARMACOVIGILANCE 105,846 products each day is non-negotiable. PERFORMANCE — 2016 We comply with applicable laws covering the safety of medicines and provide complete and accurate labeling of products, together with clear patient safety adverse events reports information. Our worldwide network of local safety officers, most of whom are physicians or pharmacists, is supported by our high standards of manufacturing and precision quality assurance, pharmacovigilance operations, clinical trial standards, and our ongoing fight against counterfeiting. Our global pharmacovigilance division tirelessly monitors, analyzes, and reports 1,283 periodic reports potential safety risks associated with the use of a Teva product or device, delivering all required reports to health authorities and ensuring our own review and action. In 2016, we created a new Medical Scientific Unit (MSU) to proactively monitor the safety aspects of a medicine throughout its lifecycle, from pre-clinical studies, to the range of post-marketing monitoring and reporting, in which 165 we engage. The MSU is staffed with more than 40 professionals, including 24 Risk Management Plans pharmacists, 9 nurses, veterinarians, a dentist, and a pharmacologist. (RMPs) prepared Our continuous attention to the safety events in the market 132 allows us to investigate all incident reports and draw relevant health hazard conclusions early. During this past year, we have successfully assessments completed migrated Actavis Generics pharmacovigilance procedures and agreements into our systems, ensuring we have a consistent approach throughout the entire organization.” Hedva Voliovitch, SVP, Global Patient Safety & Pharmacovigilance, Teva 90 responses for health safety data from regulatory authorities around the world Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 27 Committing to a high standard of quality Where quality is concerned, we don’t compromise. Through every stage of the development, production, and marketing of our medicines, we continue to fortify our Quality Management System to ensure our patients receive products that comply with the most stringent quality standards. On average, our production facilities are inspected, either by a regulatory agency or a customer, every day of the year. In 2016, we hosted more than 1,000 customer audits and were inspected by 45 regulatory agencies, which conducted 140 regulatory audits at 71 Teva sites. A PROACTIVE APPROACH Our Quality Management System is designed to address any findings, while also proactively TO SAFETY supporting continuous improvement initiatives. Since 2013, quality improvements have enabled us to reduce the rate of product recalls by 11%. When the market reported some patients had negative skin reactions to a migraine patch product in 2016, we informed the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Improving safe treatment during pregnancy (FDA) of the details and began a deep investigation in cooperation with the agency—without delay. As an Women of childbearing age are the most common population diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS). immediate first step, however, we voluntarily suspended As a global leader in MS treatment, we believe women should not have to choose between a safe sales and distribution, and initiated a recall of this pregnancy and a treatment to manage their condition, so we devoted years to studying our leading product from pharmacies to safeguard patients. MS treatment, COPAXONE®, in pregnancy. In 2016, this research resulted in the authorization to remove the pregnancy contraindication from COPAXONE® in Europe, allowing us to offer a proven treatment with a well-established safety and efficacy profile to women suffering from relapsing forms of MS during pregnancy. This is positive news for thousands of women in Europe who hope for better days during pregnancy. An approach to healthcare that starts with care From the discovery of new treatments, to the application of technology and analysis to improve patient health, we are in constant pursuit of better treatments—and better days—for our patients. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Pioneering novel therapies, improving lives 28 Empowering IN FOCUS our employees In 2016, a global team of 57,000 people in more than 80 countries worked together to develop Teva’s new treatments, medicines, services, and products. We recognize the value each team member brings to Teva and strive to prioritize employee well-being and safety, fueling their personal growth and ensuring they feel good and caring about where they work. for our IN PROGRESS communities Our team includes people from many nationalities and backgrounds, and we are proud to promote a culture centered on diversity and respect. Throughout 2016, we developed policies, frameworks, and core human resource processes to help guide our global team across all local offices. We incorporated new businesses, including thousands of colleagues from Actavis Generics—the largest integration Teva has undertaken so far. We are also committed to embracing, enriching, and contributing to the communities in which we live and work. IN FUTURE We continually develop our corporate culture, enabling every individual to contribute to their fullest. We also recognize that our future depends on the growth of the communities in which we operate, and we will continue to dedicate our time, resources, and expertise to help them thrive. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 29 An unwavering commitment to our employees Over the past year, we have had the opportunity to increase the diversity Employees by region Workforce by employment type Connecting – 2016 – 2016 of our workforce, embrace differences performance and consider new insights and approaches. We warmly welcomed Israel and reward our new colleagues and provided Rest of 12% We redesigned Teva’s performance them with the skills and tools needed world 22% and reward process in 2016 to to contribute effectively. strengthen our high-performing Indirect employees culture. The process features four Part-time 4% stages throughout the year in which Welcoming our employees employees and managers engage in Actavis Generics U.S. & Canada Europe 46% 2% an open dialogue to review goals and achievements, identify development colleagues 20% Full-time needs, and recognize successful employees contributions. Outcomes of this In 2015, we announced our most 94% annual process inform the employee significant acquisition yet—Actavis Generics, Allergan plc’s generic reward package, which is reviewed pharmaceuticals business. Merging and procedures for various Teva employees across 46 countries and annually. In 2016, 98% of eligible with an organization of Actavis business functions and Actavis showed they felt welcomed as a result employees* participated in a formal Generics’ scale—with thousands Generics colleagues in equivalent of a successful integration process. performance review. of employees around the world— roles. Progress updates were was a major undertaking. This was communicated to employees in a magnified by Actavis Generics Statement Percent of respondents timely fashion via an open portal and who agreed affiliation as a division of another regular announcements. company, not an independent entity, which required Teva to create an This thorough planning and close I received a warm welcome to Teva 90% infrastructure from scratch. collaboration paid off. By the day We carefully planned the integration of integration, we were able to I feel there has been open communication 83% processes ahead of the transaction seamlessly integrate our business about the integration closure, which followed in August 2016. process and supply medicines across I have the information I need to do my job well 82% We sought to make the transition as the globe. Every Actavis Generics smooth as possible, maintaining clear colleague had working access to I feel the integration is resulting in the best email, technical support, and a help 78% and open communication with current of both companies and new colleagues. desk in case of an issue. Overall, I feel the integration is as smooth An Integration Management A survey of all Actavis Generics 79% as possible Office team synchronized systems colleagues was completed by 4,907 *Eligible employees include those with at least one year seniority, excluding those on a long-term leave of absence. 62% of all employees were eligible in 2016. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 30 Hearing from Questions 2015 results 2016 results our people My job makes a difference in people’s lives 73% 77% Each year, we survey our employees to understand how they are collectively Teva has a positive impact on society and the communities in which it operates 81% 83% engaging with our purpose and Teva is environmentally responsible 81% 84% mission. In 2016, 89% of all employees responded—our highest response rate Teva lives up to high ethical standards 83% 86% yet. The results show we are moving in the right direction. My team understands and appreciates similarities and differences among employees 85% 86% Valuing employee diversity An inclusive workplace grounded in respect and equal opportunity is an empowering workplace. We maintain diversity among our workforce and encourage our employees to be inclusive in their interactions with one another and with patients, communities, and business partners. In the U.S., we continue to enhance our Teva Inclusion Network. The Network comprises eight Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which bring together employees with shared characteristics, interests, and life experiences to foster networking and development. All our ERGs were active throughout the year, hosting inspirational speakers, arranging community meetings, participating in webinars, and more. In Israel, we work with several non-profit organizations TEVA INCLUSION NETWORK who introduce us to job candidates from underserved EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS populations. In 2016, we launched a new initiative to attract researchers from the Arab-Israeli community to our R&D programs, which led to the recruitment of nine ABILITIES (people working with disabilities) ASIAN HERITAGE NETWORK accomplished scientists. In collaboration with a technology training center, our employees also mentor members AFRICAN HERITAGE NETWORK VETS AT TEVA (veterans) of the Ethiopian-Israeli community seeking technology certification, and we recruited eight of those graduates MEN AT TEVA LATINO/HISPANIC HERITAGE NETWORK in 2016. PRIDE NETWORK (supporting the LGBT community) WOMEN AT TEVA Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 31 Supporting professional development The Teva Academy of Medical Excellence is a bespoke online platform Women in management roles — 2014-2016 to support professional development for Teva’s physicians and scientists, allowing them to build core competencies, share best practices, and exceed the standards of good medical governance. The platform contains an onboarding curriculum for new hires, a core curriculum in pharmaceutical 49% 50% 49% medicine, a yearly emerging topic webcast series, and disease area training. Recently accredited by the UK Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine at the Royal College of Physicians, three of the curriculum’s modules allow employees to receive Continuing Professional Development credits. 2014 2015 2016 Advancing gender equality Improving safety performance — 2012-2016 We maintain a gender-equal workplace—47% of our global workforce is women and 49% of managers are women. Of the 11 individuals on our Board of Directors, three (27%) are women, a notable increase since 1.25 2015, when only one woman served on the Board. Ensuring women are represented at all levels of our organization is an ongoing priority. -49% 0.89 0.72 Maintaining a safe workplace 0.61 0.52 0.55 0.47 We believe all people have the right to work in a safe and healthy environment, 0.42 0.38 0.33 and we comply with all applicable safety and health regulations. This often -54% goes beyond the minimum compliance requirements by establishing a culture in which safety is a core value, integrated into everything we do. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Through the implementation of a comprehensive, multi-year safety Recordable injury rate per Lost day rate per improvement plan launched in 2012, we continue to make significant 200,000 hours worked 200,000 hours worked progress toward our long-term aspirational goal of Target Zero: zero incidents, zero injuries, zero releases. We work toward this by: Note: see GRI Content Index for basis of calculations —— Proactively identifying and eliminating hazards —— Continuously improving our safety management systems In 2016, we achieved a 15% reduction in our global recordable injury rate and —— Providing all employees with safety education and training applicable a 13% reduction in our global lost days rate. This is significant progress, which to their role continues a five-year trend of improved safety performance. In 2016, 59% of injuries were due to minor slips, trips, and falls, ergonomic overexertion, —— Upgrading equipment and infrastructure or cuts, scratches, and bruises resulting from contact with a moving object. —— Conducting ongoing auditing and monitoring of safety performance There were no work-related fatalities in Teva’s operations in 2016. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 32 Caring for our employees’ health and well-being Improving health and quality of life is as important for our employees as it is for our patients. We provide practical tools and locally-tailored programs that address the needs and preferences of our employees and help them lead healthier lifestyles. Our U.S. sites have started a “Journey to Well-being” program to encourage and support the physical, financial, and emotional well-being of employees. The program provides employees with information about their health status and risk factors, along with benefits, services, and resources to support healthier behaviors. We offer employees a range of free amenities, such as on-site fitness centers, virtual medical appointments, financial planners, yoga classes, personal training sessions, weight-loss and smoking-cessation programs, and, in many instances, free medications. In Israel, employees and their families enjoy generously-subsidized medical and dental insurance that extends significantly beyond legal requirements for coverage. In 2016, we introduced a new initiative—a health and dental consultant to assist employees with medical health claims and appeals, prior authorizations for medical or dental procedures, and other medical insurance issues. We also adjusted our fitness program to enable more employees to participate at times that suit their worklife priorities. For example, in certain cities, we offer evening running groups for employees who are not able to run in the morning. Our overall well-being strategy is rooted in our corporate purpose: BEST EMPLOYERS improving health, making people feel better. Our holistic approach FOR HEALTHY LIFESTYLES AWARD to well-being is based on the abiding belief that when 2016 our employees feel more energized, focused, and purposeful, they perform better.” Teva USA was among 55 Lesley Billow, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, Teva Americas companies from across the country to be recognized for In 2017, we will offer a personal healthcare coordinator to help all outstanding employee wellness U.S. employees: programs in 2016 by the National Business Group on Health, a non-profit organization arrange follow navigate the based in Washington, D.C. that doctor up with healthcare represents large employers appointments providers system on healthcare issues. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 33 IN 2016, WE HELD OUR FIRST TEVA SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP IN ISRAEL WITH MORE THAN 300 PARTICIPANTS. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 34 A dedication to our communities As the places where we live and work are located in the heart of the Contributing to our communities around the world communities we serve, we support Nearly every Teva department or site contributes to its local community, and many of these efforts are repeated year after our communities by volunteering our year. Below are examples from 2016. time and contributing professional and financial resources. More than 80% of our community giving directly supports healthcare needs. Our SPAIN ISRAEL CHILE corporate giving in 2016 totaled $48.4 million in 28 countries, and our Through its yearOne in five Teva Israel Teva colleagues employees donated tens of thousands long campaign, employees are engaged continue to support of hours to their local communities “Humanizing Health,” in a long-term volunteer Fundación Nuestros through volunteering. Teva Spain identifies patient program. In addition, 2016 marked Hijos, which assists children organizations and public our third annual Teva volunteering with cancer. In 2016, more than healthcare providers that go week, Teva-Tov, in which thousands 80% of employees in Chile (780 Global community support the extra mile to improve patient of employees participate in colleagues) donated a portion of — 2016 lives and well-being. In 2016, hundreds of social programs and their salaries each month, while 11 organizations were selected initiatives, such as outdoor activities many participated in recreational to be recognized on media for disabled children, dance classes and educational activities—such Cash channels and awarded a with the elderly, hospital visits, fruitas science workshops and donations €3,000 EUR grant. and vegetable-picking for families games—with the children. 20% Products lacking nutritious options, and more. donations 39% CZECH REPUBLIC Patient Teva colleagues from assistanceFull-time Opava organized a 41% employees third-annual children’s day for 94% handicapped children from a local elementary school. The event had a Middle Ages theme and featured costumes and fun events. GERMANY Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 35 U.S. CROATIA GERMANY Our community Our employees in In Germany, our programs and Croatia are engaged employees chose to deep community with Love in Action, support and promote engagement in the U.S. a community organization five social programs were recognized in 2016: providing much-needed throughout the year. housing near hospitals for Our Fleet and Transport —— PR News awarded Teva four children and family members Management team supported Corporate Social Responsibility accompanying patients during “Johanniter Santa’s Truckers” (CSR) honorable mentions for long treatment periods. for the fourth year. Employees our Community Partnership donated Christmas food Program, direct relief support, boxes to families in need, and and Teva-Tov—a volunteer week a team of truck drivers joined held for the first time in the U.S. the convoy to transport them in May, in which hundreds of across Europe. employees volunteered their time to help improve patient lives. —— Philadelphia Business Journal awarded Teva a Faces of Philanthropy Award for our Canada partnership with Community Volunteers in Medicine—a Since 2008, Teva volunteer healthcare clinic. Canada has donated funds in support —— The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation of the Teva Canada Survivor named Teva a 2016 Corporate Scholarship Program at Supporter Award honoree. Childhood Cancer Canada. The funds, which are raised through a variety of “Show INDIA You Care” events, raffles, pizza sales, cafeteria collection boxes, Teva employees and payroll deductions, support in India supported scholarships awarded a soil and water to students pursuing postconservation program in a local graduate degrees in the village, which yielded effective advanced health sciences. results, helping farmers save water, and diversify and increase growth of seasonal crops. CHILE GERMANY Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Empowering our employees and caring for our communities 36 Providing medicines in times of need These medical professionals operated a free health clinic to examine residents for Zika-related concerns and treat other health issues demanding medical As a healthcare company, we have a unique capacity to provide the most essential attention. Teva donated medicines to help the doctors meet the needs of assistance when disaster strikes. In many cases, this includes helping patients who Monte Verde in the midst of the crisis. need regular medications. We provide support to communities in times of need, often in partnership with accredited humanitarian relief organizations. In 2016, we —— In May 2016, a massive wildfire in Fort McMurray, Canada displaced 80,000 people from their homes. Teva colleagues in Canada helped those affected supported more than 20 emergency relief efforts. Below are some examples: obtain the medications they needed and liaised with insurers and pharmacies —— In early summer 2016, more than 28,000 cases of Zika were reported in to ensure access to essential medicines. We also held an internal fundraising Honduras. This outbreak triggered panic and stress, exacerbated by the campaign, which raised $18,000 CAD to help those affected. increasing incidence of infection and limited prevention and care information available to the general public. One community severely impacted by the Zika —— In times of natural disasters or armed conflicts, France-based Tulipe acts as crisis was Monte Verde, Honduras, located in a remote area with limited access an interface between health companies and humanitarian organizations to to healthcare. Operation Blessing International deployed a group of doctors provide kits containing health products. In 2016, Teva supplied Tulipe with and medical personnel to Monte Verde to alleviate increasing concerns. medicines valued at $17,000 USD, which were shipped to 24 countries, including Haiti following Hurricane Matthew, 15 African countries, three Medicines provided for emergency relief efforts — 2016 Middle Eastern countries, and four countries in Southeast Asia. (wholesale acquisition costs) $205,700 $20,987,000 Cyclone Winston, Fiji Hurricane Matthew, U.S., Haiti & Dominican Republic $372,000 $55,600 $200,640 Earthquake, Nepal Floods, Paraguay Syrian refugee crisis, Macedonia $71,500 $274,000 Floods, U.S. Tornadoes and storms, U.S. A common goal While every Teva employee is unique, we have a common aspiration: improve health and enable better days for the people we serve each day. To accomplish this, we invest in our own people and support our communities around the world. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 37 Creating a IN FOCUS culture of Lapses in compliance can and do destroy business value. Non-compliance—whether with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, prevention of corruption, financial accounting procedures, safety management, or pharmaceutical manufacturing and marketing—can negatively impact our reputation, profitability, and business continuity, but most responsibility importantly, can harm our patients and stakeholders. Ensuring strong practices and controls supports a culture of responsibility, ethics, and transparency, which fortifies our core business processes and allows us to focus on improving health. IN PROGRESS In 2016, we disseminated global compliance principles throughout our organization and deployed programs to integrate our new Actavis Generics colleagues into our compliance culture. All employees participated in Code of Conduct training and certification or recertification. Internal compliance remains a core initiative, with a focus on prevention of bribery and corruption. We conducted 22 internal compliance audits in 2016 across 18 countries, from Mexico to Slovakia, South Korea to Ecuador, and many more. We invested in the professional development of our internal compliance auditors, and in 2016, five team members obtained advanced external professional certifications. The Corporate Responsibility Committee of Teva’s Board of Directors governs our approach, and Teva’s Global Compliance Officer oversees a team of more than 90 compliance staff worldwide. We also expect our business partners to uphold high ethical standards. In 2016, we published a new Supplier Code of Conduct, while continuing to diversify our supplier base. IN FUTURE Looking forward, we will intensify our internal conversation about compliance to reinforce a culture of responsibility at all levels. We will advance our supplier assessment program using a risk-based approach, increase supplier diversity in the U.S., and consider a global supplier diversity program. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 38 A mindset of compliance We completed a company-wide rollout of Teva’s Global Compliance Core Principles in 2016, Teva’s core compliance principles comprising nine short, memorable statements about business conduct that guide our employees’ behavior. These principles are a foundation for our business initiatives and are integrated into our programs around the world. They encompass our values, shape our actions, and guide how we do business. Additional principles addressing the specific needs of our colleagues in Commercial, Medical, and Research and Development functions will provide clear, dependable compliance guidance for their specific roles. We also crafted a Prevention of Corruption Policy, which will be published in 2017. 3rd We do not buy We do not use We respect Integrating Actavis Generics into our compliance culture business third parties to do privacy what we cannot Throughout 2016, we proactively integrated our new Actavis Generics colleagues into our legally do compliance programs. Upon completion of the acquisition, we initiated a company-wide, intensive program of face-to-face and online training sessions on our Code of Conduct and compliance program. Actavis Generics colleagues were immediately introduced to Teva’s Integrity Hotline and trained in the weeks that followed. Within two months, we completed all initial training, ensuring our entire organization was aligned on these important issues. Thousands of hours were dedicated to Actavis Generics colleagues’ compliance training in 2016. We manufacture We report We avoid or our products adverse events disclose conflicts with quality and and product of interest reliability complaints It’s important to understand that compliance is about much more than just rules, policies, and regulations. Compliance is a mindset. I believe it is our mindset—coupled with our culture—that determines how we behave and operate every day.” We obey our We are accurate We stay true to Lori Queisser, SVP, Global Compliance Officer, Teva Code of Conduct, and transparent Teva’s values applicable laws, in our books and regulations, policies, records and processes Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 39 Ensuring compliance at every level and Initiating a global fraud risk assessment and every location anti-fraud program Teva’s Compliance Audit department within our Global Internal Audit (GIA) We added a new dimension to our compliance efforts in 2016, completing the program assesses our company’s level of compliance around the world. GIA is an first-ever robust fraud risk assessment of our entire organization. This program, independent and objective assurance function intended to ensure controls, policies, created to support our managers and Audit Committee, helps to identify fraud and procedures are properly designed and operating effectively to minimize risks and develop risk mitigation strategies, should potential vulnerabilities be compliance risk. The department is staffed by a highly qualified team of 10 auditors, identified. Of seven high-rated fraud risks identified through this process, our including legal and compliance professionals, and forensic investigators with more senior executive team defined two opportunities to strengthen internal controls than 200 combined years of relevant experience. to elevate Teva’s risk tolerance level. Plans have been established to do this and advance our efforts to protect stakeholders. We prioritize investments in internal compliance audits, devoting nearly $3 million each year to our efforts. In the first quarter of 2016, we conducted a comprehensive compliance risk assessment of our new Actavis Generics operations and established a plan to migrate elements of their programs to Teva’s robust frameworks. GLOBAL INTERNAL COMPLIANCE AUDITS — 2014-2016 68 audits in 8,730 1,072 21 professional 8 years of auditing 16 years 52 countries transactions interviews certifications experience per of pharmaceutical tested conducted for 10 auditors auditor experience per auditor Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 40 A strong commitment to ethics Worldwide, our patients, their caregivers, and of tools to support the confidential reporting of nonthe communities in which they live trust us to compliance, including anonymous reporting. INTEGRITY HOTLINE — 2016 engage in ethical conduct. Since our company The OBI expanded its hotline reporting tools was founded 116 years ago, we have made and distributed hotline posters to all business a commitment to act responsibly, maintain locations added through acquisitions. All integrity, and ensure transparency in every part of our business. colleagues who joined us through acquisitions were trained on all matters relating to the hotline 249 as part of their training on Teva’s Code total reports Reinforcing our of Conduct. Code of Conduct Ensuring ethical conduct in We offer our Code of Conduct in 41 languages to guide our employees around the world. All our supply chain 64 reports 38% new employees receive ethics training when they of these join the company and all employees participate Across the world, our suppliers hold us to the (26%) in a Code of Conduct refresher training every same, high ethical standards as the patients three years. In 2016, 98% of our employees and communities we serve. Our supply chain, were considered were substantiated, worldwide completed in-person or online including Actavis Generics sites and suppliers business integrity issues while six additional Code of Conduct training, reflecting our deep added in 2016, is a complex network containing and shared with our cases are still commitment to ethical business practices. 84 manufacturing sites and thousands of Audit Committee under review. vendors, contractors, and materials and services suppliers. We require our extended supply chain Preserving to operate efficiently from both a financial and business integrity environmental standpoint, as well as uphold OF THE SUBSTANTIATED REPORTS: Teva’s business standards. We encourage our employees, and all those who interact with Teva, to report suspected non-compliance or breaches of our Code of We developed our first Supplier Code of Conduct in 2016 to clearly establish the behavior Teva 7 resulted in a process policy review 1 resulted warning in a formal Conduct via our global Integrity Hotline. The expects of all business partners. The Code draws Hotline provides local language options in countries around the world. Our Office of Business Integrity from Teva’s Code of Conduct and is aligned with the United Nations Global Compact and 2 resulted in a reduction in compensation 13 resulted in termination (OBI), which receives these reports, provides a range Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative principles. 1 was referred to outside counsel Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 41 Maintaining a diverse Joining forces with a supplier base diverse supplier We are committed to developing NCGS Inc., a certified women-owned a network of suppliers that reflects business enterprise in South Carolina, our customer and patient base. Our is a clinical research organization supplier diversity program provides whose business continues to grow with opportunities for certified diverse and our own. NCGS supports our program small businesses to help us improve for advanced cluster headache health across the globe, while treatment development by effectively delivering value to the communities managing complex, parallel clinical we serve. It also reinforces our trials. Its dedicated and experienced commitment to a culture of inclusion staff identified synergies across and aligns with our standards of overlapping sites engaged in similar ethical conduct. trials—an insight that helped us make Since launching our U.S. supplier these costly trials more economical. diversity program in 2015, we For recently completed migraine continue to help our procurement pivotal trials, NCGS exceeded subject team identify diverse suppliers. enrollment targets in numbers We establish annual spending and and timelines for most sites. This PARTNERING FOR supplier inclusion goals, and we have strengthened the reliability of our trials expanded partnerships with several SUPPLIER DIVERSITY and saved development dollars. organizations to advance shared NCGS shares our commitment to goals. In 2016, we increased our work improving the communities in which WBENC Women’s Business Enterprise National Council with diverse and small U.S. businesses they operate, and aligns with our by 90% and 7%, respectively. We will commitment to social responsibility. NMSDC National Minority Supplier Development Council build on our progress in 2017 and NCGS donates 10% of profits roll out an eLearning module to our to charities, supporting at-risk global procurement teams and key NGLCC National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce stakeholder groups. populations, with team members donating time to mentor local USBLN U.S. Business Leadership Network community youth, some of whom are offered internships with the company. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Creating a culture of responsibility 42 A continued focus on enhanced transparency Support from our stakeholders is critical to our success, and key to maintaining this support is embracing transparency in our business dealings. We voluntarily Disclosing patient organization contributions disclose many aspects of our business activity, including through our We adhere to Codes of Conduct of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact since 2010, Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and Medicines for Europe, which provide as well as our voluntary disclosure to the Carbon Disclosure Project. By aspiring standards for relationships between the pharmaceutical industry and patient to high standards of transparency, we aim to foster a greater sense of trust organizations. In line with the Codes, we published our first European Patient with our stakeholders as we work to provide access to affordable products and Organization and Advocacy Disclosure in March 2016, detailing patient group treatments across the globe. activities across 52 countries, including contributions per activity. In 2017, we will further disclose all patient engagement activities across 65 countries. A vision for responsibility Our commitment to compliance, ethical standards, and responsible supply chain practices relies on vigilance and transparency. We strive to conduct our business— and ourselves—in ways that reflect well on the people we employ, the patients we serve, and the communities in which we live. We are dedicated to fostering a culture of responsibility, integrity, and respect as we endeavor to enable people to live better days. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the environment 43 Safeguarding IN FOCUS the Earth is the only home we have—and we know there is an undeniable relationship between healthy people and a healthy planet. The way we treat our environment impacts the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the food we eat. We strive to minimize our impact on the earth, in particular, by reducing our energy footprint. One of the most environment significant human-caused contributors to climate change is the use of fossil fuels for energy. By using fewer fossil fuels through energy efficiency and shifts to renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind, we can help mitigate the earth’s rise in temperature. IN PROGRESS As a global company with 84 manufacturing sites, we hold ourselves accountable for reducing our impact. At a minimum, we observe applicable regulatory requirements for product manufacturing and distribution, but we go beyond that minimum to proactively manage our resources more efficiently. In 2012, we established our global environment, health, and safety (EHS) aspiration—Target Zero: zero injuries, zero incidents, zero releases. Our goal is to reduce our impact through 2020 in four areas: energy, emissions, water, and waste. To realize this aspiration, we established our EHS Management System, which provides a global framework of action through policy, standards, procedures, and performance reporting. We continue to seek further efficiencies across all areas of environmental impact. IN FUTURE Guided by Target Zero, we will continue to be a responsible citizen of our planet, increasing our energy efficiency, producing and procuring renewable energy, minimizing water withdrawal, and identifying new ways to reduce and recycle the waste we generate. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the environment 44 A pledge to advance EHS management We continued to roll out our global EHS Management System in 2016 and completed all EHS operational standards, covering aspects of manufacturing and R&D across all of our operating facilities. Our EHS management system is aligned with international quality standards, such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, and we hold 15 certifications to one or more of these standards at different sites. For other sites, compliance with our EHS management system establishes global industry good practice, which can support future external certification to these standards. Target Zero includes four 2020 targets for absolute performance improvement. Cumulative performance against Target Zero* Targets to 2020 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15% (baseline 2012) -4% -8% -14% -23% Improve energy efficiency by 20% (baseline 2012) -5% -6% -9% -14% Reduce water use at three water-scarce sites by 5% in 2020 (baseline 2014) Achieved at Achieved at — — two sites two sites Increase waste beneficially reused (diverted from landfill) by 10% (baseline 2014) — — +56%** +45% *Excludes Actavis Generics sites. These will be included, and targets updated, in our 2017 report. **Represents cumulative increase in waste diversion compared to 2014. In 2016, cumulative diversion level decreased compared to 2015, but remains much better than target. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the environment 45 Tracking our environmental performance GRI 302-1: Energy within GRI 302-3: Energy consumption by GRI 305-1/GRI 305-2: GHG emissions organization (MWh) employee (MWh/employee) by Scope (tons CO2e) 2,973,940 2,902,996 2,735,252 1,003,759 947,306 847,285 1,714,934 1,640,154 1,527,572 575,015 542,262 455,017 69.15 1,259,006 1,262,842 1,207,680 67.76 63.72 428,744 405,044 392,268 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 1 Total energy consumption Total GHG emissions emissions emissions GRI 305-4: GHG emissions by GRI 306-2: Total waste Recycled/reused employee (tCO2e/employee) by type (tons) waste (tons) 288,688 224,189 219,144 23.34 43% 22.11 182,048 239,200 168,352 35% 29% 19.74 42,141 49,488 50,792 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Total waste Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the environment 46 GRI 305-6: Emissions of ozone depleting Waste disposal substances (ODS) (tons R22) type — 2016 Landfill 7% Incineration 22% Recycling 5.60 including 4.84 43% conversion to energy 2.02 28% 2014 2015 2016 Bio treatment GRI 303-1 + GRI 306-1: Water withdrawal Water withdrawal by employee and discharge (M3/employee) 8.11 7.75 7.46 6.96 6.11 5.79 180.48 173.42 189.20 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Water withdrawal Water discharge in million M3 in million M3 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the Environment 47 A concerted effort to reduce our impact Optimizing energy specially-constructed tunnel, 1,200 meters long and 1 meter in diameter. efficiency in Japan We circulate air from our distribution center through this tunnel to cool and PLAN FOR RENEWABLE One of our sites is a generic medicine return at a constant temperature of ELECTRICITY USE manufacturing facility in Takayama, 16°C (61°F). This geo-cooling approach Japan. In 2016, we embarked on an BY THE END OF 2017 has reduced the use of air conditioning ambitious program to drive energy by an average of 60%, saving significant efficiency throughout the site. We electricity and reducing our carbon replaced heat exchangers, optimized footprint. The new distribution center air compressors, identified and corrected air leakages, and completely opened in May 2016, setting a standard for the environmental design of 100% 30% remodeled the chiller plant to reduce operational facilities in Chile. energy requirements. The plant now saves more than 400 MWh per year. Europe globally Establishing a new Cooling naturally normal: green electricity in Chile We again made great strides in advancing the adoption of renewable At our site in Maipú, Chile, we set out electricity at our European plants—with to construct a new distribution center nearly 50% of all electricity coming to environmental standards. When from renewable electricity by the end considering our options, we observed 100% renewable electricity. Several tons CO2e—enough to power roughly of 2016. In 2017, our goal is to achieve a crucial fact about the local climate: other countries, including Germany 11,500 homes for a full year. 100% renewable electricity at our land temperatures at a depth of 3 legacy European sites. The addition and Croatia, are also operating with meters or more are generally far lower 100% renewable electricity. A facility than average external temperatures. of 32 Actavis Generics sites to our European manufacturing operations in Romania will follow in 2017. Beyond Expanding the use Although use of geothermal energy is has also raised the bar. We now have Europe, our North Tonawanda, New of solar energy common in some parts of the world, it a detailed plan for converting all of York facility became our first U.S. site is not frequently used at Teva because these sites to renewable electricity as to adopt renewable electricity in 2016, As we work on converting our this source of energy is most efficient quickly as possible, upon expiration of with others to follow. Through the use European sites to renewable energy, when included in initial design. We existing contracts. Our first opportunity of purchased renewable energy, our we are also identifying opportunities took advantage of this natural cooling was at Actavis Generics’ Italy site, overall avoidance of greenhouse gas to increase the use of solar energy. effect by circulating air through a which we successfully converted to emissions in 2016 was about 109,000 In Germany, we are planning a Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Safeguarding the environment 48 photovoltaic system on the rooftop waste and converts the output into Zaragoza site this pollution, managing this waste of our distribution center with a biologically-treatable waste. In the past 100% recycled or reused waste more effectively allows us to reduce total annual capacity of 1GWh. This year, we have avoided the incineration ~1,000 tons/year our environmental impact. We play effort, scheduled to begin in 2017, is of 780 tons of waste and considerably an active role in the Inter-Association expected to supply almost 5% of the reduced our disposal costs. Initiative on Pharmaceuticals in the site’s energy requirements on an annual basis. Also, beginning in January 2018, Plastic Environment (IAI PIE), a consortium of our site in Malanpur, India will run 100% Reaching zero waste General waste 19% global companies that are members on purchased solar power. to landfill in Zaragoza 27% of the three European pharmaceutical trade associations—AESGP, EFPIA, and We undertook a focused effort to Medicines for Europe. As part of the IAI Enhancing green eliminate all non-hazardous waste Wood pallets PIE taskforce, we helped develop an chemistry in Israel from landfills at our site in Zaragoza, Spain, which manufactures oral solid 4% Metal Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship strategy to 3% minimize the impact of pharmaceuticals Waste streams of Active Pharmaceutical dose medicines. In 2016, we reviewed all waste streams and set up systems Paper and in the environment, and we have Ingredient (API) production contain carton for separating and compacting paper, implemented this strategy at Teva. Our ethanol-water mixtures. Because it is 47% carton, wood (pallets), plastic, and manufacturing effluents are managed difficult to recover value from these metal, installing new conveyor belts to waste products, they are usually sent for in accordance with good industry transport waste directly to its respective incineration. However, at our Teva-Tech recycling containers and compactors. practice, and we support collective site in the south of Israel, these ethanolCompacting waste reduces the Minimizing the action to research the effects of existing water waste byproducts presented environmental impact—and cost—of products to develop an approach to an opportunity to improve our waste transport to recycling companies. All environmental impact long-term product environmental risk performance. Engaging a crosswaste that cannot be recycled forms a of pharmaceuticals assessment. We are also working with functional team to examine the system, combustible solid that we send to the we devised a unique distillation process other pharmaceutical companies, cement industry as raw material. By the Pharmaceuticals primarily enter the to extract most of the water content end of 2016, we achieved our goal of environment through patient use. While governments, and non-profit and other impurities from the waste zero waste to landfill using a sustainable pharmaceutical manufacturing effluents organizations to advance the IAI PIE mixtures. This process reduces overall new system. are a comparatively minor source of Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship strategy. A healthy planet for healthy people Whether by increasing our use of renewable energy or decreasing our waste, developing new environmental technologies or collaborating to create new standards and policies, we are finding new ways each year to enhance our environmental stewardship. While there is much to do, we are making significant strides toward a world where people everywhere can enjoy healthier, better days. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report About This Report 49 About This report describes our approach to sustainability and responsibility, as well as our key actions in 2016 stakeholders during the past year. We do not seek external assurance for our full report. this report to improve health and maintain ethical practices. As a complex global operation, we conduct internal We report on Social Impact annually, and our last checks of our information and believe our data is communication was published to the United Nations robust. However, our energy and emissions were Global Compact, covering activities in 2015. verified by an independent third party. All performance data included in the report pertain to See our Assurance Statement here. the 2016 calendar year, environmental and safety data apply to Teva’s legacy sites as of early 2016 (excluding Additional information about Teva and our global Actavis Generics sites), and Human Resources data business can be found on our global corporate include Actavis Generics staff who joined Teva during website: www.tevapharm.com. the year. This report is written in accordance Thank you for your interest in this report. Please with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, contact our Social Impact Manager, Yair Matiash core option. GRI is a non-profit, multi-stakeholder with any feedback or suggestions: organization, which works to increase the level yair.matiash@tevapharm.com of business transparency through sustainability reporting. GRI Standards are considered to be the most advanced sustainability reporting framework available today. For more information, please see: www.globalreporting.org. We have adopted the principles for defining report content outlined in the GRI Standards. These include: —— Materiality: the issues most critical to our long-term business growth and of greatest importance to stakeholders —— Stakeholder Inclusiveness: a response to stakeholder expectations and interests —— Sustainability Context: presentation of performance in the context of sustainability issues —— Completeness: inclusion of all information reflecting significant economic impacts, allowing stakeholders to assess our performance This report also fulfills our commitment to submitting an annual Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Our selection of content was driven by our materiality review in 2016, as well as topics and insights gleaned from interactions with 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures Reporting and disclosures 51 United Nations Global Compact principles The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative of the United Nations, which encourages companies around the world to adhere to ten principles of responsible business relating to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Teva has participated in the UNGC since 2010. Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Our Position 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection We conduct business responsibly according to the Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights. highest ethical standards, including respect for human 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Human Rights rights. We are working toward fuller implementation of complicit in human rights abuses. Local Communities these principles throughout our supply network. 3 We respect the rights of employees to freedom of Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Freedom of Association association and collective bargaining. We maintain a and the effective recognition of the right to collective Labor Relations collaborative relationship with employees and address bargaining. issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. 4 We do not engage in any practice that could be Businesses should support the elimination of all forms Forced and Compulsory Labor construed as forced labor. All Teva employees are of forced and compulsory labor. employed lawfully and at their own free will. 5 We respect and support the rights of children and are Businesses should support the effective abolition of Child Labor committed to safeguarding their interests. We do not child labor. employ children in any part of our business. 6 Businesses should support the elimination of We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and inclusive discrimination in respect of employment and Labor Practicies and Decent Work practices for new and current employees in all matters occupation. relating to their employment with Teva. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Environmental to environmental challenges. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote We adopt environmentally-oriented practices in our Environmental greater environmental responsibility. operations and conserve resources wherever possible. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and Environmental diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti-Corruption We are committed to behaving with integrity and acting forms, including extortion and bribery. Public Policy against corruption. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 52 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference or response Omission GRI 102: 102-1 Name of organization 6 General Disclosures 102-2 Activities, products, and services 6 2016 102-3 Location headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 102-8 Information on employees 56 102-9 Supply chain 41 102-10 Significant changes None 102-11 Precautionary principle 37 102-12 External initiatives 20 102-13 Membership of associations 20 102-14 Statement from senior manager 4 102-16 Values, principles, standards 3 See our Annual Report on 102-18 Governance structure Form 20-F ir.tevapharm.com 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 57 Data refer to employees in Israel only. Other 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 77% locations not available at this time. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 57 102-43 Stakeholder engagement 57 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 57 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 53 GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference or response Omission GRI 102: 102-45 Entities included 49 General Disclosures 102-46 Report content and topic boundaries 49 2016 102-47 List of material topics 14 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting 49 102-50 Reporting period 49 102-51 Date of most recent report 49 102-52 Reporting cycle 49 102-53 Contact point 49 Reporting in accordance with the 102-54 49 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 52 102-56 External assurance 49 Material GRI Standard Management Approach: Specific GRI Disclosures Page Ommisions priority 101:1-3: page Expanding 203: Indirect economic impacts 19 203-2 Significant indirect 19 assistance for economic impacts patients Making 203: Indirect economic impacts 17 203-2 Significant indirect 17–18 medicines economic impacts affordable Collaborating 203: Indirect economic impacts 20 203-2 Significant indirect 20 to improve economic impacts healthcare systems 415: Public Policy 20 415-1 Political contributions None Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 54 Material GRI Standard Management Approach: Specific GRI Disclosures Page Ommisions priority 101:1-3: page Delivering 203: Indirect economic impacts 16, 22 203-2 Significant indirect 16–27 new and better economic impacts treatments Ensuring 416: Customer Health and Safety 26 416-1: Assessment of the health 26 our medicines are and safety impacts of product safe and service categories 416-2: Incidents of nonNone compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Engaging our 401: Employment 28 401-1 New employee hires and 60 employees in employee turnover an empowering workplace 403: Occupational Health 28 403-2 Types of injury and rates 61 and Safety of injury 404: Training and Education 404-2: Programs for upgrading None employee skills 28 404-3: Performance and career None development reviews 405: Diversity and Equal 28 405-1 Diversity of governance 62 Opportunity bodies and employees 407: Freedom of Association and 37 407-1 Operations and suppliers 39–40 Collective Bargaining in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408: Child Labor 37 408-1 Operations and suppliers 40–41 at significant risk for incidents of child labor 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 37 409-1 Operations and suppliers 40–41 at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 55 Material GRI Standard Management Approach: Specific GRI Disclosures Page Ommisions priority 101:1-3: page Caring for our 413: Local Communities 34 413-1 Operations with local 34 communities community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Reducing our 302: Energy 43 302-1 Energy consumption 58 impact on the within the organization environment 302-3 Energy intensity 58 303: Water 43 303-1 Water withdrawal by 46 source 305: Emissions 43 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 59 emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 59 GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 59 305-6 Emissions of ozone46 depleting substances (ODS) 306: Effluents and Waste 43 306-1 Water discharge by 46 quality and destination 306-2 Waste by type and 59 disposal method Strengthening 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 37 419-1 Non-compliance with laws None compliance and regulations in the social and economic area Maintaining 205: Anti-corruption 37 205-2 Communication and 40 ethical business training about anti-corruption standards policies and procedures Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 56 Data tables and notes GRI 102-8 Global workforce by employment type Employment type 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Permanent employees FTE 43,838 42,281 41,078 40,868 54,260 Supervised workers FTE 2,110 2,664 1,991 1,974 2,169 Total workforce FTE 45,948 44,945 43,009 42,843 56,429 Headcount (full/part time) 43,838 42,281 41,548 41,283 54,700 Headcount (supervised workers) 2,110 2,664 1,991 1,974 2,169 Total workforce headcount 45,948 44,945 43,539 43,257 56,869 Permanent employees 2014 2015 2016 Location Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Israel 2,813 3,961 6,774 2,916 3,901 6,817 2,884 3,848 6,732 Europe 9,964 8,543 18,507 10,548 8,521 19,069 13,760 11,487 25,247 North America and Canada 3,393 4,279 7,671 3,320 3,935 7,255 4,954 5,901 10,855 Rest of world 2,604 5,522 8,126 2,676 5,466 8,142 3,852 8,014 11,866 Total 18,775 22,304 41,078 19,460 21,823 41,283 25,450 29,250 54,700 Global workforce by 2014 2015 2016 employment type and gender Contract Type Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Full-time employees 18,512 22,276 40,788 18,370 21,662 40,032 24,271 29,071 53,342 Part-time employees 263 28 290 1,090 161 1,251 1,179 179 1,358 Indirect employees 966 965 1,931 1,007 968 1,975 945 1,224 2,169 Total 19,740 23,269 43,009 20,467 22,791 43,258 26,395 30,474 56,869 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 57 GRI 102-40 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-42 Our stakeholders include our patients, employees, regulators, the professional healthcare community and healthcare industry, non-profit organizations, and investors. We GRI 102-43 maintain regular dialogue with all of our stakeholders in the normal course of our business, via a range of different channels. This includes thousands of interactions each GRI 102-44 day and active participation in meetings, conferences, industry association events, social media conversations, and personal contact. No specific stakeholder engagement was conducted in preparation for this report. Stakeholder group Approach to engagement Key topics raised Patients Interactions through patient advocacy Access and affordability of medicines, treatments for unmet needs organizations Employees Annual employee surveys, performance reviews, Opportunities to develop, opportunities to influence, confidence in training events, business reviews, team meetings leadership Regulators Collaborative engagement, as required Safety, compliance, and ethical business Healthcare industry Participation in industry associations Safety of medicines, meeting regulatory changes Non-profit organizations Ongoing work with community partners Environmental sustainability, community solidarity and support Investors Regular investor conferences and presentations, Return on investment, compliance, governance periodical meetings with different investor groups The ways in which we respond to stakeholder needs are described in the relevant chapters of this report. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 58 GRI 302-1 Energy within the organization Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Natural Gas (Scope 1) MWH 899,699 937,689 1,007,147 7% Fuel oil (Scope 1) MWH 386,914 279,663 201,591 -28% Diesel fuel (Scope 1) MWH 55,042 69,214 42,436 -39% Kerosene (Scope 1) MWH 7,686 7,050 8,590 22% LPG (Scope 1) MWH 99,185 95,220 93,323 -2% Propane (Scope 1) MWH 5,215 4,053 1,032 -75% Motor Gasoline (Scope 1) MWH 260,700 241,250 166,072 -31% Renewable electricity produced (Scope 1) MWH 493 512 797 56% Biomass (renewable) (Scope 1) MWH 0 5,503 6,584 — Electricity purchased from grid (Scope 2) MWH 1,181,426 1,137,877 938,393 -18% Heating purchased (Scope 2) MWH 0 0 14,898 — Steam purchased (Scope 2) MWH 77,580 81,087 68,826 -15% Renewable electricity (Scope 2) MWH 0 43,868 185,562 — Total Energy Consumption 2,973,940 2,902,996 2,735,252 -5.78% Scope 1 MWH 1,714,934 1,640,154 1,527,572 -7% Scope 2 MWH 1,259,006 1,262,842 1,207,680 -4% Energy consumption cumulative change from baseline 2012 -6% -9% -14% — GRI 302-3 Energy consumption by employee 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Energy consumption by employee (MWH/employee) 69.15 67.76 63.72 -6% Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 59 GRI 305-1 GHG emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 GRI 305-2 Total GHG emissions tons CO2e 1,003,759 947,306 847,285 -11% Scope 1 emissions tons CO2e 428,744 405,044 392,268 -3% Scope 2 emissions tons CO2e 575,015 542,262 455,017 -16% GHG emissions cumulative change from baseline 2012 -8% -14% -23% — GRI 305-4 GHG emissions by employee 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 GRI 305-4: GHG emissions by employee (tCO2e/employee) 23.34 22.11 19.74 -11% GRI 306-2 Waste by disposal type in tons 2014 2015 2016 % of total Change in 2016 waste in 2016 Recycling including conversion to energy 64,644 101,092 93,708 43% -7% Bio treatment 52,279 70,864 61,861 28% -13% Incineration 53,663 47,412 48,346 22% 2% Landfill 18,972 10,419 15,229 7% 46% Other 34,631 58,901 0 0% -100% Total waste 224,189 288,688 219,144 100% -24% Percentage of waste recycled 29% 35% 43% — 22% Waste by type in tons 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Non-hazardous waste 42,141 49,488 50,792 3% Hazardous waste 182,048 239,200 168,352 -30% Hazardous waste as a percentage of total waste 81% 83% 77% -7% Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 60 GRI 401-1 New hires and 2014 2015 2016 leavers <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total Women new hires 583 926 132 1,641 1,015 1,520 172 2,708 859 1,412 226 2,497 Men new hires 650 993 180 1,823 884 1,289 267 2,440 970 1,389 265 2,624 Total new hires 1,233 1,919 312 3,464 1,889 2,809 439 5,147 1,829 2,801 491 5,121 Women leavers 438 1,235 354 2,027 430 1,429 597 2,456 777 2,653 714 4,144 Men leavers 515 1,463 528 2,506 492 1,596 744 2,832 770 2,610 953 4,334 Total leavers 953 2,698 882 4,533 922 3,025 1,341 5,288 1,547 5,263 1,668 8,478 Turnover (%) 2% 6% 2% 11% 2% 7% 3% 13% 3% 10% 3% 15% New hires and 2014 2015 2016 leavers rates <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total <age 30 age 30-50 >age 50 Total Women new hires 17% 27% 4% 47% 20% 30% 3% 53% 17% 28% 4% 49% Men new hires 19% 29% 5% 53% 17% 25% 5% 47% 19% 27% 5% 51% Total new hires 36% 55% 9% 100% 37% 55% 9% 100% 36% 55% 10% 100% Women leavers 10% 27% 8% 45% 8% 27% 11% 46% 9% 31% 8% 49% Men leavers 11% 32% 12% 55% 9% 30% 14% 54% 9% 31% 11% 51% Total leavers 21% 60% 19% 100% 17% 57% 25% 100% 18% 62% 20% 100% Turnover (%) 2% 6% 2% 11% 2% 7% 3% 13% 3% 10% 3% 15% Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 61 GRI 403-2 Injuries 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Number of recordable injuries 440 306 209 212 186 -12% Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours worked 1.25 0.89 0.61 0.55 0.47 -15% Lost days 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Number of lost days 2,428 2,028 1,383 1,976 2,293 16% Number of injuries resulting in lost workdays 252 179 144 147 129 -12% Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.72 0.52 0.42 0.38 0.33 -13% Fatalities 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in 2016 Fatalities 2 1 2 0 0 0% Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report Reporting and disclosures 62 GRI 405-1 Employees by gender 2014 2015 2016 Women Men Women Men Women Men Top executives (directly reporting to CEO) 7% 93% 21% 79% 13% 87% Senior management 35% 65% 37% 63% 37% 63% Middle management 45% 55% 47% 53% 46% 54% First line management 51% 49% 53% 47% 52% 48% Non-management 39% 61% 41% 59% 43% 57% Total employees 46% 54% 47% 53% 47% 53% Employees by age 2014 2015 Below age 30 Age 30-50 Over age 50 Below age 30 Age 30-50 Over age 50 Top executives (directly reporting to CEO) 0% 33% 67% 0% 36% 64% Senior management 0% 60% 40% 0% 63% 37% Middle management 3% 73% 23% 3% 75% 22% First line management 13% 67% 19% 15% 66% 19% Non-management 19% 58% 23% 18% 58% 24% Total employees 13% 65% 22% 13% 65% 22% Notes: —— EHS data exclude Actavis Generics operations that joined Teva in 2016. HR data includes Actavis Generics employees at year-end. Year-end intensity calculations for EHS, however, exclude Actavis Generics employees. All other global facilities are included. —— Energy data for 2014 and 2015 are restated due to improved data for fuels and renewable energy. —— Teva uses Operational Control to account for energy consumption and emissions calculations. —— The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) was used for carbon calculations. —— GHG emissions are calculated on a market basis. Location-based Scope 2 emissions are: 507,203 tons CO2e for 2016. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. 2016 Social Impact Report
