COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01/2016 To: 12/2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) January 8, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that for the past two years (2016-2017) Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. has continued to reaffirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. strongly encourages that our employees and all our business contractors and partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Environmental Protection. That is, we will treat all of our customers with respect to human rights without any discrimination and regardless differences in race, nationality, religion, and culture. We also promote a safety workplace, where safety is everyone’s first priority. In addition, we collaborate with safety and occupational health projects for our employees’ right to get suggestions in all activities regarding safety procedures and workplace improvement. Labor At Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd., all of our full-time employees annually receive medical and dental insurance. In addition, they and their family are given a fully-paid vacation traveling with the company. Also, we comply with minimum wage standards and organize an internal audit. Furthermore, we have ensured that our employees are equipped with sufficient knowledge and competence to perform their tasks by supporting them in any necessary training and capacity building courses or workshops. Environment The nature of Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd., which is small and office-based, makes direct environmental impact relatively small. However, we strongly encourage environmental awareness of our contractors and partners whose natures of their work will affect the environment more than us. Moreover, we regularly participate in a community and social development in economic, social, and environmental aspects. Anti-Corruption Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. has ensured that our internal procedures support the company’s anticorruption and ethical behavior commitment. In addition, we maintain an excellent check and balance system over transactions. This information is checked and controlled by financial and HR department and ultimately reaches to the Managing Director. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. strongly encourages that our employees and all our business contractors and partners as well as our customers provide any feedbacks and comments regarding human rights, safety workplace, and occupational health issues.  Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. periodically has a meeting with all our employees to ask them about their needs regarding health insurance, wage, and any necessary training course they want to attend.  Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. regularly check whether our contractors and partners may have any practice or conduct that will affect the environment.  Energy Thai Trading Hubs Co., Ltd. normally hires an external auditor to ensure that our internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption and ethical behavior commitment.
