Global Sustainability Commitment TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 A MESSAGE FROM OUR FOUNDER 4 PARTICIPATION IN GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY MEMBERSHIP AND ACCREDITATION PROGRAMS 6 PUBLISH A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EVERY 12 MONTHS 8 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 9 FOUNDER & EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND PARTICIPATION 11 HUMAN RESOURCES AND THE WORKPLACE 13 PROJECTS COMPLETED 14 SELECTION PROCESS FOR FOUNDATIONS AND PROJECTS 19 OUR CURRENT PROJECTS AND PARTICIPATION 20 SUMMARY 24 In this new century, millions of people in the world's poorest countries remain imprisoned, enslaved, and in chains. They are trapped in the prison of poverty. It is time to set them free… Like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not natural. It is manmade, and it can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings. And overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. It is an act of justice. It is the protection of a fundamental human right, the right to dignity and a decent life. While poverty persists, there is no true freedom. Nelson Mandela ABOUT THIS REPORT For more information, you can visit our Sustainability tab on our Elliott Insurance Brokers Home Page. Or connect with us below. This is the preliminary commitment which outlines the current position and future commitments Elliott insurance Brokers is making towards a more YOUR FEEDBACK sustainable future. It outlines the basis of the enhancements to our existing participation and procedures, formalising and publicly committing to the We would love to hear any feedback in relation to our sustainability direction we have as an organisation. approach. Please connect with us and follow our journey This preliminary report is produced for our customers, employees, community partners, suppliers and the organisations we are supporting, or anyone person or organisation that has an interest in our companies approach to the sustainability of our business. EMAIL info@elliottinsurance.com.au WRITE Global Sustainability Elliott Insurance PO Box 1136 NEDLANDS 6909 WA Global Sustainability Commitment | 3 A MESSAGE It is with great pleasure that I can present to you our first formalised commitment right. When we finish our time in the industry we can know we have been a part of a FROM OUR to Sustainability. I say formalised as we generation that challenged and inherently as an organisation have had many of the changed things for the better. principle components of this FOUNDER commitment at our core since we began Mostly however, because its achievable, we can make key changes in the way we conduct in 2008. As a small business self-start up, ourselves as an industry and the way we it was very important to me from day contribute to our communities for a better and one to create something different, to not more sustainable future. follow the path of the business owners before me in the industry and to This is not just a journey I will undertake as an investigate new and better ways of doing individual, but a journey I want to invite our business. This did not just have the Staff, our customers, our suppliers, our intent of generating additional profit, or competitors, our business leaders, our insurers expanding at a rapid rate, but our repairers and our government bodies to join challenging the methods that tradition us to maximise our impact where possible. and generational brokers had set in concrete as “the way you do things”. This document outlines a commitment as an organisation and as the head of this organisation This journey has had its failures, many in fact I support this commitment with all means but the success has been in breaking through necessary to head towards a future we can all and impacting our industry to look at the way be proud to have created. they provide their products and services. With this preliminary commitment and our reporting over the coming years we hope to challenge our competitors and our industry yet again. We hope to lead our industry to become a beacon of prosperity when it comes to its John Elliott contribution to a more sustainable world around Elliott Insurance Brokers us. Not because it generates more profit, or because it’s good for business but because it’s Global Sustainability Commitment | 4 At Elliott Insurance Brokers we are committed to ensuring our global impact is positive and that we are an active participant in programs which help create a sustainable For our customers, we define ourselves as a sustainable organisation in the future for all inhabitants of the world we share together. way we operate and promote ourselves to make customers and potential customers who are globally aware want to do business with us, recommend For us, sustainability goes beyond simple measures to reduce our footprint. It us to others and have the opportunity to benefit from our relationships with comprises of a vision to meet the environmental, social and economic needs suppliers. of our employees and communities, whilst providing opportunities for future generations and our fellow industry participants to do the same. For our employees, we are a sustainable organisation if they are proud to come to work, want to be at work, feel they have enough time to be with The United Nations have outlined a set of 17 Global Goals for Sustainable their families and friends, encourage others to work with us and can fulfill Development that as individuals and as businesses we are encouraged to act their ambitions. on to ensure a prosperous, healthy and sustainable future for all. We believe this is not a “pie in the sky” fairy-tale but a set of achievable goals which will For our industry, we are market leading in sustainability, providing others bring an end to negative climate change, hunger, poverty, inequality and with information on how they can be globally aware and participate whilst injustice. maintaining a healthy level of profit and growth. Our commitment to this is an integral part of every transaction, every For our planet, our communities and suppliers, we are sustainable if we contract, every purchase and every project we participate in. We have also minimise our environmental impact, support causes which align to our values, made a commitment to redirect time to support projects, which work towards deal fairly with our suppliers to enable them to be successful and sustainable these Global Goals. This policy outlines our commitment and is shared with and add to public policy debates in an open and honest way for the benefit of all those involved with Elliott Australia Group at all levels and all brands all. including Elliott Insurance Brokers. For our fellow global citizens, we are sustainable if we support, help, Our commitment goes further than donating, it involves active participation in promote encourage and fund a generational change in sustainable projects, the projects we support, creating awareness and bringing as many others break the poverty cycle and participate in impacting multiple countries. along for the journey as possible. It involves creating new ways for others to participate in the projects we are involved in maximising the impact we can have. Our aim is to impact our employees, suppliers, clients, community, industry, our planet and its global citizens. Global Sustainability Commitment | 5 PARTICIPATION IN We owe it to ourselves and to the next generation to conserve the environment so that we can bequeath our GLOBAL children a sustainable world that benefits all. Wangari Maathai SUSTAINABILITY MEMBERSHIP AND Our Initiatives ACCREDITATION By December 2019 we aim to be fully accredited and participating in the following initiatives: PROGRAMS 1. The United Nations Global Compact -This is the UN’s mission to call companies to align strategies and To ensure we are keeping up with the world leaders in sustainable practices operations with we also make a commitment to partner with several organisations and gain universal principals on accreditation to benchmark our participation in Global Sustainability. Our human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and act to participation should exceed the minimal standard required by these advance societal goals. Information on this initiative can be found at UN organisations. Global Compact. Our certification is listed at this link. 2. The Carbon Neutral This accreditation facility helps organisations across Australia and beyond minimise their impact on the environment by working with them to measure, reduce and offset greenhouse gas emissions. We have begun participation in their carbon-offset plan which involves the reforestation of the wheat belt in Western Australia.Link Global Sustainability Commitment | 6 3. The Global Goals for Sustainable Development This organisation supports 12. Responsible Consumption and Production – Ensuring the promotion and participation in the 17 goals outlined by the UN as the sustainable consumption and production patterns Global Goals for Sustainable Development. We have selected to actively support the following of the 17 Goals outlined. 13. Climate Action – Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 1. No Poverty – End Poverty in all its forms everywhere 15. Life on Land – Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 2. Zero Hunger – End Hunger, achieve food security and 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions – Promote peaceful improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 3. Good Health and Well Being – Ensure Healthy lives and promote well-being for all ages 17. Partnerships for the Goals – Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development 4. Quality Education – Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 6. Clean Water & Sanitation – Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 8. Decent work and Economic Growth – Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities – Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe resilient and sustainable Global Sustainability Commitment | 7 PUBLISH A The report is to include measurements on the following: SUSTAINABILITY Our carbon footprint REPORT EVERY 12 The range of organisations contributed to and the amounts contributed MONTHS The volunteer hours logged by employees toward community programs The effective reporting and use of Sustainability data is becoming an increasing trend amongst thousands of companies globally as we begin to become more socially aware of the impact we have as leaders in entrepreneurship and The company hours spent on contribution towards sustainable projects commerce. Enhancing our decision-making process using this data can lead us towards more sustainable business practices, economy and world. Goals, objectives and outcomes, we have put together to reach out By reporting our progress and achievements as a company we can share the chosen Global Goal Commitments success of our Global sustainability commitment with others to be able to magnify the impact we have on a larger scale. The donations from staff towards sustainable projects The production of a Sustainability Report every 12 months, to be published in December each year starting in December 2019, allows us to report on the results of our Global Sustainability commitment. We want to demonstrate Plans and projects we have planned over the next 12 months what we have delivered as an organisation and include as many measurable factors as possible. Accountability to the commitments we make and the ability to demonstrate we are moving towards them is key to the success of the commitment. Global Sustainability Commitment | 8 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Elliott Insurance Brokers will continually review our purchasing The criteria by which we will assess a company’s commitment to social responsibility is by giving procedures and proactively switch to companies and products them a mark for each statement which they can confirm below: which are also supporting the Global Sustainability goals. This process now a part of our tender and review process. Where it ■ We are a Certified Carbon Neutral organisation is commercially viable we will make a switch to support these ■ As an organisation we have the ability for our staff to contribute towards a program or companies and include them on our Global Goals Partners registered foundation in support of one or more of the Global Goals for Sustainable page. This page will declare what date we started using this development company, what programs they support and our reason for supporting this company. ■ We have been awarded or recognised for our contributions or participation towards a program or registered foundation in support of one or more of the Global Goals for The power we possess as consumers is to control or direct Sustainable development the way in which we consume. The impact of spending a ■ We have a Green Business Certification Icon or a Membership with an association known dollar with an organisation committed to sustainability is like for sustainability or social responsibility a vote for making a change in the way organisations do business. By moving our dollar away from an organisation ■ A significant portion of the products supplied by our company is recyclable or sustainable that does nothing we are using our dollar to vote against a business that profits at a high environmental and global cost. The criteria by which we will assess product sustainability is by giving them a mark for each statement below which is applicable Global Sustainability Commitment | 9 Support the product Reduced Impact Biodegradable has part proceeds that refers to some element of products are made from support a global manufacture or materials that materials that will sustainable cause or has less environmental impact biodegrade in compost project than conventional materials or and/or landfill at the end processes of their useful lives Recycled products Sustainable products are Organic products or are wholly or partially made from materials that are materials are grown made from waste harvested or created in a without the use of materials, both pre and manner that can be repeated damaging pesticides or post-consumer that are long-term without diminishing harmful chemical additives collected and reprocessed the resource or the environment for future generations Reusable products are those made for a long life which can be reused repeatedly, saving resources and reducing waste Global Sustainability Commitment | 10 FOUNDER & 1. To promote, encourage facilitate the participation in the Global Goals for sustainable development EMPLOYEE 2. To reduce electricity usage at home by an average of 20% 3. To personally offset my personal carbon footprint ENGAGEMENT AND 4. To achieve best practice environmental practices across our operations, in addition to complying with all laws, regulation and industry standards PARTICIPATION 5. To implement programs that minimize our use of energy, water and nonrenewable resources. 6. To achieve reductions of waste produced in our operations by applying the principles of Refuse, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. Examples of this include minimising packaging of products, minimising use of nonrenewable forms of packaging, reusing packaging that we receive, using pre-used transport cartons and using recycled and biodegradable products throughout our operations. 7. To source and supply products that meet at least two of our environmental criteria: recycled, biodegradable, sustainable, organic, reusable and have reduced environmental impact. 8. To source and promote certified eco products where possible, while Empowerment and engagement of our employees to participate in company recognising that certification is still a fairly new concept in this industry. led Sustainability projects, fundraising and community support as well as Examples of this are our FSC-certified timber products; Nordic Eco-Label providing information and support to participate in the same in their personal Markers. life. 9. To engage in ethical business relationships and practices, including support of selected environmental, community and aid organisations. It is important that this is not just the journey of the company but also of every member of our team. Whilst the company can assist to outline the 10. To take personal responsibility and to practice sustainability principles in ways in which employees can become more globally proactive it is through our personal lives as well as our business and professional lives. education. Armed with the knowledge of how to participate we can multiply 11. To communicate the policy and these objectives to our employees, the impact we can have as an organisation. contractors, suppliers, customers and the public in order to enhance the awareness to these groups of our commitment to responsible First and foremost is our Founder’s commitment for Global Sustainability: environmental and sustainability management Global Sustainability Commitment | 11 Employee Engagement and support Many studies have shown that employees that feel they are working for an organisation that has meaning and direction feel more engaged, loyal and Prior to the release of this document we have experimented with a range of report better job satisfaction. We want to demonstrate to our team at Elliott employee participation models and based from this we have developed an Insurance Brokers that by working here they are contributing to a better engagement and participation program we feel is right for our organisation. community and are active Global Citizens. Ultimately, we have learnt that compulsory participation has its flaws especially if you are asking your team to go outside of their scope of employment for their involvement. Employees may also have existing commitments or involvement already in organisations which has a special meaning to them. Personal beliefs and or religion may also prevent them from certain participation or foundations. Therefore, our program for Employee engagement and participation is as follows: 1. Educate – To have a quarterly meeting with our staff to educate them on Sustainability, update them on company progress and obtain feedback on their thoughts feelings and findings 2. Empower – Through clearly defined roles and set time commitments provide them with an opportunity to participate in the companies GSC 3. Encourage To financially contribute towards causes which an employee is campaigning or participating in (with consideration of the selection criteria set by Elliott Insurance Brokers) 4. Engage – Align people in the office with one cause in the company as a minimum, provide them with as many varieties of levels of participation and continue to update them on this cause and what is happening at a company level. Global Sustainability Commitment | 12 HUMAN RESOURCES Employment Agreements AND THE Fair and equitable employment agreements that contain clarity for our WORKPLACE staff on their roles, expectations and standards allow us to work with individuals more effectively. We can work together with more clearly defined processes for conflict resolution, performance engaging and staff reward programs. Good Sustainability starts at home and we have started to implement changes to our workplace and operations to be a market leader in the Insurance Cultural diversity and Equal opportunity industry. We are a product of our environment, so we want to move towards a workplace that lives and breathes sustainability and a Human Recourses Our Human resources commitment to provide opportunity across race, process that ensures gender, race and human rights are at the forefront of gender, culture, religion, sexual preference or age has been a strong our mind to ensure an equal opportunity at all levels of our organisation. foundation on which Elliott Insurance has been established. Gender and Race Equality, Support of Cultural Diversity, Fairness and Equal Outstanding governance is a key essential to good corporate practice and with opportunity, Exploring global employment opportunities and Clear process the introduction of a HR Consultant we have continued to improve in this field are continuing to develop to enhance the opportunities which our organisation can provide to any global citizen that is the best candidate regardless. Training and upskilling Providing additional training and upskilling for employees currently in our team plus working towards providing a mentoring program for the younger generation in our industry are key focuses of our Founder. Fair and Equitable treatment We commit to provide a fair and equitable workplace, allowing individuals to address concerns and contribute positively towards a successful future for themselves and our company. Global Sustainability Commitment | 13 PROJECTS Health Hope Zambia COMPLETED Fighting Malnutrition in Children under 12 2013 to 2016 Since the beginning of Elliott Insurance Brokers, we have been actively Our alignment with Health Hope supporting projects and foundations to “give back” to the community. Our Zambia started in 2013 and involved new guidelines should provide additional and structure for what we are able both a financial and time participation to achieve from this however it is worth taking some time to note the in the renovation and reopening of the contributions and efforts that have been made to date. Malnutrition Ward at the University Teaching Hospital in the capital Lusaka. Malnutrition in Zambia is one of the country’s largest killers of children under the age of 12 and the Malnutrition Ward at UTH is the largest centre for fighting the issue on the ground. The facilities and systems in this ward however were at breaking point and the death rate the ward was experiencing was more than 6 children per day. The founder of Health Hope Zambia was Perth Businessman Brendan Clark and we decided to partner with HHZ to raise the funds to overhaul the system, procedures and facilities in the ward which were budgeted at over $350,000. Elliott Insurance Brokers were able to participate on 3 levels, firstly we organised a Charity Evening where most of the costs for the evening were covered by Elliott Insurance Brokers allowing the event to be run more than 90% profit margins. The utilisation of contacts to donate Auction items, venue and catering support from our client Daniel Gomer at Hippo Creek, Simon Devlin of Devlin’s Cigar Lounge and Edward from Charles Edward Jewellers meant we were able to contribute towards a night which raised over $150,000. Global Sustainability Commitment | 14 2. Upgrade on bedding 3. Upgrade on construction including the removal of all asbestos 4. Upgrade to procedures and patient out care 5. Education to assist with reduction in readmissions 6. Enhanced maintenance and hygiene processes. 7. Improved support facilities for Mothers 8. Enhanced Partnerships with the Zambian and Western Australian Government (As per the attached Link) 9. Visit from both the State Health Minister Kim Haynes and the State Premier Colin Barnett 10. Reduction in the daily death rate to less than 1 per day (Less than 20 per month) from over 6 per day. 11. Estimates of lives effected are at 6 per day which as at today’s date is (install a counter The second level was through our Founders Without Elliott Insurance Brokers involvement, it that counts 6 per day rate since December participation in the Ride for Life, which involved a may have taken more than a year to raise the 2013) 600km Bike ride from Livingston to Lusaka in funds needed. 12. We have learned a lot during this project and Zambia over 6 days. This ride raised more than also the power and impact an organisation $150,000. Because of our involvement the project was can have on a matter effecting citizens on completed in December 2013 and the outcomes the other side of the globe. The power of Thirdly Elliott Insurance Brokers made a financial include: being a global citizen has been able to effect commitment of over $30,000 to HHZ to fund massive change to this pressing issue in the project, fundraising efforts became an 1. Doubling the capacity of the ward to over Zambia and continues to do so today. integral part with the project being able to be 100 patients. completed in a matter of months. Global Sustainability Commitment | 15 Shenton Park Rehabilitation Hospital Starlight Children’s Corporate decommissioning for Lusaka UTH Fundraising Challenge 2014 2015 In 2014 the staff at Elliott Insurance assisted in the decommissioning of the In 2015 the Elliott Insurance team participated in the Shenton Park Rehabilitation Hospital to get much needed equipment to the Starlight Children’s Corporate challenge. We put our University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka. Alongside members of the West own twist on the challenge creating two teams and Australian Zambian Community several employees of Elliott and Talbot Le putting them in a 2-week challenge to brainstorm Page Builders salvaged equipment including: and come through with as many ideas to generate funds for the Foundation. ■ Hospital Beds Enlisting the help of clients, Insurers, Friends, contacts and colleagues they ■ Oxygen Systems were able to come up with a range of auction items including, a case of wine ■ Hygiene and Bathroom items from Cullen Wines, a Weekend away at Wise Winery and put together a ■ Lighting and surgical lighting systems sundowner at the Elliott Insurance Offices. ■ Electrical Generator (Over 2 tons) They also engaged with the ■ Copper for salvage Local businesses in Nedlands A team effort that inspired ■ Wheelchairs including Nando’s, IGA and a truly proud achievement the local bottle stores to ■ Hospital furniture ensure that all the food and of full employee The items were then stored in preparation for shipping to Zambia where they beverages for the event were engagement to support 100% donated. This meant have been utilised for the University Teaching Hospital. During our Founder’s the tickets were 100% profit our local community. previous visit, we were made aware of a massive lack in facilities and of for the event. patients sleeping on concrete floors due to a lack of this equipment. Fortunately, many of the necessary items required were being In total they were able to break all previous records of the corporate decommissioned here at Shenton Park and now this equipment is helping challenge and we presented a cheque for $10,000 to the Starlight Foundation save lives in various wards at the Lusaka UTH. at the Rising Star Awards at the Heath Ledger Theatre. Global Sustainability Commitment | 16 Angel Hands – Support and Consulting Ride Against Domestic Violence 2015 2017 May 2016 2017 Over a period of time, we were able to consult and drive attention towards the WA organisation Tony Buti MLA member for Armadale and the Honorable angelhands. Dr Ann O’Neill founded angelhands Inc Tony Simpson Liberal minister for Local Council put together over ten years ago as a way of effecting helpful the inaugural Ride Against Domestic Violence. This entailed changes to how people affected by homicide and a 300km ride from Margaret River to Perth in support of 4 serious personal violence experience their trauma Domestic Violence Shelters from the South West to Perth. recovery. The findings of her extensive and award-winning research underpin all of angelhands programs and services. As well as much needed funds to go to the Domestic Violence Shelters for women located along the way from Margaret River to Perth it was also aimed at raising Despite the amazing work that this organisation was doing it was still in community awareness and with some who had been affected by Domestic violence desperate need of funds and awareness of the work they were doing. Our sharing their stories publicly along the way. Founder was engaged to address the board on an advisory capacity for several meetings and then was able to make several key introductions in both the Our Founder John Elliott and Dorota Dancewicz from OMOJO Copywriting private and the government sector (including Tony Buti MLA) who have been provided the Support services for the riders and The All Trades Cover Jeep was able to assist the organisation in raising much needed funds and starting to there to escort the riders every step of the way. increase the exposure of what it is they do. Over three days the riders visited Community Centres and made several public Following his involvement with anglehands Tony Buti has powered on to appearances to talk to local communities about the presence of the shelters and create the charity Ride Against Domestic Violence to combat the same issues the need for further support. as angelhands head on. The ride concluded at Elizabeth Quay where Elliott Insurance Brokers presented an additional contribution of $100 per rider. The ride was then celebrated at a cocktail function at The WA Club in the following weeks, where the riders and the support team were recognised for their efforts and further funds were raised for the cause. The first year’s ride and cocktail event raised more than $30,000 and is set to continue to grow with the support of Elliott Insurance Brokers along the way. Global Sustainability Commitment | 17 Supported Charities As well as the projects we have been involved in we have also made contributions to the following charities to support local and abroad projects: ■ Lifeline ■ Breast Care WA ■ Men’s Depression ■ Bethesda Hospital ■ Toybox WA ■ Breast Cancer Research ■ Cerebral Palsy Alliance ■ Leukaemia Foundation ■ Variety Bash SA ■ Fijian Primary School Volunteer and Donation ■ Cambodian Children’s Trust ■ Parkerville Children’s Home ■ Many More Global Sustainability Commitment | 18 SELECTION PROCESS FOR FOUNDATIONS AND PROJECTS In the past we have been happy to support many worthwhile causes however, moving forward we want to be clearer with the intent of our charitable contributions of time and funds. In order to maximise the impact of the funds we give we now look to vet the organisations we donate to and ensure they align with the goals which our company has set out in this global sustainability commitment. We will now ensure to choose the foundations and projects we contribute to or make it to the person in need the $2,000 our company spent was not tax get involved with carefully via the below criteria: deductible. Simply buy the item for the $2,000 claim a full tax deduction and we have spent the same and delivered the item in need to the 1. What are the funds for? If we are putting funds into an organisation we individual still through that charity. In fact, the tax deduction that would want to know what the funds are going towards a piece of medical get us is around $600, with which we could probably go and buy the equipment, a support persons wage, the building of a school. We are no overpriced auction item for cost price anyway. longer interested in pouring money into a foundation without 3. Does the foundation or charity align with the Global Goals and participation or involvement of where, how or who the money is directed Sustainability commitments we have made? towards. 4. What is the administration expenses of the foundation or charity? We 2. Can the donation be in other ways than cash? If someone is raising funds only support charities with administration and expenses of less than 25%. for a wheelchair which costs $2,000, then can we buy the wheelchair and If they cannot answer this, then we are not to support the cause donate it? The reasoning is simple, it delivers the item straight to the financially. We can however look at participation and physical support person in need, with minimal to no friction cost. It makes no sense to buy especially if that is going to assist them with reducing their expenses. an auction item at a charity for $2,000, which has a cost of the item through an organisation like Helping Hands, then sometimes there is 5. Are they a registered Charity? Only supporting registered Australian event management fees for the event you are at then when as little as Charities 10% of those funds get to the charity, they may have their own administration costs which can be as high as 70%. Not only does $30 Global Sustainability Commitment | 19 OUR CURRENT Their goals are: PROJECTS AND ■ to break the cycle of poverty that prevents parents from providing for their own children…we do this by providing training and small business funding to empower parents to help themselves. PARTICIPATION ■ to provide nutritional food to children that would otherwise go hungry…we do this by establishing a large farm to generate fruit and vegetables to feed our children and assist the local community. ■ to provide hope for a new future to unlock the potential within orphans…we do this by establishing schools and children’s boarding One Heart Foundation homes that provide a loving family environment and an education where the children can be raised and nurtured. One Heart is a not-for-profit foundation that was established in 2007 out of ■ to create an environmentally, financially and socially sustainable Australia and working in Kenya. One village where children can flourish for generations to come. Heart’s primary focus is to change the ■ All their initiatives in Kenya are designed to break the aid-dependence future of orphaned and abandoned children cycle so recipients no longer must rely on hand outs…so they can living in poverty in Kenya and in turn see stand on their own two feet and walk into their future with dignity whole communities transformed through and confidence, free from poverty, persecution, fear and oppression education, leadership, empowerment and and have the resources to raise the next generation. most importantly – love. Our Founder met the founder of One Heart Foundation (OHF) in early 2016. They now care for 75 children in three homes and have a primary school, as After several discussions it was decided that we would adopt OHF as our well as a skills training centre to help better equip the surrounding community major charity partner. Our alignment with goals on sustainable solutions were in health, business and life skills training. a key influence on this decision. OHF have derived a successful model to not just build an orphanage but a whole village, which through farming, They have set a series of goals to impact on a wide variety of people, all aimed accommodation, paid education, partnerships with local communities and at improving the living conditions and future of the next generation. universities provides a village that generated both a profit and a change. Once established these villages do not need a handout or further funds to survive. They become an integral part of the local community and add to its success. Global Sustainability Commitment | 20 Our commitment to OHF was initially a $100,000 donation which involved a cash donation and donating the Founder’s Audi R8. This provided most of the funds to purchase the piece of land for the second OHF village in adjacent town Soy. Our second commitment was to continue to raise funds for OHF to complete the building of the second village. We have currently estimated this cost to be $1.2m. Over the next 3 years we are working with our networks and business Our Founder and his father Arthur Elliott participated in the 2016 Run from contacts to be able to generate these funds to complete the project. Poverty in support for OHF and also visited the OHF village in Turbo. In 2017 our CEO once again participated in the Run from Poverty taking along with The second OHF village supports the following: him two delegates from the Perth community to help spread the word of all ■ 100 Orphaned and abandoned children the wonderful work being but also how much assistance is still needed. ■ 200 Paying school students Since the first trip in 2016 our Founder ■ Primary School and company have both been actively involved with the organisation and are ■ 5 Family Homes committed to the OHF village number ■ High School two whilst also supporting the current village to ensure that this project also ■ Community Learning Centre for Agriculture continues to be the beacon of success ■ Crop for OHF it has been to date. ■ Green houses ■ Bakery ■ Short Term Accommodation for Voluntourism. ■ Dairy Farm ■ Poultry Farm ■ Sporting Fields ■ Up to 40 Local Jobs Global Sustainability Commitment | 21 Elliott Insurance Brokers Ride Against Domestic Violence In Australia, a woman dies every week from domestic violence. Domestic violence has become a scourge of our society with more than a million women a year reporting they had experienced physical or sexual assault by their partners. Politicians from both sides of WA politics are speaking out to raise awareness of the issue led by Our partnership with EIBRADV involves: Labor MLA Dr Tony Buti and Liberal MLA and Minister for Local Government Tony Simpson. ■ The recruiting of the major team of 6 riders To help support victims of domestic violence, a team of cyclists led by both ■ Providing the support crew for the riders on their three-day journey. Tony Buti and Tony Simpson will be making the 300 km journey from ■ Assisting the riders with fundraising Margaret River to Perth to raise community awareness of the issue and funds ■ Event organisation for the cocktail event that concludes the ride for the victims each year in June. ■ Promotion of the event throughout the campaign We have been named as the major supporting partner for the second Ride ■ A financial contribution to the EIBRADV Against Domestic Violence and have a key role on the committee for this newly formed charity event. ■ Assistance to the event planners . Global Sustainability Commitment | 22 Abseil for Youth Sydney people to develop their education and training, helping them build pathways to employment and the start of a new future. October 2016 Each year, Triple Care Farm helps over 100 young people make lasting and Sir David Martin Foundation (SDMF) is a non-profit sustainable changes, giving them hope and opportunity for the future. Your organisation created in 1990 by the late Governor participation in Investa Abseil for Youth 2016 will help save a young person’s of NSW, who had a dream of ‘Safety, Hope and life. Opportunity’ for all young Australians. TRIPLE CARE FARM OUTCOMES* SDMF is dedicated to helping young people in crisis. We fund effective programs, to support young people struggling with issues such as substance ■ At intake into TCF, 48% of students reported a history of recent addiction, homelessness, mental illness, disengagement from society, abuse, homelessness. After completing the program, 100% are in stable unemployment and family breakdown. accommodation. ■ 71% of TCF participants experienced suicidal ideation in the 12 These programs provide treatment and support, as well as assist young months prior to entering the program. None 6 months after people in returning to education and training to find pathways to employment completing the program. and a healthy productive life. ■ Despite 96% of students being unemployed and 95% disengaged from Sir David Martin Foundation works to support those in need in our education on entering TCF, 82% were in employment and training 6 communities and change their lives for the better. They rely heavily on months’ post program. community support and a large portion of this is from fundraising events. ■ Despite 96% of students being unemployed and 95% disengaged from education on entering TCF, 82% were in employment and training 6 Funds raised through Abseil for Youth will go to the major funding program of months’ post program. SDMF Triple Care Farm (TCF). Mission Australia’s Triple Care Farm is an awardwinning residential rehabilitation facility for young people aged 16-24. ■ 100% of program participants reported substance abuse on intake; 77% were successful in meeting their substance use goals at 6 months TCF is set in the NSW Southern Highlands, an ideal rural environment of peace after completion. and healing for emotionally troubled youth, most of whom present with comorbid conditions of drug and alcohol addiction and mental illness. TCF provides students with treatment and support to rehabilitate from addiction to drugs like ice and alcohol, as well as take care of their mental and physical health, develop their living and social skills. TCF supports young Global Sustainability Commitment | 23 SUMMARY Before we close we would like to invite you to participate. You can do so by any of the following: ■ Feedback through the channels below ■ Participation – We have a range of upcoming functions and expeditions which you can apply to volunteer to support. ■ Partner – If you are a business and you would like to partner with our program then please contact our Founder for more information on our commercial partner program ■ Promote – We encourage you to share our report with others to help challenge them and guide them in their own journey or to help build the movement to support ours. ■ Donate – Please feel free to donate to one of our partner foundations through any of the links below. ■ One Heart Foundation – Elliott Insurance Brokers Village Soy Kenya. ■ Elliott Insurance Brokers Ride Against Domestic Violence. YOUR FEEDBACK CONNECT EMAIL WRITE We would love to hear any feedback in relation to our sustainability approach. info@elliottinsurance.com.au Global Sustainability Elliott Please connect with us and follow our Insurance journey. PO Box 1136 NEDLANDS 6909 WA Global Sustainability Commitment | 24 Contact Us Call: 1300 635 315 Fax: (08) 6389 4242 5/95 Stirling Highway Nedlands WA 6009 info@elliottinsurance.com.a u
