I am pleased to confirm that Smidesprodukter AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Mikael Wennberg Sales & Marketing Director Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  We have a written company policy about human rights and discrimination.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  We have continued discussions internally to approve the awareness of human rights and how Smidesprodukter AB and how everyone should be treated equal.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Every year we make a survey among the staff about how the employees feel about their situation and ability to have an influence on the company. This year we got a top score, but we always try to improve. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  All of the blue collar employees are connected to the union. We follow Swedish law for working environment and workers rights.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  We have representatives for checking the working environment and external audits are performed by Swedish government. The goal for next year is zero injuries and to work with long term sustainable working environment.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No answer provided. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Smidesprodukter follows ISO14001 and have recycling on almost all of the goods. Most products are sourced locally to decrease to environmental impact.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  Waste are kept to a minimum and a there is a constant ongoing work to reduce waste and improve recycling.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  Since 2006 Smidesprodukter have reduced the CO2 emissions with 60%. We got a top score in the environmental performance audit performed by an independent audit firm for our ISO 14001 certificate. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Smidesprodukter works in the Nordics with both local customers and suppliers. Scandinavia is a considered low risk area were it comes to corruption and a zero-tolerance from everyone in the business keep the high moral for the future.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Corruption is not a relevant problem in Sweden and we feel that we have the necessary check points to avoid fake invoices to be paid and so on.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  All invoices have to be checked by the responsible person for the purchase, the CEO and the financial department. This means that everything is triple-checked. We have never had a case of corruption and we do not accept corruption. External financial revisions have never found any bribes or anything out of the ordinary.
