OUR ACTIONS, OUR IMPACT CR REP OR T NORMA GROUP NORMA Group is an international market and technology leader in engineered joining technology (joining, mounting and fluid-handling technology). The Company manufactures a wide range of innovative joining technology solutions in three product categories – CLAMP, CONNECT and FLUID – and offers more than 40,000 high-quality products and solutions to around 10,000 customers in more than 100 countries. NORMA Group’s joining products are used in various industries and can be found in vehicles, ships, trains, aircraft, domestic appliances, engines and plumbing systems as well as in applications for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. From its headquarters in Maintal near Frankfurt/Main, Germany, the Company coordinates a global network consisting of 27 production facilities as well as numerous sales and distribution sites across Europe, the Americas, and Asia-Pacific. 2 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOREWORD RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT Strategic Approach  15 Strategic Approach  37 Compliance and Human Rights  16 Environmental Management Systems  37 Responsible Marketing Policy  18 CO 2 Management at NORMA Group  38 Results of Sustainability Ratings  18 Water in Production  39 Outlook  19 Resource Efficiency  40 NORMA GROUP AT A GLANCE Environmental Impact of Products: Water and CO 2  41 Outlook  43 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS CR STRATEGY Strategic Approach  21 COMMUNITY Quality  21 Five Key Areas of Action  9 Sustainability in Purchasing  23 Strategic Approach  45 Management of CR  9 Innovation  24 NORMA Clean Water  46 Stakeholders and Materiality  10 Customer Satisfaction  26 Corporate Volunteering  47 CR Roadmap 2020  12 Outlook  27 Commitment at the Sites  48 Awareness of CR within the Company  13 Outlook  49 EMPLOYEES DATA Strategic Approach  29 Occupational Health and Safety  30 About this Report  51 Training and Development  31 Key Performance Indicators  53 Appropriate Remuneration GRI Content Index  59 and Employee Satisfaction  33 Assurance Report  64 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 34 Imprint  66 Outlook  35 3 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 FOREWORD [GRI 102-12, 102-14] DEAR READERS, Why is Corporate Responsibility important? The It is important to us to implement our Corporate This report presents the results of our Corporate contribution companies like NORMA Group make Responsibility measures along the entire value Responsibility activities over the past year. The is crucial to ensuring economic, social and envichain, be it through more sustainable supplier successes we have enjoyed as a company are ronmental progress. In times of global challenges management, more environmentally friendly probuilt on the commitment of our employees. They such as climate change and natural resource duction processes, the contribution of our prodtherefore have our heartfelt thanks! scarcity, it is imperative that everyone particiucts to reducing emissions or the more efficient pates in the search for solutions – and that also use of water. Please consider this report as an opportunity to goes of course for NORMA Group. enter into dialogue with us – we look forward to Last year, we once again supported social projyour suggestions! As in previous years, NORMA Group is systematects in the neighborhoods surrounding our ically addressing this task. In a comprehensive plants, such as with the voluntary commitment of The Management Board analysis last year, we clarified what sustainability hundreds of our employees on NORMA Help Day. issues are important to us. Alongside this, we At Group level, we completed our flagship project have also developed a new Corporate ResponsiNORMA Clean Water in India and launched a folbility Roadmap, which substantiates our requirelow-up project in Brazil. Its focus is once again on ments with measurable targets by 2020. access to and responsible use of clean drinking water. The basis for this is formed by the consistent involvement of all of NORMA Group’s stakeholder Since the beginning of this year, we have also groups, whose perspectives we incorporate into expressed our commitment by signing the ten our Company’s decisions. This was once again principles of the UN Global Compact. We want made clear at last year’s Stakeholder Roundtathis not only to clarify our commitment to human ble on the subject of electromobility: feedback rights, employees, the environment and anti-corfrom participants from society, science and ruption – at the same time, the principles are an industry is helping us to position NORMA Group incentive for us to further improve NORMA for the future and to take account of the expectaGroup’s sustainability performance. tions that are placed on us. Bernd Kleinhens Dr. Michael Schneider Chairman (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 4 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 NORMA GROUP AT A GLANCE Business Model Product portfolio and applications PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION SITES OF NORMA GROUP [GRI 102-07, 103] [GRI 102-02, 102-06] [GRI 102-04] NORMA Group is an international market and The products that NORMA Group offers can Asiatechnology leader in the area of advanced for the most part be divided into the three EMEA M S M S Americas M S Pacific M S M S and standardized connecting technology product categories clamps (CLAMP), joining Germany • • Switzerland • • Brasil • • Australia • Malaysia • • (joining, mounting and fluid-handling techelements (CONNECT) and fluid systems/conFrance • • Serbia • Mexico • • China • • Singapore • Italy • Spain • USA • • India • • South Korea • nology). With its 27 production sites and nunectors (FLUID). Netherlands • Czech Indonesia • Thailand • merous sales offices, the Group has a global Poland • • Republic • Japan • network with which it supplies more than The clamp products (CLAMP) are manufacPortugal • • Turkey • 10,000 customers in more than 100 countured from unalloyed steels or stainless steel Russia • • United M = Manufacturing locations Sweden • • Kingdom • • S = Sales and distribution sites tries. NORMA Group’s product portfolio inand are generally used to join or seal elastocludes more than 40,000 high-quality joining mer hoses. products and solutions in the three product categories clamps (CLAMP), joining elements The connection products (CONNECT) include (CONNECT) and fluid systems/connectors connectors made of unalloyed steels or stain(FLUID). The products NORMA Group offers less steel that are partly equipped with elastoare used across industries in a wide range of mer or metal seals and are used as the joining applications, whereby the product specificaand sealing elements of metal and thermo­ tions differ depending on the application and plastic pipes. customer requirements. FLUID products are single or multiple layer High customer satisfaction forms the founthermoplastic plug-in connectors and liquid dation of NORMA Group’s continued sucsystems that reduce installation times, ensure cess. The main factors here are the customreliable flow of liquids or gases and occasionized ­system solutions, the global availability ally replace conventional products such as of products in consistently high quality and elastomer hoses. In addition, the FLUID dividelivery reliability. sion’s product range includes solutions for applications in the sectors of storm water manBy opening new plants and competence cenagement and landscape irrigation, but also ters and making strategic acquisitions, joining components for infrastructure solutions NORMA Group has succeeded in expanding its in the area of water. international presence quite significantly in reNORMA Group is also active in the construction cent years while optimizing its distribution NORMA Group’s advanced engineered joining and mechanical engineering industry, the channels and intensifying its cooperation with technology is used in all applications in which pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields, local customers. pipelines, tubes and other systems need to be agriculture and the drinking water supply and connected together. Besides the automotive, irrigation industry as well as in other sectors. The information reviewed by PwC, commercial vehicle, and aviation industry, ANNUAL REPORT, P. 49 which together forms the separate non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to the respective text. 5 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 NORMA GROUP AT A GLANCE Two complementary and importers. You may find further information Operative segmentation by regions distribution channels on our distributions channels in the annual NORMA Group’s strategy is based, among othNORMA Group supplies its customers via two report. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 50 er considerations, on regional growth targets. different sales channels: In order to achieve these, the operative busiOrganisational and legal structure ness is managed by the three regional seg›› Engineered Joining Technology – EJT and [GRI 102-01, 102-03, 102-05, 102-07, 102-08, 102-45] ments EMEA, the Americas and Asia-Pacific. ›› Distribution Services – DS. 7,667 employees (2016: 6,664) worked for All three regions have networked regional and NORMA Group at the end of 2017 of whom cross-company organizations with different The two distribution channels differ in terms of 1,552 were temporary staff. NORMA Group SE functions. The internal Group reporting and the degree of specification of the products, is the parent company of NORMA Group. It has control system that Management uses is also while having intersections in production and its headquarters in Maintal near Frankfurt/Main, therefore quite regional in nature. development that enable cost benefits and enGermany. NORMA Group SE serves as the forsure highest quality standards. mal legal holding of the Group. It is responsible Market and competitive environment for the strategic management of business activWith its products, NORMA Group provides The area of EJT includes sophisticated, indiities. As of December 31, 2017, NORMA Group solutions for numerous industrial applications. vidually customized joining technology and is SE holds shares in 47 companies that belong to Its expertise covers metal-based connection particularly characterized by close developNORMA Group either directly or indirectly and solutions and products (CLAMP and CONNECT) ment partnerships with OEMs (original equipare fully consolidated. Further information, e.g. as well as thermoplastic materials (FLUID). ment manufacturers). Via its Distribution Serregarding the structure of our Group-wide cenThanks to the unique combination of expertise vices (DS), NORMA Group markets a broad tral management responsibilities can be found in both metal and plastics processing and the range of high-quality, standardized brand in the annual report. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 47 broad diversification of its product portfolio, products. In addition to its own global distribuNORMA Group can offer its customers a wide tion network, the Company also relies on mulGroup management range of solutions to different problems from a tipliers such as sales representatives, retailers [GRI 102-18, GRI 102-19, GRI 102-23] single source and thus distinguishes itself from NORMA Group SE has a dual management system that consists of a Management Board SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS 2017 and a Supervisory Board. The Management PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT AT NORMA GROUP Board manages the Company under its own EJT 63%  DS 37% responsibility, while the Supervisory Board adCore workforce Temporary staff vises and monitors the Management Board. 6,115 1,552 Detailed information on the composition of the 2017 7,667 Management Board and Supervisory Board as well as the allocation of responsibilities can be 5,450 1,214 found in the Corporate Governance Report. 2016 6,664 ANNUAL REPORT, P. 38 Information on compensation structures can be found in the Remuner5,121 1,185 ation Report for the Management and Supervi2015 6,306 sory Board . ANNUAL REPORT, P. 97 6 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 NORMA GROUP AT A GLANCE its competitors who mainly specialize in indiKEY FINANCIAL FIGURES vidual product segments. in EUR millions Revenue Significant changes 2017 1,017.1 [GRI 102-10] In January 2017, NORMA Group acquired the 2016 894.9 clamp manufacturer Lifial – Indústria Metalúrgica de Águeda, Lda. (‘Lifial’). NORMA Group 2015 889.6 Holding GmbH holds a majority share, while NORMA Verwaltungs GmbH holds a minority. Lifial, based in Águeda, Portugal, produces Adjusted gross profit metal clamps for use in industry and agricul2017 601.3 ture. The company employs around 100 people and markets its trademarked products to cus2016 545.6 tomers in Europe and North Africa. Lifial was included in the scope of consolidation effective 2015 533.1 January 1, 2017. In the second quarter of 2017, NORMA Adjusted EBITA Group acquired 80% of the shares of the 2017 174.5 newly founded company Fengfan Fastener (Shaoxing) Co., Ltd. (‘Fengfan‘) based in Sha2016 157.5 oxing City, China, via its holding company in Asia-Pacific (NORMA Group Asia Pacific Hold2015 156.3 ing Pte.). Fengfan manufactures joining products made of stainless steel, nylon and spe0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 cial material. Its portfolio includes cable ties, fasteners and specially coated fireproof textiles. Fengfan was included into the scope of consolidation from May 18, 2017, on. KPIs on environment, health and safety were reported Share of sales realized internationally (in %) from October 1, 2017, on. 2017 80.3 2016 78.8 2015 78.3 0 20 40 60 80 100 7 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 CR STRATEGY Corporate Responsibility has to be developed and realized by every employee of NORMA Group. The management has implemented a long-term Corporate Responsibility Strategy involving all sites and employees. CR STRATEGY FIVE KEY AREAS OF ACTION THE FIVE KEY AREAS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT NORMA GROUP NORMA Group has systematically implemented Corporate Responsibility (CR) since 2012. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT The CR mission statement and key areas of action have formed the basis for managing sustainability issues in our Company ever since. We are therefore again structuring the present C R S T RAT E GY report on the basis of these areas of action. Five Key Areas Our CR mission statement applies to the enof Action  9 tire NORMA Group. It covers five key areas of COMMUNITY EMPLOYEES Management of CR  9 action and defines our basic understanding of Stakeholders Corporate Responsibility. It describes our and Materiality  10 strategic approach with the aim of coordinatCR Roadmap 2020  12 ing the responsibility of our Company in a Awareness of CR structured manner and further developing it within the Company  13 towards its targets. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT OF CR CR strategy creates the basis for responsible action For us, Corporate Responsibility means reconciling the impact of our business with the needs of society. Our products already make a valuable contribution to a more sustainable soENVIRONMENT BUSINESS SOLUTIONS ciety by helping to reduce the negative effects of global megatrends. Our CR strategy forms the basis of our responsible actions and transparent business practices. In order to strategically align and further develop our CR measures, we have set up a CR The information reviewed by PwC, Roadmap with specific objectives for each area which together forms the separate of action. CR ROADMAP 2020 The respective denon-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to partments are responsible for filing and implethe respective text. menting these CR objectives with measures. Guidelines and management approaches are 9 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 CR STRATEGY developed for the material CR topics. These STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY value an open and appreciative approach to can be implemented reliably and standardized stakeholder expectations. internationally. We use existing management Close exchange with stakeholders systems, expand them if necessary, or rebuild [GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-43, 102-44] The annual stakeholder roundtable is an imthem. The Group-wide approaches are comNORMA Group sees itself as a transparent and portant event for NORMA Group to actively explemented by nationally adapted, decentralized open Company. We specifically and proactively­ change with its stakeholders on CR issues. measures. Whether CR topics are managed seek exchange with our internal and external NORMA Group already invited participants to and implemented Group-wide or decentralized stakeholders. This enables us to effectively exchange views in 2015 and 2016; the focus depends on how the respective CR objectives implement the continuous improvement prowas then on the “CR Roadmap 2018” and can be achieved as effectively as possible. cess that applies to the entire NORMA Group “Supply Chain Sustainability.” The third stakein the area of Corporate Responsibility. We holder roundtable on Corporate Responsibility STAKEHOLDER ROUNDTABLE: Anchoring CR at the consider it part of our responsible corporate took place on September 7, 2017, and focused E-MOBILITY AT NORMA GROUP highest management level governance that stakeholders’ interests and on “Electromobility at NORMA Group” (see ilThe emissions scandal, potential driving [GRI 102-18, 102-20] the impact of our own business activities on lustration to the right). The stakeholder roundbans for diesel vehicles, the emergence Cross-departmental and multi-site goverstakeholders are reflected in our key decitable will be continued in the coming years of alternative engines and autonomous nance is important and necessary for institusions. Particularly in the strategic direction, we with at least one dialogue event per year. driving – the automotive industry is on tionalizing CR throughout NORMA Group. the move. This also affects companies Therefore, a Corporate Responsibility Steering such as NORMA Group that sell various Committee was established in 2012. Anchorproducts to manufacturers of motor vehiing directly with the Management Board, it uncles. In September 2017, NORMA Group derpins the high relevance of this topic for our invited experts from science, NGOs, poliCompany. The CR Steering Committee reptics and the industry to Frankfurt to disresents all relevant areas at Group level. It incuss the potential consequences of these changes. The focus of the discussion was cludes the managers responsible for purchasKEY STAKEHOLDERS OF NORMA GROUP on electric mobility. ing, production, human resources, investor relations, legal and compliance. NORMA Group shared its view of electroEmployees Customers mobility with participants, presenting its The CR Steering Committee meets twice a internal e-mobility strategy for discusyear. Its most important task is to further desion. Parti­c ipants appreciated NORMA velop NORMA Group’s overall CR positioning Group’s future-oriented path and encourFinancial markets Suppliers aged the company to continue down it. and strategic CR orientation. The Committee also assesses cross-departmental coordinaThe experts also expressed their expection and the status of the achievement of obtations and made recommendations for jectives progress achieving goals. Our CR Offurther measures, such as increased cooperation with research and automotive ficers manage departmental coordination, Science  Non-profit organizations service providers. reporting directly to NORMA Group’s responsible member of the Management Board. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 39 Media Politics 10 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 CR STRATEGY New materiality analysis developed RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS MATERIAL CR TOPICS [GRI 102-15, 102-42, 102-46, 102-49] [GRI 102-47] In the past year, NORMA Group once again carried out a comprehensive analysis to define the RELEVANCE RELEVANCE social, environmental and economic sustain6 ability issues of importance to us. The so6 called materiality analysis was based on the recommendations of the Global Reporting Ini5 tiative (GRI). We first gathered a comprehensive list of CR issues based on topics that were 5.5 Efficient production processes considered to be material in the analysis in Compliance 4 2015 as well as relevant standards and guideElimination of discrimination management systems Health and safety lines such as the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable purchasing Customer satisfaction Training and development CO2 emissions through NG products (GRI), the Sustainable Development Goals Eco management systems Quality management (SDGs) and the CSR Directive Implementation 3 CO2 emissions in 5 Appropriate remuneration Recycling of waste production processes Act (CSR-RUG). Issues were then aggregated Research and development and a total of 40 topics were identified which Water consumption through NG products Awareness of CR strategy were assigned to the five key areas of action. 2 Freedom of Employee Innovation For these 40 topics, impact and relevance asassociation satisfaction management sessments were then conducted. 4.5 1 The impact assessment specifically focused on evaluating the impact that NORMA Group has on the respective topics. Both positive 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 4.5 5 5.5 6 and negative effects were given equal considIMPACT / RISK IMPACT / RISK eration. This assessment was supplemented by a risk assessment of what arises for NORMA Group in connection with these isTo assess relevance, a questionnaire was The results of the materiality analysis were The significant issues we have identified will sues. This was based on so-called gross completed by more than 30 internal and extermerged into a materiality matrix and then prishape CR management at NORMA Group in risks, which are risks NORMA Group faces in nal stakeholders. Respondents indicated to oritized. The result of this process is shown in the coming years. NORMA Group’s CR Roadthe event that no suitable countermeasures what extent an issue influenced their assessan overview in the illustrated materiality mamap 2020 was defined last year in the wake were implemented. Both assessments were ment of NORMA Group (from “irrelevant” to trix. The beginning of each chapter presents in of the materiality analysis. CR ROADMAP 2020 conducted in internal workshops with experts “very relevant”). Participant selection was detail the topics for that area of action along The results of the materiality analysis also from their respective departments. based on departmental suggestions and inwith their materiality. frame the content of this report as well as our cluded all key stakeholder groups. internal reporting. 11 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 CR STRATEGY CR ROADMAP 2020 OUR CORE OBJECTIVES 2020 OUR TARGET VALUES 2020 CR Roadmap 2020 defined [GRI 102-44] The CR Roadmap has already proven itself in Consistently good to excellent reviews on our recent years as a strategic steering instrument NORMA Group is to be perceived as a responsible activities and measures that pertain to at NORMA Group. On the one hand, it reflects RESPONSIBLE company in terms of all of its operations. responsible management within our Group in MANAGEMENT surveys and ratings. the high ambitions for Corporate Responsibility that NORMA Group pursues, but at the same time sets objectively measurable targets. The Roadmap is therefore also a performance indicator for us in Corporate Responsibility: our NORMA Group will improve and strengthen its progress in the areas covered by the Roadmap To be the market leader in all business fields of market position, taking sustainable business is regularly reviewed internally and reported BUSINESS relevance to NORMA Group by the end of 2018. SOLUTIONS practices and relationships into account. externally. The targets we set ourselves for the year 2017 were largely achieved and even surpassed. We consider this a great success, but we do not want to rest on our laurels. NORMA Group will be viewed as an employer Overall employee satisfaction determined in the of choice for its employees and will continue to NORMA Group has now launched a new CR Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) is to be imattract, retain and inspire the most talented Roadmap for the period until 2020. The strucEMPLOYEES proved (the satisfaction score in the ESS 2017 was people to live and to share the company’s values ture of the Roadmap is based on our five key at 2.74 on a scale of 1 (very good) to 7 (very poor)). and vision. areas of action, as in previous years. The concrete frame of reference are the topics that the materiality analysis identified as particularly relevant. We are thus ensuring that our NORMA Group will continuously and systematically 100% of NORMA Group’s global production sites targets are based on the expectations of our reduce the negative environmental impact of its are to be certified according to ISO 14001 by no stakeholders. STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ENVIRONMENT production processes. later than the end of 2018 and then continuously. The targets were set in the CR Steering Committee with the participation of responsible management and confirmed by the Management Board. NORMA Group will position itself as a responsible Consistently good to excellent reviews on the COMMUNITY partner in the community. community involvement in stakeholder surveys. 12 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 CR STRATEGY AWARENESS OF CR WITHIN THE COMPANY Internal CR communication Both internal and external communication is via various channels rounded off with social media and blog posts. At Continuous exchange with external Successfully implemented measures in Corpothe local level, communication activities are imstakeholders ensures transparency rate Responsibility – whether in the areas of plemented, for example, by environmental proWe want to communicate transparently and quality, environment, compliance or any other – tection, occupational safety and local compliance openly with our various stakeholder groups at all depend on the contribution and commitment of officers. Measures such as Diversity Day, NORMA times. Continuous communication through varieach individual employee. Only when everyone Help Day and the NORMA Clean Water project ous channels is of central importance to improvmakes a contribution can we as a Company are intended to shed light on current societal ing our ability to strategically align our actions. oper­ate successfully and sustainably. challenges and encourage employees to engage For instance, we host background discussions, in their own activities. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPas well as our annual stakeholder roundtable. In It is our goal to inspire our employees to act susPORTUNITY CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING addition, we participate in conferences, worktainably in their daily work. The targets of the CR shops and industry meetings, engaging in perRoadmap are communicated to all sites by the Success of measures is reviewed regularly sonal exchanges with our stakeholders. departments responsible for CR issues. CR at Awareness and knowledge of Corporate Respon“BRINGING DIVERSITY TO THE NORMA Group does not take place in an ivory sibility in the company was first addressed in last COMPANY” – NORMA GROUP’S We also achieve transparency towards the finantower, but is integrated into daily work right from year’s employee survey. Nearly 80% of our emEMPLOYEE MAGAZINE cial and CR community by publishing the annual the start. Our internal communication on our corployees agreed that they are familiar with the The employee magazine LET’S CONNECT report, the CR report and press releases, among porate goals and our wide range of CR measures Corporate Responsibility Policy and NORMA is published three times a year in nine other activities. On our website and NORMA is transparent, as well. In particular, we use interGroup’s CR objectives. It is our ambition to enlanguages and distributed across all Group social media channels, we also provide nal channels such as the employee newspaper sure that all employees are familiar with our CR NORMA Group sites. LET’S CONNECT continuous information on our Company activi“LET’S CONNECT” and the Intranet. We also inpolicy and its overarching goals. Our goal is to brings sustainability topics to the workties. We want to increase understanding of our form our employees at the production sites of increase CR awareness to at least 85% in the force in many ways. actions as well as confidence in NORMA Group notices who do not have access to the Intranet. upcoming employee survey to be held in 2020. through the high level of transparency regarding Among other topics, the employee magazine sheds light on NORMA Group’s latour activities in the fields of corporate goverest activities and news in Corporate Renance, the environment and social issues. sponsibility. The “Helping Hands” column focuses on the volunteer efforts of individuals: particularly committed employees are highlighted and their projects presented. Diversity is a core element of the magazine’s concept: “We take our colleagues on a journey to other sites, countries and cultures,” says Alexandra Lipkowski, Interim Vice President of Group Communications. “It shows how diverse NORMA Group’s world is and builds global bridges between our employees.” 13 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT As a global manufacturer of engineered joining technology for customers across diverse industries, it is important to have a particular focus on balancing the impacts of the business with the various needs of the general public. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT STRATEGIC APPROACH RELEVANCE 6 Acting responsibly is our basic principle Compliance management Responsibility, honesty and mutual respect – Prevention of human rights abuses systems from both the management and our employees and from NORMA Group towards our business Elimination of discrimination 5 partners – shape our corporate culture. We are RE SPON SIBL E Awareness of CR strategy aware of our responsibility to employees, cusM AN AGE M E N T Freedom of association tomers, suppliers and our social and ecological Whistleblower systems environment. Sustainable development goals Strategic Approach  15 4 Sustainability reporting Compliance and NORMA Group expects its managers and Human Rights  16 employees to not only comply with existing Responsible laws and regulations but also to respect Marketing Policy  18 important ethical standards. In particular, the 3 Results of compliance guidelines of NORMA Group have Sustainability Ratings  18 groundbreaking character. In order to meet Outlook  19 these requirements, we have set up and continuously develop the appropriate systems, 2 including compliance and risk management systems. NORMA Group is committed to international human rights and diversity 1 [GRI 102-41, 406-01, 407-01, 408-01; 409-01, 412-01, 419-01] As part of our activities, we do not tolerate compliance violations, such as human rights violations, violations of freedom of association or any form of discrimination. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 IMPACT / RISK Every aspect of our business respects international human rights. NORMA Group rejects all We also recognize the right of our employees In 2017, there were no cases of discrimination forms of forced, compulsory and child labor. In to join unions and to found employee repredetermined by courts nor violations of freedoing so, ILO Conventions numbers 138 and sentations. We reject discrimination based on dom of association determined by courts as The information reviewed by PwC, 182 are recognized as the minimum standard ethnic background, gender, sexual orientation being committed by NORMA Group. Overall, which together forms the separate for protection against child labor. We are and religion. With this in mind, NORMA Group NORMA Group was under no obligation to pay non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to committed to preventing slavery and human supports measures to promote diversity within significant fines for non-compliance with laws the respective text. trafficking in our business activities. the company. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY and regulations. 15 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT We also assume our responsibility along the COMPLIANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS Our compliance management system aims to value chain. This is why we commit our suppliensure that our values and rules are lived ers to comply with and respect human rights in Global guidelines determine throughout the Group. Concrete steps are their value chains. However, due to the size and the framework determined, implemented and comprehended complexity of the value chain, human rights [GRI 102-16; 103] each year in a Compliance Action Plan. violations cannot be ruled out entirely because Understanding NORMA Group’s values forms NORMA Group has only limited influence on the basis for all business decisions and activiGroup-wide anchoring of compliance compliance with the minimum standards that ties at our Group. In particular, our growing The Management Board of NORMA Group is extends beyond its direct business partners. If global focus makes global implementation and responsible for an effective compliance manwe learn that our business partners are comcompliance with codes of conduct increasingly agement system. The Chief Compliance Officer mitting or tolerating human rights violations, important. manages the Group-wide compliance activities we end the relationship. In the event of violaand reports directly to the Management Board. tions by employees, we take measures that The implementation of compliance-specific Besides the central compliance department at can ultimately lead to the termination of the frameworks sets rules clearly and transparGroup level, Compliance Officers are appointed employment relationship. Compliance violaently. The central compliance guidelines at at the level of the regions EMEA, Americas and tions can potentially occur at every stage of the NORMA Group are APAC as well as in all operationally active indivalue chain. They relate to employees, supplividual entities. The Compliance Officers of the ers and other stakeholders who are in contact ›› the CODE OF CONDUCT , individual Group companies are in regular conwith NORMA Group’s business activities. ›› the two policy directives CONFLICTS OF tact with the other local departments and regSUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING INTEREST POLICY and the ANTI-CORRUPTION ularly report to the responsible Regional ComPOLICY as well as pliance Officer, who in turn reports to the Chief ›› the SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT . Compliance Officer. Any member of NORMA Group’s compliance COMPLIANCE GUIDELINES organization can be contacted at any time on any compliance issues. The Compliance CODE OF CONFLICTS OF department is in close communication with the CONDUCT INTEREST POLICY legal department of NORMA Group in order to continuously take into account new or changed legal requirements in the compliance risk analANTICORRUPTION yses and in the compliance program. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT POLICY The effectiveness of the compliance organization set up by the Management Board is monitored by the Supervisory Board of NORMA Group SE, which is regularly informed about compliance-relevant matters and receives the Company’s annual Compliance Action Plan. 16 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Close risk monitoring and control Measures focus on training and 1,318 employees were trained online on com[GRI 102-11; 205-01] the whistleblower system pliance topics. Based on a rating system that incorporates [GRI 205-02] both internal and external factors (such as To ensure the effectiveness of NORMA Group’s NORMA Group’s training courses were fully Transparency International’s Corruption Percompliance management system, all employand punctually completed by the registered ception Index), the risk exposure of each indiees must be familiar with the relevant legal employees as of the balance sheet date, taking employees trained in online vidual NORMA Group company is evaluated requirements and internal compliance guideinto account the applicable processing time. compliance training courses in 2017. centrally for possible compliance-relevant risks lines. Our goal is that all employees of NORMA 2,939 hours of online compliance training (compliance risk scoping) by NORMA Group Group know our compliance rules as well as were carried out in fiscal year 2017 in line with Compliance. the contact persons and reporting channels. previously mentioned criteria. Together with the companies that have a The compliance training that NORMA Group Employees who are unable to participate in higher risk value, specific compliance risk offers serves as the basis for this. It takes online training for language or technical reaassessments are carried out on-site, performplace in the form of face-to-face and online sons, especially industrial employees, are ing a detailed analysis of the specific complitraining sessions. Depending on the job and trained personally by the local Compliance of the online compliance ance risks of the company. In addition to the responsibility profile of an employee, the trainOfficers in face-to-face trainings. training courses were held local Compliance Officer, representatives of all ing courses to be completed are assigned as during the required time period. relevant departments (e.g. Finance, Purchasneeded. Training of fundamental relevance The need for training is checked regularly. ing, Human Resources, Production, Research must be completed as basic training by every Internal reporting records the status of compli& Development) are included. employee of NORMA Group. This includes the ance training. This report is included in the staonline training courses “Code of Conduct & tus report on the Compliance Action Plan and The risks to which NORMA Group is exposed Compliance Basics,” “Information Security” is reported to the Management Board on a form the basis for determining the compliance and “Compliance in Purchasing.” Depending quarterly basis. program and the corresponding measures. on the employee’s job profile, specific focus Implementing these measures and adhering to trainings (including “anti-corruption,” “antiCompliance-related topics are also communihours of online compliance training the compliance rules are also regular audit trust,” “product liability”) must also be comcated via additional channels such as posters, in total were attended by tasks of Internal Auditing. pleted. In addition, we have developed a conbrochures, Compliance Safety Cards, which NORMA Group employees in 2017. cept to refresh the learning content so that the summarize key compliance topics in a conessential and basic contents of the online densed form, and emails and Intranet articles. training are repeated in compressed form once a year in order to keep the knowledge of the Different ways of reporting violations employees up to date. We encourage our employees to report violations of rules and internal policies, even across In the past fiscal year, a total of 598 employees hierarchical levels. Besides personally were registered in the online training system approaching supervisors, the human resources for the basic training and 418 employees for department or Compliance Officers, our Interthe relevant focus trainings. In addition, 1,335 net-based whistleblower system is yet another employees were enrolled in the mandatory example. It enables the anonymous reporting annual compliance refresher training. All in all, of matters by internal or external whistleblow17 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT ers. The employees of the compliance organiproducts, informing our customers about potenGroup once again ranks among the top five perzation always follow up on indications of possitial risks of use, helping them to obtain all desired cent of rated companies. As a result, we continue ble compliance violations. information about our products and always makto hold Gold Status, the best possible status in ing our marketing communication distinguishthe EcoVadis rating. PRESS RELEASE ECOVADIS For cases in which the electronic whistleblower able as such. system cannot be used by our employees for NORMA Group also records above-average pertechnical or organizational reasons (for examFurther measures on assessing and improformance in the sustainability ratings issued by ple, a lack of PC access by employees in pro­ ving customer satisfaction can be found at the financial market: In the ranking by the rating duction), we offer other suitable reporting CUSTOMER SATISFACTION . agency Sustainalytics, NORMA Group achieved channels, such as notice boxes at our plants. the status “Outperformer.” We were also able to RESULTS OF SUSTAINABILITY RATINGS improve our performance in the rating of the RESPONSIBLE MARKETING POLICY agency Oekom Research. We achieved good Ratings are both confirmation results in both ratings, especially in the areas of The successes in the sustainability Responsible Marketing Policy introduced and motivation water management, environmental protection ratings are on the one hand [GRI 417-01] NORMA Group also received feedback on its Corand occupational safety. Trusting and long-term relationships with our porate Responsibility services from external ratconfirmation of our work in the customers are the foundation of NORMA Group’s ing agencies in 2017. The questions posed to These successes are on the one hand confirmaarea of Corporate Responsibility. success. We use our two distribution channels NORMA Group in this context are based on the tion of our continuous and intensive work in the EJT and DS to address many different target most important sustainability indicators from the area of Corporate Responsibility. On the other On the other hand, we also use audiences. In fact, our company maintains conareas of environment, social affairs and corpohand, the feedback is also motivation for the the detailed analyses to further tact with over 10,000 customers in more than rate governance that affect all areas of the Comfuture: we are using the detailed analyses to 100 countries and promotes more than 40,000 pany. As a rule, surveyed companies are asked to identify potentials for improvement and to impleimprove our sustainability products and solutions. Despite this complexity, substantiate their answers with documents and ment appropriate measures, further improving performance. we want to ensure that communication with our certificates. The results of the ratings are mainly our sustainability performance. customers follows consistent standards that corused by two stakeholder groups: customers and respond to our principles for responsible manfinancial market players. agement. That’s why we developed a Responsible Marketing Policy last year that applies to all The feedback that NORMA Group received last employees who engage in marketing activities in year turned out to be very positive: our measures our Company. consistently received good to very good ratings from the rating agencies. As a result, we were In terms of content, our Responsible Marketing once again able to fully achieve the correspondPolicy is based on the recommendations of the ing core target of our CR Roadmap. International Chamber of Commerce. It calls for all marketing measures to always be legal, In the area of sustainability ratings, which are decent, honest and truthful. When advertising for conducted directly by our customers, NORMA our products and solutions, we apply the highest Group was able to confirm its strong perforpossible transparency. Specifically, this means mance of previous years. In the sustainability ratassuming responsibility for the quality of our ing conducted by the EcoVadis Platform, NORMA 18 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK AT A GLANCE: OUR CR ROADMAP 2020 Acting responsibly has long been an essenCORE OBJECTIVE “RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT” TARGET VALUE FOR 2020 tial basic principle of NORMA Group. That NORMA Group is to be perceived as a responsible company in Consistently good to excellent reviews on our activities and principle must be reexamined, refined, and terms of all of its operations. measures that pertain to responsible management within our adjusted to social and economic conditions Group in surveys and ratings. again and again for concrete implementation. EcoVadis Gold Status also confirms the OUR GOAL MILESTONE DATE STATUS holistic nature of our CR Strategy and its All employees will know the CR policy and At least 85% awareness of the CR policy 2020 2017: 79.6% successful implementation. its overarching objectives. in the 3-year Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS). Our decision-making processes are based on the active involvement of our stakeholders. We We will receive advice on the orientation of Once a year a dialogue format with various Annually Dialogues in 2015, our CR strategy and on the main focuses in stakeholder representatives on a CR topic. 2016, 2017 therefore continue to plan to hold an annual the individual fields of action from repredialogue with our stakeholders on current sussentatives of external stakeholder groups. tainability issues at NORMA Group. We will make sure that we employ Externally conducted concept review of the 2019 To be conducted in effective compliance management compliance management system. 2019 We will continue to secure our internal comsystems. Externally conducted effectiveness check. 2020 To be conducted in mitment to acting responsibly through effective 2020 compliance management systems. We have All employees are to be trained on 100% of the employees have completed Annually 2017: 100% set ourselves the goal of carrying out an extercompliance topics in a timely manner the required compliance training courses nally conducted concept and effectiveness test in accordance with their needs. within the defined time frames. of these systems. At the same time, we want to ensure that 100% of our employees complete The contact persons and reporting 100% agreement in the 3-year Employee 2020 2017: 86.9% channels for compliance issues defined Satisfaction Survey (ESS). required compliance training over a defined within NORMA Group will be known to period of time. In order for these measures to all employees. bear fruit, we regularly record awareness of compliance reporting and review whether and NORMA Group will comply with all 0 violations determined by courts. Annually 2017: 0 international and local laws that protect to what extent violations of freedom of associemployees against discrimination. ation and anti-discrimination were determined by courts. NORMA Group will adhere to all 0 violations determined by courts. Annually 2017: 0 international and local laws protecting the freedom of association of workers. 19 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS We operate with our business partners in a socially and environmentally responsible way to guarantee highest quality products and services that help to lower emissions and reduce energy consumption. NORMA Group encourages business partners to introduce environmental and health and safety systems. BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGIC APPROACH RELEVANCE 6 Sustainable solutions for our customers Customer satisfaction NORMA Group’s core business is the developQuality management ment and manufacturing of tailor-made prodSustainable ucts that provide concrete solutions for our Sustainability in the entire supply chain purchasing 5 customers. Our product solutions address the Research and development BU SIN E SS SOLU T I O N S Conflict materials increasing challenges posed by global megaInnovation trends such as resource scarcity and climate Capacity building within NG management Strategic Approach  21 change. The permanent adaptation and further Research cooperations Quality  21 development of our products based on innova4 (with external partners) Sustainability tions play an essential role, as they have to in Purchasing  23 meet ever increasing demands. These include Innovation  24 stricter legal framework conditions and new Customer Satisfaction  26 technical requirements. When used in engines, 3 Outlook  27 for example, this concerns physical capacity at high pressure and high temperature or resistance to new chemical substances. 2 At the same time, NORMA Group attaches great importance to sustainable supply chain management. Our Corporate Responsibility Policy refers to the entire value chain, including our indirect suppliers. We focus on compliance 1 with human rights and social standards. We are continuously expanding our commitment to ensuring appropriate working conditions, as evidenced by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 With high-quality products, innovative ideas for IMPACT / RISK new solutions and efficient and sustainable purchasing, we form the basis for our customQUALITY example, in order to prevent accidents, end cusers’ satisfaction. We regularly review these tartomers depend on automobiles that are reliable gets to ensure that we can meet our customProduct quality is business critical down to the last part, even under extreme condiThe information reviewed by PwC, ers’ needs and continuously improve customer The quality of our products is of great importance tions. The same applies in the area of water manwhich together forms the separate satisfaction. in all industries relevant to NORMA Group. As agement and other industries. That is why we non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to joining elements for various individual parts, want to guarantee our customers the highest the respective text. NORMA Group’s products are often critical to level of reliability with our brands. Quality, cusproper functioning for our direct customers. ­For 21 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS tomer requirements and added value for society standards. All sites with the exception of the US Key non-financial control CUSTOMER COMPLAINT PROCEDURE are thus directly linked. subsidiary NDS are currently certified according parameters defined to ISO 9001 or TS 16949 standards. Another two NORMA Group measures the quality of its Our product quality is based to some extent on sites that supply the aerospace industry are products and processes using two key control Complaint from customer registered high-quality raw materials. This requires that the EN9100 certified. At each of NORMA Group’s parameters, among others: defective parts highest quality standards already be adhered to production sites, local managers are responsible rejected by the customer (in parts per million, during the first stages of our supply chain. for quality management. They report to the ppm) and the number of quality-related comDetailed SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING However, sub-supregional Quality Managers and Global Quality plaints. Due to the high importance of quality questions and pliers can only be indirectly checked for the qualManagement. assurance, both key figures are also significant registration ity of their products. This level of added value is non-financial performance indicators for usually outside NORMA group’s direct control. In addition, we are currently working to achieve NORMA Group. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 54 Risks lie in the fact that a lack of quality would certification of NORMA Group Holding under directly lead to worsened customer relationships. the ISO 9001 standard. This will help us to The number of defective parts was 16 in 2017 Initial ANNUAL REPORT, P. 92 ensure that NORMA Group as a whole, includ(2016: 32), while the number of quality-refeedback within ing all administrative functions, complies with lated customer complaints per month was 9 24 hours Certifications confirm the the highest quality standards. Beginning 2018, (2016: 8). The defect rate is reported each highest quality standards all sites previously certified according to TS month to the Management Board by the Group The aim of our management approach in the 16949 will be upgraded to IATF 16949 certifiQuality Manager. Root cause analyses are NORMA Group responsibility or not? area of quality is to permanently meet the quality cation. We can thus guarantee our customers derived from this at site level and countermeaYes No requirements of our customers. For this purpose, in the automotive industry that we are continusures are defined. Progress on the measures all sites are tested and certified internally and ing to meet what are currently the highest is also reported to the Management Board. We externally in accordance with recognized quality quality standards. have set ourselves ambitious goals for the Root-cause Reply to years to come: by 2020, we want the average analysis customer number of defective parts in all regions to stay below 20 ppm. The number of monthly quality-­ DEFECTIVE PARTS PER MILLION (PPM) related complaints is to be reduced to low single digit figures in the same period.  in ppm (parts per million) Corrective 2017 16 action 2016 32 No Validate success of action plan 2015 21 Yes 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Report to customer 22 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING Supplier Code of Conduct the Code of Conduct can be classified as “preforms the framework ferred” within the commodity group. 100% of Upholding Corporate Responsibility, [GRI 102-16] suppliers who are given the status of “prealso in purchasing All our suppliers must conduct their business ferred” have therefore signed the Code of Con[GRI 102-09, 103] in compliance with laws, ethics, respect for duct or can prove that they have made comIn 2017, NORMA Group purchased goods and human rights, occupational safety and environmitments that extend beyond it. These are 25 services worth EUR 433.1 million. We ensure mental standards. suppliers, which make up around 33% of our Recycled and regranulated plastic that Corporate Responsibility aspects are taken production material turnover. for manufacturing water into consideration: We work hard to make conFor these reasons we have integrated sustainmanagement products tractual relationships with our suppliers socially ability aspects into our purchasing processes In order to be able to better assess, compare and environmentally compatible, and see to it as well as into our organization, in our purand manage our suppliers, we introduced NORMA GROUP’S SUBSIDIARY NDS that human rights, labor and environmental chasing manual for example, which describes Group-wide supplier scoring in 2013. In addiFOCUSES ON RECYCLING standards are adhered to. all essential processes and procedures used tion to the price, numerous other factors are More than 50% of plastic purchased at as a framework for the global organization. The also taken into account, such as quality, cost NDS, NORMA Group’s US subsidiary, is The main purpose of the purchasing process is basis for our sustainable supplier relations is transparency and logistics services. One of the recycled. For certain products, that share to reduce costs for NORMA Group and to our Supplier Code of Conduct. This globally four pillars of scoring is “sustainability,” in is even higher. achieve the maximum value for the company. valid code of conduct outlines our expectations which we query environmental and occupaThe purchasing process is subject to risks with for the sustainable management of our supplitional safety certifications. The proportion of recycled plastic at NDS regard to the quality of deliveries and services, ers. Among other topics, it obliges suppliers to has steadily grown in recent years. At the as well as the neglect of environmental and comply with the following principles: New Sustainability Self-Assessment same time, for NORMA Group the utmost social standards in the supply chain. For this [GRI 308-01, 308-02, 414-01] importance is still placed on delivering reason, we do not only take purely price factors ›› Respect for and attention to human rights For the first time in 2017, a voluntary sustainabilthe highest quality products. “That’s why into consideration, but also evaluate quality, ›› Exclusion of forced and compulsory labor ity self-assessment formed part of our supplier we need to work with our suppliers,” explains Jim Messmer, Senior Procurement logistics and supplier sustainability as part of ›› Prohibition of child labor scoring. We asked our suppliers for detailed Manager at NDS. “In the last year especiour purchasing processes. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 92 ›› Ensuring occupational health and safety information on social issues (freedom of associaally, our suppliers yet again raised the bar ›› Business integrity (anti-corruption) tion, grievance mechanisms and accidents), in terms of the quality and availability of The management of sustainability in purenvironmental issues (including CO2 emissions, recycled materials. This fits in perfectly chasing is the responsibility of our Global With regard to human rights, the Supplier Code water consumption and waste management) and with our local procurement strategy.” Purchasing department. The Stakeholder of Conduct is based on regulations issued by compliance issues. Roundtable in 2016 on “Supply Chain SusILO, UDHR, UN Global Compact and SA8000. NDS intends to further increase its recycling tainability” was an important step in the The evaluation of the self-assessment showed that rate of purchased plastic resins in 2018. development of our sustainability concept for Sustainability in supplier scoring it was completed by 18% of the suppliers included purchasing. MANAGEMENT OF CR NORMA and commodity management in the scoring. We consider this value to be a solid Group presented its approach to external Our commitment to our Supplier Code of Confoundation for us to build on. In the upcoming stakeholders and adjusted its concept in duct plays an important role in our regular puryears, our goal is to increase participation in the accordance with the feedback it received. chasing processes. Only a supplier who signs sustainability self-assessment by 5% per year. 23 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS In addition, NORMA Group intends to embed susinto our eSourcing platform. This allows us to Innovations also form the basis for more environSUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT tainability aspects in its commodity strategies. better evaluate and follow up on feedback from mentally friendly products, in electromobility for Sustainability fact sheets are to be created for our suppliers. We also trained purchasers at all example. However, they can only arise if NORMA various commodities, making it possible to idensites on the importance of the issues of conflict Group creates an innovation-friendly climate in tify sustainability risks more effectively and miniminerals and the potential risk related to the which its employees can develop new ideas and mize them in a targeted manner. materials coming from suppliers who might be foster a culture of innovation. With its organizaRAW MATERIALS SUPPLIER involved. In addition, we ensure that 100% of tional structure at all levels and at all sites, Excluding conflict minerals from the affected suppliers have signed our Supplier Code NORMA Group has a significant influence on supply chain whenever possible of Conduct that requires them to confirm that whether this can be achieved. NORMA Group also purchases minor amounts of they cooperate with conducting due diligence on components that contain so-called “3TG raw conflict minerals issues. Innovation Roadmap forms materials” tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in the basis for R&D DISTRIBUTOR small quantities. These raw materials are particWe share the information we receive with our Our research and development department is ularly controversial in that a large part of the ore customers as transparently as possible. Given tasked with identifying and evaluating innovative deposits lie in conflict regions (particularly those the large number of products, suppliers and subtechnologies worldwide. The basis for the conof the Democratic Republic of Congo), where contractors, it is usually not possible with a reatent orientation of our research activities is our INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS they are partially mined and processed under sonable amount of effort, to make any detailed “Innovation Roadmap.” It focuses on global megserious violations of international law. NORMA traceability statements as to which melting operatrends such as resource scarcity and climate Group aims to exclude these “conflict minerals” ation or mine the raw materials come from for a change, but also on specific market requirefrom our supply chains as far as possible. specific product for a particular customer. ments for specific products. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT NORMA Group does not buy these minerals directly. However, they are partially included in INNOVATION The basis for this is our continuously high financomponents from suppliers. For example, small cial and personnel investment in research and amounts of gold are used in our urea lines, and Innovations secure sustainable growth development. Engineered Joining Technology some components are finished with a coating Besides aspects of social and environmental (EJT) R&D spending in 2017 amounted to EUR consisting of tin. sustainability, it is essential for NORMA Group to 29.4 million (2016: EUR 28.8 million). This corsecure its long-term economic success. The responds to 4.6% of the R&D ratio in terms of We have therefore launched the “Conflict Minerbasis for this is sustainable growth, which we EJT sales. 344 people worked in product develals Roadmap,” which aims to create maximum measure above all through the key figures of opment and R&D at NORMA Group last year transparency within the supplier base. It is based Group revenue and adjusted EBITA margin. (2016: 305). PURCHASING on the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template ANNUAL REPORT, P. 52 Only if we can continue set(CMRT) of the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative, ting ourselves apart from our competitors will we which all relevant suppliers had to fill out. In be able to maintain customer satisfaction and 2016, we integrated the management of CMRT our market position. PRODUCTION AT NORMA GROUP 24 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS Measuring our performance Creating cross-departmental connections Innovation Councils bring on internal key figures Close collaboration between different departexpertise together Since last year, the key indicator according to ments such as R&D, product development and In order to further boost certain issues of particwhich we manage and internally evaluate our application engineering is essential for developular relevance, NORMA Group has also set up research activities is not the number of pating new products and technologies. We have Innovation Councils. These are made up of ents, but rather the number of invention appliinstitutionalized regular exchange meetings at managers from different departments and inventions were formally reported cations in the Company. An invention applicalocal, regional and global levels to optimize this. regions and aim to gather knowledge about within NORMA Group in 2017 tion takes place as part of an internal, In addition, the various teams continue to train radical and disruptive trends in the company formalized process upstream of the external each other in new technologies and projects. environment and to develop strategies for them. process of a new patent application. Since Innovation Councils are created on a temporary inventions are specifically promoted by internal Innovation Scouts deployed at all sites basis: after the strategy development phase, incentive systems and their number does not The basis for innovations are our employees’ these are transferred to the operative work prodepend on registration strategy, this key figure ideas. Many new ideas and suggestions for cesses. Electromobility was the focus of an is even better suited for measuring our innovaimprovement were submitted in 2017 through Innovation Council in 2017. The resulting e-motive strength. We have set ourselves the goal of our employee suggestion scheme. We encourage bility strategy was validated, among others, at employees worked in achieving at least 20 new invention applicaour Innovation Scouts to build on this. Daily work the stakeholder roundtable with external experts.­ research and development at tions every year. This figure was 33 in 2017. does not often provide enough space to pursue STAKEHOLDERS ­A ND MATERIALITY NORMA Group, at the end of 2017 Information on patents and patent families can creative and new ideas. Our Innovation Scouts be found in the ANNUAL REPORT, P. 56. therefore provide all employees with a platform Innovation partnerships with for gathering ideas, pursuing them and apprecicustomers and research institutions We consistently pursue ideas reported to us. ating the creativity of our employees. NORMA Group works closely with universities, They are collected, evaluated and prioritized in research and development institutes as well as a ranking. Environmental aspects also play a In general, Innovation Scouts distinguish themcustomers, suppliers and other partners worldrole in idea management: in evaluating our selves by their many good ideas. In addition, they wide. This allows us to gain additional resources ideas, we focus, among other things, on their serve as multipliers for employees who have and expertise in the development of our products of Engineered Joining Technology (EJT) significance for reducing emissions, combatideas and create connections with our research and to be able to immediately pick up on global sales was invested in ing water scarcity and increasing energy effidepartment. Innovation Scouts are not tied to a trends, seamlessly translating them into new research and development ciency. It is particularly important to us that particular department. Everyone can be innovatechnologies and product ideas. This in turn not only many ideas are generated, but above tive, whether in production or development, in allows for rapid marketing of product innovations. all that they are high-quality: we evaluate purchasing or in the HR department. At Innovaquarterly the average rating of the top 10 tion Summits, the scouts have the opportunity to ideas in our Company. As with the number of exchange at the regional level. We organized two invention applications, the number of ideas such conferences last year, one each for the submitted ­is regularly reported to the ManAPAC and EMEA regions. agement Board. As soon as we discover that this value is ­ dropping, we take counter­ measures such as creative trainings or cross-departmental ­workshops. 25 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS CEO Award recognizes outstanding Close cooperation with important The last CSS produced numerous projects of innovative achievements partners creates proximity various kinds. All involved business units were In recognition of achievements by individuals or To improve customer satisfaction, we are in conasked to initiate 25 improvement measures groups within NORMA Group, we launched the stant dialogue and regularly ask customers to rate each within the past three years. The many sugCEO Award in 2013. It recognizes, for instance, our performance. This feedback will be incorpogested topics included targeted customer visits, process optimizations, higher earnings contriburated into the organization to promote best practhe optimization of our product presentation, on tions, better product quality, competitive advantices and identify and eliminate vulnerabilities. the homepage for instance, and internal training tages and higher environmental friendliness. The for our employees. Management Board decides annually on the best Organizational integration is particularly importideas submitted by employees. ant for successful cooperation with our customIn the past, CSS relied on a quantitative methoders: For example, NORMA Group has local develology in which a large number of customers were AWARDS CONFIRM THE SUCCESS Over 50 proposals from project teams from opers (resident engineers) who, as part of interviewed using a questionnaire. Last year, OF OUR MEASURES around the world were received in 2017. Out of multi-year projects, work directly with customers, however, NORMA Group carried out a compreOur customers’ satisfaction is also the seven finalists, the project “Heavy Duty Drip even at their sites, to develop solutions for spehensive analysis of this process together with all reflected in the many awards that Line” emerged as the winner. The team from the cific industrial challenges. This results in great key internal stakeholders. The goal was to NORMA Group received for its perforUS developed a particularly durable irrigation customer proximity and an even better underimprove the survey method and thus obtain even mance as supplier last year. These inclusystem that has a durability of 20 to 30 years and standing of customer needs. deeper insights into the reasons for the purchase ded the “A Class Award” from Volkswasaves water. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS or non-purchase of NORMA Group products. We gen China, the “Volvo Cars Quality Customer satisfaction is will fundamentally adapt the structure of our cusExcellence (VQE) Award” for our plants in CUSTOMER SATISFACTION measured regularly tomer survey based on the findings. Poland and Czech Republic and the “PlaBesides continuously reviewing key figures from tinum Supplier Status” from General Focus on customer needs the areas of QUALITY and RESEARCH AND DEVELWe will conduct structured interviews with our Motors for our plant in St. Clair in the United States. Our customers’ satisfaction is the basis of our OPMENT , regular Customer Satisfaction Surveys customers in the future. Through personal conbusiness success. Only if we ensure this can we (CSS) are an important part of our successful tact, we can better identify individual needs as The awards especially recognized our sustain our business and ensure the longevity of customer management. Responsibility for implewell as market-relevant trends and proactively product quality, production processes our organization. Orientation toward customer mentation lies with our Marketing department, address them. As before, the results will conand the reliability and continuous improneeds should therefore be a top priority in each whereby Business Development and Operations tinue to be reported directly to the Managevement of our Company. The positive of our specialized areas. Through innovative are closely involved in the subsequent improvement Board. feedback we received from various parthigh-quality products and the continuous optimiment processes. ners related to both Engineered Joining zation of our processes, we increase added value Technology (EJT) and Distribution Serfor our customers – and thus lay the foundation vices (DS) products and included plants for long-term and successful cooperation. in all regions. 26 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 BUSINESS SOLUTIONS OUTLOOK AT A GLANCE: OUR CR ROADMAP 2020 NORMA Group is constantly working to develop CORE OBJECTIVE “BUSINESS SOLUTIONS” TARGET VALUE FOR 2020 new solutions and optimize existing systems to NORMA Group will improve and strengthen its market position, To be the market leader in all business fields of relevance to meet the increasing demands of its customers. taking sustainable business practices and relationships NORMA Group by the end of 2018. At the same time, we are continuing our work into account. to integrate sustainability aspects into our business practices and relationships. OUR GOAL MILESTONE DATE STATUS New control systems and structures on The number of invention disclosures Annually 2017: 33 We want our product solutions to systematiinnovative management will increase the exceeds 20 per year 1. cally align with the needs of our customers. We number of innovative products and prowill therefore further optimize our customer cesses on the market. survey process and continue improving its Our authenticity together with trustworthy Implementation of an updated process to 2018 results. Quality and innovation play a crucial customer relations will contribute to conmeasure customer satisfaction. role for our customers. We have set ourselves tinuous organic and sustainable growth specific targets accordingly: the number of supported by innovations when possible. Development of a baseline and improve in 2020 defective parts should be below 20 parts per the following years. million (ppm) in the medium term, and in the We will improve the quality of our products We will reduce the share of defective parts 2020 2017: 16 single-digit range in the long term. In addition, to satisfy our customers. The share of to 20 ppm or fewer. we aim to reduce the number of monthly cusdefective parts in our production (in ppm tomer complaints to an average of under eight. per month) will remain in the single-digit The number of reported customer com2020 2017: 9 range in the long term. In the medium plaints will be under 8 per month on an In R&D, we have set ourselves the goal of genterm, this value is to be reduced to under annual average. erating more than 20 invention applications 20 ppm. each year. We want to procure raw materials, prodThe number of suppliers participating in Annually 2017: 18% ucts and services at optimal costs, also the “Sustainability Self-Assessment” will In purchasing, we want to improve our sustaintaking sustainability aspects into account increase by 5% every year through the ability performance by increasing the participain selecting our suppliers. year 2020. tion of our suppliers in our Sustainability Self-Assessment and by integrating sustainWe also systematically integrate sustain100% of the newly developed commodity 2018 ability aspects when we develop our prostrategies will also include a sustainability ability fact sheets into newly developed comcurement strategies for our various groups fact sheet. modity strategies. of products. 1_Up until 2016, this figure was measured based on the number of new patent applications. As part of the conversion of the patent strategy, a change was made to invention disclosures per year starting in 2017. 27 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES Our employees enable and drive our business success. NORMA Group invests in a safe and supportive working environment, as well as in health. We thus want to strengthen our position as an attractive employer even further. Sound training, performance-based pay, the promotion of diversity and reconciliation of work life and family will contribute to this for our employees. EMPLOYEES STRATEGIC APPROACH RELEVANCE 6 Employees do valuable work every day [GRI 103] Health and safety At the end of December 2017, NORMA Group Training and had 7,667 employees throughout the Group Equal pay for men and women development 5 (core workforce including temporary workers), Work-life balance Appropriate EM PLOY E E S remuneration which is 15.1% more than in the previous year Employee satisfaction (2016: 6,664). The number of temporary workDiversity in leadership positions Strategic Approach  29 ers as of the reporting date was 1,552 (2016: Cultural diversity and Occupational 1,214). This corresponds to a share of the total 4 international exchange Employer Health and Safety  30 workforce of around 20.2%. branding Training and Development  31 Due to its internationality, HR management at Appropriate NORMA Group is organized locally. This allows 3 Remuneration and sites to take varying local conditions into better Employee Satisfaction  33 account in their daily HR work, which better Diversity and implements our principles of the Charter of Equal Opportunity  34 Diversity. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2 Outlook  35 On the basis of a firmly rooted employee culture, we implement various measures in occupational health and safety, education and training, pay structure as well as diver1 sity and equal opportunities. The average high level of employee satisfaction confirms our approach. APPROPRIATE REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Company culture is the basis for IMPACT / RISK employee satisfaction NORMA Group has defined core values that every day. This includes change readiness, our Company values practically tangible reflect the fundamental convictions of our team spirit, open-mindedness and strong ties through various interactive methods. Measures Company. They are the compass for our actions or relationships. To bring Company values for OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY , EMPLOYEE The information reviewed by PwC, and the guiding principles of how we behave closer to our new colleagues, we conduct “LivDEVELOPMENT and INNOVATION MANAGEMENT would which together forms the separate and work with our business partners. The goal ing Our Values” training courses in small not be as effective without the appropriate non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to of our employees is to live out these values groups from different divisions. These make Company culture. the respective text. 29 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY THE CORE VALUES OF NORMA GROUP VALUE-BASED SAFETY ­ The health and safety of employees are priorities CHANGE READINESS “We were able to reduce the number We drive change of occupational accidents by half.” [GRI 103, 401-02, 403-03] According to the International Labor Organization (ILO), about 317 million work-related acciSean Gillespie dents occur worldwide each year. ILO For responsible for occupational health and safety this reason, companies have a particular at NORMA Pennsylvania responsibility with regard to the health and safety of their employees. Accordingly, NORMA Group places top priority on the health and What is the values-based STRONG TIES TEAM SPIRIT safety approach? safety of its 7,667 worldwide employees. RegWe develop partnerships We empower people Occupational accidents don’t just happen ular risk assessments at our production sites because of dangerous machines or inadeidentify machinery and vehicle traffic to be the quate protective clothing. The chief cause most important factors to control. However, we in many cases is negligent or dangerous assess these risks to be minor due to our sysbehavior from employees themselves. Values-based safety takes on this idea and tematic and Group-wide approach to Health tries to change employee values and behaand Safety management. vior when it comes to occupational safety. Laws and regulatory frameworks are clearly How do you put this to work OPEN MINDSET on the shop floor? defined standards for occupational health and We share ideas and Whenever an employee observes dangesafety in our Company, but in many cases we information rous behavior, whether his own or by a go significantly beyond their compliance. In colleague, he is to take note of this in an light of the subject’s importance, it is addressed observation form. The forms are anonyin our Management Manual valid throughout Certification of all manufacturing sites potential for improvements and to define mized. The goal is not to denounce the Group. “At NORMA Group we live out a [GRI 403-01] appropriate measures. others, but to become aware of our dangerous behavior. In our weekly team “safety first” culture, which is reflected and At the end of 2017, 80% of the production meetings, we then develop recommendastrengthened throughout our company.” With sites (20 of 25) that had been part of NORMA Accident rate as the tions for improvement together. supplementary programs, we ensure that all Group for more than 12 months were exterkey performance indicator workplaces offer the highest level of security to nally audited and certified according to the [GRI 403-02] And have these measures avoid accidents. In particular, we make techniinternational standard OHSAS 18001. CertifiIntroducing management systems for work been successful? Very clearly! Compared to the years before cal arrangements and conduct training courses cation ensures, on the one hand, that there are safety is not an end in itself. To control their its introduction, we have been able to cut to prevent accidents at work. Our high stanemployees who are responsible for safety at effectiveness, we monitor the accident rate, the number of occupational accidents by dards apply to temporary workers as well as to every site who form safety committees, and, on which counts the number of accidents per half. In addition, we are observing that the our regular staff. the other hand, that progress is checked regu1,000 employees that result in a loss of work number of accidents rises again as soon larly. In addition, regular internal audits are of more than three working days. We have as participation in our program drops. We are therefore trying to keep the participacarried out on this basis in order to identify already been able to significantly reduce the tion rate constantly high. 30 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES accident rate in recent years. In 2017, the Our declared goal is to further reduce the acciImproving occupational health accident rate per 1,000 employees was 6.3. dent rate in the coming years. By 2020, we and safety in the supply chain Compared to figures from 2016 (7.6), this want to improve to a maximum of four acciFor NORMA Group, it is also important to means an improvement by 17%. dents per 1,000 employees per year. CR ensure safe and healthy working conditions ROADMAP 2020 The “Value-based safety” initiaalong the supply chain. For this reason, we We also monitor the number of medical treattive is a key instrument for achieving this goal have included the issue of occupational ments or accidents that result in a work loss (see column at the margin on previous page). It health and safety in our SUPPLIER CODE OF hand ausschneiden lassen of less than three days (treatment rate). In is intended to encourage our employees to CONDUCT . This clearly defines our require2017, this was 36.0 treatments per 1,000 identify safety risks at an early stage and ments and standards for suppliers. You can employees. This value, too, has been reduced change processes accordingly. learn more about the relevant obligations compared to 2016 (38.6). In order to focus on that our suppliers have to conform to under PRACTICAL INSIGHT: preventative rather than reactive measures, Effectiveness is measured regularly SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING . LEADERSHIP ON THE SHOP FLOOR we also monitor the number of “near miss” The success of our management approach is Assuming responsible leadership. That is incidents, which are occasions where an measured by regular reporting from our global TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT the goal of the Supervisory Excellence accident nearly happened but was just Health and Safety Management to the ManageProgram launched at our subsidiary NDS. avoided. In these cases, a root cause analysis ment Board. Thorough root cause analyses are Central success factor of our It targets employees assuming leadership is carried out at the local level using estabderived from this at site level and countermeabusiness activity positions for the first time, for example lished procedures and appropriate countersures are defined. Progress on the measures is [GRI 103] as shift supervisors or cell group leaders. measures are taken. also reported to the Management Board. NORMA Group sees itself as a “learning organization,” aspiring to continuously develop. One Over a period of six weeks, participants of the reasons why this is so important is that developed the basics of legal aspects, we operate in a very dynamic environment with occupational safety and compliance and constantly changing demands placed on us. effective communication to promote the Company culture. On the final day, parDEVELOPMENT OF ACCIDENT RATE Trends such as digitalization, connectivity and ticipants were asked to complete two  accidents/1,000 employees flexibility are particularly relevant. case studies and present their findings to 2017 6 the management team. The core of NORMA Group’s business model is to adapt quickly and flexibly to changing cus“The training was a thorough immersion 2016 8 tomer requirements as well as economic and into our corporate culture as well as social conditions. Targeted and sustainable expanded knowledge of management 2015 5 training and development of our employees skills,” says Judy Millies, participant and along with harnessing their creative potential in graduate of the Supervision Excellence a “learning organization” are our keys to innoProgram. “Especially the training we 2014 10 received on how to communicate with vation and success. our people was very valuable. I recog2013 10 nized several techniques that I can use right away to motivate and inspire my employees.” 0 2 4 6 8 10 31 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES All sides benefit from continuing Competence Center Learning and DevelopTargeted acquisition of competencies NORMA COMPETENCY FRAMEWORK education and training ment in 2016. The goal of this Competence [GRI 404-02] As a responsible employer, we want to offer our Center is to provide processes and tools to Employee training is most effective when it employees a demanding environment that identify, develop and retain the right talent at aligns with the demands of the work environNORMA Group core competencies includes the opportunity for further developthe right place, at the right time and at an ment. To ensure this, our approach is princi(valid for all employees at all levels) ment. At the same time, today’s work world acceptable cost. This comes from NORMA pally demand-oriented, based on bottom-up expects skills that can cope with the changes Group values as well as our Company and departmental reporting. NORMA Group also Ensures megatrends bring. Training and continuing HR vision. developed a competence model last year (see Customer Action account­ education thus not only serve NORMA Group graphic to the right). The skills that are importfocus oriented ability as a Company, but also the long-term prosOur goal is to ensure that every NORMA Group ant to us have been defined in numerous workpects for our employees. employee receives an average of at least 30 shops and with the participation of employees hours of training per year. In 2017, that averin all regions. The competences we defined Com­mu­ Employee development as a central age was at 30.1 and thus slightly exceeded form the basis for the development and selecDrives nicates Instills results trust Company objective our target. We also ensure the effectiveness of tion of our employees. effectively [GRI 404-01] our training through regular internal reporting In order to meet our requirements for training on participation rates and feedback as well as Goals are agreed in employee appraisals + and further educating our employees, we have through specific questions in our Employee [GRI 404-03] firmly rooted the subject in our HR strategy. Satisfaction Survey (ESS). APPROPRIATE The acquisition of proper competences is also Among other measures, we founded the global ­R EMUNERATION AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION integrated in our Performance Management Process (PMP). The obligatory annual employee Specific key competencies appraisals based on this not only include definfor different positions ing a target agreement with management, but DEVELOPMENT OF TRAINING HOURS also supporting employees in acquiring the necessary skills. Salaried  in hours per employee Supervisor employee International exchange 2017 30.1 [GRI 401-02, 404-02] For an international Company such as NORMA Director / 2016 29.7 Group in a globalized world, cross-border Plant Vice exchanges and intercultural skills are crucial manager President 2015 29.1 for success on both a personal and Company level. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Our assignment programs offer our employees the 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 opportunity to expand their experiences and used for skills abroad. Programs generally distinguish between short-term “bubble” assignments (up to three months) and long-term assignments ›› Talent Identification (more than three months). Skilled employees ›› Talent Assessment and managers who participate in these initia›› Talent Development 32 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES tives bring with them specialist knowledge and addition, we intend to introduce performanceor NORMA Group employees are satisfied experience from other places, while at the success-based incentive systems at all sites Every three years, NORMA Group carries out a same time benefiting from the expertise of worldwide which have not yet done so. One large-scale employee survey. All permanent their local colleagues. Exchanges can take example of this is profit sharing for all tariff employees working for NORMA Group at the end place within a country or internationally employees in Germany. of 2016 were able to take part in the 2017 surbetween countries and regions. vey. The survey, conducted on a voluntary basis, employees participated Employee satisfaction as a key parameter had a participation rate of 82%. 76% of responin NORMA Group’s APPROPRIATE REMUNERATION AND Occupational health and safety, continuing dents said that they were satisfied or very satisEmployee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION education and training as well as fair pay – all fied with their work situation in our Company. these aspects serve the satisfaction of our Average satisfaction was at 2.74 on a range from Fair pay for all employees employees. We are convinced that satisfied 1 (very satisfied) to 7 (very dissatisfied). [GRI 103, 401-02] employees are also more committed in their Our HR policy is based on ensuring that all daily work. Measuring employee satisfaction is The results are an incentive for us to continue employees receive competitive and fair pay for for us an “organizational thermometer” identiimproving our working environment at NORMA their work. This usually goes beyond the pay of fying strengths and quickly launching potential Group. As a follow-up to each employee survey, local statutory or collective minimum wages – for improvement. three to five concrete measures are initiated in responded that they were “satisfied” these are at best a minimum standard for us. In each plant. or “very satisfied” with their work at NORMA Group DEVELOPMENT PERSONELL EXPENSES concrete measures will in EUR millions be initiated at every site to further increase our 2017 269.6 employees’ satisfaction 2016 243.9 2015 234.1 2014 188.3 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 33 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Concrete measures to implement diversity Equal treatment for men and women We have appointed a Diversity Officer in every [GRI 405-01] Diversity pays off region to achieve this goal. Through extensive Men and women have the same opportunities at [GRI 102-12, 103] measures, NORMA Group has committed itself to NORMA Group, also with respect to assignment Studies show that companies that value diverdiversity and an open working atmosphere in of management positions. We actively oppose sity are more successful than those with largely which our employees can network and exchange discrimination and take for granted that women Employees on homogeneous structures. As an international ideas. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT and men should be paid the same amount for the the “Road of Diversity” in Subotica Company with sites and representative offices same jobs and qualifications. The proportion of in 26 countries, NORMA Group is already strucWe celebrate our commitment to diversity at women depends on the proportion of women turally characterized by a high degree of diverNORMA Group every year on Diversity Day. who are available through the job market and sity. The CHARTER OF DIVERSITY commits us to Campaigns were again carried out last year at who have the necessary qualifications. AccordPRACTICAL INSIGHT: ensuring that all our employees are valued – all sites worldwide, with the exception of the ingly, it varies worldwide between sites. At the DIVERSITY DAY IN SERBIA regardless of gender, nationality, ethnicity, relinewly acquired Fengfan plant, to sensitize our end of 2017, the proportion of women in the total NORMA Group’s Serbian manufacturing gion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation employees to the issue of diversity and to furcore workforce was 36.4%. site is located in Subotica, a city known or identity. ther promote it. Diversity Day 2017 was held for its diversity thanks to its location on at all NORMA Group sites under the motto The target for the share of women on the Superthe Hungarian border, with three official Our Diversity Mission Statement reads: “NORMA “Open Mindset.” visory Board was increased last year by one languages and numerous cultures and Group embraces diversity of thoughts by respectfemale member to two (of a total of six memreligions. Taking up cultural diversity as ing our employees’ unique characteristics, expeOur work-life balance approach aims for a balbers). ANNUAL REPORT, S. 42 the key focus for Diversity Day 2017 riences and ideas. We are committed to creating ance of work and private life for our employees. therefore came naturally to employees an environment of communication, networking, At this point, all our sites have developed approin Subotica. exchange and dialogue where talent is recogpriate work-life balance strategies. nized, developed and united. We – all together – At the center of the event was the “Road of Diversity,” where various villages and are the pacesetter in our industry.” communities of Subotica had their own booths. Around 250 employees took the opportunity to exchange on Hungarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovak, Bunjevci and “The implementation of the Charter of Diversity in our organization aims at creating a work environment free of prejudice. many other cultures. The event was also We deeply respect all colleagues irrespective of gender, nationality, ethnic background, religion or worldview, disability, attended by guests from a local cultural association that provided information on age, and sexual preference and identity. Appreciation and promotion of these diverse potentials produce economic the region’s various nationalities and benefits for our organisation.” their traditions. Excerpt from the “Charter of Diversity” 34 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 EMPLOYEES OUTLOOK AT A GLANCE: OUR CR ROADMAP 2020 We want to remain an attractive employer for CORE OBJECTIVE “EMPLOYEES” TARGET VALUE FOR 2020 our employees in the future. Our primary goal NORMA Group will be viewed as an employer of choice for its Overall employee satisfaction determined in the Employee is therefore to improve the satisfaction of our employees and will continue to attract, retain and inspire the most Satisfaction Survey (ESS) is to be improved (the satisfaction employees. This will be reviewed again in 2020 talented people to live and to share the Company’s values score in the ESS 2017 was at 2.74 on a scale of 1 (very good) to as part of a large-scale employee survey. and vision. 7 (very poor)). We will continue to invest in occupational OUR GOAL MILESTONE DATE STATUS safety and health at work. To ensure the effecAs a responsible Company, we will invest 100% of the production sites1 are to be Ongoing 2017: 80% tiveness of occupational safety measures, all in a safe and efficient working environment certified according to OHSAS 18001. production sites that are integrated into and working conditions that protect the NORMA Group for more then 12 months are to health of our employees and maintain their Our accident rate (per 1,000 employees) 2020 2017: 6.3 be certified in accordance with the OHSAS well-being. None of our employees shall will be under 4 per year. 18001 standard by the end of 2018. We have have a work-related accident. also set ourselves the goal of reducing the As a “learning organization,” we will An average of at least 30 training hours per Annually 2017: 30.1 hours accident rate per 1,000 employees to less than ensure our continuous development. year and employee. four per year. We will see to it that systems for ensuring Performance-oriented incentive systems to Ongoing Initial assessment appropriate remuneration are used at all of be in place at all sites 1. in 2018 In continuing education and training, we aim to our sites. have our employees attend at least 30 hours of training per year. In addition, we want to ensure 1_With a transition period of 12 months for newly integrated sites. that performance-based incentive systems are implemented at all sites. 35 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT Being responsible means taking our dependency on the environment into account. Therefore, we will improve the efficiency of our use of energy and natural resources. With our joining technology, we support customers to meet future environmental standards. In the next years, we will, in particular, focus on our impact on climate change. ENVIRONMENT STRATEGIC APPROACH RELEVANCE 6 Efficient Focus on energy, water Eco management systems production processes and waste generation Water consumption at Megatrends such as resource scarcity and NORMA Group Recycling climate change are fundamentally and lastAir pollution of waste 5 ingly transforming the world. NORMA Group EN VIRON M E N T Training of employees in CO2 emissions in is aware of its responsibility in this respect because our products and services directly environmental topics production processes CO2 emissions in Strategic Approach  37 influence the challenges that arise for cuslogistics and energy mix CO2 emissions through NG products Environmental tomers, society and our Company itself from 4 Management Systems  37 these megatrends. Our products particularly Water consumption CO 2 Management contribute to greater energy efficiency, through NG products at NORMA Group  38 reduced emissions and more efficient use Water in of water. 3 Production  39 Resource Efficiency  40 We see the greatest potential for further Environmental improving our own sustainability performance Impact of Products: in the responsible use of energy, water and raw 2 Water and CO 2  41 materials. This assessment is also confirmed Outlook  43 by the materiality analysis, which we conducted with internal and external stakeholders and experts. The results of the analysis contributed directly to the CR Roadmap 2020. 1 STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY Other environmental topics such as biodiversity and handling hazardous substances were viewed to be less relevant for NORMA Group. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 As a result, they are not the focus of our CR IMPACT / RISK activities. The lower materiality of biodiversity is mainly due to the fact that NORMA Group ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS mental protection is integrated into the promainly operates its production sites in desigcesses and workflows of all NORMA Group nated industrial and commercial areas. HanCreating environmentally friendly sites. At the same time, the ENVIRONMENTAL The information reviewed by PwC, dling hazardous substances affects only a few products and production IMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS is an important selling which together forms the separate production sites, and the legal requirements [GRI 103, 308-01, 308-02] point for our customers. In addition, we help non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to are being met. We can only contribute to a more efficient and them save costs through energyand the respective text. environmentally friendly economy if environresource-efficient processes. 37 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT However, our business is also subject to risks. to the internationally valid ISO 14001 standard. CO2 MANAGEMENT AT NORMA GROUP For example, the environmental impact cannot As of December 31, 2017, 88% (22 of 25) of be measured or effectively managed across production sites that at this point in time had Reducing greenhouse gas emissions the enterprise without an effective environbeen integrated into NORMA Group for more [GRI 103] mental management system. At the same time, than a year were certified according to The global manufacturing industry contributes there is the risk of rising production costs due ISO 14001. significantly to the emission of greenhouse to using resources inefficiently, which would gases through its own production processes lead to competitive disadvantages. In addition, Responsibility for the introduction and impleand energy consumption. Reducing CO2 emisNORMA Group must meet increasing legal and mentation of the environmental management sions provides a significant lever to reach the social requirements when it comes to environsystems lies with our environmental departworld community’s goal to keep global warmmental topics. Our customers and investors ment, which is staffed with qualified personnel ing well below two degrees: only if we succeed PRACTICAL INSIGHT: CO 2 SAVINGS increasingly attach importance in their ratings at all production sites. This structure enables in meeting our ambitious growth targets while WITH A NEW VENTILATION SYSTEM to a transparent presentation of CO2 figures us to develop and implement specific meaminimizing our greenhouse gases can NORMA The new ventilation system in half-proand efficient use of water and resources by sures in accordance with local environmental Group make a sustainable contribution to cliduction at our plant in Maintal exemplifies NORMA Group. challenges on the one hand and site-specific mate protection. our effort to safeguard the health of our production processes on the other, taking employees while also reducing greenAlong the supply chain, similar environmental international requirements into account. To Greenhouse gas emissions are generated by house gas emissions: it filters oil vapors risks as for NORMA Group itself exist because ensure compliance with standards, our sites various production steps for NORMA Group produced from the thread rolling process the majority of our suppliers also come from are audited regularly by external specialists. products as well as by logistics. We have idenon screws from the air so that no resithe manufacturing industry. Assessment and tified our biggest lever as the electricity and dues remain when the air is released. verification of these potential sustainability and Collection of key figures restructured gas consumption for the operation of machinfinancial risks are the responsibilities of our [GRI 102-48, 102-49] ery and heating of buildings. For this reason, It also returns any heat it generates back purchasing department. SUSTAINABILITY IN We carried out an evaluation of our managewe only partially consider Scope 3 emissions, to the production hall to serve as a heater whenever needed. This heat ­P URCHASING ANNUAL REPORT, P. 91 ment approach in 2017 and, as a result, have which are indirect emissions occurring both recovery saves 400,000 kWh of electricrestructured the collection methods and proupstream and downstream in our value chain, ity and 400,000 kWh of heating energy Group-wide environmental management cesses for individual key figures. Correspondin the management of CO2 emissions. In addievery year depending on use, which system implemented ingly, the definition of quantitative targets for tion, the burden of collecting quantitative data equates to CO 2 savings of more than In its CR Roadmap, NORMA Group has set CO2, water and waste was set for 2018, as the in relation to potential effects is currently dis200 metric tons. itself the goal of continuously and systematiresults of the restructuring process need to be proportionate. cally reducing the environmental impact of its assessed first and then fed into this definition production processes. CR ROADMAP 2020 To process. The new targets will then be inteHowever, we also include our supply chain in achieve its goal, NORMA Group relies on a grated into our CR Roadmap. our approaches since in many cases large volGroup-wide uniform environmental manageumes of energy are needed to manufacture the ment system, with the target of 100% inteMore information on specific environmental topmaterials and components we purchase. Only grated manufacturing sites certified according ics can be found in the following subchapters. if our suppliers also effectively reduce their 38 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT greenhouse gas emissions can a contribution NORMA Group. Instead, we control emission regions with a medium to high risk of water to climate protection be made. We therefore reduction by reducing our energy requirescarcity. Against this backdrop, NORMA Group encourage our suppliers with the processes for ments. For NORMA Group, the individual plant also has a special responsibility to handle this sustainability in purchasing. SUSTAINABILITY management is responsible for the concrete resource carefully in its own production. Our IN PURCHASING measures taken to reduce energy consumption production sites are to serve as a model for the and thus CO2 emissions. more sustainable and resource-efficient use of Restructuring of collection water. Water consumption at NORMA Group is methods and processes The evaluation of the management approach largely generated by cooling systems within [GRI 302-01, 302-03, 305-02, 305-04] to CO2 emissions corresponds to the proceour production processes. By reducing water Overall control of greenhouse gas emissions is dure of the process described in the subchapconsumption in this context, production costs provided by our environmental management ter environmental management systems. can be reduced accordingly. systems. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Last year, NORMA Group is currently concentrating on NORMA Group emitted a total of 51,243 metReduction of our own water consumption the collection and management of its greenric tons of CO2. This means an output of 50.38 [GRI 303-01, 308-02] house gas emissions from emissions resulting kg per EUR thousand of revenues. The correFor years, NORMA Group has been working to from the electricity and gas consumption of its sponding energy consumption from electricity continuously reduce the use of water in its own production sites. In our view, these account for and gas was 92.00 kilowatt hours or 22.39 production processes. Last year, the water the largest share of total emissions. kilowatt hours per EUR thousand of revenues. consumption of NORMA Group’s production sites totaled 152,413 metric tons. Accordingly, In the past year, we fundamentally restructured WATER IN PRODUCTION the consumption of water per EUR thousand of these processes and methods for collecting 0 revenues amounted 20 tons. 10 to 0.15 metric 30 40 50 60 greenhouse gases. In fact, from 2017 onwards, Actively address water scarcity these values are being normalized on the basis [GRI 103] We focus on our production sites as a frameof NORMA Group’s revenues. Although this The United Nations estimates that demand for work for data collection and targets, as water adjustment prevents direct comparison with water will increase by 40% by 2050. According the previous year’s figures, it simplifies the to current calculations, one in four people will 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 comparison with other companies that largely then be living in a country with water scarcity use sales for normalization purposes. UN NORMA Group recognized this megaCO 2 EMISSIONS AND ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2017 trend at an early stage and has reacted accordIt is our goal to significantly reduce electricity ingly. In the meantime, NORMA Group’s prodCO 2 emissions and gas consumption with efficient production uct portfolio consists to a large extent of water in kg/EUR thous50.38 and of revenues processes. The specific target for reducing CO2 management products, which help our cusemissions will be set in 2018, based on the tomers optimally control water consumption. assessment of results emerging from our manENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Energy agement restructuring process, and subseconsumption quently added to our CR Roadmap. A total of 19% of the world’s water consumpin kWh/EUR Electricity 92.00 Gas 22.39 114.39 thousand of tion is attributable to the production processes revenues A policy for the purchase of green electricity or of industry alone. FAO With its worldwide 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 renewable energies is currently not in place at presence, NORMA Group is also represented in 39 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT consumption at our administrative and distriRESOURCE EFFICIENCY NORMA Group’s environmental and climate bution sites plays only a minor role due to sigprotection strategy besides reducing CO2 nificantly lower consumption levels. As in the Secured against rising commodity prices emissions and using water efficiently. In recent case of CO2 emissions, we adjusted the col[GRI 103, 301-01] years, we have succeeded in gradually reduclection methodology in production last year. In Among other reasons, rising commodity prices ing the amount of waste in relation to producthe future, water consumption will also be norreflect the growing shortage of the natural tion costs through continuous process optimimalized on the basis of sales revenues and foundations of our economy. Efficient handling zation and the use of innovative techniques, not, as in the past, on the basis of production of the materials required for our production is and have since kept it at a consistently low costs. This will allow us to ensure better comtherefore not only economically necessary to level. Quantitative targets for waste reduction parability with other companies in the manureduce production costs, but also from an enviare to be defined in 2018. CR ROADMAP 2020 facturing sector. ronmental point of view. As in other environmental categories, NORMA The control of water consumption follows As a manufacturing Company, we depend on Group has adjusted the normalization of its our environmental management systems. various raw materials and primary products as waste generation to sales as a benchmark. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS It is important precursors of our products. NORMA Last year, NORMA Group produced 6,166 metimplemented globally and locally by the enviGroup’s total production materials turnover ric tons of metallic waste. That means 6.06 kg ronmental department and at plant level in amounted to EUR 296.0 million in 2017. The of metallic waste per EUR thousand of sales accordance with ISO 14001 standards. The largest share was accounted for by steel and revenues. In addition, we measure the amount implementation of ISO 14001 at NORMA metal components, granules and plastic and of waste along the categories of non-metallic Group also covers the handling of wastewater. rubber products. ANNUAL REPORT, P. 75 waste, residual waste and paper waste. Water consumption also plays an important NORMA Group considers the risk of rising raw role in the supply chain: for example, NORMA material prices to be likely. This affects both VOLUMES OF DIFFERENT FORMS OF WASTE [GRI 306-02] Group purchases granulates, molded rubber our own Company and the entire supply chain. parts and plastic parts, some of which are However, the financial impact of rising comkg per EUR thousand of revenue produced using water-intensive processes in modity prices would be low for NORMA Group the chemical industry. For this reason, as we have taken countermeasures. ANNUAL Metallic waste 6.1 NORMA Group has included both the reducREPORT, P. 91 tion of water consumption and the safe handling of wastewater in its Supplier Code of Consistently reducing waste volumes Non-metallic waste 0.8 Conduct. SUSTAINABILITY IN PURCHASING The reduction of waste and the recycling of valuable materials also play important roles in Cardboard/Paper waste 0.8 Residual waste 1.8 0 2 4 6 8 40 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT Efficient production processes Closing recycling cycles ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS: The reduction of waste generation is also con[GRI 301-03] WATER AND CO2 trolled in accordance with our environmental Depending on the type of waste, we employ difmanagement systems. That means it is impleferent recycling methods. For example, metal NORMA Group offers mented globally and locally by the environmenwaste resulting from production processes is sustainable product solutions tal department and implemented at the plant collected and recycled. Nearly 100% of the [GRI 103] less water is consumed by the level in accordance with ISO 14001 standards. metallic waste generated is externally recycled Increasing environmental awareness, resource Heavy Duty Drip Line compared ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS At the by NORMA Group. Plastic waste is reintroduced scarcity and growing cost pressures are now to its predecessor same time, we optimize the efficiency of our into the manufacturing process as far as possiplaying a key role in almost every industry. In production through the implementation and ble, depending on the type of plastic and reaaddition, there are mandatory legislative provicontinual updating of the NORMA Production sonable costs. A certain portion of the resulting sions leading to stricter emission regulations NEW IRRIGATION SYSTEMS ENSURE System (NPS). ANNUAL REPORT, P. 16 plastic waste is granulated. and specific requirements for materials used, EFFICIENT WATER USAGE especially in the automotive and commercial With worldwide water shortages on the Every week, the parties responsible meet at plant We are currently not in the position to recycle our vehicle industry. NORMA Group therefore builds rise, there is an increasing need for effilevel to report key figures and, in cases of deviaown products, as these are used in end products value-adding and sustainable solutions in its cient water supply and infrastructure tion, to define and track countermeasures. In such as engines and turbines, and doing so product portfolio. solutions. NORMA Group is taking this addition, so-called scrap-marketplaces are curwould require a disproportionately high investtrend into account by continuously rently being set up in the production halls, where ment of time and resources on the part of NORMA Group components in end products improving its water management prodwaste is collected in a clearly visible manner. This NORMA Group. All contractually regulated speciThe product solutions of NORMA Group in the ucts. Last year, NORMA Group developed is intended to create an incentive for achieving a fications on material type and recyclability are of clamps, fasteners and fluid systems categories a new irrigation solution: the “Heavy Duty reduction. In order to further motivate our sites in course fulfilled. Compliance with the statutory are processed within end products. Above all, Drip Line.” their efficiency efforts, we also conduct internal labeling requirement is also guaranteed. In this our products have the task of ensuring the effirankings. This is where particularly efficient locaway, NORMA Group complies with statutory regcient transport and use of liquid or gaseous subThe new drip irrigation product offers several advantages: through precise contions can excel with their services. In the area of ulations such as end-of-life vehicle regulations stances. The main advantages of our joining trol of water through emitters, it saves resource efficiency, we will also introduce new and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) solutions lie in their optimization in the areas of about 60% more water than prior key figures in the coming year to help further guidelines in the electrical industry and supports emissions, leakage and weight, as well as in volwater-intensive products and solutions reduce our scrap rate. its customers’ recycling concepts. ume and assembly time. In addition, we are currently on the market. At the same expanding our product portfolio in the area of time, plants are better cared for by tarelectromobility to support future mobility congeted and tailor-made irrigation, as well cepts. More information on our Stakeholder as better rooted, which resists erosion Roundtable on e-mobility can be found under and reduces liability for the end user. STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY . And perhaps most importantly, NORMA Group has extended the life of the system to up to 30 years by using new innovative materials. 41 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT Risks from business activities ucts, it is rarely possible to quantify the specific NORMA Group offers solutions to PRACTICAL INSIGHT: LIGHT PRODUCTS With respect to various environmental aspects, environmental impact of our products. improve exhaust gas treatment REDUCE CO 2 EMISSIONS certain risks may arise from business relationThe test procedures for the reduction of nitrogen ships, products and services. In the field of water The basic requirement that all our products must oxides will be further exacted in the coming management, for example, our products offer the always meet is the effective prevention of leaks years. NORMA Group is helping its customers advantage of lower water consumption, among and pollutant spills. We meet this basic requirefind solutions that will further reduce nitrogen their other benefits. However, if we fail to live up ment for our customers and ensure the highest oxides in exhaust gases. We focus on SCR techto this promise, there is a possibility that water reliability and quality. QUALITY We also continunology (Selective Catalytic Reduction), in which will be wasted, especially in regions where water ously further develop our products to help connitrogen oxides react with a urea solution and are cars equipped with scarcity is a major issue. serve natural resources. split into nitrogen and water. NORMA GROUP NORMA Group’s cooling system BLOG NORMA Group’s contribution lies above all In the automotive industry, a primary environWeight reduction helps in efficiently and effectively transporting the urea mental risk is the emission of pollutants. This can lower CO2 emissions solution from the tank to the injection system in be caused by leakages, poor exhaust gas purifiBesides the actual tasks of our product solutions exhaust systems and soot particle filters. In order cation or unnecessary vehicle weight, which – connecting and sealing – the weight of our to ensure nitrogen treatment even at low external would increase fuel consumption. This also creproducts today plays an increasingly important temperatures, the injection devices are increasates risks for our business: quality defects could role in environmental compatibility. Our newly ingly shifted to the immediate vicinity of the running life per car lead to legal disputes, liability for damages or the developed products are therefore often lighter engine. However, this means extremely high temloss of customers. than the weight requirements of our customers, peratures will develop after a certain driving time thus reducing the weight of end products such as in normal operation. Product development according vehicles and airplanes. This also means signifito customer requirements cantly less CO2 is released. Our development of a We have therefore further developed our prodWhen developing new products, we focus on new cooling system for a French customer from ucts so that they function reliably even at very our customers’ specifications and requirethe automotive industry exemplifies this. Our high temperatures. This was achieved by using less weight of NORMA Group’s ments. Satisfying their wishes and offering engineering performance allowed us to ensure more resistant materials along with special insucooling system solutions to their problems is a top priority for that the weight of the cooling system was 34% lation provisions. This ensures a reliable infraNORMA Group. At the same time, we also below our customer’s weight requirements. A structure for even better pollutant treatment. develop ideas for our customers in respective running life of 240,000 km per car and 47,000 projects that improve the environmental friendcars equipped with our cooling system translates liness of their and our products. Nevertheless, into a reduction of CO2 emissions by a total of although our products are often critical to the more than 2,000 metric tons (the estimate is proper functioning of our customers’ end prodbased on the first vehicle type of the project). savings in CO2 emissions 42 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ENVIRONMENT OUTLOOK AT A GLANCE: OUR CR ROADMAP 2020 We will continue to pursue our efforts and CORE OBJECTIVE “ENVIRONMENT” TARGET VALUE FOR 2020 actions on environmental and climate proNORMA Group will continuously and systematically reduce the 100% of NORMA Group’s global production sites1 are to be certection in the coming years. The main focus negative environmental impact of its production processes. tified according to ISO 14001 by no later than the end of 2018 of NORMA Group is therefore on continuand then continuously. ously and systematically reducing the environmental impact of our manufacturing proOUR GOAL MILESTONE DATE STATUS cesses. We have therefore set ourselves the We will handle natural resources carefully. Determination and publication of quantita2018 target of having 100% of our production Here, we will focus on energy, water and tive objectives for CO2, water and waste. sites worldwide certified in accordance with metallic waste. ISO 14001 by 2018 at the latest and then continuously recertified. We will reduce waste and increase the effiIntroduction of “scrap rate” and 2018 ciency of material use in our production “internal ppm” as new KPIs in the area processes. of production. In the past year, the environmental division was dominated by the restructuring of survey 1_With a transition period of 12 months for newly integrated sites. processes for NORMA Group. The goal was and remains aligning with international standards and comparability with other companies. We want to continue on this path in 2018. Based on the results from 2017 in particular, we plan to define quantitative targets for our most important key figures: CO2 emissions, water consumption and volume of metallic waste. We will also introduce further key figures that should help us make our production processes even more efficient and thereby conserve resources. 43 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 COMMUNITY NORMA Group is highly interested in livable and prosperous neighborhoods. Via our Corporate Citizenship Programs, we aim to strengthen, and contribute positively to the communities in which we operate. COMMUNITY STRATEGIC APPROACH RELEVANCE 6 NORMA Group is committed to society [GRI 103] NORMA Group considers it self-evident to act as a socially committed company and an active 5 member of society. We want to have a positive C OM M U N IT Y impact on the regions and local communities in which we operate. Even through our core busiStrategic Approach  45 ness, we make an important contribution in many NORMA Clean Water NORMA Clean Water  46 ways: 4 Corporate Volunteerring Dialogue on local Corporate Volunteering  47 or regional level Commitment ›› Low-emission and resource-saving products Donations and 48 sponsoring at the Sites  ›› Fair treatment of our employees Outlook  49 ›› Promotion of environmental management in 3 production and sales ›› Ensuring compliance and anti-corruption ›› Strengthening human rights 2 We value exchange and close contact with our neighbors at all NORMA Group sites. We conduct Corporate Citizenship activities closely related to our core business. Employee involvement makes a decisive contribution to the success of our 1 activities. All goals achieved Our social commitment activities are based on our Corporate Citizenship Guideline (CCG) and 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 are managed at Group level by the CR Officers. IMPACT / RISK They receive support from employees with decentralized responsibilities at our production can be addressed. NORMA Clean Water and has shown that NORMA Group has fully achieved sites. They support our goal of having a positive NORMA Help Day are two such projects. its self-imposed goals in recent years in terms of impact on local communities and strengthening its social commitment. The information reviewed by PwC, civil society at our sites. This is achieved best All activities are weighted and evaluated after which together forms the separate through active dialogue with regional and local their implementation. Depending on the respecnon-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to communities. We are also developing model tive projects, key figures are collected and comthe respective text. measures to show how global challenges – municated, in the CR Roadmap, for example. especially the scarcity of water as a resource – CR ROADMAP 2020 The most recent evaluation 45 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 COMMUNITY NORMA CLEAN WATER functioning water supply to schools in the rural In order to ensure the project’s sustainability, surroundings of our Pune production site. Here, around 30 meetings with more than 400 teachWater as a vital resource too, lack of access to clean water and sanitary ers were organized in 2017 to assess its activiWater is a scarce resource and valuable comfacilities means many girls do not go to school. ties and to identify further challenges and solumodity, and one of the most valuable raw mateTogether with the children’s aid organization tion strategies. The success of the project rials of our time. People in many regions often PLAN International, we set the goal of providing encourages us to pursue this approach. We have Dr. Anjil Paranjape lack access to clean drinking water. This has access to clean drinking water and functioning therefore now initiated NORMA Clean Water in Executive Director at the child aid grave consequences, especially for women and sanitary facilities at a total of 50 schools for Brazil. organization CASP in India children, who are most often responsible for 15,000 students and teachers by 2017. The procuring water. But the rural population as complex program included construction meaNORMA Clean Water started in Brazil well, especially small farmers, are affected by sures as well as initiating changes in hygienic Similar to India, clean water in certain rural areas “GOING TO SCHOOL WITHOUT FEAR” drinking water shortages. Another problem is behavior of children, teachers and parents. of Brazil is scarce, hard to reach and often polPlease provide us with an insight the lack of sanitary facilities, which has a negaOn-site implementation was carried out in coopluted. Children are especially at risk as they are into how NORMA Clean Water tive impact on health. Children and girls in pareration with the Indian organization “Community more susceptible to dangerous diseases. For this improved sanitary conditions? ticular suffer from the often precarious situation Aid & Sponsorship Program” (CASP), which is reason, NORMA Group launched the social projFirst, we helped to build basic functional of sanitary facilities, often staying away from based in Pune. ect NORMA Clean Water in Brazil in August 2017 sanitary facilities. On this basis, we carschool as a result. with a term of three years. Our project partner is ried out drawing and writing competitions Last year, we achieved and in part even exceeded again the children’s aid organization PLAN Interand child club meetings to help students For NORMA Group, water is a strategic focus our project goals. Besides almost 16,000 stunational. It is our common goal to improve living understand the importance of clean drinking water and hygiene. We also included area with a direct connection to our core busidents, around 650 teachers at 50 schools were conditions in the rural areas of Codó and Peritoró teachers and local authorities in our ness as we provide innovative and resource-savtrained on hygiene and to handle clean drinking in the country’s Northeast. awareness-raising activities. ing joining technology. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF water. Thanks to our partners’ efficient project PRODUCTS Our flagship social commitment project management, we were also able to use resources By 2020, a total of 400 families in the state of What change did the project bring about? therefore naturally focuses on water. that were freed up to extend construction and Maranhao should have access to clean water One example: One of the girls told us training activities to five communities in the vicinthrough the new construction and repair of drinkabout how scared she used to be to use NORMA Clean Water successfully ity of the schools. ing water facilities. In addition, 170 families will the washroom as the door didn’t have a concluded in India benefit from vegetable gardens that diversify and latch and the window was broken. She always took a friend along to stand guard NORMA Clean Water was launched as a charitaThe goal of NORMA Clean Water was for the projexpand their food supply. Training is planned for outside the door. She said that she was ble project in India in 2014, aiming to provide a ect to continue independently at a certain point. these families on the topics of water, health, so happy that the students would now be nutrition and hygiene. In addition, committees safe and secure. are being set up in which community members NORMA CLEAN WATER can exchange experiences and take care of the What effects will the project long-term maintenance and servicing of the have in the future? 2017 2016 facilities. The strong involvement of community In the future, students, parents, teachers Number of pupils benefiting from NORMA Clean Water 16,000 13,750 members in the project activities ensures that and the local authorities will be more aware of the importance of hygiene and adequate Number of teachers benefiting from NORMA Clean Water 650 650 they are taking responsibility for themselves. A sanitary facilities. In the end, students and Number of schools where NORMA Clean Water has been implemented 50 25 regular exchange of committees of different parents will increasingly demand for these communities should also lead to an exchange of facilities for everybody. Number of child clubs founded 48 48 experience and best practices. 46 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 COMMUNITY Poland As in India, NORMA Group is working together ing on the region, they are organized and implethe Pontiac Community Backyard. In turn, food with its project partners to ensure that the project mented in a decentralized manner. was sorted for Gleaners Foodbank and packages can be continued successfully for local commuwere assembled for families in need. Staff also nities long after the project has ended. The model Activities carried out at the individual sites helped organize a festival with proceeds going to function and the ability to multiply the measures included work on a public park in Mexico, supVeterans Hospital in Detroit. play key roles in this. port for a soup kitchen in Singapore and the installation of NORMA Group sanitary facilities in The commitment in Maintal, Germany, was also CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING a school in Malaysia. In Poland, our staff renowidespread. Employees repainted the rooms and vated the dining hall of an orphanage near our corridors of a local school, helped build a terrace NORMA Group promotes the civic plant in Pilica. in front of a community center and supported involvement of employees rebuilding works in two kindergartens. United [GRI 103] In Auburn Hills in the US, various programs took States Civil society is crucial for the functioning of sociplace: among them, a common room and vegePositive feedback from participants ety as a whole. Against the backdrop of the curtable gardens were built on empty properties in In 2017, we again conducted a comprehensive rent social challenges arising from megatrends evaluation of our worldwide Help Day. More than such as migration and global disparities, NORMA 300 NORMA Group employees took part in the Group aspires to get involved and play an active HELP DAY 2017 survey with the following results: role. To this end, we specifically promote social projects at the NORMA Group sites. COMMIT›› 98% of the employees who participated Mexico MENT AT THE SITES . We also encourage our employagree that NORMA Help Day was a very ees to make a contribution, for example, by successful event. showing exemplary commitment in the employee ›› 76% would recommend participating in the magazine LET’S CONNECT. AWARENESS OF CR IN next NORMA Help Day to their colleagues. locations participated in THE COMPANY NORMA Help Day 2017 ›› 45% are now thinking about getting more involved locally. NORMA Help Day is continuing [GRI 413-01] We also received a lot of positive feedback from A foundation for the civic involvement of our external project partners. This makes Help Day a employees was created with NORMA Help Day, complete success for our Company and all parwhich was first held in 2014 in Maintal with 35 employees lent a hand ticipants. For this reason, the day of action will be employees. The program has spread internationcontinued in the coming years. ally since 2015 to all NORMA Group sites, where participation is generally voluntary. More than Malaysia Germany 900 employees at 32 sites participated in Help Day activities in 2017. 33 Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) benefited from the contrinon-profit organizations benefited from butions our employees made worldwide. Since the activities contributions and projects vary greatly depend47 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 COMMUNITY COMMITMENT AT THE SITES Numerous individual projects at sites well as work on a specific project. Some particiNumerous projects for sustainably strengthening pants were offered employment contracts with In dialogue with local stakeholders local communities were also implemented at NORMA Group afterwards. One goal is to gain Besides the activities already described, NORMA NORMA Group sites in 2016 and 2017. These talent for our Company, but another is to give Group is in constant dialogue with local stakeincluded donations for the victims of Hurricane young people insights into production and valuholders and actively participates in society. We Harvey and the earthquake in Mexico. In Serbia, able work experience as they start their careers. have long been supporting local non-governin May 2017, we sponsored a high school comInterest in the program has significantly increased mental organizations through donations and petition for 2D and 3D modeling and awarded the since its launch in 2016 – the number of applisponsorship, focusing on social, philanthropic top three places. The aim was to support and cants almost doubled in 2017. We therefore and cultural projects in the regions. The approach promote young talent in this field. want to continue our commitment in the future is again decentralized because we believe that while checking whether the program can also be HELPING MEXICO’S the efficiency of the support measures depends Continuing education and career introduced for other departments, such as EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS on the conditions in the region. beginnings in Mexico human resources, finance or administration. On September 19, 2017, Mexico was hit by The training program for employees and their several earthquakes. The impacts were The Corporate Citizenship Guideline (CCG) families that we started at our Mexican producdisastrous, claiming more than 300 lives adopted in October 2013 acts as the controlling tion site in Juarez in early 2015 has now become and leaving more than 5,000 homeless. instrument. The guideline, which applies to all a permanent fixture. Participants, who didn’t NORMA Group sites, describes the main issues, have a regular completion of their education, “How can we help while living so far away?” target audiences and forms of our commitment. receive basic and intermediate training three some NORMA Group employees in Lake It thus serves as an important orientation aid for times per week. The number of participants has Orion (US) asked themselves. Together they those responsible in our plants with regard to the continued to increase in recent years, and it is called for donations – and received help design of their site-based donation and spon­ our goal to welcome and support even more parimmediately. “The response was overwhelmsoring activities. Approval processes and reportticipants in the coming year. The program has ing,” Diana Perez, Purchasing Manager at NORMA Group in Lake Orion, says. “Our coling are also linked to NORMA Group’s internaalso received official recognition: the National leagues bought goods that were urgently tional Compliance Management. COMPLIANCE Institute for Adult Education expressed its appreneeded like gloves, batteries and diapers. AND HUMAN RIGHTS Since 2013, spending on donaciation to NORMA Group for its success. They helped label them and prepared them tions and sponsoring has also been uniformly for transport.” Other locations in the US and recorded internationally in accordance with the Also in Mexico, the first year of the “Universidad Mexico joined in and started their own calls. CCG. As in all other areas, NORMA Group 2016” university program was completed in attaches great importance to transparency in March 2017, helping young people gain experiThe employees’ initiative inspired NORMA terms of its local involvement. Sponsorship ence in a professional environment. Over the Group as a Company to donate an addiexpenditures in the past year were at EUR 11 course of a year, all twelve participants had the tional EUR 5,000 to buy more goods that thousand, while spending on donations totaled opportunity to get a feel for the quality, engineercould be sent to Mexico. EUR 246 thousand. ing, maintenance and production departments as All donations were shipped to NORMA Group plants in Mexico, where they were distributed by the Red Cross. 48 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 COMMUNITY OUTLOOK AT A GLANCE: OUR CR ROADMAP 2020 Consolidating and expanding commitment CORE OBJECTIVE “COMMUNITY” TARGET VALUE FOR 2020 NORMA Group intends to continue operating and NORMA Group will position itself as a responsible partner in Consistently good to excellent reviews on the community acting as a responsible partner to society. The the community. involvement in stakeholder surveys. successes of recent years are therefore to be consolidated and expanded. Our goal is to conOUR GOAL MILESTONE DATE STATUS sistently achieve good to very good assessments We will show that water is a scarce and 400 families in six rural communities in the 2020 Project start of our social commitment in stakeholder surveys. valuable resource at many of our sites and Codó and Peritoró regions of Brazil receive (0 out of 400) demonstrate how important an efficient a secure water supply and deepen their We would also like to actively involve our em­ploywater supply is. Together with partners, we knowledge of domestic and agricultural ees in our activities for the common good in the will conduct model projects to improve the water use and hygiene. future, continuing to seek dialogue with local current situation. communities. For the Clean Water project in BraThe employees of NORMA Group All production sites participate in the Annually 2017: 32 sites zil, we have set ourselves the goal of building on engage voluntarily in charitable causes annual Help Day. (production and the successes of India together with civil society at their sites. distribution) by implementing a model project for efficient By making donations and engaging in NORMA Group’s investments in the Ongoing 2017: water supply in Brazil. sponsoring in the areas of environment, community will be based on the Corporate donations: sports and social affairs, we will strengthen Citizenship Guideline. EUR 234 thousand NORMA Help Day has established itself as a hallthe local structures at all of our sites. sponsoring: EUR 11 thousand mark of corporate volunteering within the Company and will continue to be held at all production sites in the future. Our sponsorship and donation activities continue to be in line with our Corporate Citizenship Guideline. 49 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 DATA Facts and figures on various aspects of how we assume responsibility are listed on the following pages that show how well we perform in the CR areas of action in a transparent manner. ABOUT THIS REPORT SCOPE AND PURPOSE riality analysis. STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY In The non-financial report has undergone an [GRI 102-45, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52] the margin of the report pages, examples from assurance engagement according to ISAE the Company’s practice are presented, which 3000 (Revised) with limited assurance. The This CR Report covers fiscal year 2017, followshould illustrate individual topics. opinion of the independent audit firm ing the 2015 CR Report, which was published PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is shown in 2016, and the 2016 Data Update. This To aid in the readability of the CR Report, we on page 64. report presents extensive information on our generally refrain from using male and female DATA CR-relevant goals, approaches and actions, as forms of language. Of course, terms such as After the implementation of the net method well as on our strategic direction. The stateemployee always include all genders. in the determination of reportable risks ments and information given in this report according to CSR-RUG, NORMA Group is not About this Report  51 apply to all subsidiaries of NORMA Group. Non-Financial Statement (CSR-RUG), GRI aware of any reportable net risks that are Key Performance Exceptions are expressly indicated. Stakeholdand UN Global Compact very likely to have a materially adverse effect Indicators  53 ers and companies outside the scope of con[GRI 102-54] on reportable aspects. For a description of GRI Content Index  59 solidation of NORMA Group are not the subject This CR Report serves to fulfill the legal requireNORMA Group’s risk management system, Assurance Report  64 of this report. ments that have arisen for NORMA Group for the please refer to pages 85 – 87 of the annual Imprint  66 first time since this reporting year in accordance report. The gross risks identified in the mateThis report is published in concurrence with the with the Law on Strengthening the Non-Finanriality analysis are briefly described in the the annual report on March 21, 2018. By pubcial Reporting of Companies in Management subchapters of the CR Report. lishing a separate CR Report and the CR content and Group Management Reports (CSR Directive on our website, we seek to provide detailed inforImplementation Act, CSR-RUG). NORMA Group Reportable relations to the amounts of the mation on NORMA Group’s strategic CR approach has embedded a separate non-financial report Consolidated Financial Statements have not and exemplary action. This allows NORMA Group in accordance with CSR-RUG into this CR been determined. to create the basis for open and trusting dialogue Report. The mandatory parts of the non-financial with its stakeholders. report are indicated by a blue line next to the The CR Roadmap also includes the precise respective text. An overview of the compulsory objectives of our Company up to the year Structure components according to CSR-RUG can be 2020 and the current status of correspond[GRI 102-46] found in the table on the following page. ing action. The progress of the Roadmap is The structure of this report is based on our regularly discussed in the CR Steering ComCR-specific areas of action: Responsible ManReferences to disclosures outside the Consolmittee and published externally. The Management, Business Solutions, Employees, Enviidated Management Report or Consolidated agement Board of NORMA Group is actively ronment and Community. The focus of the indiFinancial Statements constitute additional involved in review activities; the Roadmap is vidual chapters, on the other hand, is on the information and are as such not part of the thus a central instrument of due diligence for “material topics” which were defined in a matenon-financial report. NORMA Group. The information reviewed by PwC, which together forms the separate non-financial Group report, is marked with a blue line next to the respective text. 51 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ABOUT THIS REPORT Mandatory information Reconciliation in Other CR-specific data can be found on the folaccording to CSR-RUG report content Pages lowing pages. Additional general data can be Business Model NORMA Group at a Glance 5 found in the ANNUAL REPORT . Environmental Issues Environmental Management Systems 37 CO2 Footprint in Production 38 Water Consumption in Production 39 Recycling of Waste 40 Efficient Production Processes 40 Sustainable Purchasing 23 Labor Issues Compliance Management Systems 15 Elimination of Discrimination 15 Freedom of Association 15 Occupational Health and Safety 30 Training and Development 31 Social Issues This aspect was found to be non-material in the see 11, 45 materiality analysis. Respect for Human Rights Compliance Management Systems 15 Elimination of Discrimination 15 Freedom of Association 15 Sustainable Purchasing 23 Combating Corruption and Bribery Compliance Management Systems 15 Presentation of Risks See respective subchapters Correlations to the Consolidated About this Report 51 Financial Statements This report has been prepared in accordance An external audit by GRI was not carried out. The with the GRI Standards: Core option. This includes report successfully passed GRI’s Materiality Disthe implementation of the materiality analysis. closure Service. The GRI content index can be found on pages 59 – 63. It also offers an orientation to GRI Standards within the non-financial report. Above all, the This report also serves as a Communication on materiality analysis, the presentation of Progress for the implementation of the ten prinmanagement approaches, and the key figciples of the UN Global Compact. References to ures are oriented on the specifications of the the Global Compact principles have been inteGRI Standards. grated into the GRI Content Index. 52 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GENERAL DATA / DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS MODEL KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard Number of manufacturing locations 27 27 102-07 Number of products > 40,000 > 35,000 102-07 Revenue EUR millions 1,017.1 894.9 102-07 Adjusted gross profit EUR millions 601.3 545.6 Adjusted EBITA EUR millions 174.5 157.5 Share of sales realized internationally % 80.3 78.8 102-07 Total number of employees including temporary workers 7,667 6,664 102-08 Permanent staff 6,115 5,450 EMEA employees (permanent staff) 3,545 3,202 Americas employees (permanent staff) 1,575 1,418 Asia-Pacific employees (permanent staff) 995 830 Temporary employees 1,552 1,214 53 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard Compliance management systems & compliance trainings Number of registrations for online trainings (“Basics”) 598 n/a 205-02 Number of registrations for online trainings (“Focus”) 418 n/a 205-02 Number of registrations for online trainings (“Refresher”) 1,335 n/a 205-02 Share of completed online trainings (all) % 100 n/a 205-02 Number of employees who were trained on compliance topics online in 2016 1,318 2,066 205-02 Completed hours in Compliance online trainings (all) 2,939 n/a 205-02 Completed hours in Compliance online trainings per participant 2.23 n/a Substantial fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations EUR thousands 0 0 419-01 Elimination of discrimination Number of discriminations determined by courts 0 n/a 406-01 Freedom of association Number of violations of freedom of association determined by courts 0 n/a 407-01 Awareness of CR strategy Share of ESS participants who know the CR Policy % 79.6 n/a 54 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard Customer satisfaction Due to the changes in the methodology of the Customer Satisfaction Survey, more specific data will only be presented next year. Quality management Number of manufacturing locations certified according to ISO 9001 or TS 16949 25 25 Number of manufacturing locations certified according to EN 9100 2 2 Defective parts ppm (parts per million) 16 32 Number of customer complaints per month average per month 9 8 Sustainable purchasing Purchasing turnover EUR millions 433.1 352.6 Total production materials turnover EUR millions 296.0 233.0 301-01 308-01, Share of preferred suppliers who have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) % 100 100 414-1 Number of preferred suppliers 25 n/a Share of preferred suppliers in direct material purchasing spend % 33 n/a 308-01, Share of suppliers in supplier scoring that participated in sustainability self-assessment % 18 n/a 414-01 Research & Development Employees in R&D 344 305 Share of R&D employees in relation to the consolidated core workforce % 5.6 5.6 R&D expenditure in the EJT area EUR millions 29.4 28.8 R&D ratio in terms of EJT sales % 4.6 5.4 Innovation management Number of invention applications 33 n/a 55 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EMPLOYEES KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard Health and safety Number of manufacturing locations1 certified according to OHSAS 18001 20 23 Share of manufacturing locations certified according to OHSAS 18001 1 % 80 n/a Accident rate accidents / 1,000 employees 6.3 7.6 403-02 Medical treatment rate (monthly ytd average) treatments / 1,000 employees 36.0 38.6 403-02 Number of lost time incidents 42 44 403-02 Number of medical treatments (non-notifiable accidents) 271 250 403-02 Training and development Average training hours per employee h 30.1 29.7 404-01 Appropriate remuneration/payment Share of locations with performance-oriented incentive systems starting 2018 n/a Adjusted personnel expenses EUR millions 269.6 243.9 Employee satisfaction Participation rate in Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) % 82 n/a on a range of 1 (very good) Overall satisfaction of employees to 7 (very poor) 2.76 n/a Diversity and equality of opportunity Share of female employees in core workforce % 36.4 35.2 405-01 Number of women on the six-person Supervisory Board 1 1 1_The calculation considers only those locations that had been integrated for more than 12 months into NORMA Group as of December 31, 2017. 56 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard Group-wide eco-management systems Number of manufacturing locations1 certified according to ISO 14001 22 22 Share of manufacturing locations certified according to ISO 14001 1 % 88 n/a Recycling of waste and efficient production processes Metallic waste kg / EUR thousand of revenue 6.06 n/a 306-02 Non-metallic waste kg / EUR thousand of revenue 0.75 n/a 306-02 Cardboard/paper waste kg / EUR thousand of revenue 0.76 n/a 306-02 Residual waste kg / EUR thousand of revenue 1.85 n/a 306-02 Reduction of CO2 emissions in production processes 305-02, CO2 emissions from electricity and gas consumption kg / EUR thousands of revenue 50.38 n/a 305-04 302-01, Electricity consumption kwh / EUR thousand of revenue 92.00 n/a 302-03 302-01, Gas consumption kwh / EUR thousand of revenue 22.39 n/a 302-03 Reduction of water consumption at NORMA Group Water consumption m 3 / EUR thousand of revenue 0.15 n/a 303-01 1_The calculation considers only those locations that had been integrated for more than 12 months into NORMA Group as of December 31, 2017. 57 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS COMMUNITY KPI Unit Data 2017 Data 2016 GRI Standard NORMA Clean Water Number of schools where NORMA Clean Water has been implemented 50 25 Number of pupils benefiting from NORMA Clean Water 16,000 13,750 Number of teachers benefiting from NORMA Clean Water 650 650 NORMA Help Day Number of production and distribution sites that participate in NORMA Help Day 32 26 413-01 Number of participants in NORMA Help Day > 900 > 800 Participation at the sites Donations (according to Corporate Citizenship Guideline) EUR thousands 246 234 Sponsoring (according to Corporate Citizenship Guideline) EUR thousands 11 29 58 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX [GRI 102-55] UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 Organizational profile 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 11 102-01 Name of the organization 6 Besides the general presentation of the risk identification in the chapter 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services 5 Stakeholders and Materiality, descriptions of impacts and risks in the 102-03 Location of headquarters 6 individual subject areas are described in the individual subchapters. 102-04 Location of operations 5 Ethics and integrity 102-05 Ownership and legal form 6 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 16, 23 10 102-06 Markets served 5 Governance 102-07 Scale of the organization 5, 6 6, 10; Information on total assets, equity and liabilities can be found in the 102-18 Governance structure AR pp. 38 annual report. AR p. 109 102-19 Delegating authority 6 102-08 Information on employees and other workers 6 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 102-09 Supply chain 23 102-20 and social topics 10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 7 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 102-21 and social topics 10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 17 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees AR pp 38 102-12 External initiatives 4, 33 6; United Nations Global Compact 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR p. 40 Diversity Charter (Germany) Charta zur Vereinbarkeit von Pflege und Beruf in Hessen (Charter on 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR pp. 40 reconciling care and work – Hesse, Germany) 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR pp. 40 102-13 Membership of associations 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR pp. 34 NORMA Group SE is member of the following associations (memberships of local or regional subsidiaries not included): In accordance with section 171 (1.4) AktG (new version), the Supervisory Bundesverband deutscher Pressesprecher e.V. Board is obliged to review the content of the non-financial report. (Federal Association of German Press Spokespersons) Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V. (German Equity Institute) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes AR p. 43 Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision e.V. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting AR pp. 34 (German Institute of Internal Auditing) (DIRK Deutscher Investor Relations Verband e.V. In accordance with section 171 (1.4) AktG (new version), the Supervi(German Investor Relations Association) sory Board is obliged to review the content of the non-financial Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmensführung e.V. report. (Society of Corporate Finance in Management) RKW Hessen Rationalisierungsund Innovationszentrum der Wirt102-35 Remuneration policies AR pp. 97 schaft e.V. (Business centre for streamlining and innovation, Hesse) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR pp. 97 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR pp. 97 59 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC Stakeholder engagement ECONOMIC TOPICS 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 10 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 15 103 1 Management Approach 5 NORMA Group does not inquire as to how many employees are covered by collective agreements. 201-01 Direct economic value generated and distributed 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 The required information can be found in the annual report. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 10 201-04 Financial assistance received from government AR p. 177 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10, 12 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Reporting practice 103 1 Management Approach 23 6, 51; AR 204-01 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements pp. 131 NORMA Group’s purchasing philosophy is to purchase all goods and Further information on the divisions included in the annual report can services locally if possible. The only exceptions are procurement be found in the annual report. opportunities at significantly lower rates or if the goods are not available locally. Since materials for use are purchased largely locally, only 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 11, 51 two-thirds of production materials can be obtained from regional suppliers due to the special (quality) requirements. One-third comes from 102-47 List of material topics 11 a few (global) suppliers who supply to all NORMA Group sites. 102-48 Restatements of information 38 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting 11, 38 103 1 Management Approach 16 10 102-50 Reporting period 51 205-01 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 17 10 102-51 Date of most recent report 51 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and proce102-52 Reporting cycle 51 205-02 dures 17 10 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 66 205-03 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 10 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 51 During the reporting period, NORMA Group was not made aware of any cases of corruption. 102-55 GRI content index 59 102-56 External assurance 64 1_The Management Approaches presented in this report under GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 always include the GRI standards 103-1(Explanation of the main topics and their demarcation), 103-2 (The Management Approach and its components) and 103-3 (Examination of the Management Approach) 60 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103 1 Management Approach 16 103 1 Management Approach 37, 38 7, 8 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 7, 8 206-01 practices Scope 1 emissions are currently not separately measured by NORMA In the reporting period, neither penalties nor fines were imposed on Group. NORMA Group for infringements, violations or non-compliance with laws, regulations or obligations. 305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 39 7, 8 305-03 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 7, 8 ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS The amount of greenhouse gases emitted by third parties (such as suppliers or transporters, Scope 3) is currently not systematically GRI 301: Materials 2016 tracked by NORMA Group. 103 1 Management Approach 40 7, 8 305-04 GHG emissions intensity 39 7, 8 301-01 Materials used by weight or volume 40 7, 8 305-05 Reduction of GHG emissions 9 Reducing the volume of materials used is an important goal of Due to the changes made in the measurement methods NORMA Group. The purchase value (in euros) of materials is NORMA of CO2 emissions, comparisons with the previous year‘s Group’s most important measure for simplifying control worldwide. figures are not possible. 301-03 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 41 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 103 1 Management Approach 37, 40 7, 8 103 1 Management Approach 37, 38 7, 8 306-02 Waste by type and disposal method 40 7, 8 302-01 Energy consumption within the organization 39 7, 8 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 302-03 Energy intensity 39 7, 8 103 1 Management Approach 37 7, 8 302-04 Reduction of energy consumption 307-01 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 7, 8 Due to the changes made in the measurement methods of CO2 emissions, comparisons with the previous year‘s figures In the period under review, NORMA Group has not paid any penalties are not possible. or fines in the environmental area for significant offenses, violations or non-compliance with environmental laws, regulations or obligations. GRI 303: Water 2016 103 1 Management Approach 37, 39 7, 8 303-01 Water withdrawal by source 39 7, 8 1_The Management Approaches presented in this report under GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 always include the GRI standards 103-1(Explanation of the main topics and their demarcation), 103-2 (The Management Approach and its components) and 103-3 (Examination of the Management Approach) 61 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 103 1 Management Approach 23 7, 8 103 1 Management Approach 31 6 308-01 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 23, 37 7, 8 404-01 Average hours of training per year per employee 32 6 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 23, 37, Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 308-02 actions taken 40 7, 8 404-02 assistance programs 32 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career SOCIAL TOPICS 404-03 development reviews 32 6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 The proportion of employees regularly participating in a performance assessment is currently not recorded by NORMA Group. 103 1 Management Approach 29 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 30, 32, GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 401-02 to temporary or part-time employees 33 34; The outlined offers from NORMA Group are addressed to all 103 1 Management Approach AR pp. 42 6 members of the core workforce (generally proportionate for 34; part-time employees). Full-time and part-time employees are 405-01 Diversity of governance bodies and employees AR p. 42 6 considered equal. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103 1 Management Approach 16, 34 6 103 1 Management Approach 30 406-01 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 15 6 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health 403-01 and safety committees 30 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 The proportion of employees represented by safety committees is currently not inquired by NORMA Group. 103 1 Management Approach 16 3 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 403-02 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 30 407-01 and collective bargaining may be at risk 15 3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 403-03 their occupation 30 103 1 Management Approach 16 5 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 403-04 trade unions 408-01 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 15 5 In order to make it easier for employees to reintegrate after prolonged In the 2017 reporting year, no significant risk of child labor was idenaccidents or illnesses, “reintegration management” for employees tified for any NORMA Group site. was agreed with works councils at the German sites. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 103 1 Management Approach 16 4 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 409-01 compulsory labor 15 4 In the 2017 reporting year, no significant risk of child labor was iden1_The Management Approaches presented in this report under GRI 103: tified for any NORMA Group site. Management Approach 2016 always include the GRI standards 103-1(Explanation of the main topics and their demarcation), 103-2 (The Management Approach and its components) and 103-3 (Examination of the Management Approach) 62 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI Standards Page UNGC GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 103 1 Management Approach 16 1 103 1 Management Approach 16 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 412-01 assessments 15 1 418-01 and losses of customer data The Group-wide risk assessment incldues particular sections on labor During the reporting period, NORMA Group was not notified of any law issues, e.g. in terms of working time. claim or allegation of breach of customer privacy or data protection. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 103 1 Management Approach 45, 47 1 103 1 Management Approach 16 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 413-01 and development programs 47 1 419-01 economic area 15 During the reporting period, NORMA Group paid no significant GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 penalties or fines for infringements, violations or non-compliance with 103 1 Management Approach 23 2 laws, regulations or obligations in the area of compliance and products. 414-01 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 23 2 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 103 1 Management Approach 16 415-01 Political contributions Donations directly or indirectly to political parties, politicians and their families or entities they hold interests in, or organizations affiliated with political parties are not permitted by NORMA Group. During the period under review, NORMA Group‘s donation accounts did not indicate any such benefits. GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 103 1 Management Approach 18 417-01 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 18 Online product data sheets are available for certain products. 1_The Management Approaches presented in this report under GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 always include the GRI standards 103-1(Explanation of the main topics and their demarcation), 103-2 (The Management Approach and its components) and 103-3 (Examination of the Management Approach) 63 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ASSURANCE REPORT [GRI 102-56] INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REPORT ON Independence and Quality Control We conducted our assurance engagement in Within the scope of our assurance engagement, A LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT ON of the Audit Firm accordance with the International Standard on we performed amongst others the following NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING 1 We have complied with the German professional Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): assurance procedures and further activities: provisions regarding independence as well as Assurance Engagements other than Audits or To NORMA Group SE, Maintal other ethical requirements. Reviews of Historical Financial Information, ›› Obtaining an understanding of the execution We have performed a limited assurance engageissued by the IAASB. This Standard requires that of the materiality analysis ment on the separate non-financial group report Our audit firm applies the national legal requirewe plan and perform the assurance engagement ›› Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparapursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 ments and professional standards – in particular to allow us to conclude with limited assurance tion of the Non-financial Report regarding the HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commerthe Professional Code for German Public Auditors that nothing has come to our attention that preparation process, the internal control syscial Code”) of NORMA Group SE, Maintal, (hereand German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-fitem relating to this process and selected disinafter the “Company”) for the period from Janufür Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: nancial Report for the period from January 1, closures in the Non-financial Report ary 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 (hereinafter “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality 2017 to December 31, 2017, has not been pre›› Identification of likely risks of material misthe “Non-financial Report”). The Non-financial Control 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftspared, in all material aspects, in accordance with statement in the Non-financial Report Report comprises the sections marked with a prüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to ›› Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures blue vertical line in the Corporate Responsibility IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit 289e HGB. in the Non-financial Report Report of the Company for fiscal year 2017. firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: ›› Conducting review procedures in Maintal, Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der In a limited assurance engagement the assurGermany, and Subotica, Serbia Responsibilities of the Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and ance procedures are less in extent than for a ›› Comparison of selected disclosures with the Executive Directors accordingly maintains a comprehensive system rea-sonable assurance engagement, and therecorresponding data in the consolidated finanThe executive directors of the Company are of quality control including documented policies fore a substantially lower level of assurance is cial statements and group management responsible for the preparation of the Non-finanand procedures regarding compliance with ethiobtained. The assurance procedures selected report cial Report in accordance with §§ 315b and cal requirements, professional standards and depend on the practitioner’s judgment. ›› Evaluation of the presentation of the 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. non-financial information This responsibility of the Company’s executive Practitioner’s Responsibility Assurance Conclusion directors includes the selection and application Our responsibility is to express a limited assurBased on the assurance procedures performed of appropriate methods of Non-financial Reportance conclusion on the Non-financial Report and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has ing as well as making assumptions and estibased on the assurance engagement we have come to our attention that causes us to believe mates related to individual non-financial discloperformed. that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the sures which are reasonable under the period from January 1, 2017, to December 31, circumstances. Furthermore, the executive direcWithin the scope of our engagement we did not 2017, has not been prepared, in all material tors are responsible for such internal control as perform an audit on external sources of informaaspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c they have considered necessary to enable the tion or expert opinions referred to in the Non-­ in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. preparation of a Non-financial Report that is free financial Report. from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. 1_PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial group report 2017 of NORMA Group SE, Maintal and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 64 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 ASSURANCE REPORT Intended Use of the Assurance Report We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the limit­ed assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Frankfurt/Main, March 9, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ppa. Nicolette Behncke ppa. Dieter W. Horst Wirtschaftsprüfer (German public auditor) 65 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 IMPRINT EDITOR CONCEPT AND EDITING Forward-looking statements This sustainability report contains certain future-oriented statements. Future-oriented statements include all statements which do NORMA Group SE Scholz & Friends Reputation, not relate to historical facts and events and contain future-oriented expressions such as “believe”, “estimate”, “assume”, Edisonstraße 4 Berlin “expect”, “forecast”, “intend”, “could” or “should” or expressions of a similar kind. Such future-oriented statements are subject to risks and uncertainties since they relate to future events and are based on the Company’s current assumptions, which may not in 63477 Maintal the future take place or be fulfilled as expected. The Company points out that such future-oriented statements provide no Germany DESIGN guarantee for the future and that the actual events including the financial position and profitability of NORMA Group SE and developments in the economic and regulatory fundamentals may vary substantially (particularly on the down side) from those MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, explicitly or implicitly assumed in these statements. Even if the actual assets for NORMA Group SE, including its financial position CONTACT [GRI 102-53] Mainz and profitability and the economic and regulatory fundamentals, are in accordance with such future-oriented statements in this sustainability report, no guarantee can be given that this will continue to be the case in the future. Contacts for Corporate Responsibility PHOTO CREDITS Note on the sustainability report This sustainability report is also available in German. If there are differences between the two, the German version takes NORMA Group precedence. Marion Mitchell Note on rounding Group CR Officer PRINT Please note that slight differences may arise as a result of the use of rounded amounts and percentages. Email: Marion.Mitchell@normagroup.com Woeste Druck, Information on the Global Reporting Initiative Phone: +49 6181 6102 751 Essen The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) assists all organizations with their sustainability reporting. For this reason, it has developed a comprehensive framework for reporting on sustainability that is used all over the world. This framework report, including the Elias Schwenk reporting guide, discusses the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure their economic, ecological and social performance. CR Officer GRI is a non-profit foundation that has a number of partners and was founded by CERES and the environmental program of the Email: Elias.Schwenk@normagroup.com United Nations (UNEP) in the USA in 1997. GRI moved its headquarters to Amsterdam in 2002. Its secretariat is currently based Phone: +49 6181 6102 7602 there. Furthermore, GRI has regional offices in Australia, Brazil, China, India and the USA and a global network of 30,000 people and members. In addition, GRI maintains strategic partnerships with the United Nations’ Environment Program, the UN Global Compact, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the International Organisation for Standardization and other organizations. For this report the “Materiality Disclosure Service” was conducted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This confirms, that disclosures on the GRI Standards 102-40 to 102-49 have been correctly implemented as of the date of publication, both in the GRI Content Index as well as in the entire CR Report. 66 N O RM A G roup SE – C R Report 2017 NORMA Group SE Edisonstraße 4 63477 Maintal Germany Phone: +49 6181 6102 740 Email: info@normagroup.com Internet: www.normagroup.com
