Truth. Love. Integrity. Our Company’s Values Reflect Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact. 2017 18 S U STAIN ABILIT Y RE PORT 2017 1 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT CONTENTS GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 2 Our Values | Truth | Love | Integrity MISSION: Become the Global Employer of Choice T his report is a reflection of the activities and VISION: results that demonstrate Operate in a Safe and Graebel’s commitment and willingness to “walk the talk” Compliant Manner in maintaining a sustainable working environment and an affirmation of how these values VALUES: inform everything we do. Leave It Better Than You Found It OUR VALUES GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 3 In our organization, change is driven by the principle of continual improvement. Bill Graebel I n our organization, change is driven by the Chief Human Resources Officer, Mary Dymond, so principle of continual improvement. that she now serves as our Chief Talent Officer. Mary addresses the implications of this change on After nearly 70 years of growth and success, pages 12-13 of this report. under many economic and social conditions, we’re confident in our business model and Operating in a safe and compliant manner is no our ability to sustain within a culture that small feat in our industry. With a supplier network of over 2,400 providers operating in 165 countries demands transformation. and the responsibility to safeguard the data of many clients’ employees, we’re constantly exploring quality Our mission, vision and values place our aspirations and improvements in that area. This is evident in exceeding ethical underpinnings in perspective: all regulatory requirements, including the roll out of the • Become the Global Employer of Choice General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a European Union (EU) legal framework that sets guidelines for the • Operate in a Safe and Compliant Manner collection of data privacy. We’ve also updated our ISO 14001:2015 certification that imposes a high standard of • Leave It Better Than You Found It environmental management at our headquarters. We couldn’t deliver on these tenets without key partnerships – with suppliers, service providers, clients One manifestation of leaving it better than you found it is and of course, our employees who inspire this company our environmental partnership with American Forests, to reach greater heights every day. a conservation organization whose goal is to plant three million trees in 2018. Since 2015, we’ve helped support Becoming the industry’s global employer of choice is a the planting of 15,000 trees in the Deschutes National moon shot, but it keeps us pushing in the right direction. Forest in Oregon, regenerating land that was devastated In early 2018, we announced several initiatives to move by a fire in 2012. us along that path: we expanded PTO for all qualifying employees; established a Diversity Council and enhanced We’re proud to once again describe and validate our our Human Resources Department by promoting our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles. A LETTER FROM THE CEO GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 5 A s part of their commitment to the Global Compact, businesses have a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within their sphere of influence. The following principles show our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations GlobalCompact (UNGC). Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the elimination Businesses should undertake initiatives 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 4 of forced or compulsory labor. Policy & Implementation Alignment 8 to promote greater environmental responsibility. Policy & Implementation Alignment Human Rights Policy Policy & Implementation Alignment Human Rights Policy Graebel Companies Environmental Policy Businesses should uphold the effective 5 Code of Ethics abolition of child labor. Businesses should encourage 9 Mission / Vision / Values the development and diffusion of PTO Policy Policy & Implementation Alignment environmentally-friendly technologies. (Article 24 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights) Human Rights Policy Policy & Implementation Alignment Businesses should uphold the elimination ISO 14001 Environmental Management 6 Businesses should ensure that they are 2 not complicit in human rights abuses. of discrimination in respect of System (General) employment and occupation. Policy & Implementation Alignment Businesses should work against 10 Policy & Implementation Alignment corruption in all its forms, including Code of Ethics Code of Ethics extortion and bribery. Diversity Council Policy & Implementation Alignment Businesses should uphold the freedom of 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. EX 001 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics HR-021 Conflict of Interest Policy & Implementation Alignment Policy & Implementation Alignment EX-003 Sanctioned Countries Policy About Our Company Graebel Companies Environmental Policy TRACE UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 6 Full-time employees are granted up to 24 hours of volunteer paid time off to participate in charitable activities  Asia Pacific (APAC) Traveling Abroad This year, our APAC division kicked off a Country Expert S Program. This field-based research is designed to enrich and educate our frontline service delivery talent who work closely upporting our with our service providers in other countries. During the inaugural week-long trip to Bangalore, India, three Graebel people and their employees – Xiang Xun Fu, Heryah Leman and Kay Wong – met personal passions with two service providers and experienced simulated school and site tours around the city for cultural immersion, mirroring is not a one-size-fits-all experiences our clients’ assignees would have during their relocation process. Supervisor of International Operations approach. We’re giving voice Heryah Leman described the benefits: to our employees around “This experience enabled us to see India through the the globe by supporting lens of assignees, and simultaneously understand and their work, career and manage their expectations better.” volunteer opportunities to We extend this opportunity twice a year to qualifying employees nurture their leadership and and we’ve had the same program in our EMEA division for the past few years, with employee visits to suppliers in Dubai, professions. Munich, Luxembourg and London. We will continue these cultural exchanges, so our employees become more familiar with our processes and partners around the globe, as well as enhance their personal and career satisfaction. PEOPLE & CULTURE GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 8 VOLUNTEER PAID TIME OFF  Europe, Middle East, & Africa (EMEA) We established a Volunteer Paid Time Off (VPTO) policy in 2015 to enable and encourage our employees worldwide to serve the communities in which they work and live. Running for J.K. Rowling Employees can donate their time – up to 24 hours per calendar year – toward a charitable organization. Team members at our London office champion the Lumos Foundation, an international children’s charity founded by author J.K. Rowling to help Through this program and others, we’ve provided charitable millions of children in institutions worldwide achieve their right to a family donations and volunteer time to the following organizations life. Our local team members raised £1,000 in September at a networking in 2017-18: event and Simon Mason, Senior Vice President of Business Development, and Daniel Danko, Director of Supplier Development and Jonathan Langueneur, Director of Account Management, garnered £2500 for the cause when they ran the London Half Marathon in support of the Foundation. • American Heart • Loving Arms Association Foundation  Americas • Boy Scouts of America • Lumos Foundation • National Leadership • Colorado UpLift Academy Making Moves • Center for Work • Plains Conservation Move for Hunger is a New Jersey-based nonprofit that works with relocation companies across Education and Center Employment the U.S. to fight hunger and reduce food waste. Our partnership grants us the privilege to work • Refugee One with Move for Hunger and our service providers to redirect thousands of pounds of food from • Food Bank of the relocating employees. To further expand Move for Hunger’s mission, we support them through Rockies • Rotary International charitable donations. Thus far in 2017-18, we’ve raised over $5,000. • Girl Scouts of • Salvation Army America • Society for Hispanic • Josephinum Human Resources Academy Professionals • Junior Achievement • United Way PEOPLE & CULTURE GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 9 74% of Graebel employees report that Graebel is a place of strong culture and values GRAEBEL REPRESENTS GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 11 Q Patty McCord, Netflix’s former Chief Talent Officer said, “As an industry we have a responsibility to drive forward innovation in the area of talent management for the growth of our people, our clients and our future.” Can you speak to this elevated level of commitment to new hires? A You always need a committed employee who creates, who is innovative, who embraces the customer and who really wants to be here. No matter what, you always want to be dedicated to figure out why you are the place where people want to work, and reinforce why you are that place. Q How do you understand today’s generational talent, so that Graebel can become the organization people want to work for? A I don’t really believe in “generations.” I believe every person is different and that it depends on where the person is in their life cycle. A 25-year-old who’s married and has their first child is going to have different desires than a 25-year-old who is unmarried with no kids – they simply don’t have the same obligations or perceptions. The latter person might switch jobs every two years, whereas the married 25-year-old might not change jobs that much. And I think that’s been the T truth forever regardless of generation labels. he gig economy. Flexible work arrangements. 401(K)s in lieu of pensions. Subsidized healthcare. These employee-facing and very visible challenges at our company are I think what is unique in today’s working environment evaluated, strategically aligned and communicated enterprise wide by Mary Dymond, – because of technology – is that people want Graebel’s Chief Talent Officer. Having held positions in HR, Risk Management and Benefits, Mary is more feedback all the time. They always did, but it’s more accessible. Additionally, the management a seasoned, well-respected leader in her field. She was selected as one of the Top 5 HR executives style has changed. It’s not as command / control. in 2013 by HR Executive magazine. As we compete to attract and retain talent, Dymond took a few You see more project, team-based initiatives, and minutes to discuss trends, innovation, 2030, and things she likes and really doesn’t like. because of that you need to be more agile in your communication and feedback. AN INTERVIEW WITH MARY DYMOND GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 12 Q Q What are three things we could be doing 2030. What’s changed in how we better for our employees? recruit talent and how we take care of our employees? A First, I would love for us to focus on My idea of career A performance, rather than mundane things We’re going to be blending intelligent like attendance, and to trust our employees. machines with people, while making sure our development is like If you give trust, you tend to be more trusted. people are reaching their potential. A lot of the redundant, repetitive stuff that nobody likes to do, and the proverb. Second, I would like us to do better with helping people is probably not any human being’s sweet spot, is going focus on financial health and retirement. To encourage to be done by that machine. So our people are going to Give a person a fish and people to plan ahead and to put as much as they can in have to take care of that machine and determine how to their 401K. incorporate their work product with that machine. By 2030 they eat for one day; teach those machines are going to be pretty darn smart. Third, I’d like us to offer more training and more career people how to fish and they development. My idea of career development is like the proverb. Give a person a fish and they eat for one Q Day to day things you love to do? Day to day things you don’t like to do? day; teach people how to fish and they never go hungry. never go hungry. A Learning to develop your own career is exactly like that. I actually like crunching data. I like seeing it change and grow. I like knowing that the Q Can you speak to the development of the data is showing that women are moving up Diversity Council and why it was established? in our organization. Q Chief Talent Officer instead of Chief Human I really hate telling people bad news. And unfortunately, A The idea behind it is that it’s statistically Resources Officer? that comes with our territory. Managers come to us when proven that the more diverse the group is, the more creative it is, the more money the there are problems. Employees come to us when there A Human Resources sounds like it can be just are problems. And sometimes we have to deliver bad company makes, and it’s overall a better workplace. anyone. If you’re human, come on down. news. My mantra, to myself and the people who work Diversity isn’t just about one thing. It’s about gender. Because honestly, the people that work with me, is that if you have to deliver bad news do it with It’s about sexual orientation. It’s about race. It’s about for Graebel are talented. If you were in the movie or dignity, do it with respect, and, if at all possible, give religion. It’s about a lot of preferences that some people entertainment industry, you want someone who’s a star, people choices. who has talent, whether they’re a great backup singer or might get uncomfortable with. But I don’t care. I want the front person – they have talent. talent to contribute to our company. Seventy percent of our workforce is female. And we’re seeing pipelines of Bottom line: We want talent. We don’t just want a warm female leadership rising from management to director body. That’s why I’m the Chief Talent Officer. to senior level every year. *This interview has been edited for length. AN INTERVIEW WITH MARY DYMOND GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 13 Since 2015, Graebel has contributed funds to American Forests that equate to the planting of over 15,000 trees PARTNER SPOTLIGHT Home Sweet Home (HSH) is an organization that affords transferees the option to hire professional organizers before their relocation. HSH’s Discard and Donate T o embrace our role as stewards of our shared, natural environment, we’ve program helps transferees decide on wanted established a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee that oversees and unwanted items – unwanted items CSR teams in each of our offices around the globe. The teams create plans to are donated to organizations within that initiate environmental measures in their offices and within their communities. person’s community. Some of those undertakings include: As mentioned earlier, we have a close partnership with American Forests, a 140-yearOur partnership with HSH diverted • Installation of filtered water bottle stations to lessen the use of plastics (Prague & Denver) old organization dedicated to the protection and restoration of forests all over the world. Since 3.2 million pounds of waste • Paperless policy (Enterprise-wide) 1990, they’ve planted 50 million trees. Graebel from entering landfills in 2017. has contributed funds since 2015 that equate • Volunteer efforts at Plains Conservation to the planting of over 15,000 trees. These Center (Denver) greenspaces will clean the air, protect water resources and restore habitats for generations Cardboard / Paper Reduction: • Fundraisers for Move for Hunger to limit food waste (Wausau and Denver) to come. 128,884 pounds ENVIRONMENTAL Trees Saved / Planted: 4,296 STATISTICS Planted 15,000 Trees Recycled Pounds of Electronic Waste Fuel Saved: 51,553 gallons ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 15 E 100% of communities recycle ach year, we grant the Graebel Environmental Stewardship Award to a supplier partner who demonstrates a superior commitment to sustainability. The 2017 recipient was Gables Residential, a housing provider for relocated employees in urban settings around the U.S. Their 80% of constructed-related apartment communities reflect sustainability in an waste diverted from landfills all-inclusive manner. In addition, Gables Residential takes care to locate buildings near public transportation, integrate electric charging stations and bike sharing programs into new construction and preserve mature 47% of all communities are green trees in the planning and construction phases. certified or pursuing certification ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 16 W e actively seek to identify and mitigate the impacts of our operations and those of our suppliers and we stringently uphold our commitments to the following certifications and policies: • TRACE International, a non-profit • FIDI-FAIMPLUS, the premier seal of membership that specializes in anti-bribery quality for the international moving due diligence reviews industry. We’ve qualified in each of the past 20 years. • The Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), which seeks to • The General Data Protection Regulation safeguard the world’s vibrant trade industry (GDPR), an EU legal framework that sets from terrorists guidelines for the collection of data and personal information of our clients and their • Annual SOC-2 compliance audits, employees. We’ve also established an annual which relate to data security, availability, testing plan for GPDR compliance, including processing integrity, confidentiality breach notification. and privacy • ISO 14001: 2015, which certifies our headquarters as having an effective environmental management system, providing us with a solid framework for organizational performance OPERATING RESPONSIBLY GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 | 17 For questions or further information, please e-mail marketing@graebel.com © 2 0 1 8 G R A E B E L C O M PA N I E S , I N C . A L L R I G H T S R E S E R V E D . ALL TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS.
