COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 2 End hunger, As a leading agribusiness and food company, Bunge strives to be a shaper of sustainable practices within our achieve food security and sector. improved nutrition and promote We’re more than 30,000 employees helping farmers produce sustainably. We deliver responsible ingredients, sustainable consumer foods, animal feed and renewable fuels. In 2018 we celebrate our 200th anniversary, and continue agriculture to work in more than 40 countries. Our activities include:  Origination and transport of oilseeds and grains from the world’s primary growing regions to AND customers worldwide;  Crushing oilseeds to make meal for the livestock industry and oil for the food processing, food service and biofuel industries; SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives  Producing bottled oils, mayonnaise, margarines and other staple food products for consumers; and promote  Milling wheat and corn for food processors, bakeries, brewers and other commercial customers; well-being for  Crushing sugarcane to make sugar, renewable ethanol and electricity; all at all ages  Selling fertilizer to farmers. Our Sustainability Pillars We aim to  build 21st Century Value Chains, free of deforestation and human rights issues, and which make positive contributions to economic wellbeing;  address climate change through our own operations, by reducing deforestation and by enhancing the efficiency and resiliency of global trade;  reduce our own environmental footprint; and  act transparently and with world-class governance. Our philosophy is to “Act, Conserve and Engage.” We intend to move, even when the path is not clearly marked; to find new ways to reduce our footprint; and to collaborate actively with other value chain participants and civil society. Read more at http://bunge.com/sustainability and at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/governancepolicies-and-reports Food Security An expected surge in global population and the unpredictability of rainfall and other weather patterns due to climate change are making it necessary for agribusiness and food companies to plan for increased food production and less food waste, and to take measures to combat and manage the risks of climate change. Bunge is preparing to help feed 9.5 billion people by 2050 on several fronts: we are investing in new facilities; working to increase the efficiency and integration of our supply chains; promoting sustainable agriculture and striving to ensure resiliency to climate change in various regions of the world. Nutritious Oils & Grains Soybean, canola, rapeseed and sunflower oils are among the richest dietary sources of polyunsaturated fat and omega-3 and omega-6 fats, all of which have known health benefits. Whole grains are rich in fiber, which COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE is associated with a reduced risk of diabetes and heart disease. Whole grains also provide minerals such as iron, magnesium and zinc, as well as B vitamins. Gluten-free grains, such as quinoa, millet and sorghum are a good source of nutrients. Bunge is a leading company in the global trade of grains, providing nutritious raw materials around the world. Making Nutrition Available Globally With an integrated value chain that stretches from farm to fork, Bunge is well positioned to deliver safe, affordable and nutritious grains and oilseeds around the world. Our fortified margarines, enriched oils and omega-3 blends supply nutrients and other benefits that are needed for human health and that reduce SDG 2 disease risks End hunger, achieve food Healthier Diets for Children security and improved In Argentina, 6 out of 10 children live in poverty, resulting in malnutrition, obesity and a lack of healthy living nutrition and conditions. Since 2010, Bunge in Argentina has been committed to improving children’s health and access to promote healthy diets in the communities where it operates, aligning itself with two of the United Nations Sustainable sustainable agriculture Development Goals: #2: Zero Hunger and #3: Good Health and Wellbeing. Bunge, along with several prestigious local NGOs and public organizations, developed nine CSR programs for Argentina that were implemented in seven communities. Each implementation required an open and AND coordinated dialogue with many public actors including city halls, government ministries, hospitals and schools, among others. The main goal was to provide the communities with both the knowledge and tools to address childhood malnutrition, obesity and health. Bunge continues to partner with these communities, SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives developing their tailored programs and enabling them to progress towards their goals. Bunge’s most and promote significant programs include the following: Learning How to Eat at Kinder, Teacher’s Nutrition Seminars and well-being for all at all ages Good Nutritional Practices. The measurable achievements for 2017-2018 were: More than 100 teachers trained More than 30 urban and rural schools participated 2 hospitals involved More than 1,500 children from 0 to 12 years old benefited More than 410 persons received medical treatment 6 research studies carried out, resulting in the release of 4 papers A recognition from Avia Terai City Hall Support from 7 City Halls An organic garden and a traveler recipe book Responsible Agricultural Sourcing We believe that for the agricultural sector to grow the safe, quality food needed now and in the future, the natural environment on which its depends must be protected and improved, and the social and economic well-being of growers, their employees and local communities must be supported. Transparency We’re increasing the volume of products we can trace back to the mill or farm. In 2017, we achieved 93% traceability to the mill for palm oil. In Brazil, we reached 90% traceability to farm for soy sourced directly in COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE high risk regions in Brazil. We are certifying or verifying the sustainability profile of greater volumes of the products we process and ship. A key part of our efforts is satellite monitoring. In 2017, we monitored 6,700 different locations in South America for deforestation. We also blocked farmers who violated Brazilian environmental and labor laws. For our palm supply we maintain a monitoring program to check for deforestation in key regions in Southeast Asia. More information at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/sustainable-agriculture Partnerships Built in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, other market participants, associations, financial institutions, NGOs, and private and public research agencies, Agroideal.org allows for users to integrate agronomic, environmental and other data to make better decisions about how to expand agriculture production sustainably. Bunge has used this system in its operations to identify opportunities and risks for its future soy sourcing. Initial results show positive mid-term scenarios for expanding sourcing in the Brazilian Cerrado region. The tool is being expanded to the Argentine Chaco and relevant areas of Paraguay. Use the tool at www.agroideal.org. Working on the Ground in Brazil SDG 2 Between 2013 and 2017, Bunge partnered with The Nature Conservancy in Brazil on a five-year, $4 million End hunger, partnership. The goal was to promote the sustainable intensification of agriculture in locations where achieve food security and agricultural expansion was threatening savannas and forests, as well to support landscape planning along the improved growing northern export corridor. nutrition and promote sustainable The partnership engaged with farmers to promote land use planning and adherence to Brazil’s forest code, agriculture encouraged participation in the government’s land registration system and trained farmers in best agronomic practices. By December 2017, major achievements included mapping 25,528 farms and 14.6 million hectares of land, creating seven environmental portals that facilitate rural landscape planning, and enrolling more than 17,000 farms in the rural environmental registry (CAR) program Increasing Yields in Argentina: A Sustainable Approach We continued the Bunge Proposal Program (Propuesta Bunge), which aims to increase yields in la Pampa region by improving soil fertilization techniques. On average, production has increased by 14% (more than 500 kg/ha). This rate is based on a total of 48 trials, which represents an increase of 30% from the previous campaign. Following this success, Bunge launched Agro Files, a sustainable agriculture tool that makes the trial results available and allows growers to choose optimal fertilization methods by region or crop and access research applicable to their planting area. Agro Files is lending valuable support to local sustainable agriculture efforts by informing our farmers of our latest research in single convenient format. Learn more about our partnerships promoting sustainable agriculture at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/partnerships-and-projects COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE SDG 4 Community Development Ensure inclusive and Bunge operates in hundreds of communities around the world and we value our relationship with our equitable neighbors, taking part in local activities and buying from nearby farms. We contribute to the well-being of quality local communities through employment and investments, through our work with local associations, and education and through employee volunteer activities promote lifelong learning opportunities Improving reading comprehension in Uruguay for all Bunge employees supported the non-profit Edúcate in their program “Leer es un viaje,” (Reading is a Voyage). The program aims to improve reading comprehension and instill a love of reading in students in rural Uruguay by offering trainings and materials to teachers and schools. Bunge employees supported this program by donating books that supported 219 students and 19 teachers in 12 schools. Educational Community The Corporate Volunteering Program, created back in 2002, aims to value community work in municipalities where Bunge is present in Brazil. In 2017, 687 volunteers devoted 9,500 hours developing hundreds of activities in 29 institutions through 10 Brazilian states. Almost 22,000 people were reached with the activities. All the actions planned with the volunteers during the year were focused on the theme Observe the differences to do different . A broad campaign guided volunteers in conducting activities addressing topics such as gender, sexual orientation, race, disability and refugees. One of the many activities throughout the year is a blood donation drive, which helped save the lives of 396 people. . You can read more at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/social-responsibility COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE We engage in best practices to attract a richly diverse workforce and aim to include all voices in our operations. Our employee-training offerings are an investment in our workforce and the future of our SDG 5 Achieve gender business. equality and empower all women and Diversity & Inclusion girls We are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and to boosting diversity within our operations. We strive to cast a wide net so that our global workforce will be reflective of our broad customer base and so that a diversity of thought is represented across our operations. We also review policies and practices to ensure that none inadvertently undermine diversity. We take proactive measures to increase employees’ participation and inclusion once they are a part of Bunge, and examine policies and rules, both written and unwritten, to assess whether any are excluding participation in any way. Women of Bunge The Women of Bunge Network was founded to raise awareness of issues specific to female professionals. Open to all employees, no matter gender, the network has led events and programs that foster valuable internal and external connections. The intention of the program is to promote a supportive environment that provides access to resources which will aid in the advancement and development of great female talent within Bunge. The focus is around three pillars:  Career Development: Exposure to the leaders of Bunge; identification and promotion of developmental resources; skill-based mentorships  Community: Networking opportunities within the network and with leaders of Bunge; advocacy for the network  Partnership: Engagement and collaboration with internal and external partners to advance the networks mission. The Group promotes multiple events during the year and enhances the debate on gender equality in the company. Global Employee Statistics. 2017 All Genders Male Female All Operating Workforce 32,363 81% 19% Companies 2017 All Genders Male Female Termination rate All Operating 21.4% 21.6% 20.3% Companies 2017 All Genders Male Female Average Workforce Age All Operating 38.7 39.1 37.4 Companies COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Water SDG 6 Ensure Because water plays a central role in ag and food, and because access to safe, clean water is a UN-recognized availability and human right, managing the limited availability of freshwater around the world is a central concern for the sustainable management of agribusiness and food sector. Agriculture is generally considered to use roughly 70% of the world’s available water and freshwater. Trade in global agricultural commodities has been shown to reduce the total consumption of sanitation for all freshwater for ag production by nearly 10% per year. Assessing and managing water risk Using the CEO Water Mandate’s definitions, Bunge assesses water stress and water risk in watersheds or other areas where our facilities are located using:  Internal company knowledge  Regional government databases  The WBCSD Global Water Tool© (GWT) and Aqueduct Bunge uses water at its facilities to process grains, oilseeds and sugarcane into feed ingredients, value-added food products and biofuels. We track withdrawals of water by source at major facilities. The direct use of freshwater in Bunge’s operations occurs mainly during our production processes, including heating and cooling, and in some secondary industrial contexts. Water Reduction Goals Our goal is to reduce water use/mt of production by 10%, between 2016 and 2026, while reducing use/mt by 25% in regions of high water stress. Water Use Direct Use The direct use of freshwater in Bunge’s operations occurs mainly during our production processes, including heating and cooling, and in some secondary industrial contexts. As the world plans to produce more crop to meet growing demand, Bunge is preparing to further reduce our freshwater use, manage our risk in waterstressed locations and support water availability for local communities. Soybeans, Bunge’s largest commodity by revenue, are a rain-fed crop in the majority of areas from which we source. We have made strides in water conservation within our operations, having already reduced our freshwater use per metric ton of production by 8% between 2014 and 2016. We have accomplished this by making our operational processes increasingly efficient, by closing loops, and by either installing new or improving existing cooling towers. Some Bunge facilities are located in river basins considered at risk, though their exposure to this risk is minor at present owing to the nature of the facilities’ operations. Bunge operates 26 facilities in areas of high or extremely high Baseline Water Stress, as defined by the WRI Aqueduct Tool. In addition, Bunge operates some facilities in 20 separate river basins around the world classified as being at “high” or “extremely high” baseline water stress, as defined by the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool embedded in the GWT. We also have facilities in 19 separate river basins that will be below sufficient projected annual renewable water COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE supply per person in 2025, according to a World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 2016 update SDG 6 Indirect Use Ensure availability and Bunge sources agricultural commodities from thousands of independent farmers. The majority of suppliers do sustainable not use irrigation. Generally, data on water use has been closely held by farmers. The complexity of collecting management of and aggregating this information at scale is cost prohibitive. Bunge's diversified supply chain has a natural water and sanitation for all effect of mitigating the risk of impacts related to water. We are working in specific regions to improve data collection and water efficiency on farm. Some of the farmers from whom we source are located in areas reliant on irrigation. A reduction in the availability of groundwater in these localities could impact the quantity of crops available for purchase. Bunge sources a significant amount of crops from regions employing rain fed production. . Water Withdrawal (megaliters/year), 2017 Total volume of fresh surface water 48,522,288 withdrawn Total volume of ground water withdrawn 15,080,013 Total volume of rainwater collected 0 directly and stored by the organization Total volume of waste water from another organization, used for Bunge 0 supply Total volume withdrawn from municipal water supplies or other public or private 9,927,024 water utilities Total volume of sea water withdrawn 23,617,533 Total volume of water withdrawn 97,146,857 More information at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/water and https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/gri-index#water_data COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE We produce sugarcane products sustainably in Brazil, such as sugarcane ethanol, an advanced biofuel, and run SDG 7 Ensure access on bagasse, a renewable-energy byproduct of sugarcane processing. As a result, the plants generate carbonto affordable, neutral electricity. Surplus electricity is sold into the local power grid. The total co-generation capacity is reliable, 123,0 MW, what is enough to supply households in a 520 thousand inhabitants city. sustainable and modern energy for all Globally, Bunge generates over 60% of its energy from renewable sources, including sugarcane bagasse, seed hulls and other biomass Bunge’s global labor policy commits us to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment SDG 8: Promote The International Labor Organization has identified agriculture as a sector of concern regarding incidences of sustained, forced and child labor in its production and supply chains, estimating that 59 percent of global child labor inclusive and occurs in agriculture. Bunge strictly forbids any use of forced or child labor in its operations and extends this sustainable prohibition to its suppliers and subcontractors. Our employees have freedom of association and are under economic growth, full and collective bargaining agreements where applicable. productive employment Supplier relationships and decent We require that our suppliers’ operations, and those of their subcontractors and suppliers, comply with work for all Bunge’s global labor policy. In addition, any housing that they, their subcontractors or suppliers provide for their employees must be safe and healthy. In those regions or sectors where the risks of violation of our policy are higher, we have implemented a variety of policies and procedures to ensure compliance. We began reviewing palm oil suppliers for labor risks and practices in 2017; however, we have been conducting reviews among grain suppliers in risky areas for a much longer time. In Brazil, we are a signatory of the National Slave Work Eradication Pact developed by the Ethos Institute and the International Labour Organization (ILO) and endorsed by the Brazilian government, civil society and other companies. We cross-reference our commercial systems to government forced-labor databases and block any contracts with listed entities. In 2017, six suppliers were disqualified for being on the Ministry of Labor’s forced-labor blacklist. Currently, out of approximately 8,500 suppliers that have been screened, a total of 29 that supplied Bunge in the past are currently blocked. Read more at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/labor COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Bunge’s Best in Class initiative, including enhanced analytics, optimized assets and improved processes, is being implemented throughout all of our operations. Bunge's journey towards Best in Class operations continues. Our Bunge Management Operating System is now implemented in 97% of our facilities. We have embarked to develop this into an enhanced framework, called the Bunge Production System. Lead-Learning Sites in each region will be defining the next level of operational excellence in 2018. The company continues to assess relevant data regarding savings and innovations in our industrial operations. The intention is to understand how much the decrease in emissions, energy use and waste generation represent in financial savings for Bunge, globally. Analysis show that, for the period of 2016-2017, industrial sustainability efforts resulted in savings of over US$26.5 million for the global Agribusiness and Food & SDG 12 Ingredients segments. That represents an increase of 47% over the previous period savings (2013 – 2015) Ensure sustainable consumption Looking ahead, we have a 10-year goal of reducing waste disposal/mt by an additional 10% and total waste and production patterns generation/mt by 2026. In South America, where we operate a large consumer product business, we run programs aimed at reducing post consumption waste. The program, Soya Recicla, spans over 100 cities and more than 2,800 locations, including schools, supermarkets and restaurants. Created in 2006, it is currently the largest voluntary used cooking oil collection program in the country, and has collected almost 5 million liters of used oil since its launch. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Energy Use, Emissions and Climate SDG 13 Take urgent As an agribusiness and food company, Bunge seeks to support adaptation and resilience to climate change in action to our operations and supply chain by managing the origin location and diversity of crops we source; by reducing combat climate change and its our own energy use and emissions in our operations; and by protecting forests. impacts Emissions and Energy Reduction We are expanding our asset network and product portfolio to ensure diversity of supply, reducing emissions in our own operations and working to integrate climate scenario analysis more fully into our long-term planning and risk management. Bunge has made meaningful progress in reducing our non-renewable energy use and emissions throughout the years. Between 2015 and 2017, we reduced CO2 emissions intensity by 6.5%, from 47.66 to 44.57 kg per metric ton of production. We have established new intensity goals to reduce both energy consumption and GHG emissions per ton of production by 10% by 2026, compared to a 2016 baseline. We accomplished these reductions through the use of renewable energy and by implementing a variety of efficiency programs and investments. Our efforts to reduce deforestation in our supply chains—we have committed to eliminating deforestation from our supply globally—also contributes to climate change mitigation. Managing climate change risks Climate change poses acknowledged risks for Bunge. First, future additional regulations or taxation of GHG emissions, or policies related to national emission-reduction plans, could affect costs for our business. And second, adverse weather, including as a result of climate change, could affect the availability and price of agricultural commodities and products as well as our operations and results. These same possibilities could also create opportunities for our business. They could result in a greater demand for our crops grown in unaffected regions. The effects of climate change could also present opportunities to leverage our global asset network to meet demand in times of shortages. Public policy advocacy We seek to influence public policy on bioenergy through direct engagement with policy makers and participation in the trade associations of FEDIOL, ABIOVE and UNICA. We participate in the governance structure of all of these groups. Our engagement focuses on issues related to biofuel production, marketing, sustainability and trade. The company supports market based approaches to promoting economically and environmentally efficient first generation biofuels. We report avoided emissions to the CDP Climate Change program for our low-carbon products: ethanol, biofuel, biomass and bioelectricity. More information available at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/climate COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Emissions and Energy Statistics SDG 13 Take urgent Total Emissions (in metric tons)* action to 2016 combat climate change and its Direct CO2 emissions from fuel use in facilities 1.72M metric tons impacts Indirect CO2 emissions from purchased electricity and steam 1.55M metric tons * Bunge collects activity data and calculates Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions using the Brazil GHG Protocol Programme, the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), and the U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule; national sources such as the U.S. EPA, the Argentine Secretary of Energy, and the Brazilian Ministry of Science and Technology; and local sources. Energy Consumption Scope 1 ((in gigajoules, GJ) Total direct energy consumption 79,441,726 Scope 2 ((in megawatt-hours, MWh) Total electricity consumed (MWh) 3,277,371 More information available at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/gri-index#emissions_and_energy_data COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE HOW WE CONSERVE: Sustainable Agriculture We are committed to Sustainable Agriculture and the creation of traceable, trustworthy 21st Century Value SDG 15 Protect, restore chains. Our activities include: and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Enhancing the traceability of our supply chains and mapping suppliers in key areas ecosystems, Extending the Soy Moratorium in the Amazon Biome sustainably Blocking farmers in Brazil who violate labor and deforestation regulations manage forests, combat Launching public grievance and supplier verification mechanisms for palm oil desertification, Working with The Nature Conservancy and a coalition of companies, NGOs and government agencies and halt and to develop open source tools to help identify areas for sustainable expansion of agriculture reverse land degradation Expanding volumes of certified products and halt Partnering with The Forest Trust to improve the sustainability of the global palm oil industry and our biodiversity own supply loss Participating in numerous multi-stakeholder groups committed to promoting sustainable agriculture, including Field to Market in the U.S. We disclosed our performance to the CDP Forests program for the first time in early 2016 and have kept the good practice ever since. Non-Deforestation Commitments Bunge believes all agricultural value chains should be free of deforestation, environmentally sustainable and economically beneficial to local communities. We established a comprehensive, NDPE sourcing policy for palm oil in 2014. Full information on our supply and activities can be found at http://www.bunge.com/sustainability/palm-oil-dashboard For oilseeds and grains, we have a clear strategy of promoting traceability, sustainable expansion over suitable areas and proper incentives for conservation. Learn more and read our latest public updates at http://bunge.com/sustainability/zero-deforestation. COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE Transparency Bunge is considered to be a good partner by stakeholders within our value chains, a professional team with SDG 17 Strengthen the whom organizations can engage in dialogue around sustainability. We are respected for being honest about means of what we are doing and for reporting our progress in sustainability in a balanced way. implementation and revitalize the global Public Reporting partnership for We publicly disclose our efforts and progress through several sustainability reporting mechanisms, including sustainable development through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, and through CDP programs. Sustainability reports Bunge issued our first global Citizenship report in 2008. Bunge’s 2014 Citizenship Report was our first GRIbased report at the global level, and the 2016 edition was our first global report in compliance with the Core indicators of the GRI G4 framework. In 2018, we released our Global Sustainability Web-based Report in the pages of www.bunge.com/sustainability. It complies with the new GRI Standards, Corel level. Index is available at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/gri-index We have been reporting on sustainability at the regional level longer: Bunge Brazil released its fifteenth report this year — its fifth GRI Comprehensive report available at http://www.bunge.com.br/sustentabilidade/2018/eng/downloads/Bunge_SR18.pdf . Other regions also have presented sustainability disclosure according to local stakeholder interaction. CDP programs & the CEO Water Mandate Bunge discloses its sustainability performance via the CDP Water, CDP Climate and CDP Forests programs. In 2015, we became a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate. Charters and Principles Bunge belongs or is a signatory to several charters and principle frameworks, including the UN Global Compact and Brazil’s Soy Moratorium. Read more at http://bunge.com/sustainability/reports-and-governance. Member Organizations Bunge is a member of many organizations globally, supporting local development and working toward a more sustainable agribusiness and food industry. Below, some of Bunge’s major interactions are highlighted. ABIA (Brazilian Association of the Food Industries) Board Member ABIOVE (Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oils Industries) – Chair of the board ASAGA (Argentinian Association of fats and oils) Board Member CAPPRO (Paraguayan Chamber of Cereals and Oilseeds Processors) – Board Member CIARA (Argentinian Oil Industry Chamber) – Board Member COCERAL (European association representing the trade in vegetable oils and fats and agrosupply) Board Member EBB (European Biodiesel Board) Board member FEDIOL (the European Union vegetable oil and protein meal industry association)Board Member Field to Market – Founding Member Sustainable Shipping Initiative COP – UNGC Bunge Limited 2017/2018 SDG BUNGE RESPONSE The Forest Trust UNICA (Brazilian Sugarcane Industry Association) Council participation World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD) More of our global forums, debates and interaction with society can be found at https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/gri-index#global%20_forums_and_debates and https://www.bunge.com/sustainability/materiality-stakeholder-engagement Anti-corruption Bunge operates a robust ethics and compliance function that oversees corruption issues. We also operate a public whistleblower hotline and sustainability grievance mechanism. Lear more at http://bunge.com/investors/code-conduct, http://bunge.com/investors/report-concern,
