2 0 17 C O R P O R AT E RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T W E L C O M E T O S E N S I E N T T E C H N O L O G I E S C O R P O R AT I O N ’ S 2 0 1 7 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T. This is our third annual report and it is designed to provide One example of our commitment to the local community additional information about Sensient’s operations as they is our partnership with Cristo Rey Jesuit High School in relate to a range of issues including corporate citizenship, Milwaukee. Through our partnership with Cristo Rey, we product safety, environmental stewardship, and sustainability. are giving four high school students from economically challenged backgrounds work experience in our corporate Sensient has a long-standing commitment to corporate headquarters office. This work provides the students with responsibility and sustainable business practices. This new skills and exposes them to a variety of professional career Corporate Responsibility Report describes Sensient’s efforts opportunities. We believe strongly in being good corporate to meet its commitments for our products, customers, citizens. Contributing to the success of the communities in employees, environment, and the communities in which which we operate is a big part of that. You can read more we operate. We view sustainable business practices as an about our community development efforts later in this report. important aspect of Sensient’s economic health and core values and we expect each employee to actively participate in Although this is only the third report of its kind for Sensient, and contribute to Sensient’s efforts. we have a strong history of promoting sustainability in a variety of forms. This report provides both a summary of recent sustainability efforts undertaken by Sensient and a view of where we are headed in the future. I am particularly proud of our products that not only provide our customers with superior technical performance, but also allow our customers to drastically reduce their environmental footprints. These products are driving real improvement in our environment. Our efforts and commitment are ongoing. As you review this report, I believe you will see that our approach to sustainability is consistent with Sensient’s clear strategy to create sustainable growth and long-term shareholder value. I want to conclude by thanking Sensient’s shareholders, customers, employees, and Board for your ongoing support of our efforts and commitment. I have high expectations for Sensient and look forward to updating you on our progress. Sincerely, Paul Manning Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T INTRODUCTION Sensient Technologies Corporation is a leading global Our goal is to inspire our customers in their efforts to deliver manufacturer and marketer of colors, flavors, and fragrances. products to people that offer multi-sensorial experiences to We employ advanced technologies to develop specialty food drive brand excitement and increase sales. The color, flavor, and beverage systems, cosmetic ingredients, pharmaceutical and fragrance systems we develop can be found in leading excipients, inkjet and specialty inks and colors, and other consumer products worldwide. specialty and fine chemicals. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR PRODUCTS 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR PRODUCTS At Sensient, we pride ourselves on working to exceed industry standards for quality, safety, and security. We utilize state-of-the-art quality control testing and we welcome open audits of our products and facilities. Our facilities hold various certifications, including Food Safety System Certification (FSSC) 22000, British Retail Consortium (BRC), International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and Safe Quality Food (SQF) certification. Sensient uses only quality raw materials from strictly qualified sources. We regularly inspect our suppliers, holding them to the highest standards and consistently working to introduce improvements. We also work directly with growers of our natural ingredients, sharing best practices and collaborating with them to produce ingredients that meet our strict requirements. To help ensure the safety of our products, all of our raw materials are part of a detailed traceability program and we have robust product, environmental, and raw material screening programs that are designed to exceed industry standards. We recognize that Sensient is just one part of the sustainability supply chain. We regularly collaborate with our customers to understand and meet their expectations, as well as industry standards, related to product delivery and quality. Sensient seeks to be a leader in the environmental sustainability movement. Our products and solutions are developed with the goal of reducing production and application waste. Examples of how we do this include providing delivery systems and pigments that reduce color waste and promoting crop development programs that produce stable botanical sources for our raw materials. Also, as our customers have discovered the advantages of natural ingredients and the benefits of products with clean labels, Sensient continues to expand its already robust portfolio of natural solutions in food colors and flavors, fragrances, and cosmetics. We have been working to develop natural product solutions for more customer applications, including preservative and GMO-free alternatives and Organic and Fair Trade Certified products. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T P R O D U C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y H I G H L I G H T S : Certasure™ forest product chain-of-custody certification for raw materials Certification Program sourced from sustainable forest operations. Current regulations for colors from natural sources lack Cosmetics consistent definitions as well as Our Cosmetics business has initiated a new innovation publicly available quality control platform dedicated to the creation of natural, biodegradable, and product safety specifications. There is also a lack of and renewable products. Not only do these products provide agreement regarding appropriate methods for testing the superior performance in our customers’ applications, they also purity of these colorants. To address this issue, Sensient has support our customers’ demand for sustainable raw materials created a comprehensive certification program for colors for their clean label applications. derived from plant sources that combines stringent quality testing, comprehensive vendor certification, full raw material Responsible Mica Initiative traceability, and good manufacturing practices to ensure that Natural mica is a key raw material in several Sensient product colors from natural sources meet all safety and authenticity lines. Mica can be sourced from mines in India, where child requirements. Certasure™ aims to fill a regulatory gap and labor has historically been a concern. To help eradicate child ensure that consumers receive safe, quality products free labor and unacceptable working conditions in the Indian mica of harmful contaminants such as pesticides, heavy metals, supply chain, Sensient Cosmetic Technologies has joined unauthorized solvents, and pathogens. Backed by Sensient, the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle, an organization Certasure™ provides food manufacturers full brand protection. dedicated to collaborative actions such as the creation of “child friendly villages,” whose purpose is to ensure that children are Fragrances removed from work and instead enrolled in school. Our Fragrances business is active in utilizing the principles of “green chemistry” to minimize the environmental impact of chemical processes and promote the use of renewable resources. For example, our SensiCaps® line of microencapsulated fragrances is formulated without formaldehyde, opening up exciting opportunities for delayed-release and layered fragrances in the cosmetics and personal care products markets. We have also implemented the use of a new 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T P R O D U C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y HIGHLIGHTS: Sensient Natural Origins® Our Sensient Natural Origins® extract line provides our customers with an environmentally friendly solution for imparting authentic, natural botanical flavor profiles in their products. These extracts rely on clean technologies such as molecular distillation, carbon dioxide extraction, and extraction using green solvents as an alternative to traditional extraction using harsh solvents. In addition, all solvents used in Sensient Natural Origins® process are recycled to minimize waste generation, further reducing the environmental impact of the process. Finally, our sustainable supply chain philosophy for these flavors calls for local sourcing and for using all components of our raw materials, including recovery and sale of co-products produced during our manufacturing process, Palm-Free Natural Food Colors and Flavors to result in a product with a smaller environmental footprint. Palm oil production has skyrocketed over the past 20 years and is now the world’s most widely produced food oil. It can be found in every food and beverage category because GMO-Free Food Product Lines of its low cost and high stability. The rapid expansion of To help our customers meet consumer demand for foods that palm oil plantations, however, has raised concerns regarding do not contain GMOs, Sensient offers a comprehensive range deforestation and wildlife habitat preservation. of GMO-free products across our entire portfolio, from natural colors to hydrolyzed vegetable proteins. To combat these concerns, Sensient’s research and innovation teams have developed a broad library of sustainable and environmentally friendly natural color options that do not require palm oil-based products. These innovative technological platforms are free of all palm-derived components, not simply the active pigment. In extensive stability testing, the new palm-free natural colors proved to be very well-protected against color degradation, making them ideally suited for food and beverage applications. From a coloring perspective, palm-free formulations can be used as an excellent alternative because they do not differ in shade or appearance. In addition, several Sensient business units across both our Colors and Flavors Groups have engaged with the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), either as members or as supply chain associates to support the RSPO process / system. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T P R O D U C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y H I G H L I G H T S : Sustainable Agriculture businesses. As part of this project, Sensient provides Sensient has initiated and supported a number of programs coaching and training to farmers along with a mid-term to source agricultural raw materials from impoverished areas supply contract. Thus far, this program has helped to create around the world. These programs provide needed skills and 60 new jobs, providing much-needed skills and economic a source of income for farmers while providing us a reliable opportunity to an economically depressed rural community. supply of sustainable raw materials. Following are examples • In Africa, our strategic partner employs over 300 families, of some of these programs: some displaced from nearby war-torn countries, in the • We have launched a joint project with agricultural growing of sustainable crops. In exchange for their work, cooperatives in certain European and African communities the parents are provided with new skills, income, food, to evaluate the feasibility of growing certain secondary housing, and education for their children. This partnership agricultural products in between the growth cycle of a has been especially beneficial in empowering African traditional primary crop, such a wheat, barley, or peas. In women, some of whom currently hold senior management regions where typically only a single crop is harvested per positions within our partner’s organization. During the year, this project could offer the community an additional severe drought of 2016, Sensient provided financial source of income during otherwise fallow periods and help assistance to install an irrigation system to save the farms to meet Sensient’s demand for agricultural raw materials from utter devastation. This system also ensures that the outside of their normal growing cycle. Importantly, by farms will be protected from the threat of droughts in the growing the secondary crop after the primary crop, the future. project would allow for the growth of the new crops without • In Asia, our contract farms employ dozens of families, some decreasing the available agricultural surface area used to of whom were evacuees from the devastation of Typhoon grow food crops. Haiyan. Because of the jobs created by Sensient, these • We have embarked on a new project to promote the local families are now able to send their children to school. sourcing of agricultural raw materials for our Mexican 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T P R O D U C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y H I G H L I G H T S : Natural Ingredients Sensient Natural Ingredients offers an expansive portfolio of agricultural products that takes sustainability to the next level. Our PhD plant breeders and research personnel constantly strive to develop improved strains of seed lines that enhance quality and productivity and reduce overall energy requirements. Our traditional breeding program consistently introduces new crop varieties in order to more efficiently use land and water resources and to reduce the amount of fossil fuels consumed per unit of production. We are proud that our non-GMO breeding program yields some of the most efficient processing crops in the world. Located in California’s prime agricultural growing region, Sensient Natural Ingredients calls on its network of local farmers and partnerships going back several generations to cultivate its capsicums and onions while maintaining strict supply chain management and unparalleled traceability. With control over each step of the process, Sensient utilizes decades of process knowledge to ensure ideal ground selection, proprietary development of seed varieties, a customized planting and harvesting process, and specialized processing facilities to guarantee the stability and sustainability of its products. Through our field representative program, we partner with our growers to share best practices in farming that are unique to our products in areas such as integrated pest management, improved nutrient Finally, in response to the increasing demand for organic management, water conservation, and other proprietary farm agricultural products grown in the United States, Sensient management systems and tools. Many of those relationships is excited to offer its organic-certified, California-grown line span decades as our growers are integrated partners in our of chili peppers, paprika, and onions. In addition, we will be supply chain. These long-term collaborative relationships adding organic garlic and parsley in 2018. Sensient’s line of have led to environmental and efficiency improvements, such organic products is grown according to the USDA’s National as the conversion of major portions of our production ground Organic Program standards without the use of any synthetic to drip irrigation the most efficient technology for reducing fertilizers, herbicides, or insecticides. Transported to our overall water and fertilizer consumption. organic certified facility and processed within 24 hours of harvest, Sensient’s organic products are well taken care of to Our commitment to sustainability continues in our processing ensure high quality from farm to table. operations, where 100% of the water we use to wash our harvested crops is reused for irrigation of nearby farm fields. In addition, 100% of residual skins and sheds from our processing operations are used to produce compost to support the growing of crops. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T P R O D U C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y H I G H L I G H T S : Water-Based Digital Inks Sensient’s digital inks continue to set the standard for environmentally friendly printing technology. Our portfolio of water-based inks for digital printing onto textiles allows our customers to avoid the environmental impacts associated with solvent-based inks of the past. Not only do these products have the potential to dramatically reduce water consumption and pollution generated during processing, they also dramatically lower our customers’ energy use and related emissions. Furthermore, these inks help our customers meet Greenpeace’s Detox Campaign, which calls on clothing manufacturers to commit to phase out the use and release of toxic chemicals from their global SensiPro™ Turf Colorants supply chain and products by January 1, 2020. Sensient’s SensiPro™ line of environmentally friendly turf colorants provides several sustainability-related benefits Our most recent breakthrough technology platform allows our for our customers. Among its most significant uses is as customers to utilize a unique method of digital printing that a colorant for golf course turf, allowing our customers to prints directly onto fabric with innovative water-based inks. drastically reduce water and fertilizer usage during hot, This platform aims to improve the sustainability of industrial dry summer months and in parts of the world affected textile printing by conserving natural resources without by ongoing droughts. An additional use is as a spray compromising the quality of the customer’s finished products. pattern indicator for turf chemical applications, allowing The inks developed under this platform offer superior color our customers to reduce turf chemical and fertilizer usage vibrancy and print quality. The process is sustainable and by providing a visual application indicator, eliminating environmentally friendly, providing enormous reductions unnecessary overlap applications and reducing the potential in water use and wastewater treatment compared to harmful environmental impacts caused by over-application of conventional textile manufacturing. In some cases, we have turf chemicals and fertilizers. reduced water consumption in traditional textile printing almost completely. Given that as much as 20% of the world’s fresh water pollution comes from textile processing, our technology has the potential to be a true game changer. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR EMPLOYEES 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR EMPLOYEES Our employees are our most important asset – The result is a workforce made up of incredibly talented people Sensient takes pride in our strong health and safety from many diverse backgrounds. This extends to our nominating programs to make sure they have safe working practices for our Board of Directors, where this past year we conditions. Our employees are also our customers. were named a “2020 Women on Boards Winning Company” for By focusing on employees, we empower them the sixth year in a row for the diverse makeup of our board. and improve our programs to ensure that Sensient remains a world-class organization. We believe that every Sensient employee contributes to our success. To reward our employees and attract other high Following are examples demonstrating our commitment and performers, not only do we offer competitive compensation, progress toward achieving our goal of providing the safest we offer a wide variety of benefits and other programs to recworkplace in the industry: ognize the contributions of our employees and promote their • Implementation of best-practice programs and management well-being, including the following: systems. • Comprehensive benefits program that allows employees to • Ongoing capital investments aimed at creating the highest select the plans and levels of coverage best suited to meet standards for environment, health, and safety in each of our their needs, including health insurance benefits for our fullplants around the world. time employees and their families and supplemental health • Meaningful use of metrics to apply leading and lagging insurance for employees in countries with public health systems. indicators toward incremental improvement and sustainable • Generous paid time-off policies to promote better work/life results. balance. • Appropriate training and a corporate culture that expects • Scholarships and tuition assistance for eligible employees to employees to perform their jobs safely. further their career development and to increase their value • Regular communication and engagement with employees to the Company. on safety topics through safety committee meetings, plant• Support of Executive Order 13518, The Veterans wide communication meetings, and “tool box” meetings. Employment Initiative, to help U.S. military veterans find civilian employment. In addition to our commitment to providing a safe workplace, • Paid internship and co-op programs to educate the future of Sensient also seeks to provide a work environment that our industry with valuable hands-on experience and training. is respectful of every person and is free from judgment, • Sales Training Program that provides extensive, real-life job discrimination, intimidation, and harassment based on race, experience and classroom learning to develop high-potential religion, color, sex, age, national origin, disability, genetic, candidates into successful sales account managers. veteran or military status, or any characteristic protected by • Opportunities for employees to participate in international any applicable local or national law. The Company’s Code of work assignments. Conduct specifically prohibits such discrimination, intimidation, • Ongoing training for people managers to lead, coach, and and harassment and calls for summary termination of anyone support our employees. found to have violated these policies. Indeed, every confirmed • Robust talent management practices including individual violation of the Sensient Code of Conduct results in termination. development planning, a high-potential program, and a robust succession planning program. We employ these same anti-discrimination principles in our hiring • Opportunities for promotions within and across functions. practices. We are proud of our commitment to hiring the best, • Innovation program that provides cash payments for most well-qualified people without regard for race, religion, colemployees who solve key technical challenges. or, sex, age, national origin, disability, genetic, veteran, or military • In conjunction with National Merit Scholarship Corporation, status. We endeavor to treat each person as an individual entiSensient offers college scholarships to the eligible children tled to respect and dignity based upon their individual character. of US employees. Each scholarship winner receives $3,500 per year of college for up to four years. • Home computer purchase assistance for eligible employees. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR ENVIRONMENT 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR ENVIRONMENT Sensient is committed to the principles of sound environmental stewardship and the responsible and sustainable use of energy and natural resources. We view these principles as important aspects of our economic health and core values. We expect each employee to actively participate in and contribute to this Corporate philosophy. Our Code of Conduct requires each Sensient employee and facility to comply with all applicable local and national environmental laws and regulations and all Sensient facilities are required to operate in a manner to avoid harm to the environment, prevent pollution, and reduce waste. Sensient has a strong record of environmental compliance in all of our facilities in more than 30 countries. But we recognize that compliance alone is not sufficient to meet global sustainability challenges. We are committed to conserving our natural resources and to improving our environment so future generations can live healthy, prosperous lives. We are manufacturing facilities per unit of production. Given the constantly evaluating new ways to reduce our environmental nature of our operations, the majority of the hazardous impact as measured through our energy consumption, water waste generated by Sensient facilities is in the form of consumption, and generation of waste materials. unsaleable products and laboratory wastes as opposed to industrial processing wastes. To measure and report on our progress at reducing our environmental impact of our diverse manufacturing We have established the following 10-year goals with respect operations, Sensient has identified the following key to each of these key performance indicators: performance indicators against which we will measure our • Energy intensity: Reduction of 15% by 2025 progress: • Water intensity: Reduction of 15% by 2025 • Energy intensity: Total energy consumption by our • Hazardous waste intensity: Reduction of 10% by 2025 manufacturing facilities per unit of production. This We are on our way to meeting each of these goals. The following indicator includes electricity purchased from utilities as pages contain examples of specific projects carried out at one or well as fuel purchased for use on-site in equipment such as more of our facilities to help us realize these goals. boilers, heaters, and dryers. • Water intensity: Total volume of water consumed by our manufacturing facilities per unit of production. This indicator includes groundwater withdrawn from onsite wells as well as water purchased from utilities. The primary uses of water at Sensient facilities are for cleaning and cooling equipment and as a raw material in our products. • Hazardous waste intensity: Total amount of hazardous waste (as defined by local regulation) generated by our 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T Sensient is constantly looking for opportunities to drive • Installed new, more efficient boiler to reduce natural gas sustainability in our day-to-day operations. Not only does consumption. this reduce our environmental footprint, but it also allows us • Implemented new management controls on product to operate more cost effectively and provide greater returns shipment to utilize on marine transport instead of air to our shareholders. Following are some specific examples shipment whenever feasible to reduce energy footprint of sustainability-related projects conducted at one or more associated with shipment. of our manufacturing plants, research and development • Relocated laboratory and offices to a smaller office space, laboratories, or business offices over the past year: eliminating heating and cooling load for underutilized space. • Continued electrical motor replacement campaign to ENERGY REDUCTION enhance energy efficiency. • Introduced ambient air to cool process exhaust prior to • Completed corporate restructuring program that emission control equipment. resulted in the shutdown, sale, and/or consolidation of 11 • Installed a heat recovery system to recuperate heat from manufacturing facilities since 2013, significantly reducing hot water used at the site. our environmental footprint. • Replaced three low-efficiency refrigerated storage units • Completed a heat recovery campaign that resulted in the with larger, high-efficiency unit. reduction of 1,864 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions • Replaced a burner on a spray dryer, resulting in an 8-10% and 115,000 megawatt-hours of energy savings over a reduction in natural gas usage. two-year period. • Operated energy-efficient adiabatic evaporative • Installed a heat exchanger on a distillation column to humidifiers for employee comfort, at an energy savings of recover 217 kilowatts of energy. 80% over conventional mechanical cooling. • Began three-year project to improve efficiency of natural • Continued roll-out of video conferencing technology gas usage in boilers from 72-75% to >85%. across our entire business, eliminating travel-related • Installed light domes in production areas to take advantage energy consumption whenever and wherever possible. of natural light and reduce need for electric lights. • Optimized logistics to minimize number of freight pickups • Improvement of first-time-right production yield of 2% and to reduce fossil fuel consumption and emissions. overall yield by 0.1%, directly reducing energy required • Changed project standards to specify energy-efficient per unit of production. LEDs for all new construction and refurbishment projects. • Contracted with energy provider to source • Utilized variable frequency drives in process 100% of manufacturing facility’s and process support equipment to reduce electricity needs from green power consumption. sources. • Continued installation of timers, • Installed new electric daylight sensors, and personal forklifts to achieve 70% infrared sensors on lighting energy savings. systems at various plants • Established program of to reduce electricity use localized production associated with lighting. of certain products • Replaced an aging to lower energy boiler with a new, highfootprint associated efficiency unit. with transporting finished products to end market. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T W AT E R R E D U C T I O N • Replaced single-pass cooling water system with closed-loop • Installed closed-loop water cooling system in a production noncontact cooling water system with cooling tower, reducarea, reducing water use by almost 400 gallons per batch. ing water use by 264,000 gallons per year. • Installed solenoid valves in production vessels equipped • Began five-year project to replace all single-pass noncontact with cooling water systems to stop the flow of water when cooling water systems in the facility with closed-loop nonthe equipment is not in operation. contact cooling water systems, estimated to reduce water • Constructed a station to clean intermediate bulk containers use by 250,000-350,000 gallons per day. to reduce wash water consumption. • Installed a clean-in-place system to reduce water used for • Increased use of dry cleaning systems in which residual cleaning operations on a production line. powder wastes are vacuumed out of process vessels prior • Began five-year project to reduce process water use by to washing with water, reducing water consumption as well 43% through water reuse initiatives and water conservation as pollutant loadings contained in wastewater generated by measures. cleaning operations. • Achieved a reduction of 1.3 million gallons of water per • Optimized reverse osmosis water supply treatment system year through a facility-wide campaign to install water to reduce volume of water backwashes required, reducing conservation devices and conduct comprehensive training. water usage by 12%. • Beneficially reused 100% of our process rinse water in our Natural Ingredients business to irrigate crops. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T WASTE REDUCTION • Diverted 100% of used steel, plastic, and fiber drums used • Reduced usage of packaging material for finished products at facility to recycling instead of disposal. where possible by increasing container volumes and • Began program to recycle all shrink wrap material from utilizing tailor-made packaging solutions such as bag-ininbound raw material packaging. box solutions for certain applications, reducing packaging • Rationalized raw material purchases for R&D lab to reduce weight and waste and resulting in less fuel consumption for generation of hazardous waste. transportation. • Implemented a formal recycling program for cardboard, • Reduced usage of packaging material for raw materials wood, and plastic used in production, resulting in a 60% where possible by sourcing larger container sizes. increase in recycled material volumes. • Continued conservation program to avoid unnecessary • Installed cardboard compactor onsite to reduce frequency of printing and encourage double-sided printing. To date, this recycling pick-ups. program has saved an estimated 225,000 sheets of paper. • Specified single-material packaging from suppliers to • Continued paper recycling program that has resulted in the improve recyclability of packaging materials. recycling of 8,000 kilograms of paper to date. • Installed new, more efficient dust collector to reduce • Promoted reduction of the use of plastic bags in the emissions of particulate matter to the atmosphere. community by supplying eco-friendly bags with Company • Implemented best management practices for spraying logos. cleaning solutions onto equipment in a processing line, • Collection of over 200,000 plastic bottle caps and donation resulting in an 80% reduction of wastewater generated by to an organization supporting cancer research for children. cleaning of this equipment. • Utilization of 100% of the residuals from our anthocyanin • Improved control of wastewater pretreatment system to cut extraction process by recovering spent grape seeds discharge of phosphorus contained in wastewater effluent for vegetable oil production; tartaric acid for use as a by 50%. food additive; sugars for • Replaced boiler fed with fuel oil with natural gas-fired boiler fermentation into alcohol; and to reduce combustion-related emissions to the atmosphere. spent grape skins as feedstock • Use of materials with longer service life (e.g., 316 stainless for biogas production. structural steel) in new projects will reduce frequency of • Purchase of significant waste replacement and reduce waste. streams from brewers for • Installed cleaning stations throughout facility to reduce reutilization in flavor and usage of water and cleaning chemicals with same or better bionutrient manufacturing. hygiene. • Instituted use of 100% recyclable intermediate bulk containers. • Beneficially reused 100% of our food processing by-products in our Natural Ingredients business as soil amendments and nutrients for growing crops. • Achieved “Clean Industry” certification at two Mexican manufacturing plants in recognition of our waste and pollution control and minimization activities. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sensient strives to conduct business in an ethical • No harassment or abuse. Harassment and abuse of manner and to make a positive contribution employees is prohibited. We also expect our suppliers to to society through our product offerings and treat their employees with respect and dignity, and without business activities. harassment or abuse of any kind. • Nondiscrimination. Sensient will provide equal employment We have a comprehensive Code of Conduct that governs all opportunities to all people without discrimination because of our employees worldwide to ensure a culture that promotes of their race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, ethical behavior and requires compliance with all applicable disability, genetic, veteran or military status, or any other laws. All employees, as well as Sensient’s Board of Directors, characteristic protected by applicable law. We expect the receive comprehensive training on our Code of Conduct on an same from our suppliers. annual basis. • Reasonable compensation. Sensient and our suppliers will pay reasonable compensation that, at a minimum, complies We also seek to work with suppliers that employ practices with all applicable laws and requirements. that meet or exceed all applicable laws. These requirements • Working hours and overtime. Sensient and our suppliers and expectations for ourselves and our suppliers include the will comply with all applicable requirements and limitations matters described below. In the event local standards on a set by the laws of the country of manufacture and may not matter do not exist or do not meet these ethical standards, require excessive overtime. Sensient and our suppliers establish employment practices • Environment, health, and safety. Sensient is committed to and apply U.S. standards where appropriate while complying sound environmental management, worker health, and with local law. Compliance with the law and observing our safety. Safety awareness and procedures, waste minimization, ethical obligations are absolutely essential conditions for and pollution prevention are primary objectives. We expect fulfilling our duties to each other, our customers, and society the same commitments from our suppliers. as a whole. We reserve the right to inspect the operations • No bribery or corrupt payments. Bribery of government and records of our suppliers to establish compliance with officials or private persons is strictly prohibited. We have these standards. Our minimum requirements and expectations a comprehensive anti-bribery policy that requires strict include, but are not limited to: compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt • No forced labor. The use by Sensient or any supplier of Practices Act as well as the United Kingdom Bribery Act. forced labor of any kind is prohibited, including prison This policy applies to everyone who works for or with labor, non-rescindable contracts, or labor obtained Sensient, including all directors, officers, employees, thirdthrough threats of punishment, deposits of bonds, or other party business partners, and other intermediaries who constraints. interface with government officials on Sensient’s behalf. • No child labor. Work by children under the age of 15 years for Sensient or any supplier (or any higher age established For more details on governance, please refer to our most by applicable law) is strictly prohibited. recent Annual Report and Proxy Statement, which are available under the Investor Information section of our website at www.sensient.com. 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY SERVICE 2 017 CO R P O R AT E R E SP O NSIBIL I T Y R EP O R T PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY SERVICE Whether it’s supporting local charities or helping • Partnership with Cristo Rey Jesuit High School in Milwaukee to beautify and improve the neighborhoods to provide work experience and mentoring to high school in which we operate, Sensient believes in students from economically challenged backgrounds. being a good neighbor and contributing to the • Matching funds program for qualifying employee charitable betterment of the greater community. donations. • Creation of green space and parks through urban redesign Some examples of our efforts are as follows: projects in neighborhoods surrounding our facilities. Over • Operation of a Corporate foundation that provides financial the past ten years we have spent over two million dollars to support to numerous non-profit charitable organizations in purchase and transform blighted urban properties near our the areas of education, health and welfare, culture and arts, St. Louis facility into green space and walking trails for our and civic activities. Examples of organizations we support employees. At another facility we have planted nearly 800 include Boys & Girls Club of Milwaukee, the American low-maintenance native trees to reforest a neighborhood Cancer Society, Ronald McDonald House Charities, park as a community beautification project. Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin, and the Milwaukee Public • Numerous partnerships between our manufacturing Museum. locations and local community service organizations, such • Sponsorship of volunteer opportunities for our employees to as an organization helping to integrate handicapped support local charitable organizations, such as the Ronald persons into society in Germany and a group that provides McDonald House in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, for families of wheelchairs to senior citizens in Mexico. out-of-town children receiving treatment at local hospitals. © 2017 Sensient Technologies, all rights reserved. The SENSIENT trademark and the Sensient Technologies Corporation logo are owned and registered by Sensient Technologies Corporation. All rights in trademarks are reserved. 777 East Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202-5304 www.sensient.com
