MAKING GREAT CONNECTIONS FOR FIFTEEN YEARS 2018 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPOR T 2003 Our grand opening “For many years, the magnificent splendour of the Western Cape has drawn visitors from across the globe. As they continue to come, they will also find the Cape Town International Convention Centre – another symbol of hope, a symbol of our glorious past, a symbol of modernity and a symbol of future prosperity. It draws its essence from the formidable and mighty Atlantic Ocean from where Convention Square gained its land.” Thabo Mbeki, President of South Africa Ca p e T o w n I n te r n ational Conv ent ion Cent re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report MAKING CONNECTIONS, CREATING JOBS AND BOOSTING ECONOMIES FOR 15 YEARS. The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) Building careers and turned 15 in June 2018. Designed and built to create global connections, its purpose is to bring people communities together through world-class events that promote Making connections and creating jobs is not only about economic growth and create jobs. In doing so, we create networking. It is also about the connections we make relationships. These connections reflect our economic, internally with our people and externally with our clients and intellectual, social and environmental contribution as a communities. The training and internal promotion of our valuable national asset. Over our first 15 years we have own people continues to strengthen our service offering. Our created over 115 000 jobs and we have made a combined commitment to our community beneficiaries is also growing, as cumulative contribution to the regional and national is our contribution to our planet through our ongoing efforts to economies of over R40bn. reduce our energy, waste and water consumption. In particular, our programmes to drive down water usage demonstrate our Boosting economic growth awareness of the responsibility we have as an active citizen of Maximising our economic spin-off is central to our purpose. As the Western Cape. a municipal entity, it is imperative we run a sustainable business: It is the balance of these three elements – economic, social we have been a carefully managed and viable enterprise for and environmental impact – that ensures we remain both a 15 years. We earn well, control costs and provide a world-class responsible corporate citizen and a viable commercial concern, service to all our stakeholders – not just our shareholders, but committed to triple-bottom-line reporting. As such, our our clients from all over the globe. intention is to remain at the forefront of our sector, connecting with the world we live in for many years to come. Making lasting connections It is our service that brings people back year after year. Several of our client relationships go back a decade at least, some even the full 15 years. Many of these 7 432 events have left legacies, including vital community services and new job opportunities in various sectors, including our own hospitality sector. We have created over 115 000 jobs and we have made a combined cumulative contribution to the regional and national economies of over R40bn. Cape To wn In tern ati o n al C o n ven ti o n C en tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annua l R ep or t ABOUT THIS REPORT: its scope and parameters This report is compiled annually and contains data for the 2017/18 financial year, which runs from 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018. As at the end of 30 June 2018, the CTICC consists of two operational buildings (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2) and the report reflects on the performance of both. The most recent previously compiled report was made available at our Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2017 and contained information from the previous financial year (1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017). The contact person for questions regarding this report is Olivia Bruce (olivia@cticc.co.za), who is contactable on the following number: +27 (21) 410 5000. Ca p e T o w n I n te r n ational Conv ent ion Cent re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report HIGHLIGHTS 2017/18 2 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 72 FOREWORDS 4 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY: MAKING LASTING CONNECTIONS 73 Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town 5 Creating opportunities through our local Message from the Premier of the Western Cape 6 community partners 73 Message from the Chairperson of Convenco 7 Our community connections: who they are Review by the Chief Executive Officer 8 and how we help them 74 ABOUT THE CTICC 10 Making connections through our 15 YEARS OF SERVICE EXCELLENCE 11 community activations 80 Our purpose, mission and values 11 Training: the importance of investing in people 86 Who we are: our shareholders, our Promoting career growth: the people connection 92 services and our facilities 12 Getting the foundations right: the student connection 94 How we contribute: our markets, Connecting with our customers through our clients, our staff and our stakeholders 13 comprehensive feedback 96 Certifications: connecting with quality 16 Staff, strategy and team spirit 97 Memberships and associations: the power ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION 100 of the network 17 SUSTAINABILITY: CONNECTING TO THE BIGGER PICTURE 101 CTICC @ 15 18 Passionately committed to conserving resources 101 15 YEARS OF CREATING JOBS AND Our environmental sustainability: the year in review 102 BOOSTING ECONOMIES 19 Adjusting to water scarcity: what we are saving 103 15 years of making connections 19 Recalibrating our energy usage 105 15 years of extraordinary experiences 20 Minimising our waste diversion to landfill 107 An award-winning culture for the past 15 years 26 GOVERNANCE 110 Looking back 15 years: in their own words… 30 MANAGING OVERSIGHT AND RISK: THE EVENT YEAR 32 CONNECTING WITH KING IV 111 EVENTS REVIEW: MAKING CONNECTIONS, BUILDING Corporate governance report 111 ECONOMIC GROWTH 33 Directorate and administration 113 Review of events hosted in 2017/18 33 Board committees 114 Event highlights of the year: delivering Stakeholder engagement review: making our economic impact 35 connections work for us 116 Performance highlights for our seven segments 43 OUTLOOK 128 Making events more memorable: new connections, new ideas 58 POSITIVELY CONNECTED TO THE FUTURE 129 Events that connect people, change lives and build ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION 62 economies 129 ECONOMIC IMPACT: STIMULATING JOB CREATION 63 Building bridges between people 132 How our financial performance grows our economy 63 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 Connecting our economic performance to the future 64 Our economic contribution in detail 64 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 182 Key performance indicators geared to socio-economic growth 67 Transforming B-BBEE enterprises through consistent support 68 Capital expenditure: maintaining excellence, delivering quality solutions 70 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 1 We have had a remarkable year in terms of revenue, achieving a turnover of R246.3m. This represents a 14.2% growth in revenue compared to the previous financial year. We have also delivered consistently high levels of customer service, focused marketing and strong economic, environmental and social contributions, including significant job creation. economic contribution R4.5bn 40% Contribution to (of total supplier base) SA National GDP Women-owned enterprise suppliers R3.1bn Contribution to Western Cape GGP 90 out of 182 (49.5%) Women employed in the business R40.8bn Cumulative contribution to SA National GDP R35.1bn Cumulative contribution to Western Cape GGP 8 553 Total jobs created 2 | C ap e T o wn I n t e r n at ional Convent ion Cent re | 2 018 I ntegrated Annual Report highlights 2017/18 OPERATIONS awards & & FINANCE accreditationS awards 525 Winner: European Business Total events Magazine Award Best Conference and Events Destination Centre for Africa R246.3m Revenue (including other income) Winner: Summit Creative Award R57.2m Gold Award for Festive Season promotion video series EBITDA (32.9m or 135.4% Winner: SAISC Steel Awards above target of R24.3m) Commercial category: CTICC East expansion 85% project (officially named CTICC 2) Customer Satisfaction Index (7% above target of 78%) First Place: Top500 Companies Awards 2017 Exhibitions and Conference Facilities category Women in MICE Award: Environmental Inducted into the Hall of Fame contribution Julie-May Ellingson, Chief Executive Officer Named: Top 40 Women in MICE Award Lindy Cambouris, Business Development 30% Manager: National Reduction in water consumption 84% ACCREDITATIONS Waste diverted from landfill ISO 9001 (Quality Management) ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) Social OHSAS 18001 contribution (Occupational Health & Safety Management) ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management) R1.8m Value of community development support Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 3 4 | C ap e T o wn I n t e r n at ional Convent ion Cent re | 2 018 I ntegrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town As the CTICC turns 15 this year, it is good to reflect on its positive impact on our city and how powerfully it continues to connect with its stakeholders and clients, while delivering on the City of Cape Town’s vision to be an opportunity city that creates an enabling environment for economic growth and job creation. In addition, the CTICC’s financial stability, strong governance and consistent dedication to world-class service make it an iconic example of the City’s commitment to deliver quality services to all its citizens. There are many metrics to support the way the CTICC connects with the world to make its contribution to the city’s economy and you will read of them in this report; but for the City the most notable is its contribution to poverty alleviation by creating over 115 000 direct and indirect jobs over its 15 years of existence. That means that the same number of households have food on the table, a roof over their heads and hope for the future. The CTICC attracts visitors, interest and investment into our city. As such, it is a powerful tool in Cape Town’s Foreign Direct Investment strategy. Cape Town is consistently ranked the number one destination for international conferences in Africa and the CTICC has played a major role in this achievement. Patricia de Lille, This reputation is the culmination of 15 years of commitment Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town and innovation to ensure that the world’s most prestigious and important events come to Cape Town, connect people and exchange knowledge. This echoes the City’s efforts “I salute Julie-May Ellingson and her team for to communicate that Cape Town is open for business as a helping us deliver on our pledge to provide a forward-looking, globally-competitive business destination. safe, caring, inclusive and well-run opportunity There is no doubt that the CTICC has made a major contribution city. The CTICC continues to perform well and I to this impressive ranking. Each year the CTICC contributes have no doubt will continue to do so for many billions of rands to the national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) more years.” and regional Gross Geographic Product (GGP) – over R40bn since it opened its doors. Each year it has remained financially self-sustaining. Now, with the official opening of CTICC 2, its contribution promises to be even greater. I salute Julie-May Ellingson and her team for helping us deliver on our pledge to provide a safe, caring, inclusive and well-run opportunity city. The CTICC continues to perform well and I have no doubt will continue to do so for many more years. Patricia de Lille Executive Mayor, City of Cape Town (For the year under review) “This reputation is the culmination of 15 years of 15 Years of commitment commitment and innovation to ensure that the and innovation world’s most prestigious and important events come to connect with Cape Town to share and exchange knowledge.” Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 5 FOREWORDS Message from the Premier of the Western Cape The theme of the CTICC’s annual report this year hits the bull’s eye: Making connections, creating jobs and boosting economies. Our role in government is to create a context in which this can happen. Our vision is a vibrant, innovative and sustainable economy that offers opportunities for all our people to improve their lives. Despite our country’s anaemic economy – and the additional burden of an unprecedented drought – the Western Cape has shown remarkable resilience. We are emerging stronger and moving ahead with a campaign to tell our story, inspire confidence in the future, attract greater levels of investment and continue building the region’s economy for the benefit of all. The tourism sector, which currently employs over 200 000 people in the province, has been the biggest driver of new job growth for many years. Against all odds, the industry has held Helen Zille, its own in adverse circumstances. Premier of the Western Cape One of the reasons for this achievement has been the selfsustaining growth of the CTICC over the last 15 years. This institution, which has become synonymous with the best the City has to offer, is a fine example of how social, environmental “We commend Julie-May Ellingson and her and financial performance can be achieved by good team for their landmark performance in the governance, smart management and a relentless commitment face of tough economic conditions and also to quality service in the arenas of hospitality, business tourism, congratulate the CTICC on the opening of their destination marketing and investment facilitation. new expanded facility, CTICC 2. We look forward As the Provincial Government, we have worked hard to create a to Cape Town hosting increasingly significant climate in which tourism can thrive. Our Air Access programme global and local events as a result.” continues to expand the number of direct routes into and out of Cape Town International Airport and we believe the CTICC will reap the benefits of this. We commend Julie-May Ellingson and her team for their landmark performance in the face of tough economic conditions and also congratulate the CTICC on the opening of their new expanded facility, CTICC 2. We look forward to Cape Town hosting increasingly significant global and local events as a result. Thank you. Helen Zille Premier of the Western Cape Employing over 200 000 people in the tourism 15 sector Years of making great connections 6 | C ap e T o wn I n t e r n at ional Convent ion Cent re | 2 018 I ntegrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Message from the Chairperson of Convenco It has been an immense privilege to take on the role of Chairperson of Convenco in our 15th year, particularly as the CTICC 2 expansion is now complete and the potential for the complex as a whole has grown accordingly. Our theme this year is connections and Cape Town has a very positive connection with the outside world, being an international favourite for both leisure and business tourism. Consistently award-winning in both arenas, I have no doubt the city’s reputation wins us friends and business. This year has seen us flourish with increased event numbers and attendance figures – clearly the new space and flexibility CTICC 2 brings is already improving our statistics. We have also had to deal with a number of challenging external factors this year, including listeriosis, a persistent drought and political and economic uncertainty. But this has not prevented our progress. We have stayed true to our economic contribution commitment. We are realising our economic goals. Our social projects build Vuyo Ntoi, hope and help generate income, while our core business of hosting international and local events continues to stimulate Chairperson, Convenco job creation to make a difference to people’s lives. We also have a healthy forward book, listing numerous international events up to 2023. This is not only impressive but reassuring “We also have a healthy forward book, listing for a new Chairperson. numerous international events up to 2023. This I am certain that Julie-May and her team will make the most is not only impressive but reassuring for a new of these new opportunities. Her tenacity and her extensive Chairperson.” knowledge of the events sector – coupled with a service ethic second to none – serve us all well. I congratulate her on her successful oversight of the recent expansion and on this year’s impressive performance. I very much look forward to working with her into the future. Vuyo Ntoi Chairperson, Convenco First year on the Board of the CTICC Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 7 FOREWORDS Review by the Chief Executive Officer contribution to GGP. Cumulative economic contribution to GDP over 15 years stands at R40.8bn, with cumulative contribution to regional GGP standing at R35.1bn. As a result of our activities, we have created over 115 000 jobs since 2003. This year alone we created 8 553 direct and indirect jobs, which is an amazing 9% increase on the previous year. In an economy that continues to shed jobs, this is something we are particularly proud of. These are important figures, not only because we are committed to contributing to the City of Cape Town, Western Cape Province and South Africa, but because – as King IV reminds us – our responsibility, as a good corporate citizen, extends way beyond our own staff and business. Celebrating our communities, our staff and ourselves This year we increased our investment into local corporate social responsibility initiatives by 50% to R1.8m. This contribution is largely channelled through our five truly committed, transformative local community partners – Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), Ikhaya Le Themba, Journey of Enrichment and Mothers Unite. Providing support to these partners makes a real difference. This is especially true when It comes to children as we found at our 15th birthday party, which we shared with 100 six-yearolds from Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha (see page 82 for more about our fun celebration). Julie-May Ellingson, Chief Executive Officer We continue to invest in our staff and their development and spent R3.1m on training (6% of our total salary bill) in the year under review. This included growing our student and Review by the Chief Executive Officer graduate training programmes. We currently have 25 students The CTICC successfully hosted 525 events in the 2017/18 year. and graduates learning with us. We also invested substantially These generated a revenue of R246.3m, which represents a in more formal shortand long-term training (see case studies 14.2% growth compared to the previous year. We achieved on pages 89-91), which we believe directly benefits the staff, an EBITDA of R57.2m, a healthy 7.7% increase over 2016/17. our clients and our industry as a whole. These figures are particularly pleasing when one considers some of the challenges we have faced in the past year, specifically Always improving our service to our clients the drought and its knock-on impacts. This year we have a bigger complex to sell, with our beautiful new sky bridge connecting our two buildings (see more The opening of CTICC 2 in September 2017 was certainly a about it on page 132). Each year we strive to keep abreast of highlight of the year. CTICC 2 has positively impacted on our technological developments to the benefit of our clients. This revenues, allowed us to host concurrent events and added new year we invested heavily in the upgrade of our WiFi which has and exciting options for our clients. As a complex, the CTICC been well received by our clients and the general public. We continues to make a significant contribution to the economies also successfully introduced a cashless payment system for one of Cape Town, the Western Cape and South Africa. of our biggest entertainment events. We hope to extend this This report focuses on a review of the 2017/18 financial year, service to all our events in the future (see page 58 to learn as well as the broader contribution we have made over the more about it). past 15 years. Our other big news, as an active environmental citizen, is our Our purpose is to connect people to reverse osmosis desalination plant, which is nearing completion create jobs and will convert seawater into drinking water, allowing us to minimise the strain on the municipal water supply. We are The CTICC plays a critical role in connecting people. These also planning to become more independent energy-wise by connections drive the knowledge economy and create harnessing more solar energy and installing heat pumps. We opportunities for investment, which in turn create jobs. This continue to maintain our very high waste diversion from landfill central role is reflected in our annual economic contribution rates, which remained at an impressive 84%. and job creation figures. For the year in review these remain impressive: R4.5bn contribution to GDP and R3.1bn 8 | C ap e T o wn I n t e r n at ional Convent ion Cent re | 2 018 I ntegrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Investing in a collaborative future Finally, the success of the CTICC over the past 15 years is attributable to the collective efforts of our shareholders, This year we hosted a total of 454 338 delegates and visitors. our Board, our staff, our clients and our suppliers. We look And, in our case studies, we have taken the opportunity to forward to building on this success and making an even greater celebrate some of our longest-standing and loyal clients (see contribution to building a positive future for our City, the pages 36-41). We have also put together some memories of Western Cape Province and South Africa. our first 15 years. While we are proud of our achievements over the past 15 years, our focus is on our future and the Julie-May Ellingson significantly expanded capacity we have to sell. Chief Executive Officer It is reassuring that our forward book is healthy and our exchange rate still attractive. We want to attract as many of the world’s international associations through our doors as we can but will continue to target those associations that promote the City and Western Cape’s target catalytic growth sectors. Oil and gas, as an example, can create significant opportunities, as the Saldanha Bay Industrial Development Zone (IDZ) expands, while renewable energy and waterwise technologies are also growth areas. Medical technology is another growth area where we believe a number of opportunities can be realised in collaboration with the Cape Town Medical Technology Hub. Thank you None of this would happen without teamwork and, in particular, the essential support of our Board and stakeholders, who have been stalwart allies in our progress. In this regard, I must offer special thanks to our Chairperson, Vuyo Ntoi, who has come into his role at an exciting time, as our new complex becomes fully functional. Our strong financial performance and impressive customer 525 satisfaction scores are attributable to our Executive, Management Team and staff, without whom none of what we do would be possible. Their commitment and support as we pushed to complete CTICC 2 and launch it to the world was Events successfully nothing short of miraculous. Thank you for your dedication, hosted for 2017/18 for putting in many, many extra hours and always going beyond the call of duty to ensure that our clients had the best experience. To the Executive Mayor Patricia de Lille, whose promotion of our city as a desirable destination knew no bounds and whose Brought in a healthy support for the completion of CTICC 2 was phenomenal, I revenue of am deeply grateful for your support. I am also thankful to the Premier of the Western Cape, Helen Zille, and our partners at SunWest International for their ongoing support and belief in us. I also wish to thank our suppliers, who are our true partners R246.3m in delivering exceptional experiences to our clients. Thank you. Importantly, I must thank our most vital partners, our clients. Your commitment to us over the past year and support of our new venture, CTICC2, has been incredible. We know you have choices and while we can now offer even more choices, we remain forever grateful to you for choosing the CTICC to host your events. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 9 10 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report About thE CTICC 15 YEARS OF SERVICE EXCELLENCE The Cape Town International Convention Centre is purpose-designed to accommodate international and local conferences, exhibitions and trade shows. The complex consists of two buildings – CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 – connected by an elegant sky bridge. We offer elegant venues for banquets, concerts, film shoots and stage productions. Our world-class facilities range from large auditoria and expansive exhibition halls to state-of-the-art private boardrooms and stylish cafés – all supported by highly advanced technology services. The centre is located in the fast-developing Foreshore area of Cape Town and is only a 20-minute drive from Cape Town International Airport. There are several hotels within walking distance. Our purpose, mission and values Purpose We connect people to create jobs by attracting events in key economic sectors and exceeding our clients’ expectations. The successful realisation of this purpose is not measured purely by commercial interests, but also entails the centre’s ongoing and significant contribution to the local and national economy, as well as our investment in a broad range of corporate social responsibility initiatives. Furthermore, the CTICC is committed to contributing to the City of Cape Town’s vision of being Africa’s business events destination. We aim to achieve this by building on our reputation as a truly inspirational business that sets the global standard for excellence in business practices, hospitality and event hosting, both locally and internationally. We connect people to create jobs by Mission attracting events in key economic sectors We will bring our purpose to reality by: and exceeding our clients’ expectations. • Maximising economic spin-off and job creation; • Focusing on innovation and exceeding expectations; • Achieving service excellence by building capable and quality staff; • Being a world leader in sustainability. Values We will achieve our purpose and mission by applying ourselves with: • Passion – We live to go beyond; Achieving service excellence by • Integrity – We are transparent in all our actions; building capable and quality staff. • Innovation – We create magic that gives us the edge; • Excellence – We create superior experiences; • Gratitude – We are appreciative of the opportunities provided by the company, the City of Cape Town and the country we live in; • Caring – We care for one another, our clients, our business, our building and our equipment. We continue to foster a culture of creativity, teamwork, and superior service delivery. We care for one another, our clients, our business, our building and our equipment. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 11 About thE CTICC Who we are: our shareholders, our services and our facilities CTICC 2 – creating spaces for people to connect The Cape Town International Convention Centre is managed The CTICC is a complex made up of two by the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company facilities, namely CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 (SOC) Ltd (RF), also known as Convenco. Our CTICC 1 facilities include: The Cape Town International Convention Centre Company • Two modern raked auditoria – which can seat 1 516 and SOC Ltd (RF) (CTICC) was formed in 1999. It is owned jointly by 612 guests respectively; three shareholders, namely the City of Cape Town which holds the majority of shares in the company (71.4%), the Western • A sub-divisible, multifunctional ballroom of 2 000m2; Cape Government (23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) • Over 11 399m2 of dedicated exhibition and trade show Ltd (5.4%). space; Our main departments are Commercial & Business • 33 breakout rooms varying in size and able to accommodate Development; Finance; Food & Beverage and Operations; from 25 to 320 people; Facilities & Operations; and Human Resources. • A roof terrace meeting room that seats 250 people banquetstyle with an independent foyer and terrace; We are primarily an event venue that offers event-related services typically required to host an event or conference. Our • Three conservatories flooded with natural light and primary products and services include: indigenous flora; • International conference services; • A marshalling yard of 5 000m2 with easy, drive-in access to exhibition halls; • National conference services; • Dedicated hot, cold and pastry kitchens, with 14 satellite • Food and beverage services; kitchens; • Trade fair and exhibition services; • An in-house coffee shop – Coffee on the Square. • Operational services; CTICC 2 adds the following facilities: • Marketing and corporate communication services; • 31 148m2 of floor area in total; • Event-related services such as IT, audiovisual and cleaning. • 10 000m2 of conference and exhibition space; • 3 000m2 of meeting space, composed of three meeting suites and six meeting pod rooms; • A marshalling yard of 1 267m2; • Three kitchens; • One terrace room; • An in-house coffee shop – Coffee on the Circle; A sky bridge links the two buildings, creating a seamless complex which will be able to host a variety of events concurrently. 12 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report About thE CTICC How we contribute: our markets, our clients, our staff and our stakeholders We serve several markets based on seven key event sectors: international conferences; national conferences; exhibitions; trade fairs; banquets; special events; as well as other events and film shoots. A total of 525 events were held during the past financial year, of which 32 were international conferences. In the year under review, we hosted events from South Africa and all over the world, including the United Kingdom, United 525 States of America, Switzerland, France, Belgium, South Korea, Ireland, Turkey, Singapore, New Zealand, Kenya, Malaysia, Equatorial Guinea, United Arab Emirates, Germany, Australia, Events held for the the Netherlands and Nigeria. 2017/18 year Our executive and senior management From left to right: Tracy Mkhize, General Manager: Operations Food & Beverage Robert Hatton-Jones, General Manager: Commercial & Business Development Julie-May Ellingson, Chief Executive Officer Craig Barrington, General Manager: Facilities & Operations Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 13 About thE CTICC Our people For the financial year end, we employed 182 full-time staff, 175 of whom were permanent. We also employed seven temporary staff, including students and graduates. In addition, we employed a fluctuating number of contract staff for events throughout the year. The majority of our staff are skilled and semi-skilled and our commitment to upskilling and training our staff is consistent and comprehensive. See page 86 of this report for more information on our training programmes. Our employment philosophy Our approach towards employment is informed by our purpose, EE&TC holds quarterly meetings centred on the monitoring of which is premised on connecting people in meaningful and progress, compilation and submission of the Annual EE Plan. productive ways to create jobs and careers. In addition, we In terms of recruitment policy, preference is given to Western have added a new value of caring to our brand values this year, Cape residents so that the centre can deliver meaningfully which starts with a commitment to caring for one another. The on its commitment to boost local job creation and economic practical manifestations of these commitments are to be found growth. Local means the City of Cape Town and the in our Employment Equity & Training Committee (EE&TC) and Western Cape in this context. Employee Relations Forum (ERF). These fora are charged with ensuring we comply with all aspects of Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), Employment Equity (EE) and Labour Relations legislation, while empowering all our staff with opportunities to grow. The ERF focuses primarily on representing the interests of all employees regarding employment conditions. The EE&TC’s mandate is to improve the EE process and its compliance with the EE Act. All members of the EE&TC receive in-depth training in respect of the Act. In addition, the Senior Employee Equity Manager conducted a refresher presentation to all staff in October 2017 to ensure all staff are aware of EE principles. The 14 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report About thE CTICC Diversity We are committed to staff diversity and make every effort to ensure that the staff complement is representative of South African society. Employment level Ethnic groups 4 84 80 Indian Skilled Coloured 24 White 182 Total 182 Total Total 182 65 Semi-skilled 20 3 1 9 Middle management Senior management Executive Management Unskilled 74 African Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 15 About thE CTICC Certifications: connecting with quality CTICC is now ISO 22000 certified Certification is about a commitment to globally recognised quality measures that requires measuring ourselves by the highest standards and connecting ourselves with the best international rating systems. This is why we comply with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. We also operate an Integrated Management System (IMS) to ensure that quality assurance and sustainability management are regulated at a high level. Health and Safety matters are taken equally seriously. As a result, we continue to maintain our International Standards Organisation (ISO) accreditation through the South African The CTICC continues National Accreditation System (SANAS) certification body for to maintain its 5-star the following standards: • ISO 9001 (Quality Management System); • ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System); • OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System BS). grading In addition, we are now certified for ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management System), which ensures food safety at the CTICC, from sourcing to serving. The centre further holds SANS 10330:2007 HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) certification and follows the seven principles as set out for food hygiene and safety. We have also maintained our Tourism Grading Council of South Africa (TGCSA) five-star grading during the year under review. This included the retention of our Mobility Level 1 score for access to disability facilities in the centre, which formed part of the TGCSA’s assessment in November 2017. We achieved an overall five-star assessment score of 98%, which was made up of a score of 96% for facilities, 98% for services and 100% for fixtures, fittings and furniture. 16 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report About thE CTICC Memberships and associations: the power of the network We are a member of the following associations, many of whom offer invaluable data and training support to us and the South African event management and tourism sector: Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 17 18 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 15 YEARS OF CREATING JOBS AND BOOSTING ECONOMIES 15 Years of making connections As we turned 15 in June 2018, we reflected on the many Since 2003 and diverse connections we have made with the more than eight million people who have come through our doors since we opened them. In that time we have created multiple opportunities for our many stakeholders, not least our own staff and the citizens of Cape Town, the Western Cape and 115 845 South Africa. Our focus on job creation and contributing to the local and national economy will continue into the future, with an emphasis on maximising the benefits from our expanded Total number of direct and complex (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2) to the knowledge economy. indirect jobs (Western Cape and national) 7 432 Total number of events Here are some interesting facts about what the CTICC 17 134 704 Total number of visitor days* has achieved in the last 15 years: WE HAVE... 1. Welcomed an estimated eight and a half 10. Provided local community partners with million people through our doors; venue sponsorship worth R5m in the past nine years alone; 2. Created more than 115 000 direct and indirect jobs; 11. Trained permanent and temporary staff to the value of R10m; 3. Achieved a total number of over 17 million visitor days*; 12. Achieved a B-BBEE spend of R2.4bn over the last ten years; 4. To date hosted 589 international events; 13. Procured R1bn worth of goods and 5. Hosted over 7 400 events; services from SMMEs over the last 10 years; 6. Contributed over R40bn to the South African GDP; 14. Hosted the largest number of delegates – 12 300 – during the 19th World Diabetes 7. Contributed more than R35bn to the Congress; Western Cape GGP; 15. Won the bid to host our biggest 8. Hosted 79 500 people at one event: The international conference ever to be hosted Days of the Dinosaurs in Cape Town: the World Ophthalmology 9. Been profitable and self-sustaining Conference in 2020 with 15 000 delegates since opening; expected to attend. *Visitor days: the number of days delegates attend an event multiplied by the additional days they spend in the country as a result of that event, i.e. includes preand post-event stays, as well as stays of accompanying guests of delegates. (Grant Thornton definition, July 2018) Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 19 CTICC @ 15 15 years of extraordinary experiences CTICC 2 Our grand opening “The MICE industry within Cape Town finally has the 2003 missing piece of the puzzle with the opening of the CTICC. Now that Cape Town has its own convention centre we are able to compete on equal footing with other world-class destinations such as Sydney, Rome and Paris.” Rick Taylor, CEO of the Cape Town Convention Bureau First musical is staged: Fame The fundamentals “We realised there were really only two fundamentals: to bring meetings to Cape Town in a 2004 world-class facility and, in so doing, to generate jobs and economic development. And one more thing: Convenco wanted to be able to achieve these objectives without drawing any further on public funding.” Ian Douglas, Chief Executive Officer, CTICC North Sea Jazz Festival hosted by the CTICC: 29 900 festinos 20 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 Establishing enabling and inclusive environments “While buildings that exhibit accessibility problems are still being designed and built, there are some good 2005 examples of buildings that display many features of inclusive design. The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) has many good aspects of design… The venue offers every comfort, convenience and professional service required to accommodate the needs of visitors with disabilities, a fact well proven when it recently hosted 1 000 delegates of the Conference For The Blind with great success. It was also the venue for the Access Our millionth visitor after being open just Conference, a conference on the Status of Disabled Persons.” two years Guy Davis, Owner, Disability Solutions Gearing up for growth “The diabetes congress alone is expected to 2006 generate revenue to the value of the total cost of the convention centre, creating unprecedented spin-off for the entire Western Cape region. This expansion will complete the process of securing the CTICC firmly as a sustainable, world-class facility in the run-up to 2010 and beyond.” Denis Skeate, Acting Chairperson, Convenco World Diabetes Congress: 12 300 delegates from 15 countries for one week R100m revenue milestone “Having surpassed R100m turnover for the past year, 2007 the CTICC has truly come of age and the centre’s commercial success is a source of immense pride to the province. I am delighted that the spin-off generated by both new visitors to the Cape and increasing numbers of returning visitors drawn directly and indirectly by the CTICC has grown to a staggering contribution to the economy of R2.4bn per year.” Ebrahim Rasool, Premier of the Western Cape First Cape Town Book Fair: over 400 exhibitors from 36 countries and 26 000 visitors Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 21 CTICC @ 15 Desirable destination Cape Town “The CTICC has built an enviable reputation as a premier business tourism venue in South Africa and 2008 the world. This is evident from the fact that almost two-thirds of all international meetings taking place in South Africa are now occurring in Cape Town, while one in four international meetings occurring in Africa comes to this city.” Lynne Brown, Premier of the Western Cape Hosted the 14th World Congress of Anaesthesiologists – 10 000 delegates Reducing the CTICC carbon footprint “At the CTICC we are dedicated to reducing the 2009 carbon footprint left by meetings and events and continually re-think the way we do business in order to minimise our impact on the environment.” Rashid Toefy, Chief Executive Officer, CTICC Hosted the 2010 FIFA World Cup Final Draw Enhancing Cape Town’s standing as a world-class destination “We have always aadopted a holistic view of the 2010 business. We therefore assess, for example, whether it is making a tangible and sustainable contribution to to the economic development and social uplift of Cape Town, the Western Cape, and South Africa as a whole.” Dirk Elzinga, Chief Executive Officer, CTICC Hosted the 15th IUFoST Congress (International Union of Food Science & Technology) – 1 300 delegates 22 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 The expansion plan begins 2011 “The CTICC has over the years become the flagship events and conference venue in the City. I am certain that the expansion will bolster the City’s goal to be the destination of choice in Africa.” Alderman Dan Plato, Executive Mayor of Cape Town Hosted the Cape Yearling Sale for the first time: 3 000 people, 300 stables, 2 500 bales of hay Our commitment to service excellence “I have witnessed how the CTICC’s commitment to 2012 service excellence has made it the venue of choice for many events organisers. Its world-class facilities give it an edge over its competitors, and its excellent services and the passion of its staff are at the heart of the centre’s continued success. The CTICC continues to deliver a consistently solid return on investment and numerous sustainable benefits for the residents of the city and its visitors. Its hosting of successful events gives life to our goal of establishing Cape Town as the events capital of the continent.” Disney on Ice: 8 000m2 of excitement and Patricia de Lille, Executive Mayor of Cape Town our first-ever ice rink A place of pride for the Cape “The contribution of the CTICC extends beyond the 2013 direct and indirect financial injections that it attracts. It also facilitates job creation and helps to market Cape Town and the Western Cape to the rest of Africa and the world, making it a place of pride for all our people.” Helen Zille, Premier of the Western Cape CTICC ambassador programme launched to grow international market share Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 23 CTICC @ 15 Expansion creates jobs and opportunities “By expanding, we will be able to stage more events, more flexibility and allow for an increase in 2014 the concurrent hosting of various sizes of meetings, conventions, exhibitions and other events. The expansion will also entrench our international reputation for sustainable business developments and make a real contribution to job creation and the coffers of the city and the province.” Gary Fisher, Chairperson, Convenco CTICC East expansion of an additional 10 000m2 – sod-turning ceremony Expanding our conference capacity “Our expanded CTICC is already the subject of much 2015 global interest and we are pleased to have already signed up our first large international association conference in 2020 that will bring 15 000 delegates to our shores. This would not have been possible without the expansion of the CTICC.” Julie-May Ellingson, Chief Executive Officer, CTICC Hosted the World Skills South African National Competition – 9 500 contestants A place to meet and bridge barriers “As the world is being shrunk by technology, so the 2016 need for us to connect as people, face-to-face, seems to grow. And this, of course, is what the CTICC provides par excellence – the space and the opportunity for people to meet to bridge international barriers, make cross-cultural connections and solve global problems. The world needs such places more and more.” Andrew Boraine, Chairperson, Convenco CTICC collaborated with Pepsico in hosting a “zero waste” luncheon at the 60th Global Summit of the Consumer Goods Forum: 810 visitors 24 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 Doubling our exhibition capacity “The expansion of the Cape Town International 2017 Convention Centre, which is jointly funded by a range of stakeholders including the Western Cape Government, is also set to double the centre’s existing exhibition capacity. We will see an increase in the number and size of conferences resulting in more business travellers to our region.” Alan Winde, Western Cape Minister of Economic Development First event held across CTICC 1 and CTICC 2: AfricaCom 2017 Significant economic impact over the years “This year we celebrate the 15th year of the CTICC’s 2018 existence. At its founding, the centre was intended to cement the reputation of Cape Town as the continent’s leading business tourism destination. We have achieved this goal and surpassed many of our stakeholders’ expectations at the time of our establishment. Since our opening, we have made significant financial and economic development contributions to Cape Town, the Western Cape and the country as a whole.” Official launch of CTICC 2 in Vuyo Ntoi, Chairperson, Convenco January 2018 Our focus on job creation and contributing to the local and national economy will continue into the future, with an emphasis on maximising the benefits from our expanded complex (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2) to the knowledge economy. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 25 CTICC @ 15 An award-winning culture for the past 15 years 2004 2007 Award for Innovative Excellence in Property Development Convention and Exhibition Venue of the Year Award from from South African Property Owners Association (SAPOA) UK magazine Business Britain 2010 2008 Most Memorable Event from the Exhibition and Event • Bronze Award in the Best Overseas Conference Centre Association of South Africa (EXSA)’s Annual Awards category from Meetings & Incentives Travel (M&IT) Awards, London • Best Architectural Design Award from Best of Cape Town Awards • Winner Global Convention Centre of the Year from European CEO Magazine Awards 2011 2012 • Recognising Industry Success and Excellence (RISE) Award • Gold Winner: IMEX/Green Meetings Industry Council from Meeting Professionals International (MPI) (for its (GMIC) Green Supplier Award exceptional use of meetings and events to enhance • Recognising Industry Success and Excellence (RISE) Award economic spin-off and improve and influence its local from MPI (for its exceptional use of meetings and events community) to enhance economic spin-off and improve and influence • African Access National Business Awards its local community) • Third place: Europcar Green Office Competition • Finalist: Mail & Guardian Greening the Future Awards • Finalist: Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) • Finalist: Imvelo Awards for Responsible Tourism in the Best ICT Awards Practice Environmental Impact category • Finalist: International Association of Congress Centres • Finalist: National Business Awards (AIPC) Innovation Awards • Finalist: UFI Sustainability Development Awards • Finalist: South African Tourism Welcome Awards • Finalist: Platts Global Energy Award (in Stewardship • Finalist: Climate Change Awards Awareness for a Commercial End User category) • Finalist: Best International Venue in Exhibition News Awards • Commendation for Efforts in Sustainability, Recycling and Climate Change from Enviropaedia Ecological Awards 26 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 2013 • Award for the Best Sustainability Reporting from UFI • Best Exhibition Venue of the Year from EXSA Annual Awards • Finalist: National Business Awards • Best Overall Environmental Management System from Imvelo Awards for Responsible Tourism • Finalist: International Association of Congress Centres (AIPC) Innovation Awards 2014 • Gold Award for Best Print Advertising Campaign from Meeting Industry Marketing Awards • Best Large Conference Venue from Business Traveller Africa • Members’ Choice: Best Conference and Events Venue from Southern African Association for the Conference Industry (SAACI) Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 27 CTICC @ 15 2015 • Top 40 Women in MICE Award for Newsmaker of the Year from Meetings Magazine: Julie-May Ellingson • Top 40 Women in MICE Award from Meetings Magazine: Megan Arendse • Members Choice: Best Conference and Events Venue from SAACI • SAACI Fellowship Award: Megan Arendse • Commendation for Best Sustainability Practice from UFI Sustainable Development Awards 2016 • B-BBEE for Large Enterprises Award from Lilizela Tourism Awards • First place in the Top500 Companies Award, Exhibitions and Conference Facilities Category • Members Choice: Best Conference and Events Venue from SAACI • Top 40 Women in MICE Award from Meetings Magazine: Esmaré Steinhöfel • Commendation for Best Sustainability Practice from UFI Sustainable Development Awards • Top Three Finalist for Africa’s Leading Meetings and Conference Venue in World Travel Award 28 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 2017 2018 • Build Innovation Award for Event Management: • Top 40 Women in MICE Award from Meetings Magazine: Best International Conference Centre (EMEA) from Tracy Mkhize, Adéle Maritz and Bianca van Niekerk Build Magazine • Gold Award for Festive Season promotion video series from • First place in the Top500 Companies Award, Exhibitions Summit Creative Awards and Conference Facilities category • Winner: Lilizela Universal Accessibility Award • Top 40 Women in MICE Award from Meetings Magazine – • Finalist: Vision 2030 Driver of Change – Julie-May Ellingson inducted into the Hall of Fame: Julie-May Ellingson • Top Three Finalist for Africa’s Leading Meetings and • Top 40 Women in MICE Award from Meetings Magazine: Conference Venue in World Travel Awards Lindy Cambouris • Finalist: Standard Bank Top Women Awards – Travel and • Winner: Summit Emerging Media Award Complete Hospitality Branding Campaign category • Silver Award: Business to Business Collateral Materials from Summit Marketing Effectiveness Awards • Best Conference and Events Destination Centre for Africa from European Business Magazine • SAISC Steel Award: Commercial Category for CTICC East expansion project (now named CTICC 2) • Best Large Conference Venue Award from Business Traveller Africa Awards • Top Three Finalist for Africa’s Leading Meetings and Conference Venue in World Travel Awards • Finalist: National Business of the Year Award from National Business Awards • Finalist: Top Performing Public Service Award from National Business Awards Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 29 CTICC @ 15 Looking back 15 years: in their own words… We are proud of the fact that there are quite a number of staff who have been with us since day one. We have captured a few memories of these long-serving members of staff, which demonstrate why they have remained with us from the very beginning. Hajira Essop: every institution needs an institution Aunty Hajira, as she is affectionately known, is an institution here and was at the CTICC before it was officially the CTICC. She met our first Managing Director, Dirk Elzinga, when the convention centre was still very much a building site and he asked her to join the opening team a year before we opened to the public. In other words, he poached her! She started as a Tea Lady on 1 November 2002 and is now Chief Office Assistant for the whole complex, working across all departments, assisting all staff and management. When asked what has changed in that time, she says: “The people have changed over the years but for me it is still the same as back in 2002: a place where we work hard but also have time to enjoy our workplace.” She adds: “I enjoy working with the team and enjoy coming here every day.” Her most memorable moments are personal ones – in particular, how the staff have celebrated her birthday with her, including her landmark 50th back in 2005. She says that very little perturbs her… including the office assistant’s nightmare: different meetings at the same time. “That forms part of my day-to-day work,” she concludes. “I enjoy working with the team and enjoy coming here every day.” Pamela van Wyk: Learning on your feet and finding ways to give back 15 years of memories Pam describes her memorable 2012 baptism of fire as an Event Pam tells the story of getting lost on her way to a catering job Services Manager: her first conference was very demanding. at the Mount Nelson and seeing this beautiful building with However, with great support from the team around her, it all all its glass: she decided there and then she wanted to work turned out fine in the end; but the learning curve was very there. The rest is history. steep! Pam started to work with us on Monday, 5 May 2003 – the For Pam, too, our commitment to community work is very day 86 people, she recalls, were employed. She talks of the close to her heart… the Mothers Unite paintathon in 2017 excitement the CTICC created in the hospitality industry at that was a particular highlight for her. Pam is passionate about time – the first full-size international convention centre was volunteering: “I’m a people’s person and I like to give back.” the talk of Cape Town. Challenges and growth: clothing the CTICC She started as a waitron and says that everyone did a bit of Pam’s path has been about growing through learning on everything in those early days, particularly at their first-ever the job. She describes herself as a curious self-starter who large-scale event – a cocktail reception for the hospitality has never been shy to learn something new; but says the industry. The teamwork, she says, was amazing. Everyone most important shift she has made is to make the most of assisted and the event was a great success. her strengths. She also says that responsibility has made her strong. Today she finds herself in charge of our Linen Room whose name belies the scale of the responsibility she now holds. It entails sourcing, buying, cleaning and managing all our uniforms and catering linen requirements. Think of a wardrobe with 9 000 items in it. There is always a challenge and Pam “I’m a people’s person and I like to give back.” just sails through, over and past them. 30 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report CTICC @ 15 From left to right: Pamela van Wyk, Sweetness Mata and Zanoxolo Filifili Sweetness Mata: Zanoxolo Filifili: happily here for 15 years our expert problem-solver Sweetness has always worked in the catering department, Zano, as he prefers to be called, joined us on 12 May 2003 rising through the ranks from Function Assistant to Assistant as a Parking Attendant. Since then he has taken on a variety Event Services Manager to Event Services Manager. of posts as Parking Controller, Driver, Operations Services Coordinator and Conference & Exhibition Services Manager. Highlights for her have included the Associate in Management He is also a graduate of the UCT GSB AIM programme. (AIM) course at the University of Cape Town’s Graduate School of Business (GSB). This was an educational opportunity to Unsurprisingly, this problem-solver says: “When I learned about grab with both hands, she says – and her graduation day on this place of opportunities and how we will make our mark 12 June 2014 was a major career highlight for her. In her own on the world, I just couldn’t resist being part of that team.” words: “Wow, this is a wonderful thing that this place has And that he has been ever since, noting memorable highlights done for us.” And that investment has kept her loyal, despite along the way such as Decorex 2003, our 5th birthday concert, a number of offers along the way. Vodacom year-end events and the 2010 FIFA World Cup Final Draw. To top that, Sweetness’s commitment and popularity won her the CEO’s Award in 2016, shared with her former colleague, Today, promoted into the vital role of Parking & Logistics Londiwe. This surprise accolade was “very exciting and I was Manager, he says no challenges come to mind – and, indeed, crying tears of joy”. clients comment regularly on his ability to make a plan. Smiling through the challenges Sweetness believes the key qualities required to manage clients include multi-tasking, especially when there are multiple clients to please, and “being a good listener”. She has also learned to delegate – also not easy for a self-confessed perfectionist; but she has learned to let go. Sweetness’s commitment and popularity won her “When I learned about this place of opportunities the CEO’s Award in 2016, shared with her former and how we will make our mark on the world, I just colleague, Londiwe. This surprise accolade was couldn’t resist being part of that team.” “very exciting and I was crying tears of joy”. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 31 32 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR EVENTS REVIEW: MAKING CONNECTIONS, BUILDING ECONOMIC GROWTH review of events hosted in 2017/18 INTERNATIONAL 32 CONFERENCES 35 960 NATIONAL 35 CONFERENCES 15 106 11 Exhibitions 179 523 525 TOTAL EVENTS 16 Trade Fairs 30 584 454 338 37 banquets 14 509 TOTAL ATTENDEES 121 Special Events 132 854 Other Events and 273 Film Shoots 45 802 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 33 The EVENT YEAR African Utility Week 2018 In 2017/18 we grew the number of events we hosted by 8.9% Trade Fairs, which are essentially business-to-business expos to 525. We welcomed a total of 454 338 attendees through in particular economic sectors, drew 30 584 visitors in the year our doors. Total delegate and visitor days* amounted to under review, connecting experts in a range of sectors together 933 212 for the year under review. These are substantial and for an average of three days. The largest event was African Utility pleasing increases. Week 2018, with 6 411 attendees. The next largest event of the We hosted a total of 32 International Conferences in 16 trade fairs was Propak Cape 2017, which is highlighted in 2017/18, meeting our target for that event segment, while our case studies on page 40. Other sectors represented included allowing us to welcome 35 960 international delegates oil and gas, retail, wine, horses, construction, clothing, leather, through our doors. These opportunities for making global signage, travel and utilities management. connections through the knowledge economy covered a Banquets are a growing segment due to our excellent food wide variety of topics including education, rail transport, and beverage offering. We hosted 37 banquets in 2017/18, medicine, astrophysics and rock mechanics. AfricaCom, one with guests ranging from companies rewarding their staff of our strongest international conference partnerships in the to families celebrating birthdays and weddings. Sometimes technology sector, was the first event to use both CTICC 1 and the causes are more serious, as is the case with our annual CTICC 2 for its 4 500 delegates during the year under review. sponsoring of the venue for the 1000 Women 1 Voice event, The average duration of international conferences for the year which supports social movements for gender justice. Our under review was four days. highest attended banquet was the EOH Mthombo End of Year In terms of National Conferences, we hosted 35 conferences, function for 1 700 guests. whose attendance brought 15 106 delegates through our Special events are largely entertainment events such as doors. This important segment included a similarly large range concerts and festivals, as well as product launches, wine of sectors, from technology to medicine to investment and tastings and church services. Our biggest special event was renewable energy. The largest conference was the 21st Annual the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, which is one of our Congress of the South African Council of Shopping Centres, longest-standing clients. This event is showcased on page 39. It which hosted 1 500 delegates from over 500 companies. This attracted 35 000 visitors this year. Ustad Rahat Fateh Ali Khan event is showcased on page 38. The average event duration Live drew 3 410 visitors. Overall, this sector brought us 132 854 was three days. visitors for what are largely one-day events: 121 in all, which Exhibitions bring many visitors to the city, allowing the general is just over double the number of special events we hosted in public to connect with experts in their fields and learn about a the 2016/17 financial year. range of topics: gaming, décor, DIY, education, baby care, fine Other Events and Film Shoots is our last event category and art, running, property, comics and more. Of the 11 exhibitions includes a variety of roadshows, lectures, exams, breakfasts, attracting 179 523 visitors in 2017/18, the largest exhibition AGMs and other usually one-day forums and meetings. This remained the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo, which year we were intrigued to host the first-ever Cryptocurrency connected runners from all over the world for one of the Investor Summit, which is covered in more detail on page 37. most scenic road marathons in the world. 45 560 entrants Our largest event in this category was the 2018 Bloomberg and their supporters attended the expo this year, but other Philanthropies Awards for Global Tobacco Control, which was exhibitions also attract big numbers, such as the 2017 Cape part of the 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health, an Town HOMEMAKERS Expo (31 000) and MamaMagic, The important international conference, which we cover in more Baby Expo (22 500), the first consumer exhibition successfully detail on page 41. Overall this category attracted 45 802 hosted in our new CTICC 2 facility. The average duration of visitors and delegates to 273 events. exhibitions was three days for the year under review. *Delegate days: the number of delegates attending an event multiplied by the duration of the event. Visitor days: the number of days delegates attend an event multiplied by the additional days they spend in the country as a result of that event, i.e. includes preand post-event stays, as well as stays of accompanying guests of delegates. (Grant Thornton definition, July 2018) 34 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Event highlights of the year: delivering economic impact The case studies selected this year include events that represent Key additional aspects to our work remain a commitment our 15-year history. Others reflect the way the events we host to building the knowledge economy, supporting the City of connect and entertain people, while also offering potential for Cape Town and Western Cape Government’s growth strategy new collaborative opportunities and job creation. The broader and enhancing the region’s catalytic growth sectors, several lens is our contribution to both the regional and national of which are also covered by our case studies this year (see economies. Finally, we have included two events that have diagram below). made the most of our new CTICC 2 facility – including the conference that launched the new building. Please read on to find out more. The priority sectors for trade and investment growth in the Western Cape Productive Enabling SOCIAL sectors sectors sectors Oil and Gas Electricity Education Tourism Water Health Agro-processing ICT Business Process Outsourcing Logistics Renewables Financial Services Film The Province outlines three key trade and investment sector types: Productive, Enabling and Social sectors. These overlap and augment the catalytic sectors and knowledge economy focus areas that have previously been identified in this report. • Productive sectors are specific and contribute to the region’s competitive environment. The three key productive sectors that will be supported within the first three to five years of the current provincial growth strategy are Oil and Gas, Tourism and Agro-processing. A further three sectors will be focused on from year five to year ten. These sectors include Business Process Outsourcing, Renewables and Film. • Enabling sectors act as powerful catalysts to accelerate the growth of the whole economy. Furthermore, they play a crucial role in the stimulation of economy-wide competitiveness. Enabling sectors include Electricity, Water, ICT, Logistics and Financial Services. • Social sectors are the fundamental building blocks upon which the economy rests. They include Education and Health-related sectors. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 35 The EVENT YEAR Creating opportunities to help Capetonians make their homes beautiful 2017 Cape Town HOMEMAKERS Expo One such regular and popular exhibitor is Professional Wireworks, run by enterprising Zimbabwean craft worker, Exhibition Professor Pedro. His business, formed in 2001, continues to grow by bringing simple wire to life in a range of colourful and Date: entrancing forms, from paper-covered animals to wirework 31 August – 3 September 2017 busts of former South African President Nelson Mandela, to delightful small brooches and toys. Now employing eight Sector: permanent artists, he can easily create additional part-time Design, Décor, Lifestyle work for between ten and 20 more, depending on the orders that come in. This would not be possible without showcases like the HOMEMAKERS Expo. Visitors: 31 000 This year the 2017 Cape Town HOMEMAKERS Expo offered “HOMEMAKERS Expo celebrates our 15th visitors a magnificent, awe-inspiring array of home-related exhibition with the CTICC in 2018… it has been products and services, ranging from kitchens to outdoor living a pleasure working with the management team spaces to on-trend décor to crafts and even concrete designs. The theme was “A Tribute to Your Home”. and the dedicated staff on the ground all these years!” The HOMEMAKERS Expo has been running since 1994, for 25 years, with the first one being held in Johannesburg. Now Sandy Edwards they run four shows a year in Cape Town, Johannesburg, Branch Manager & Expo Organiser, Pretoria and Port Elizabeth, reaching 125 000 visitors. They Cape Town HOMEMAKERS Expo came to Cape Town in 1996 and moved into the brand-new CTICC in 2003. They have been here, loyally, ever since. This year exhibitors had an exceptional expo, which bodes well for the home improvement industry. Many exhibitors sold out and others generated business leads that kept them busy for the rest of the year. One tangible benefit of the expo is that visitors get the chance to see and feel the products first hand and talk to experts about them. This is what the HOMEMAKERS Expo is all about. 36 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Making sense of controversial cryptocurrency opportunities Cryptocurrency Investor Summit In addition, the rapidly-evolving blockchain industry has captured the attention of organisations around the world, Other Event which is reflected in a growing demand for blockchain development skills, with companies like IBM, Visa, Microsoft, Date: Ernst & Young, Intel, Siemens, Amazon and Ford already 24 February 2018 headhunting the best blockchain experts. MyBroadband spoke to Gavin Marshall – founder of blockchainSector: based app Sharebits.io and an instructor at the Blockchain Finance / Fintech Academy in Cape Town – about the emerging blockchain job market and how people can get involved. His response was Delegates: telling: “Coming on even the beginner course will give you a 700 very good overview of the underlying technology and why it’s likely the most profound innovation since the Internet.” We welcomed 700 delegates keen to learn more about “The CTICC offers a credible event space and investing and trading in cryptocurrency when it hosted the first platform for learning and knowledge sharing. conference dedicated to digital currencies in February 2018. Whether it’s the water crisis, cryptocurrency or This was the first event of its kind to be hosted in South Africa, according to the organisers. renewable energy, it provides event space for debate and discovery of new opportunities.” The summit took place in the convention centre’s new expansion, CTICC 2, and was a free one-day event to help Natalie Ross delegates understand what cryptocurrency is and why it is Marketing Executive, Success Resources South Africa viewed by investors, banks and governments as the new gold rush. There is currently a huge buzz around digital currency, in particular blockchain technology and Bitcoin. “Over the course of 2017, Bitcoin saw a large influx of global support. The value of one Bitcoin rose sharply from US$900 in January to over US$20 000 in December before levelling off again. With the growing interest and demand for understanding what cryptocurrency is… it has now caused a rush as the new thing to invest in,” said Natalie Ross, Marketing Executive of Success Resources South Africa. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 37 The EVENT YEAR First CTICC 2 event helps keep South Africa shopping 21st Annual Congress of the South African Council of Shopping Centres (SACSC) including New York-based Retail Futurist Howard Saunders; Investec’s Jeremy Gardiner; and CEO of British business National Conference consultancy Future Laboratory, Trevor Hardy. Trends and themes emphasised by these experts included personalisation, Date: multi-channel marketing, pop-up stores, symbiotic leasing 13 – 15 September 2017 (e.g. coffee shops in sports stores), artificial intelligence, brand playgrounds, retailtainment, millennial marketing and service, Sector: service, service. All this to keep the retail industry growing with Retail and ahead of the trends into a positive future. The conclusion Saunders drew was telling: “I believe shopping Delegates: is not only the engine of our economy, it’s the foundation 1 500 delegates from over 500 companies of a thriving community. This isn’t some business-to-business thing, this is life.” And for the 820 000 people employed in The South African Council of Shopping Centres has been with South Africa’s challenged retail sector, it is very much life: us from the start: we have been privileged to host nearly 20 indeed, it is bread on the table. events for them over our first 15 years. It has been a highly successful partnership. They also honoured us by taking the “The South African Council of Shopping Centres bold step to host the first event in our new building, CTICC 2, (SACSC) was proud to be the first organisation themed, ironically, “One”. to host an event in the new CTICC 2 building in September 2017. They had a huge task to ensure all The SACSC Annual Congress is an event that not only offers the was delivered on time. With Julie-May at the helm as very best industry information and networking opportunities CEO, we were confident all would be delivered. From but also celebrates the country’s retail sector through its a hands-on CEO who was always on the floor, to an Spectrum Awards, which incorporate the Retail Design & events team that was there to assist with any snags Development Awards, recognising outstanding achievements that came up, to a behind-the-scenes maintenance in design and architecture, and the Footprint Awards, which and security team – everyone went the extra mile recognise retail marketing initiatives. and worked together with our team as ‘partners’ to ensure the success of our Annual Congress event. As In addition, in 2017, renowned television personalities a result of the service we received, we are returning Janez Vermeiren and Lunga Shabalala hosted the event, in 2019 to host this event (which usually only comes which saw South Africa’s very own Olympic gold medallist to the Cape every three years). Based on my travel Wayde van Niekerk and his coach Ans Botha take to the stage experience and our long-term relationship, I can and share their story of how two worlds collided, took on the honestly say that the CTICC offers a world-class world and won. All of which added sparkle to the congress’s venue, with world-class service delivery that can “white & silver” gala event theme. compete anywhere in the world.” At the congress, 1 500 delegates representing more than 500 Amanda Stops companies heard topical speakers from home and abroad CEO, South African Council of Shopping Centres (SACSC) 38 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR South Africa’s grandest gathering: growing our economy for 19 years 19th Cape Town International Jazz Festival young artists to understand, but also associated opportunities such as arts journalism and photojournalism. Special Event As Khalid Abdulla, espAfrika’s acting CEO, confirms: “The Date: CTIJF annually provides countless employment and income 23 & 24 March 2018 opportunities for citizens in and around the Western Cape, as well as supporting numerous charitable outreaches through Sector: its long-established CSI programmes.” Tourism and Events The festival is truly a catalyst for domestic and international tourism, as well as a highly responsible socio-economic asset Visitors: to the country’s music industry. 35 000 The Cape Town International Jazz Festival (CTIJF) was born “The Cape Town International Jazz Festival, on 31 March 2000 and moved to the CTICC in 2004. It has supported by Wesgro, is an important fixture since become, in long-standing partnership with us, “Africa’s on our events calendar. In 2016, in excess of Grandest Gathering”, regularly attracting more than 35 000 37 000 people attended the festival, offering festinos over two days, with its dazzling line-up of world-class a significant boost to growth and jobs in our musicians, many of whom are home-grown. tourism sector. This is in line with the province’s However, it is much more than a party, as Western Cape Project Khulisa. Events are important economic Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde reminds us: “The catalysts and the Cape Town International Jazz Cape Town International Jazz Festival, supported by Wesgro, Festival creates over 3 000 direct and indirect is an important fixture on our events calendar. In 2016, in jobs.” excess of 37 000 people attended the festival, offering a significant boost to growth and jobs in our tourism sector. Alan Winde This is in line with the province’s Project Khulisa. Events are Western Cape Economic Opportunities Minister important economic catalysts and the Cape Town International Jazz Festival creates over 3 000 direct and indirect jobs.” Challenged by the water crisis last year, careful plans were made to minimise its impact on water consumption, while still ensuring its considerable economic contribution. Part of this is its annual youth-targeted Sustainable Training & Development workshop programme, where visiting musicians have promoted a range of music industry-related skills over the years – not just the business of music, which it is critical for Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 39 The EVENT YEAR Continually creating opportunities for the packaging industry to grow PROPAK CAPE 2017 The closely-linked agro-processing sector is a key focus for the Western Cape economy, with growing export opportunities Trade Fair for food processing and agricultural products such as fruit, wine and olives. These are all consumers of packaging, plastics Date: and printing; hence a new feature in 2017 – the Wine and 24 – 26 October 2017 Olive Oil Production Expo, with a specific focus on these everdeveloping sectors and their packaging challenges. Sector: The key outcomes were that exhibitors reported a number Agro-processing of off-the-floor sales; Cabletech Marketing sold a R500 000 Haitian flagship 90-tonne injection-moulding machine on the Visitors: first day of the show; and Adex Plastics and Machinery were 5 869 hot on their heels with the sale of one of their machines. This is an event that delivers and intends to continue to do so. Propak is the premier South African platform showcasing “We have had a fantastic first twelve years in the latest products, equipment, machinery and services partnership with the CTICC. We are confident across the packaging, food processing, plastics, printing and there will be many more to come. Many of our labelling industries. It has delivered on this mission for nearly exhibitors have already signed contracts to two decades and for the last 12 years in partnership with the be back at Propak Cape at the CTICC in 2020, CTICC, since 2005. when the event turns 20. The focus for that show will be on innovation, converging technologies, This highly-respected trade fair is always busy, providing a sustainability and diversification, which will networking opportunity for industry stakeholders, as well again highlight the various industry sectors and as the opportunity to learn about the latest trends and the crucial role they play in the economy. We technologies from expert speakers. And it’s comprehensive. have no doubt that the CTICC will do us proud More than 200 local and international exhibitors from ten for that upcoming birthday event.” different countries ensured that Propak Cape 2017 recorded its highest-ever number of product launches and exhibition Sven Smit floor sales. Interactive displays, live demonstrations and Event Director, Propak Cape presentations at the free-to-attend seminar programme attracted more than 5 500 visitors over the three days. Speakers included those advising how to access funding for the packaging, processing and plastics industries, to allow it to grow, while others provided vital input on the impact of the drought on the Western Cape agricultural sector in particular. 40 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Fighting tobacco-caused productivity loss across the world 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health (WCTOH) The global economic cost of smoking amounted to nearly US$2 trillion and 2% of the world’s GDP in 2016 – money International Conference that could be far better spent on poverty alleviation and job creation. Indeed, tobacco use undermines sustainable Date: development and lowers productivity, imposing a huge burden 7 – 9 March 2018 (plus two on governments, their economies and the environment. days of pre-conference events) At the conference, the South African Department of Health Sector: confirmed proposed new regulations including a blanket ban Health on indoor public smoking, as well as further restrictions on tobacco advertising and promotions. The Minister of Health, Delegates: Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, was unrepentant about these moves to 2 400 from over 100 countries put health ahead of tobacco industry opposition. “There are many who will rail against this, complaining of government interference in their lives. The tobacco industry will accuse government of tampering with job creation. Are we creating these jobs for corpses?” he asked. WCTOH is the premier international conference on tobacco control and was held for the first time in Africa in 2018. It brought together a record-breaking 2 400 delegates from “The CTICC worked amazingly well for us. over 100 countries: ministers of health, academics, media, With the new addition, it was big enough civil society, scientists and healthcare professionals. to accommodate all our needs. Thanks to the flexibility of the venues we held award The conference supported the resolution to integrate tobacco ceremonies in the auditoria, had intimate control into health and development goals under the theme bilateral meetings and ran a full-scale exhibition. of “Uniting the World for a Tobacco-Free Generation”. This There was a constant energy and connection is being realised through the World Health Organisation’s between the delegates because of the daylight. Framework Convention on Tobacco Control – the only It was a fantastic experience.” international, legally-binding health treaty of the 21st century. Tobacco use kills more than seven million people each year, Emily Blitz including 900 000 who inhale second-hand smoke, and the Global Director of Conferences and Summits, The Union vast majority of these deaths take place in lowand middleincome countries. Here in South Africa, over 42 100 South Africans are killed by tobacco-caused disease every year. Despite this, over 55 000 children (10 – 14 years old) and more than six million adults (15+ years old) continue to smoke in South Africa. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 41 The EVENT YEAR 933 212 Total delegate and visitor days in 2017/18 Organisation for Eastern and Southern African Insurers OESAI 42 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIALThe CONTRIBUTION EVENT YEAR Performance highlights for our seven event segments The following pages illustrate our performance for the year under review across the seven segments we use to record our event statistics: International Conferences, National Conferences, Exhibitions, Trade Fairs, Banquets, Special Events and Other Events and Film Shoots. 32 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES 273 35 NATIONAL Other Events and CONFERENCES Film Shoots NUMBER OF 121 EVENTS IN 2017/18 11 Special Events 525 Exhibitions 37 banquets 16 Trade Fairs Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 43 The EVENT YEAR 6 080 Highest attendance Investing in African Mining Indaba 2018 International Conferences 32 International Conferences held for the year under review AfricaCom 2017 44 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR 24th IMAST International Meeting on Advanced Spine Techniques Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 World Confederation for Physical Therapy Congress 2017 2 100 Jul 2017 Mid-Year Meeting of the International Neuropsychological Society 270 Jul 2017 24th IMAST International Meeting on Advanced Spine Techniques 800 Aug 2017 HPTN 084 Stakeholder Consultation 120 Aug 2017 World Scholar's Cup Global Round 580 Aug 2017 PMA Fresh Connections Southern Africa Conference & Trade Show 347 Aug 2017 40th Organisation for Eastern and Southern African Insurers Annual Conference 318 Sep 2017 Joint IAPSO-IAMAS-IAGA Assembly 2017 967 Sep 2017 11th International Heavy Haul Railway Conference 906 Sep 2017 Global Evidence Summit 2017 1 346 Sep 2017 International Confederation of School Principals Convention 2017 1 116 Oct 2017 1st African Regional Symposium Rock Mechanics for Africa – AfriRock 2017 350 Oct 2017 International Round Square Conference 2017 1 218 Oct 2017 24th Africa Oil Week, Africa Upstream 1 200 Nov 2017 Conference of the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population 2017 1 978 Nov 2017 AfricaCom 2017 4 500 Dec 2017 World Congress of the International Society of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology (SICOT) 2017 1 000 Dec 2017 3rd International Conference on Global Food Security 600 Dec 2017 29th International Texas Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics 250 Dec 2017 8th International Young Water Professionals Conference 300 Feb 2018 LG InnoFest 2018 290 Feb 2018 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2018 6 080 Feb 2018 Microsoft Tech Summit, Cape Town 2 000 Feb 2018 HIV Vaccine Trials Network Conference 2018 300 Mar 2018 GTR Africa Trade & Export Finance Week 280 Mar 2018 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health 2 400 Mar 2018 Bonds, Loans & Sukuk, Africa 280 Apr 2018 IFC 8th Global Private Education Conference 350 Apr 2018 Nokia MEA Sales Conference 2018 370 May 2018 Shire Summit 2018 115 May 2018 17th World Federation of Occupational Therapists Congress 2 025 Jun 2018 Adaptation Futures 2018 1 200 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 45 The EVENT YEAR 1 450 Highest attendance CIGFARO Annual Conference 2017 National Conferences 35 National Conferences held for the year under review FTTH Council Africa Conference 2017 46 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR WISA Biennial Conference and Exhibition 2018 Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Jehu Conference 2017 60 Jul 2017 18th Annual BHF African Conference 900 Jul 2017 ABSIP 2nd Stockbroking Summit 2017 110 Aug 2017 SAICA Young Chartered Accountants Conference 80 Sep 2017 Nando’s 30th Birthday Celebration 701 Sep 2017 Consumer Conference (BCD Travel) 220 Sep 2017 Annual Congress of the South African Council of Shopping Centres (SACSC) 1 500 Sep 2017 Gartner Symposium/ITxpo 2017 1 050 Sep 2017 Hospital Association of South Africa (HASA) Conference 2017 350 Oct 2017 FTTH Council Africa Conference 2017 669 Oct 2017 CIGFARO Annual Conference 2017 1 450 Oct 2017 Government Employees Medical Scheme 2017 400 Oct 2017 SAIPA National Conference 2017 500 Nov 2017 Windaba 2017 400 Nov 2017 African Agri Investment Indaba 2017 550 Nov 2017 CAJAC China-Africa International Arbitration Conference 210 Feb 2018 2nd Africa ORMCO Forum 2018 106 Feb 2018 Microsoft CSE Connect 120 Feb 2018 Mercedes-Benz After Sales Conference 188 Feb 2018 Pension Lawyers Association’s 23rd Annual Conference 400 Feb 2018 DataCon Africa 2018 200 Mar 2018 RMB Global Markets (GM) Seminar 270 Mar 2018 SADC Conference 130 Mar 2018 Herbalife Southern Africa Leadership Development Weekend 600 Mar 2018 DHL eCommerce MoneyAfrica Conference and Exhibition 300 Mar 2018 CIGFARO Audit and Risk Indaba 2018 350 Apr 2018 South African Society of Anaesthesiologists (SASA) Congress 2018 565 Apr 2018 Anglo American Technical Conference 200 May 2018 South Africa Brand Summit 2018 87 May 2018 IT Leaders Africa Summit 120 Jun 2018 Sanlam Future Leaders Conference 2018 340 Jun 2018 Sanlam Senior Leaders Conference 2018 410 Jun 2018 Santam Broker and Leadership Conference 276 Jun 2018 COMESA-AEC-SADC Minister Meetings 120 Jun 2018 WISA Biennial Conference and Exhibition 2018 1 800 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 47 The EVENT YEAR 45 560 Highest attendance Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2018 Exhibitions 11 Exhibitions held for the year under review Decorex Cape Town 2018 48 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Investec Cape Town Art Fair 2018 Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Electronic & Gaming Expo 10 100 Aug 2017 Cape Town HomeMakers Expo 2017 31 000 Oct 2017 EduWeek Western Cape 2017 1 200 Oct 2017 MamaMagic, The Baby Expo 22 500 Feb 2018 Investec Cape Town Art Fair 2018 8 286 Mar 2018 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2018 45 560 Apr 2018 Cape Vape Festival 2018 4 127 Apr 2018 Property Buyer Show Cape Town 500 Apr 2018 FanCon Cape Town Comic Con 6 000 Apr 2018 Decorex Cape Town 2018 36 600 May 2018 Radio786 – Ramadaan & Lifestyle Expo 13 650 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 49 The EVENT YEAR 35 000 Highest attendance 19th Cape Town International Jazz Festival Special Events 121 Special Events held for the year under review Peppa Pig Live in South Africa 50 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show 2018 Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Christ Embassy Church Sunday Service 1 500 Jul 2017 Walk Together Public Launch Event 800 Jul 2017 A Day with Ustadha Yasmin Mogahed: Everlasting Love and Seeking Solace 2 500 Sep 2017 Fit Factor SA & Generation Iron 2 Premier 200 Sep 2017 Bonitas Product Launch 420 Sep 2017 South African Students’ Association Abu Sha'r Tour 2017 1 600 Sep 2017 Medshield Medical Scheme: Product Launch 120 Sep 2017 Christ Embassy Church Prayer Service 195 Oct 2017 Spectramed Medical Scheme 2018 Launch 35 Oct 2017 Veritas Cape Town Public Tasting 360 Oct 2017 Deloitte Veritas Cape Town Public Tasting 550 Oct 2017 Cape Town's Great Big Challah Bake 1 300 Nov 2017 Jireh Educare Concert 2017 1 500 Nov 2017 Kfm Music Saves the Day: Cape Town’s First Dancing Billboard 200 Dec 2017 Riaad Moosa Life Begins Tour 1 500 Jan 2018 Viennese New Year's Concert 1 300 Feb 2018 DebiCheck Product Launch 120 Mar 2018 Winners Church Leadership Service 600 Mar 2018 N1 Restaurant Suppliers Launch 200 Mar 2018 19th Cape Town International Jazz Festival 35 000 Apr 2018 Peppa Pig Live in South Africa 10 300 Apr 2018 Rahat Fateh Ali Khan Live in Concert 3 410 Jun 2018 Christ Embassy Church Wednesday Night Service 233 Jun 2018 Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show 2018 520 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 51 EVENTS REVIEW The EVENT YEAR 5 869 Highest attendance Propak Cape 2017 Trade Fairs 16 Trade Fairs held for the year under review Seamless Africa 2018 52 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Oil & Gas Africa Conference & Exhibition 2017 Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Oil & Gas Africa Conference & Exhibition 2017 1 000 Aug 2017 Spar Trade Show 2017 500 Aug 2017 ViniMark Trade Fair Cape Town 2017 510 Aug 2017 Cape Construction Expo 2017 1 500 Aug 2017 My Business Expo and the Business Start-up Show 4 000 Oct 2017 Propak Cape 2017 5 869 Nov 2017 The International Apparel, Textile & Footwear Import Trade Show 600 Jan 2018 Cape Premier Yearling Sale 2018 1 450 Feb 2018 The Council for Leather Exports (CLE) Leather and Footwear Trade Expo in South Africa 263 Mar 2018 Seamless Africa 2018 260 Mar 2018 Sign Africa 2018 1 210 Apr 2018 Africa Travel Week 2018 5 165 May 2018 African Utility Week 2018 6 411 Jun 2018 Source Africa 2018 1 415 Jun 2018 EST Africa 300 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 53 The EVENT YEAR 1 700 Highest attendance EOH Mthombo Year End Function 2017 Banquets 37 Banquets held for the year under review Matthew Goniwe Memorial High School Matric Ball 54 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR 1000 Women 1 Voice Luncheon Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Hisense #AimHigh Gala Dinner 260 Jul 2017 Livingstone Matric Ball 172 Aug 2017 Matthew Goniwe Memorial High School Matric Ball 80 Aug 2017 Direct Axis CEO Dinner 330 Aug 2017 SAICA Southern Region Annual Dinner 2017 375 Sep 2017 UCT PGDA Formal 2017 346 Oct 2017 Veritas Awards 2017 740 Oct 2017 Transnet – Port Managers Awards Event 200 Oct 2017 Western Cape Education Department Awards Banquet Dinner 392 Oct 2017 State Banquet Dinner 170 Nov 2017 FNB Legends 2017 250 Nov 2017 Moutai's Belt and Road Branding Initiative Banquet in South Africa 535 Nov 2017 Transnet Port Terminals – Long Service Awards 220 Nov 2017 Transnet National Port Authority – Long Service Awards 198 Nov 2017 University of Stellenbosch Business School, MBA Farewell (All Groups) 610 Nov 2017 ENS Africa Year End 320 Nov 2017 Metropolitan Health End Year Function 500 Dec 2017 EOH Mthombo Year End Function 2017 1 700 Dec 2017 DirectAxis Group Year End Celebration 780 Dec 2017 Woolworths Financial Services Year End 750 Dec 2017 Masoud Parker & Fatimah Zahrah Khan Wedding 1 350 Feb 2018 50th Birthday Dinner 142 Feb 2018 Nedbank Old Mutual Budget Speech Gala Dinner 320 Mar 2018 Standard Bank Mark of Excellence Awards 440 Mar 2018 Ubuntu Awards 2018 400 Mar 2018 Pre-Ubuntu Ministerial Luncheon 150 Apr 2018 FAIS Graduation 150 Apr 2018 WPC – Annual Graduation and Long Service Awards 124 May 2018 1000 Women 1 Voice Luncheon 1 070 May 2018 Sanlam 100 Years Centenary Ball 650 Jun 2018 Yearly Performance Review Meeting (YPRM) 2018 363 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 55 The EVENT YEAR 1 600 Highest attendance Queen Mary III Other Events and Film Shoots 273 Other Events and Film Shoots held for the year under review Western Cape Deloitte SA Budget Breakfast 2018 56 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Ethics 4 All – the annual MPS ethics event 2017 Month Event Attendees Jul 2017 Liberty Agile 2 Launch 450 Jul 2017 Cape Town Tourism Power Breakfast 100 Jul 2017 CELL C Commercial 30 Jul 2017 Herbalife Southern Africa Leadership Development Weekend 253 Aug 2017 EthiQal for All 600 Aug 2017 The Media Gathering 700 Aug 2017 Investec Wealth Forum 2017 800 Aug 2017 Dr John Demartini's Breakthrough Experience 106 Aug 2017 Annual Film Industry Briefing 120 Aug 2017 Nedbank CWG Auction Showcase Cape Town 700 Aug 2017 Lenovo MEA Innovation Summit 250 Aug 2017 STANLIB Asset Management Roadshow 250 Aug 2017 Employment Equity Workshop/Roadshow 2017 676 Aug 2017 Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) AGM 130 Sep 2017 SMME Opportunity Roadshow 227 Sep 2017 Nedbank Roadshow 2017 360 Oct 2017 Standard Bank Business Breakfast in proud association with Smile 90.4FM 270 Oct 2017 Canon South Africa Roadshow 1 000 Oct 2017 Ethics 4 All – the annual MPS ethics event 2017 1 300 Nov 2017 ICE Season 2 300 Nov 2017 Complimentary Annual Tax Bill Update (SAICA) 550 Nov 2017 State of the Nation Breakfast 190 Nov 2017 15th Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture 750 Dec 2017 CFA Institute Exams – December 2017 420 Jan 2018 Growing Together: Nedbank VinPro Information Day 830 Jan 2018 Queen Mary III 1 600 Feb 2018 Joint Association Member Meeting (JAMMS) 650 Feb 2018 8th Wood Conference 599 Feb 2018 Ernst & Young Tax Budget Conference 200 Feb 2018 Grant Thornton Budget Speech 2018 800 Feb 2018 Western Cape Deloitte SA Budget Breakfast 2018 280 Feb 2018 Cryptocurrency Investor Summit 700 Mar 2018 Bloomberg Philanthropies Awards for Global Tobacco Control 2018 1 500 Mar 2018 Transnet Port Concession Roadshow 180 Mar 2018 State of the Nation Breakfast 320 Mar 2018 SPF Senior Management Conference – Sanlam 200 Apr 2018 Queen Elizabeth Passenger Turnaround 1 300 Apr 2018 Seminar on Investing in South Africa’s Water Security and Biodiversity 40 through Restoration: Nature Based Approach May 2018 The Western Cape Funding Fair 2018 1 225 May 2018 Department of Human Settlements Breakfast 485 May 2018 Departmental Budget Vote Speech 2018 170 May 2018 Cloud in Practice 2018 380 Jun 2018 Credo Wealth International Conference 130 Jun 2018 South African Retail CTFL Masterplan Imbizo 134 Jun 2018 CFA Institute Exams – June 2018 800 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 57 The EVENT YEAR Making events even more memorable: new connections, new ideas Passion, innovation and excellence are amongst our stated values. These lie at the heart of our delivery of consistently world-class service. Always searching for new ways to make event experiences more extraordinary and deepen client connections, we have this year introduced two major new innovations that have improved our service offering considerably: cashless payment at large entertainment events such as the Cape Town International Jazz Festival and waterwise menus, also premiered at the same event. Additional technology-based improvements are also listed below. Our water-saving actions Dynamic signage and better telephony: point-of-sale and payment solution. The solution worked better, connected seamlessly and was well received by guests. The Dynamic signage system has been replaced with the latest Menus for waterwise times technology available. The new system allows us to broadcast At the Cape Town International Jazz Festival in March 2018, high-definition media, streaming video and display live social a waterwise menu was introduced to support our water media feeds. awareness strategy. Executive Chef Roberto de Carvalho The telephony system has been upgraded from analogue to approached this interesting challenge in several ways. digital, making use of IP telephony. This upgrade has brought He steered clear of items which required him to use too much about enhanced mobility and flexibility for users. water to cook or soak items – such as rice, pasta and grains. Cashless payment systems: simply tap He opted for more grilled and roasted items than boiled or poached. Some items were more clear-cut while others were and pay not – but the rationale behind these items was more that they One risk associated with a large music festival is that of cash were cooked in one pot, which required less dishwashing. loss. We decided to seek out a solution that would not only He did not use chafing dishes (steam/water-based warming address the risk but also improve the client experience and dishes) as hot items were waiter-served as bowl food in reduce the time to complete transactions. A product called compostable, disposable receptacles. Then, where possible, Howler was identified and chosen as the cashless solution for he tried to stick to waterwise vegetables (those that take the the event. least amount of water to grow) such as artichokes, beets, When attendees arrived, they were directed to “recharge” carrots, chard, kale, peas, spring onions, spinach, garlic and stations where they were able to load cash onto the Howler herbs including bay leaf, lemon verbena, oregano, rosemary, card. Each visitor was given a card, onto which they loaded sage and thyme. cash, resulting in no other cash or bank cards being required. Proteins were also a challenge but he kept the quantities of There were also a number of recharge stations around the meat down, while ensuring he had something appetising to venue, allowing guests to top up their cards. The cards were give to our clients – bearing in mind that, for example, on then used to pay for goods using “tap and pay” technology average it takes 42 000 litres of water to produce just 1kg of which automatically deducted the cost from the remaining beef. In contrast, it only takes 168 litres of water to produce balance on the card. The remaining card balance was also 1kg of tomatoes, which is still a lot of water, but a lot less. provided after each transaction. As Chef Roberto says: “The whole process gave us considerable Cash left over at the end of the event was able to be cashed food for thought about how our food is produced and how out through the Howler website and transferred directly into we might reduce water consumption by what we eat and how attendees’ bank accounts at no extra cost. we cook it. We can now offer similar menus to our clients if requested.” Transactions were very quick as there was no need to handle change or maintain a float. Each vendor had a portable device, similar in size to a cellphone, which was used as an all-in-one 58 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Coffee on the Circle: a new place to The capacity for Coffee on the Circle is 140 guests, with 110 inside and 30 outside on the terrace. It is open daily from connect 7am to 5pm. However, there is greater flexibility of service The new coffee shop, Coffee on the Circle, has opened on during events. the ground floor of CTICC 2. It looks out onto the Walter Coffee on the Circle caters for clients and the general public Sisulu Circle at the confluence of South Africa’s oldest street looking for a full-service restaurant with breakfast and lunch – the Heerengracht – and Walter Sisulu Avenue, which runs offerings, as well as people who require on-the-move takedown the side of CTICC 1 towards the V&A Waterfront. away food. It also serves great coffee, a selection of teas and Sibling to its more established sister, Coffee on the Square in offers a diverse café-style seasonally-inspired menu. CTICC 1, Coffee on the Circle has been specifically designed to invite the city in, opening out onto the street on one side and embracing the soaring height and presence of CTICC 2’s The capacity for Coffee on architecture on the other. the Circle is 140 guests, with 110 inside and 30 outside on the terrace. Coffee on the Circle Coffee on the Square Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 59 The EVENT YEAR Distell Inter Hotel Challenge Team CTICC launches the Distell Inter Hotel Challenge This year was the third year that we have been part of the food and beverage specialists. It includes various culinary and Distell Inter Hotel Challenge and we were honoured to play wine challenges, as well as intensive training workshops on host to the competition by welcoming the best of the hotel subjects such as communication, nutrition, kitchen hygiene, industry to the CTICC for the regional launch on 6 April 2018. wine and food pairing and cooking techniques, all which will contribute to growth in the hospitality industry. The Challenge brought together up-and-coming chefs and wine stewards from the country’s most prestigious hotels and Our team consisted of Marco Marongiu, candidate baker; venues to learn with and compete against each other. The Jamie Forknall, candidate wine steward; and Silungile Moyakhe, launch banquet was a collaborative affair, connecting executive candidate chef. Chef Roberto believed this team would bring chefs from participating hotels together to serve a five-course, our best game and that this unique learning opportunity could haute cuisine menu. only improve their skills set and enhance our service to clients. A win-win equation that also fulfilled some of our key economic Executive Chef Roberto de Carvalho and his team set high commitments – skills, career and sector development. standards for themselves not just for this competition, which has put us firmly on the gourmet map, but for every event they Team CTICC showed that convention food is anything but cater for. We host an average of 500 conferences, banquets, conventional. Upping our culinary game by participating in meetings, matric balls, weddings, exhibitions, trade fairs and competitions of this type can only improve our restaurants, other events per year – and we cater for them all. cuisine offerings, our businesses and our industry as a whole. This year, with competitors from a wide range of leading hotels, the competition was intense. Having won both Most Promising Chef and Most Promising Wine Steward awards last year, we were up for the challenge. The Distell Inter Hotel Challenge is a talent development programme combined with a cook-off competition for young Executive Chef Roberto de Carvalho and his team set high standards for themselves not just for this competition, which has put us firmly on the gourmet map, but for every event they cater for. 60 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report The EVENT YEAR Achieving ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System certification During the year under review, we prepared ourselves for an additional international standard, the ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (FSMS). Having worked hard to create an FSMS that comprehensively met the requirements, our certification is now complete. This provides customer confidence in our food offering, which is becoming increasingly important as clients demand safe food and kitchens require safe ingredients. This globally recognised accreditation covers every step of the food chain, from farm to fork, and ensures food is consistently safe to source, prepare and consume. Our food safety team had to ensure that a range of daily and monthly hygiene, food preparation and maintenance monitoring protocols were in place in the CTICC’s kitchens, consistently and meticulously. This included ensuring all staff were comprehensively trained in the requirements of the ISO 22000: 2005 Management System and that all the paperwork and auditing necessary to qualify for the certification was completed timeously and accurately. We congratulate the team for successfully navigating this rigorous process and securing this important international food safety certification. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 61 62 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION ECONOMIC IMPACT: STIMULATING JOB CREATION How our financial performance grows our economy We are committed to driving economic growth, as well as generating employment. We achieve this by attracting business events and investment to the city and the province, all of which contribute to their combined economies. In 2017/18 our revenue increased by 14.2% from R215.6m to R246.3m, while EBITDA also rose well above our target of R24.3m to R57.2m. These were very pleasing figures, which, in turn, increased our key economic contribution performance as follows: R4.5m Total contribution to national GDP R3.1bn Contribution to Western Cape GGP R35.1bn Cumulative contribution to Western Cape GGP 933 212 Visitor days across R40.8bn 525 events Cumulative contribution to national GDP economic 8 553 contribution Total number of people R1.1bn performance employed because of the CTICC Contribution to household income R860m Total labour remuneration for all R302m occupations Contribution to taxes R681m Net contribution to foreign exchange earnings 640 066 Total number of additional room-nights generated These figures are reported on in more detail on the following pages. Our financial and economic performance has many facets and benefits the city, the province and the country in numerous ways. New metrics for 2017/18 financial year. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 63 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Connecting our economic performance to the future Over its first 15 years, we have become an invaluable contributor Alan Winde, has concluded: “It is the kind of change that is to the economic strategies of the City and the Province in a fundamentally altering almost every sector of our economy, range of ways. The construction of the convention centre, and it is change that demands an urgent response from us. both CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, has generated jobs and provided The onset of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, characterised by opportunities for enterprise and skills development. Our regular the confluence of a wave of new technologies, is reconfiguring capital expenditure provides opportunities for local businesses, the world we live in.” (Western Cape Department of Economic SMMEs and, increasingly, women-owned enterprises. These in Development and Tourism Budget Speech, 29 March 2018) turn build networks and connections that build businesses such It is our intention to crest this new wave and facilitate the sort as the one featured on page 69. of economic growth that must accompany it. Our focus on In addition, the sales revenue generated through the events technological, medical and financial services events has been we host contributes to the sustainability of both the centre consistent over the years and we fully intend to maximise and the tourism sector as a whole. Spending in and around our role in these arenas. This year we have hosted the World the city by delegates and visitors attending events also boosts Confederation for Physical Therapy, the International Young the local economy. This, in turn, leads to increased tourism as Water Professionals Conference and the 29th International convention delegates stay on or return as tourists (sometimes Texas Symposium on Relativist Astrophysics, as well as the termed “induced tourism”). All of this contributes to the first-ever Cryptocurrency Investor Summit. economic impact we have on the South African economy. In addition, Trade Fairs and Exhibitions, all of which touch on Our prime economic contribution is to business tourism, which technology, allow local businesses to interact with international in turn supports the knowledge economy. This is based on the roleplayers, scope out the competition and absorb market region’s role as a hub of academic and research excellence. trends. Trade shows such as AfricaCom, eCommerce Africa, Four of the country’s leading universities are based in the Source Africa and the Gartner Symposium/ITxpo Africa all Western Cape and the Province is also a centre for financial tap into these elements of the knowledge economy and services, renewable energy and technology start-ups. Many of Industry 4.0. our events – now boosted by CTICC 2 – intersect with these Our commitment to boosting economic growth into the future sectors. is demonstrated by almost every aspect of its activities – across It is possible to make links here with the Fourth Industrial all its event segments, the focus areas of the knowledge Revolution, sometimes termed Industry 4.0, where disruptive economy and the challenges and opportunities the Fourth technologies will come to the fore. This shift towards a Industrial Revolution represents. “revolution of digital and physical technologies” looks likely to influence every economy, every sector and every home. This is the future which will soon make artificial intelligence, 3D printing, cryptocurrencies, robotics, gene editing, selfdriving cars and talking fridges part of our everyday lives. As our own Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities, Our economic contribution in detail The table below shows our overall macroeconomic contribution to the Province (GGP) and the Country (GDP), including jobs created, contributions to tax and household income, forex earnings and delegate and visitor days. Table 1: Macroeconomic contribution for the 2017/18 financial year Rand million, Direct GDP GGP WC jobs SA Taxes Household Net Delegate 2018 prices jobs income forex and earnings visitor days* CTICC revenue 246 490 480 912 929 Organiser/exhibitor 232 464 361 685 875 expenditure Delegate 1 793 3 570 2 266 4 317 6 749 expenditure Total 2 271 4 524 3 107 5 914 8 553 302 1 063 681 933 212 contribution 2018 *Visitor days: the number of days delegates attend an event multiplied by the additional days they spend in the country as a result of that event, i.e. includes preand post-event stays, as well as stays of accompanying guests of delegates. (Grant Thornton definition, July 2018) 64 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Our contribution to South African Our contribution to Western Cape Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Gross Geographic Product (GGP) GDP is the total value of all final goods and services produced Much of the direct economic benefit we contribute is felt in the country. It is a fundamental measure of the economic within the Western Cape, but other provinces benefit as well, quality of life of all South African citizens. It is also the most which is what makes up the GDP figure below. For example, comprehensive measure of our macroeconomic effect. GDP is as tourists spend money in hotels outside the province, they important not just because it is income but also because income in turn use materials sourced from other parts of the country has the capacity to create and increase wealth. Contribution to and from abroad. This is why the contribution to Western Cape GDP has increased 21.6% to R4.5bn compared to the previous GGP is somewhat less than its contribution to national GDP. year’s reported figure of R3.7bn. Our cumulative contribution The direct economic contribution to the Western Cape GGP to national GDP to date has now reached R40.8bn. remained stable during the 2017/18 financial year at R3.1bn. Our cumulative contribution to regional GGP has now topped R35.1bn. R490m R464m R480m R361m Organiser/exhibitor Organiser/exhibitor CTICC revenue expenditure CTICC revenue expenditure R4.5bn R3.1bn Contribution Contribution to national GDP to Western Cape GGP R3.5bn R2.2bn Delegate expenditure Delegate expenditure 9.3% Increase in jobs created 8 553 TOTAL NUMBER OF PEOPLE Our contribution to job creation employed through OUR In times of economic stress and high unemployment, where economic contribution jobs are under threat, our contribution to job creation is in 2017/18 particularly important. A total of 8 553 people were employed through our economic contribution in 2017/18, compared to the previous year’s reported figure of 7 824 people – a 9.3% increase. Of the 8 553 total, 4 533 people were employed directly in the Western Cape (53%). 4 533 Number of people employed directly in the Western Cape Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 65 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Image 1st African Regional Symposium Rock Mechanics for Africa – AfriRock 2017 Our contribution to foreign exchange earnings Delegates and visitors to the Western Cape make an important contribution to foreign exchange earnings, particularly if they R681.3m extend their stay beyond the event they attend. This positive contribution by international delegates, exhibitors and their guests brought in an estimated net total foreign exchange income of R681.3m in 2017/18, compared to the R645m Estimated net total foreign reported in 2016/17. exchange income in 2017/18 Our contribution to taxes Our tax contribution to national welfare is part of our economic contribution to the national investment in housing, health, education and transport infrastructure – which benefits all R301.6m South Africans. Our tax contribution is comprised of PAYE on payroll, corporate taxes and VAT on direct spend. The total tax contribution for the year 2017/18 is projected at Projected total tax contribution R301.6m. Cumulatively, it is estimated that since construction for the year 2017/18 in 2003 over R4bn has been generated in taxes generated by our activities. Our contribution to household income Making positive contributions to household incomes is an essential component in the maintenance of a healthy economy and society. We understand the need to grow R1.1bn active communities through job creation as this means regular household income. We are delighted to say that we contributed R1.1bn to household income in the 2017/18 year. This contribution has amounted to R19.5bn cumulatively Contributed to household since 2003. income in the 2017/18 year 66 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Key performance indicators geared to socio-economic CONTRIBUTION The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) agreed between Convenco and the City ensure that we fulfil our role as a core strategic asset of the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape Government and SunWest International. The responsibility to deliver on these targets is closely aligned with the centre’s economic contribution mandate. The KPIs inform not just our overall performance but the roles, goals and performance assessment criteria of each department, team and individual who works with us. Category Measurement Target 2018 Actual 2018 Number of international events hosted compared to Events 32 32 annual budgeted target Number of events hosted compared to annual Events 535 525 budgeted target Percentage of annual total salary cost spent on Human Capital Development 5% 6% training of permanent and temporary staff 78% of minimum aggregate score for all internal Customer Centricity and Service Excellence 78% 85% departments and external suppliers Supply Chain Procurement from B-BBEE Suppliers measured in terms of the Percentage spend not lower than 60% 60% 87% B-BBEE Act Student Programme: Contribution to Youth Employment and Number of student opportunities provided 6 12 Skills Development Graduate Programme: Contribution to Youth Employment and Number of graduate opportunities provided 6 13 Skills Development Number of People from the Employment Equity Target Groups employed in the Three Percentage of EXCO, MANCO and Leadership Highest Levels of Management in compliance 80% 83% positions held by persons from designated groups with the Municipal Entity’s Approved Employment Equity Plan Budget Percentage achievement of annual budgeted Operating Profit(1) 100% 235% operating profit(1) Percentage of the total number of capital projects Capital Projects 85% 89% for the year completed or committed Five-star Achieve fiveMaintain five-star tourism grading through effective Tourism star Tourism Quality Product Offering management of maintenance and quality of service Grading Grading delivery Council Rating Council rating Achieved Capital Expenditure Percentage of total capital expenditure spend 95% 91% (CTICC East Expansion Programme) Governance External Audit Report Clean audit report(2) Clean audit Clean audit Number of senior managers registered for MFMA Minimum Competency Level 7 7 competency course Financial Ratios Total cash and investments, less restricted cash for RCC = 6.4 Ratio of Cost Coverage maintained (RCC) 14.2 times monthly operating expenditure times Net current debtors divided by total operating Net Debtors to Annual Income (ND) ND = 6.8% 4% revenue(3) Debt (Total Borrowings) to Annual Operating Total annual operating revenue divided by total debt DC = 0% 0% Revenue (DC) KPI definitions and notes (1) Operating profit is defined as earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation. (2) Clean audit is defined as an unqualified audit report with no material findings on compliance with laws, regulations and predetermined objectives. (3) Net debtors is defined as gross debtors less refunds. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 67 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Transforming B-BBEE enterprises through consistent support CTICC 2 open for business We have improved on our B-BBEE spend by 4.6% for the Significantly supporting women-owned 2017/18 financial year, if the effect of the now-completed enterprises contract with our main Level 2 B-BBEE CTICC 2 contractor is taken into consideration.* It is estimated that every job held by a woman feeds eight people, a fact that drives our supplier selection decisions. In line with our ongoing commitment to help develop Women-owned enterprise suppliers comprised a considerably businesses in our sector and beyond, our B-BBEE spend for increased 40% of the total supplier base in the year under the 2017/18 financial year was R288m, which equates to 87% review, compared to 29% in 2016/17. An example of how of net spend. we have helped build women-owned enterprises over our first 15 years follows on the next page. Building local enterprises in the Western Cape Where possible, we use local suppliers, provided they meet the MFMA regulations and our competitive pricing requirements. We define local suppliers as those situated within the borders of the Western Cape. Locally-based procurement for the year totalled R282.2m, which was 86% of the total procurement spend. R282.2m Locally-based procurement 40% Women-owned enterprise in 2017/18 suppliers in 2017/18 compared to 29% in previous financial year *Our appointed contractor for CTICC 2, Aveng Africa Limited, has a Level 2 B-BBEE contribution and is 89.5% black owned: their payments represented a significantly higher percentage of the total spend during the 2016/17 financial year compared to 2017/18. 68 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Lucinda Blanchard, Conquest Maintenance Services Conquest and the CTICC: delivering professional facilities and building management services for 20 years Lucinda Blanchard is the sole member of Conquest Maintenance Services, which opened its doors in 1997. Their company mission strives to “always be part of the solution, not part of the problem”. They offer a range of building maintenance services, up to and including a full facilities management offering including preparation of photographic building and land reports, written specifications, quotations and repair solutions. They specialise in the rehabilitation of existing structures, especially buildings built of steel, brick and concrete. They “Having the CTICC as a client has benefited us when further offer airless spray painting of walls and roofs, as well applying for tenders for new work. Our client base as the specialised application of road markings. They have rigorous quality and safety standards. has widened. In the future, we see the company continuing to work on tenders while building the Conquest started working with us in 2005, after receiving a call from a Duty Manager to assist with building maintenance. Since company by moving more staff into senior positions, then, they have quickly learned how the hospitality industry in order for them to start running the day-to-day deals with daily maintenance issues and how to resolve them activities. None of this would have been possible while keeping the facility operational – a vital aspect for a without the support of clients like the CTICC.” business that is often required to be operational 24/7. Lucinda Blanchard Sole Member/Managing Director, Conquest Maintenance Services Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 69 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Capital expenditure: maintaining excellence, delivering quality solutions Installation of our reverse osmosis desalination plant Capital expenditure is an annual commitment. Maintenance intensive investigation into the optimal solution that will enable can never be neglected, particularly in a coastal climate. In us to become self-reliant in terms of water supply. Initially, we addition, technology advances at increasing speed, as do client were expecting to have to cater for the provision of three water requirements. Our intention is always to be ahead of the curve. supply systems: a desalination plant, a plant to extract water For these reasons, we continuously invest in the maintenance from the air and additional equipment and water storage for and upgrading of our facilities. This year key projects included our fire suppression system. We will be able to cater for all the following refurbishments and improvements to various these needs through the implementation of one dedicated aspects of our facilities: reverse osmosis desalination plant, which will extract ground • CCTV infrastructure (CTICC 1); water and purify it to SANS approved standards for drinking water. • Dynamic signage system (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2); • Access control system (CTICC 1); • Point-of-sale system (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2); • Passive and active network infrastructure (CTICC 1); • Wireless infrastructure (CTICC 1); • Telephony system (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2); • Ballroom carpets (CTICC 1). In addition, we invested in the design of the Old Pier Café, the refurbishment of escalators and our water harvesting project, all in CTICC 1. A number of projects, like the refurbishment of the Old Pier Café and the comprehensive re-tiling of the gallery areas of CTICC 1, need to be executed over two financial years to ensure there is minimal impact on ongoing operations. This kind of work is best implemented over the end-of-year holiday We continuously invest in the period, when the centre is traditionally quieter and potential maintenance and upgrading disruption minimised. of our facilities. In the year under review, we have also been able to save a significant amount on planned capital expenditure through 70 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION World Congress of the International Society of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 71 72 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY: MAKING LASTING CONNECTIONS Creating opportunities through our local community partners The year in review saw us increase the value of our corporate During the 2017/18 financial year, we participated in more than social responsibility spend considerably to R1.8m. This figure 40 activations. These covered donations of food, water and raises the value of our social contribution by 50%. Activations equipment; sponsorship of venues for events; staff-supported were focused on income generation and water conservation, volunteering activities focused on particular awareness-raising both key concerns for our Western Cape economy. campaigns. These included National Water Week, Earth Day, Africa Day, Youth Day, World AIDS Day and the annual 16 Days Our events and donations continued to concentrate on of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence, as well as breast linkages with our five established local community partners cancer and heart health awareness drives. A selection of these (LCPs), supporting and developing the communities where campaigns is covered in more detail on the following pages. they work. We are committed to giving back to the community and striving to be a responsible corporate citizen, making connections not only at an organisational level, but also at an individual level. Many of our staff volunteer extensively both in our own activations and in their own communities. R1 836 718 Grand total CSR spend for the year 2017/18 50% Increase in CSR contribution for the year 2017/18 Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 73 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Our community connections: who they are and how we help them Our LCPs strive to develop their communities through a broad spectrum of interventions. These include educational and income-generation initiatives, as well as feeding schemes and urban gardening projects. We have five LCPs in all. They are Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), Ikhaya Le Themba, Journey of Enrichment and Mothers Unite. They mostly work regionally in the Greater Cape Town area – predominantly in Khayelitsha, Lavender Hill and Mitchells Plain. The following section outlines each of their missions and how we link in with their work. Abalimi Bezekhaya Their mission is:“To empower the disadvantaged through urban Abalimi Bezekhaya promotes small-scale urban farming, as our agriculture and environmental programmes and projects. We Earth Day and National Water Week interventions demonstrate support our target group’s ability to replicate their success and (see pages 83 and 84). This year we have primarily leveraged transform their lives in their urban and rural environments. partnerships in conjunction with Abalimi Bezekhaya. Apart Abalimi Bezekhaya assists by providing the following support from the growing of vegetables and fruit, they also work with services: project implementation, agricultural and horticultural a number of community organisations, including the Mzamo commodities, training, organisation-building, facilitation of Women Skills Development. We have benefited from this partnerships, research and monitoring and evaluation.” partnership in the year under review through the following awareness-raising campaigns: For the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence, we procured beaded bracelets through an organisation introduced to us by Abalimi Bezekhaya. Staff received the bracelets and information cards as part of an internal awareness campaign to support the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence campaign. The beaded items were made by a group of women from Mzamo Women Skills Development, an income-generating project, which is based at the Abalimi Bezekhaya Khayelitsha Garden Centre. The purchase supported our job creation drive. 74 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION On World AIDS Day staff were given beaded ribbons as part of an internal awareness campaign around HIV and AIDS. The beaded items were also made by women from Mzamo Women Skills Development. The purchase further supported our job creation drive. Valentine bookmark_FINAL_PRESS.pdf 1 2018/02/12 4:43 PM ProtectYOUR C Heart M February is heart awareness Y #loveyourheartmonth CM MY CY CMY K https://www.theheartfoundation.org/heartdisease-facts/heart-awareness-month/ See reverse for a delicious healthy recipe! This beautiful key ring was handcrafted by a group of ladies from Mzamo Women Skills Development This project was made possible as a result of Abalimi Bezekhaya, one of our community partners, generosity in donating premises from which they are able to work and grow. Nurtured partnerships in action! As part of the Protect Your Heart Campaign, we gave a beaded heart keyring and information cards to staff on Valentine’s Cape Town International Convention Centre Day. The beaded items were also made by the women from Mzamo Women Skills Development. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 75 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) Their mission is: “To become the household name in our field by implementing impactful direct community interventions, driving social awareness programmes, conducting world-class research and by offering a full range of diagnosis, management, support, training, educational and mentorship services whilst maintaining our high ethics and respecting human and child rights.” We supported FARR’s work in a variety of ways in the year under review. Its research into Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) is invaluable to the communities it supports. Our contribution this year included: Sponsoring and hosting their AGM, which Supporting an awareness campaign Donating 100 bottles of water for FARR’s we have done since 2014. around breast cancer awareness, International Foetal Alcohol Syndrome which raised funds for resources for Day Walk (7 September). early childhood development centres. Ribbons and information cards were handed out to our staff and we matched the total donation made to FARR (ECD); FARR used the funds to provide each of their ECD centres in the West Coast region with muchneeded kettles. Helping promote a campaign focused on FASD on International Foetal Alcohol Syndrome Day (9 September), reminding people through the observation of 90 seconds of silence and various linked activities that during the nine months of pregnancy, alcohol should be avoided for the sake of the health of the child. 76 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Mothers Unite Their mission is: “To embrace children holistically by providing nutritional, educational and emotional support, as well as positive alternatives to anti-social behaviour.” We worked closely with Mothers Unite to provide support to the mothers and children it works with. Income generation is one aspect of the organisation’s work. We assisted by: Donating five skips of wood to Mothers Unite, which were used for carpentry – making items to sell – as well as for home improvement purposes. Please see pages 108 and 109 for more details of this highly successful CSR initiative. Creation of fabric shopper bags. These were distributed to our staff on Earth Day. These bags supported our plastic reduction theme of 2018 and were ordered from Mothers Unite’s sewing workshop. We donated material for the bags and branded badges. Mothers Unite runs sewing workshops for women, empowering them to earn additional income and thus creating jobs in the community. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 77 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Ikhaya Le Themba Their mission is: “To meet the spiritual and practical needs of communities through mentoring, training and effective distribution of resources. Our mission is to reach the poor through selfless love and service. It is the foundation of everything we do.” We primarily assisted Ikhaya Le Themba (ILT) by: Supporting a primary school it is linked to, Yomelela Primary School in Khayelitsha. It made donations to the school during various campaigns, including stationery and hand sanitiser dispensers. 50 learners from the school were invited to our 15th birthday party. Purchasing products from Ikhaya Le Themba as gifts for guests at our AGM: they produce a natural skincare range made by employees at ILT. By supporting this initiative, we are helping ILT develop skills and create jobs in the communities they support. 78 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Journey of Enrichment Their mission is: “To extend our reach beyond food supply and to empower our societies in order to enable them to live their most optimal, self-sufficient lives and create the best future for younger generations through education and life skills.” We worked with Journey of Enrichment by supporting and donating to their food-related campaigns. We supported their initiatives in the following ways: Supported their Food for Change event, which fed 1 000 people. At this initiative, staff put on their aprons and helped out with cooking and serving. In celebration of Africa Day (25 May), the CTICC partnered with Journey of Enrichment to run a Food Parcel Drive for families in need. CTICC created a mailer sent to all staff and CTICC suppliers to support the drive by donating non-perishable food items and donating their time to help the organisation create the food parcels. On Africa Day the staff, suppliers and Journey of Enrichment gathered in Exhibition Hall 4 to volunteer their time to pack the 116 food parcels which was handed to Journey of Enrichment towards their drive. The LCP distributed the parcels to less fortunate families within the Cape Town region. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 79 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Making connections through our community activations There are also a number of other community organisations we regularly support, over and above our five main local community partners. Details of these activations follow. Santa Shoebox Project This activation involved us sponsoring a large venue where the general public could drop off their “shoe boxes” filled with goodies to well established Santa Shoebox charity who in turn donated the gifts to children throughout South Africa. International Day of Older Persons For International Day of Older Persons, the CTICC procured toiletry care packs and food parcels and staff visited the elderly members of the Ruyterwacht Senior Centre to hand out the items. Oasis Recycling The Sinai trust client hosted a large scale Cape Town Challah Bake event on 25 October 2017 and requested that we recycle waste generated at the event to charity. The waste was taken to Oasis Recycling in Lansdowne, a non-profit organisation which provides people with mental disabilities with employment. The items we delivered were recycled at the institution and money generated from the waste. This is the first time we have partnered on such a project. 80 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION PinkDrive Breast Cancer Awareness Day Pink ribbons were procured from PinkDrive, which provides a free women’s health service to the medically uninsured in South Africa. This innovative and important breast cancer organisation is powering South Africa´s first and only mobile mammography and education units throughout our country, driving home the fact that “early detection saves lives” – and bringing that message into communities where education and resources are scarce. Jireh Community Projects We provided the venue free of charge for this happy annual children’s concert for Jireh Community Projects and have done so since 2016. The Jireh Centre in Mitchell’s Plain is the largest Early Childhood Development Centre in the Western Cape, which makes this talent showcase quite a blockbuster. An enthusiastic audience of well over 1 000 proud parents, families and friends attended this extremely popular and much-loved community event. It is also an amazing and confidence-building experience for the youngsters themselves. In addition, on the day we donated 200 cupcakes for the children and caps for the ushers. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 81 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION sponsorship We celebrated 15 years by throwing a party for 100 young children from previously disadvantaged communities CTICC’s 15 birthday kids party The children came from a range of different cultural and On 28 June 2018, we turned 15. What better way to celebrate economic backgrounds but fun is a universal language and than with the children of Cape Town. there were no barriers that day. The children were particularly Our guests were sixand seven-year-old children from enthusiastic when the interactive puppet show started. previously disadvantaged communities. They enjoyed a day At the end of the highly energised day, we provided the children filled with scrumptious food and fun dancing. Festivities with a going-away present made up of a backpack containing included face painting, jumping castles, balloon-making with healthy snacks, toiletries, stationery and play dough. They also clowns, train rides, cupcake decorating and an interactive received their printed photo taken at the photo booth, as well puppet show. There were also colouring-in tables and, most as their decorated cupcakes and colouring-in artwork. It was fun of all, a photo booth. a highly memorable 15th birthday. Connecting with two of our LCPs, Ikhaya Le Themba and Journey of Enrichment, through their links with local schools, we invited 100 children from Mitchells Plain Primary School in Mitchells Plain and Yomelela Primary School in Khayelitsha. Our staff joined the children and ten teachers to ensure that the children had a great time. When they arrived, there was much excitement – but the biggest surprise was that we had invited firemen from the Cape Town Fire and Rescue Service. They brought along their demonstration fire engine, allowing the children to explore the fire engine and ask them questions. Our guests were sixand sevenyear-old children from previously disadvantaged communities. They enjoyed a day filled with scrumptious food and fun dancing. 82 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION sponsorship National Water Week: raising awareness about saving water National Water Week with Abalimi Bezekhaya Mothers Unite water week During National Water Week we made a concerted effort Our next stop was Mothers Unite, where we also gave away to raise awareness around water conservation with our awareness posters and 475 litres of water, including water local community partners. We visited Yomelela Primary dispensers. We further donated 150 cupcakes for the children. School, which is connected to and supported by Ikhaya Le Themba, and donated water usage awareness posters, Finally, we visited Abalimi Bezekhaya, where we dropped off 140 child-friendly hand sanitisers, juice and snack bars to the ten cubic metres of cow manure for their Khayelitsha garden, learners. We also contributed 50 litres of hand sanitiser and to help their garden grow and keep the moisture in the soil ten dispensers, which were installed by our maintenance staff. during the dry season. Mothers Unite, where we Abalimi Bezekhaya, where Ikhaya Le Themba, where also donated water usage we donated 10m3 of cow we donated water usage awareness posters and manure for their awareness posters, 140 child475 litres of water. Khayelitsha garden. friendly hand sanitisers, juice and snack bars to the learners. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 83 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION sponsorship Earth Day: connecting to a more sustainable world Earth Day with Journey of Enrichment, Abalimi Bezekhaya and Mitchells Plain Primary School Earth Day with FARR On Earth Day, thoughts turned to saving energy and taking care of our planet. Again, we initiated a range of activities in partnership with our local community partners. Journey of Enrichment’s partner school, Mitchells Plain Primary School, got a new urban vegetable garden for Earth Day, courtesy of our fellow LCP, Abalimi Bezekhaya, who we appointed to provide them with gardening services and tutorials to help the school look after the garden. We also provided the school with gardening goods and participants with refreshments as they gardened. Journey of Enrichment’s partner school, Mitchells Plain Primary School, got a new urban vegetable For our Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) garden for Earth Day, courtesy of our fellow local community partner, we donated ten recycling bins which LCP, Abalimi Bezekhaya, who we appointed to were distributed to five crèches supported by FARR, as well provide them with gardening services as promoting the work of the organisation in an awareness mailer to our staff. 84 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION sponsorship Dancing and hooping it up for Youth Day African Grassroot Hoops Youth Day with Mothers Unite On Youth Day we invited, transported, hosted and entertained The second event we hosted that day was the National Hip 35 Mothers Unite Grade 6 to 12 learners to a high-energy day Hop & Performing Arts Championship. This was organised of events at the CTICC – including top-class basketball and hipby the South African Body of Dance (SABOD), a non-profit hop dancing. Our staff volunteered to host and engage with organisation that trains dancers to improve their dance the youth by taking them on site inspections of our buildings technique. They also run workshops and competitions to and providing meals for the youth throughout the day. There bring dance to people who are not able to access established was also an interactive presentation and workshop done for studios. This was the centre of our Youth Day celebrations and the youth by staff, including a fun quiz, which caused a lot of we supported this event by donating the venue. excitement, since there were spot prizes up for grabs. At the end of an action-packed day, the learners and The first of the two main youth-focused events was the African accompanying facilitators received goodie bags containing Grassroot Hoops Youth Day Classic – the main Basketball gifts, stationery packs, branded items such as beanies, scarves, Tournament event for 2018 for local NGO African Grassroots cooler bags, snacks and backpacks. Hoops. The organisation brings basketball to underprivileged areas in Cape Town by building or revamping public basketball courts. The tournament made history by being the first youth international basketball tournament we have hosted. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 85 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Training: the importance of investing in people Staff training image CTICC invests in permanent, contract and temporary staff Our commitment to training and development remained strong in the year under review, with a substantial R3.1m training spend. Our training embraced the four key aspects of skills development: statutory, vocational, developmental and values-based leadership. The training we offered covered all these areas and focused mainly on capacity building, leadership development, team building, change management, effective employee engagement and coaching. Connecting with and growing talent and skills We have a 15-year track record in training and skills transfer, as can be seen by the training and promotion stories on the following pages, as well as the long-service staff stories on pages 30 and 31. This commitment to skills development has a direct and long-term impact on the events and hospitality sectors. In terms of our own staff complement, we have also been able to increase the quantity of jobs that we offer, largely due to R3.1m Training spend in the the opening of CTICC 2 in September 2017. year under review 86 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 83% KPI target achieved for Employee Relations Forum (ERF), Employment Equity and Training Committee (EE&TC) 2017/18 Labour practices, employment equity The committee communicates both the EE Plan and the and employee engagement WSP to other employees and monitors its implementation. The appointed EE Senior Manager completes the monthly Employees can put forward any concerns regarding Conditions workforce profile which is used to monitor underrepresented of Employment, Employment Equity and Skills Development groups in line with the Economically Active Population (EAP). with their line managers. We also have an Employee Relations Forum (ERF) in place, with staff-nominated ERF representatives As at 30 June 2018, out of 23 employees in the three highest who take a collective approach to resolving employee levels of management, i.e. Exco, Manco and Leadership, relations matters. Concerns can be raised directly with the we had 19 employees from the designated groups across the HR department or via the ERF, which has direct access to the following departments: Commercial & Business Development, CEO if required. Human Resources, Finance/Procurement, and Food & Beverage and Operations. The percentage figure is 83%. This exceeds In addition, we have an Employment Equity and Training the 80% set KPI target and complies with the municipal entity’s Committee (EE&TC) that ensures that the company approved EE Plan. complies with the Employment Equity (EE) Act and the Skills Development (SD) Act. The committee monitors the progress Fair labour practices and human rights principles are adhered to and the effective implementation of the EE Plan, as well as the and are also included in all contractor procurement processes. Workplace Skills Plan (WSP), which is submitted to the Culture, This includes protection against child, forced and compulsory Arts, Tourism, Hospitality and Sports Sector Education and labour. Training Authority (CATHSSETA). The 2018 WSP was submitted to CATHSSETA in April 2018. The committee also ensures and monitors that we complete the annual EE report for approval by the Board and submission to the Department of Labour. The 2018 EE Plan was submitted to the Department of Labour in December 2017. This includes two sector training programmes – a Student Placement Programme and a Graduate Programme: see details on pages 94 and 95. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 87 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Short-term training From left to right: Hilda Samuels, Gretha Geldenhuys, Carmen Rudd Edwin Manshon, Bianca van Niekerk, Michael Collins Short-term training is essential for upgrading staff skills so that the service we deliver is always 100% up to date and world-class. Over the review period, 104 individual staff members received short-term training. We highlight four of these in the case studies that follow. Edwin Manshon, Finance Administrator: Michael Collins, Sales Executive: not too old to learn something new National: appreciating the holistic view Training: Training: CIMA Certificate in Business Accounting: Financial Accounting New Managers Development Programme, University of Course, IBTC (International Business and Training College) Stellenbosch Period: 13 weeks Period: Six weeks Joined CTICC: March 2017 Joined CTICC: June 2016 Edwin Manshon is in the Finance department and says the Michael Collins is in the National Sales department and highlight of his CIMA training was learning to look at his the University of Stellenbosch programme has significantly department and the work it does holistically: how all the pieces expanded his horizons. The communication module gave him fit together to form one complete image, not only from a valuable insights into what kind of person he is and how he finance perspective, but also from a company viewpoint. could best deal with clients’ different personalities. The finance The course has also given him a better understanding of why module gave him the skills to analyse the sales process value he does what he does each day and that those daily tasks form chain. Finally, he benefited greatly from the networking with part of the bigger picture when it comes to financial month his classmates and learning from their life experience and end. He also hopes the training will give him opportunities workplace challenges. to grow. He believes the New Managers Development Programme has Finally, in response to being asked why he believes it is improved his job performance because he is now able to be important to upskill yourself, he says: “Simply, you are never a more effective and efficient sales person for the company. too old to learn something new.” 88 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION “I gained valuable tools to build and maintain valuable your company and, most importantly, for your clients. It is his relationships with my clients. I also have a holistic view of the opinion that clients book a venue because of the relationship CTICC in its entirety as a business and how my actions and they build with people and not only by virtue of the venue. decisions affect the business.” He concludes: “Upskilling yourself grows your confidence and ensures you are constantly challenged.” He sees the world as constantly evolving and believes you need to be ahead of changes so that you can be an asset for Gretha Geldenhuys, Sales Executive: requirements better and supply them with the assistance they National: need to execute a successful event that will be able to return annually, with a clear indication of growth. harnessing endless opportunities When it comes to sales, she has learned to use the correct Training: tools to optimise closing a sale, to drive team spirit and, as a UFI-EMD (Exhibition Management Degree), UFI – The Global result, reach overall targets. She has also realised that there Association of the Exhibition Industry are endless opportunities for growth in the exhibition industry and is very excited to become a part of the solution to some Period: Five months industry-related concerns. Joined CTICC: January 2017 She is very clear about the need to upskill: Gretha Geldenhuys is in the National Sales department and has “We have to become a leading specialist in an industry that is completed her UFI Exhibition Management degree this year. rapidly growing and improving. We therefore have to adapt She says she has now gained more knowledge regarding the and constantly teach ourselves new skills in order to gain new entire planning process around an exhibition, from concept knowledge of the events industry. Improving our skills and through planning and risk management to sales, marketing constantly working to better ourselves goes hand-in-hand with and execution. networking with like-minded individuals that inspire you to In addition, the course has taught her that keeping up to aim higher.” date with sector trends will allow her to understand clients’ Hilda Samuels, Business Systems perspective, while still meeting governance and performance Administrator: requirements. committed to paying it forward She says the training will help her in the future in several ways, by: Training: • Assisting operational processes and meeting stakeholder COBIT 5 Foundation Course – AIPC Certification, needs (internal and external); MasterGrade IT • Translating stakeholder needs into specific actionable and Period: Three full days including an exam customised IT-related goals; Joined CTICC: June 2015 • Managing the performance of our business systems and improving reporting; Hilda Samuels is in the ICT department as a Business Systems • Turning the data we collect daily into a data mining tool to Administrator and that means she knows how to harness improve service delivery to all our clients. technology to achieve better results; but there is always more to learn. Her recent course taught her that information is a key She believes that part of her role is to pay it forward. As she resource in the workplace and that technology is all-pervasive puts it: “Being a child of the Eastern Cape, my vision in life is across all aspects of business and personal life. to make a difference to the underprivileged youth by providing them with a guide to the opportunities that information In that context, she has learned that a particular challenge technology can offer.” in governing and managing information is the need to find ways for IT and the business to share information, while still complying with governance standards. This has involved learning about the different information enablers – what helps Human rights and anti-corruption training people understand each other. It also occurred to her that there During the year under review, we had no incidents of is a difference between management and governance, and discrimination and as such no actions were required. that it is vital to analyse and meet stakeholder needs in a way that gives them the information they require. Our anti-corruption policy was updated in the year under review. Our whistle-blowing guidelines were also revised. In The training has helped her complete our ICT Strategic addition, our staff conference and strategic planning processes Plan project, which was one of the first implemented in the included a values workshop that augmented our current company. It allowed her to view information and frustrations values with the new value of “caring”. For more details, see received from the other departments from a fresh perspective page 99. and decide how she could best help them from a system Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 89 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION LONG-term training The CTICC Team of graduates and students Long-term training ensures depth of skills at management level Encouraging professional development and provides opportunities for networking and collaboration through targeted programmes with both local and international colleagues over longer periods of time, usually six months or more. Long-term training We promote staff development by sending staff to take part in also assists in promoting staff retention, upgrading skills, the international knowledge exchange programmes, professional achievement of long-term career goals and the growth of the development programmes, seminars and meetings. They hospitality sector as a whole. provide a targeted, industry-specific form of training and development, as well as a platform to create and maintain In addition to the short-term training listed above, we have high-level international industry networks that will help provided two permanent staff members, Dave Logie (ICT promote both the CTICC and staff members. Programme Manager) and Alshanthe Smith (Event Executive), with two providers include AIPC, ICCA and UFI – all international event different forms of long-term training: Dave studied the Senior management associations which run programmes of varying Management Development Programme and Alshanthe lengths and topics throughout the year. Several of our senior benefited from the National Diploma in Event Management. management and sales staff have benefited from such longSenior managers also attended training to ensure the term programmes, as outlined on the following page. maintenance of specific financial and supply chain competencies in line with Municipal Regulations on Minimum Competency Levels. This compliance forms part of the KPIs listed on page 67. Long-term training also assists in promoting staff retention, upgrading skills, the achievement of long-term career goals and the growth of the hospitality sector as a whole. 90 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Bianca van Niekerk, Business AIPC Sales & Marketing Summit, Development Manager: National: 13 May 2018, Frankfurt, Germany embracing the virtual reality In partnership with IMEX, AIPC holds a Sales and Marketing meeting space Summit each year, prior to IMEX Frankfurt, the annual Training: worldwide exhibition for incentive travel, meetings and events. This year topics included: Professional Development for Convention Centre Managers, • The big picture: industry trends impacting centre marketing; AIPC Academy • A view from the top; Period: Six days • Business sector perspectives: what’s ahead?; Joined CTICC: July 2010 • The customer journey and business process mapping; Bianca van Niekerk’s AIPC training was a great platform to • What’s keeping centre CEOs awake at night?; meet with industry colleagues from around the globe to • New data protection regulations. better understand the ins and outs of convention centres, not just from a business development perspective, but from an The CEO Julie-May Ellingson, Robert Hatton-Jones, General operations and facility manager’s perspective. She learned that: Manager: Commercial & Business Development and Jaclyn Petzer, Sales Executive: International attended. • Innovation is key to being the best in the industry. Technology is becoming a key focus area for meetings and we need to be at the forefront of technology as a state-ofAIPC Facility Operations Summit, the art facility; 26 – 27 November 2017, • Experiences are important: clients and delegates wish to Barcelona, Spain experience the destination city as a whole through the venue they select; The Facility Operations Summit remains one of the very few opportunities that centre staff working in these key areas have • Delegate needs and behaviours are always changing and to come together for a collective look at issues of common we need to be able to adapt. concern. The theme was “Challenging your Business Practice”. Reflecting on her training, she said: The summit’s topics included: “What conferences used to be ten years ago – just a simple • What new survey data is telling us about operational meeting space with equipment and a service offering – has priorities; completely changed. We are now moving into the virtual reality • Benchmarking for improved performance; meeting space.” • How technology is driving change for venues and events; In that context, the training has made her understand that • Enhancing the customer journey and implementing change; building relationships is better than just delivering your sales pitch and that it is vital to focus on personalisation to retain • Mini hackathon: developing new solutions to key issues; clients, as no client or event is the same. A further realisation • How success is being redefined in today’s market; for her was the importance of cross-departmental training, as • Applying the lessons: how can centre operations best it ensures that everyone’s focus in the organisation is centred respond to new client needs and expectations?; on the client. • CEO forum: what’s keeping centre CEOs awake at night?; • Addressing the security risks of the future. The General Manager: Facilities & Operations, Craig Barrington, attended the summit. AIPC Academy, 18 – 23 February 2018, Brussels, Belgium This demanding six-day training programme was designed to impart a wider knowledge of the industry and prepare staff for high-level management. It brings together a wide variety of presenters and guest speakers from all over the world, covering topical issues such as managing and communicating financial performance; addressing current market challenges; optimising facilities and services; accommodating changing workplace trends; and protecting data against cyber attack. It also included group innovation presentations created during the week’s academy. It was attended by our Business Development Manager: National, Bianca van Niekerk, whose training case study features above. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 91 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Promoting career growth: the people connection We consider promotion from within to be key to both employee satisfaction and retention. It also promotes high service levels and superior productivity. Below we introduce you to three of our most recent movers and shakers in a range of departments. From left to right: Ernest van Sitters, Minette Cloete, Tracy Mkhize Ernest van Sitters: this year. It is simply startling to see how everything comes keeping his “passion-flame” burning together to stage ‘Africa’s grandest gathering’ and to be part of its execution as host venue.” Former position: Conference & Exhibition Services Administrator Another highlight was being the Operation Services Coordinator for the first consumer show to be hosted in Current position: CTICC 2: MamaMagic, The Baby Expo. He reports that it was Operation Services Coordinator exciting to have been part of the “maiden-voyage-event” Joined CTICC: February 2017 of what, he believes, has become Africa’s most attractive conference and exhibition venue. Promoted: August 2017 Ernest’s approach is fired with a passion which comes from Ernest van Sitters believes he had shown himself to be an working for his mother when she had her events catering enthusiastic learner and proactive employee in his former company. It grew as he became involved in planning and position and that this, coupled with his passion for the helping with the execution of other events… even his own industry, attention to detail and a good understanding of all wedding! Most importantly, what keeps his “passion-flame” our departments, is what got him the promotion to Operation burning is assisting with managing client relationships, as well Services Coordinator. as ensuring client satisfaction. He is also driven by the more The promotion has led to him being part of the operational challenging aspects of his job that require him to be proactive, planning and service delivery for the Cape Town International goal-orientated and meticulous. Jazz Festival. “This,” he says, “has been one of my highlights 92 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION He feels immensely privileged to be part of an amazing team Tracy Mkhize: that holds dear the principle that hard work is fundamentally growing people with passion for 20 years virtuous. In addition to that, delivering a service for a client to the best of his ability and being thanked for a “job well done” Former position: are amongst the greatest motivations for him. Assistant General Manager: Operations Food & Beverage Current position: General Manager: Operations Food & Beverage Joined CTICC: July 2016 Promoted: August 2017 Tracy Mkhize has worked in the hospitality industry for nearly 20 years and believes that the skills she has acquired, coupled “This has been one of my highlights this year. It with her passion for the industry and her leadership qualities, is simply startling to see how everything comes have led to her promotion to General Manager: Operations together to stage ‘Africa’s grandest gathering’ Food & Beverage . and to be part of its execution as host venue.” Rising to that challenge has meant much to her. Now she is Ernest van Sitters on being part of the operational passionately involved in: planning and service delivery for the Cape Town • Playing a bigger role in the formulation of her department’s International Jazz Festival. strategic plan; • Ensuring that our overall business strategic direction is implemented; • Coordinating the functions of the Executive Chef, Banqueting Manager, Beverage Manager and the Back-ofHouse Manager to ensure clients’ needs are met; • Procuring food and beverage fixtures, furniture and Minette Cloete: equipment for CTICC 2; a hands-on, can-do team builder • Spearheading the introduction of the first-ever cashless payment system at the Cape Town International Jazz Former position: Festival, resulting in streamlining of processes (see page 58); Event Service Manager • Creating water-wise food and beverage offerings in light of Current position: the drought being experienced in the Western Cape (see Sales Executive: National page 58); • Increasing and growing the Food & Beverage revenues by Joined CTICC: January 2016 21.4% compared to the prior year; Promoted: August 2017 • Initiating our drive to have us ISO 22000 (Food Safety Minette Cloete is a hands-on, can-do person. She believes Management System) certified (see page 61). her practical experience of events, good inter-departmental She is also part of the company’s Employment Equity and relationships and can-do attitude helped secure her promotion. Training Committee (EE&TC) and serves as its appointed Senior She has also worked internationally and for various local EE&TC Manager. Being on these committees affords her the hospitality establishments, where she gained extensive opportunity to deal directly with issues concerning staff, as well knowledge of not only being the client, but also executing as engaging with other committee members to come up with events. This wide combination of experience contributed to solutions to HR issues. her move to the National Sales department. This links to what ultimately drives her. This is where she says her passion comes from: “Leading and connecting with people to help them reach “I am motivated by the challenge that comes with seeking to or exceed their potential motivates me. As a member of understand client needs and how best to fulfil them within our executive team, I am also motivated by knowing that I the CTICC’s abilities. I also thrive on working with short-term am involved in the development and implementation of our deadlines and respond well to being constantly challenged by strategic plan, which in turn will ensure the sustainability and my peers.” growth of the company and the way it delivers on its mission and purpose,” she says. Since her promotion, she has sought to improve her new department by focusing on raising the spirit of the team, implementing company-wide inter-departmental training and shadowing, all of which has helped her gain a better understanding of the other departments’ perspectives. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 93 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Getting the foundations right: the student connection From left to right: Benedict Nkomo, Njabulo Dube, Mkhanyisi Shabalala Graduate trainees making headway We run two programmes for competent and capable young people keen to build a career in the event Our student and graduate programmes provide invaluable management and hospitality sectors. in-service training and work experience to young people starting their careers in the hospitality and event management • Firstly, our Student Placement Programme provides sectors – across various departments and skill sets in the high-performing students studying hospitality-related sector. In the year under review, there were 12 students on courses the chance to join us on a six-month training our Student Placement Programme, as well as 13 graduates scheme while they are studying. This sort of practical on our Graduate Programme. Three of our graduates tell the placement helps students complete their studies by stories of their progress on the following page. giving them access to relevant experience. • Secondly, our Graduate Programme offers highWe also have two other CTICC graduates, Kwanele Makhaye performing graduates a full year’s employment and Nosihle Zondo, who were at the world-famous Walt contract. These graduate students learn about Disney World Resort in the United States. They reported that every aspect of our business during that year. This they were taking our world-class service levels to Florida, USA gives them a complete overview of both the event and taught them the South African way! management process and the hospitality sector as a whole. 94 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Njabulo Dube Working here had always been one of my ambitions and my preferred placement in 2015 for my Work Integrated Learning Training journey: (WIL), which I obtained a distinction for. Now my training and Food & Beverage Graduate, now Coffee Shop Supervisor: experience has given me the confidence and ability to deal Coffee on the Square with challenges by taking on a junior management position. Course: What are your day-to-day responsibilities? National Diploma in Catering Management • To monitor service standards according to set Standard Why did you decide to apply for graduate training? Operating Procedures (SOPs) together with customer Hospitality is something that I grew up with as my mom owned satisfaction, and to take appropriate action on customer a public phone container, where people would pay to use the complaints; phone. That is where I get my ambition for connecting and • Maintaining operating staffing cost within budgeted working with people. I was also inspired by a friend who was parameters; a chef but was not qualified. He later studied at university and • Inventory management; is now a successful Banqueting Manager at a five-star hotel in • Ensuring service delivery and communication by consulting Durban. He was a huge influence and inspiration to me. with clients on ways to improve service delivery; How has being a CTICC graduate helped you in your • Controlling daily stock counts, spot-checking floats career path? periodically, and preparing staff handovers after each shift It has made a huge difference in my life and career. I wanted the change. opportunity to showcase my skills and I was lucky enough to be able to prove myself due to my placement as a Food & Beverage Graduate. I was even luckier to be employed permanently after my placement. Mkhanyisi Shabalala Benedict Nkomo Training journey: Training journey: Electrical Graduate, now Junior Electrical Technician Food & Beverage Graduate, now Assistant Event Services Manager: Beverage Course: National Diploma in Electrical Engineering Course: National Diploma in Hospitality Management Why did you decide to study that course? I have always had a passion for technology and engineering How has being placed at the CTICC as a graduate helped since I was a teenager. I loved fixing stuff and finding solutions. you in your career path? Being here for my graduate programme gave me in-depth How has being placed at the CTICC as a graduate helped knowledge of the events and hospitality industry. It has given you in your career path? me a great deal of experience and taught me how to deal The CTICC has helped me a lot already by introducing me to with a huge number of people at the same time and still offer the real world, the working world. It wasn’t easy at the start a world-class service. but my communication skills have improved. I have also been given an opportunity to lead in a team and that has helped What are your day-to-day responsibilities? me a lot. I am responsible for the beverage department’s equipment and all bar set-ups, as well as getting quotations for new What are your day-to-day responsibilities? equipment or repairs. Mostly it will be preventative maintenance inside and around the building. Also the installation of power for events and How will this placement help you in future? functions in line with regulations. This placement will help me fulfil the role that I have been fortunate enough to be offered as an Assistant Manager. In How will this placement help you in future? particular, it will give me hands-on experience of the state-ofIt will really help me a lot because it will give me an opportunity the-art internal management systems here, which will help to learn more about this field (electrical engineering). It will me do my job better. also allow me to further my studies because I now have the required work experience to do my trade test. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 95 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Connecting with our customers through comprehensive feedback Image Food for thought For the year under review, we received an overall Customer Satisfaction Index of 85%, a healthy 7% above our KPI target of 78%. Delivering exceptional customer service is essential to our success. As a result, we take the measurement of customer satisfaction very seriously, so we contract an impartial, independent company to measure our customer satisfaction levels on a monthly basis. The client surveys consist of faceto-face, telephonic and email interviews with event organisers of nearly every event we host. The survey is designed to measure customer experience at every experience touch point, including: • Audiovisual services; • Cleanliness of venue; • Coffee shops; • Conference and exhibition services; • Cuisine – food and beverage; • Service of Event Executives; • Service of Event Service Managers; • Ease of doing business; 85% Overall Customer • IT and telecommunication services; Satisfaction Index • Parking and marshalling yard services; • Service of reception staff; • Safety and security; Delivering exceptional customer service • Service of Sales Executives; is essential to our success. • Venue climate control; • Waitron service. The results of these customer experience surveys are used to inform our training and to share with staff our clients’ requirements with a view to finding ways to meet and exceed them. 96 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Staff, strategy and team spirit The following three stories detail how staff have been involved in building both the strategy and spirit of the CTICC. They range from healthy lifestyle initiatives to strategic workshops and conferences. CTICC 2018 Staff Conference A staff conference with a purpose Connecting with staff The main outcome of the 2018 Staff Conference was the #IAMCTICC creation of a new purpose for the CTICC. It is: “We connect An additional idea that came out of the dialogue sessions people to create jobs by attracting events in key economic at the staff conference was the suggestion of a social media sectors and exceeding our clients’ expectations.” It then hashtag phrase for the CTICC: #IAMCTICC. This has become focused on brainstorming the best ways to deliver on that our hashtag tagline and is now used on all our internal purpose. communications and, in particular, on social media. The theme The conference allowed staff to experience our offering “live” was geared around the concept of each member of staff being and our world-class service as a “client”. It was a dedicated a brand ambassador – #IAMCTICC – for the CTICC brand space and time for staff to consider what we offer our clients experience. and how we might improve on our service to them. It also provided an opportunity to better understand how each staff member plays a vital and valuable role in our development and growth. The conference provided the perfect platform for staff from different departments to learn about each other’s roles and interact with one another. Staff and the departments they work in are so specialised, they may not normally engage with each other. The conference therefore allowed for interdepartmental interaction in a fun and engaging environment. Various platforms were created to be able to share ideas. These included roleplay with practical examples and group dialogue sessions, which allowed staff to discuss relevant topics and We connect people to create jobs by attracting processes affecting them. In turn, this allowed the group to events in key economic sectors and exceeding our come up with ways to make the CTICC run more smoothly clients’ expectations. and successfully. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 97 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Two Oceans Marathon running team Team CTICC takes on the Two Oceans A team of 19 staff members took part in the world-renowned Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon on 31 March 2018. The team is a new initiative designed to motivate staff to adopt a Here are the participants of the 21km Old Mutual healthy lifestyle, while training and bonding as a team. Two Oceans half-marathon: We provided branded clothing for the runners and the team spirit produced some remarkable results. Kudos to 1. Carine Daniels Robert Hatton-Jones who ran the full 56km race in just 5 hours 44 minutes. 2. Charne Godfrey 3. Clint Aysen We have been a long-time partner of the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon, as we have hosted its registration expo for 4. Don Jayakody the past six years. This year it took place from 28 – 30 March. 5. Ernest van Sitters Congratulations are due to all concerned! 6. Faizel Cloete 7. Gretha Burger 8. Justin Firfirey 9. Kelly Hope #TeamCTICC 10. Kelvin Damon 11. Malikah Alexander Manual 12. Noluvo Matroos #RunAsOne 13. Robin September 14. Robyn Viljoen 15. Shamil Abrahams #IAMCTICC 16. Warda Gertse 17. Wayne Jefhta 18. Zuki Magwaxaza 98 | C ap e T o w n I n ternat ional Convent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Manager strategy session Connecting the strategic team together Initiated by the CEO, this year we commissioned an external service provider, N’lighten, to lead a strategic process that would reinforce our purpose, namely that “we connect people to create jobs by attracting events in key economic sectors and exceeding our clients’ expectations”. N’lighten runs our client satisfaction surveys and so is strongly focused on delivering on client expectations and monitoring customer satisfaction trends. The process brought the Exco, Manco and Leadership teams together for a strategic session designed to form the foundation of the next five-year strategy for the centre. Each department’s management complement had to work as a team to research the trends in their area of the business and share findings about how they wanted their department to progress The process led to the addition of a new value in the future. to our existing values of passion, innovation, Various tools were used to do the research required, including integrity, excellence and gratitude. This new both SWOT and PESTLE analyses. The process led to the value is “caring”. Its agreed meaning and addition of a new value to our existing values of passion, application is: “We care for one another, innovation, integrity, excellence and gratitude. This new value our clients, our business, our building and our is “caring”. Its agreed meaning and application is: “We care equipment.” for one another, our clients, our business, our building and our equipment.” The primary outcome of this strategic process was the creation of a five-year strategic plan designed to take the business forward to 2022. Cape Tow n In tern ati o n al Co n ven ti o n Cen tre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 99 100 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION SUSTAINABILITY: CONNECTING TO THE BIGGER PICTURE Passionately committed to conserving resources Central to our Quality, Safety, Environmental and Social sustainability commitment is the Nurture Our World (NOW) initiative. NOW is tasked with guiding and informing the centre’s sustainability actions and is the public face of our ambition to be a leader in social and environmental sustainability. Both of these commitments represent strong and substantial connections with the world beyond our doors – and the responsibility that we have to be a positive sustainability role model. It is also a strong selling point for clients. The NOW initiative has a dedicated NOW Team that was established to drive the implementation of our social and environmental sustainability principles and practices at a strategic, operational and commercial level. The NOW Team is composed of staff members from each department and is chaired by the Marketing and Sustainability Manager. It is mandated to: Inform, drive, and monitor our triple-bottom-line approach; Oversee the design and implementation of the sustainability initiatives that contribute to economic growth; Raise the profile of the centre as a sustainability leader in its industry; Track all sustainability activities to ensure they have a significant impact (financial and non-financial) on the organisation and contributing to the achievement of our purpose and mission; Promote sustainable events through early assessment of construction type and waste that will be derived from events; Build our brand as a world leader in sustainability while leveraging sustainability as a key compelling selling point; Refine the CSR strategy to maximise and deepen the impact of targeted investments in support of local community partners, including upcycling initiatives; Ensure the effectiveness of our efforts to minimise the centre’s negative environmental impact while maximising the positive contribution made to a sustainable future for society. The NOW initiative started in 2009 as a sustainability initiative and has since evolved into a fully-fledged integrated forum. This passion for sustainability leadership saw us become the first convention centre in Africa to report our sustainable practices in line with UN Global Compact standards – standards which we believe inspire others in our industry, as well as our clients and staff, to follow that lead. For us, sustainability is a business essential and it is part of who we are. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 101 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Our environmental sustainability: the year in review The CTICC Nurture Our World team A significant shift in our consumption patterns has occurred How we conserve resources on in the year under review due to the opening of our a daily basis second building, CTICC 2. This has grown our footprint by approximately 60%, along with our capacity to host more We seek to reduce our environmental impact across all our and larger events. Consequently, energy consumption has offerings in the following ways. We: risen, due to the increased number of delegates and events • Supply recycled/green conference stationery, notepads, compared to the previous year. However, we have managed pencils and pens; to control water consumption well in our original building, • Offer a number of fair trade wines, as well as some that are CTICC 1, during 2017/18. There has been a reduction of over fully organic and biodynamic, under the respected Reyneke 30%, due to the success of our water conservation measures. label; As at the end of the 2017/18 financial year, we were operating • Source corkless wines where possible, and recycle corks under Level 6B water restrictions in Cape Town. This was where used; not a threat to our operations, the events we hosted or our • Use locally-produced food and fish on the WWF Southern clients, as we had plans in place to mitigate this situation. Our African Sustainable Seafood Initiative (SASSI) green list; response has been to maximise our water savings and educate our clients and visitors as to how they can help conserve water. • Discuss event greening and ways to offset their carbon As a result, we have taken the responsible decision to augment footprint with our clients; our water supply. We are in the process of installing a reverse • Include a green events checklist with our marketing osmosis desalination plant that will convert groundwater material and on our website to raise awareness about event into potable water to supply our full daily requirements. The greening; plant should be fully operational during the current 2018/19 • Print on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) approved paper; financial year. More details follow on page 104. • Make a contribution to the Nurture Our World (NOW) Fund We continually seek to increase our energy and water for every delegate catered for; conservation metrics, while also providing for safe disposal • Use natural light in venues, whenever practical, in of waste and, where possible, recycling or upcycling consultation with our clients; opportunities. We have also made a concerted effort to raise • Have designed CTICC 2 to maximise the use of natural awareness amongst staff and clients regarding the benefits of light; reducing their carbon footprint. • Provide a multi-bin system to encourage recycling with separation at source; • Collect redundant event material from exhibitions or conferences and donate it to not-for-profit organisations; • Divert event waste from landfill by upcycling exhibition items such as wood from custom stands; furniture left behind from events and also distribute packaged food left over from events by donating to organisations in need. 102 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Adjusting to water scarcity: what we are saving During the year under review, the drought in the Western Cape to the 42 500 kilolitres of water used in 2016/17. This figure was severe. Although the province’s dam levels improved and is for CTICC 1 only but shows the remarkable effect our were 43.3% full at the end of June 2018, which was 22% water conservation measures – listed below – have had on higher than last year’s levels at that time, water restrictions our consumption. We intend for this conservation trend to remained firmly in place. We remain committed to doing continue. The intention is to be self-sustaining in the coming whatever we can to reduce our water consumption. year, due to the commissioning of the reverse osmosis desalination plant. More details of this significant capital As a result of water-saving initiatives over time, we now use investment in our environmental sustainability follow. less municipal water each year. This year we used 29 600 kilolitres – which equates to a 30.4% reduction compared Water consumption in kilolitres (kL) 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 2016/17 2017/18 Water consumption saving Annual 2016/17 2017/18 Total kL 42 501 29 566 kL saving -12 935 Percentage saving -30% 12 935 kL 30% Total water saved Saving in water consumption in 2017/18 in 2017/18 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 103 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Seriously successful measures: how we are saving Our strategy to address the ongoing need for water conservation includes the following specific strategies and actions, all of which have been combined to produce the water consumption savings highlighted below. We have: Stopped our water supply to all our bathroom wash basins and now offer waterless hand sanitisers as a safe and hygienic alternative; Installed 20 water-smart showerheads in our staff ablutions and meeting suites; Installed rain water storage tanks able to hold up to 265 000 litres: this water is used for the irrigation of indoor plants, cleaning and, in the winter months, providing water to the cooling towers of the central air-conditioning system; Captured the condensate from our air-conditioning units, which amounts to approximately 20 000 litres of water per week, which is then used for cleaning purposes in and around the centre; Reduced dishwashing loads by not using table cloths wherever possible, using disposable napkins and biodegradable cups in our coffee shops, while also providing our clients with the option to use this type of crockery at their events; Started building a reverse osmosis desalination plant that will extract underground seawater and purify it into fully potable water, the design of which will comply fully with the SANS/ SABS 241, 2015 Standard for Drinking Water. The reverse osmosis desalination plant which has been procured Installation is presently underway and we expect to have the has been sized to cater fully for all our daily water consumption plant fully operational by the end of 2018, so as to ensure that needs. It can produce 200 000 litres of potable drinking water our operations place no strain on the municipal water supply in a 24-hour cycle and will also have a tank storage capacity grid this coming summer. of 400 000 litres, so as to be able to cater for our maximum demand scenarios. 104 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Recalibrating our energy usage Decorex Cape Town 2018 During the 12 months under review, CTICC 1 used 31 657.7 The table below shows combined energy consumption for total gigajoules of energy from primary sources (fuel) and CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 for the 2017/18 year under review. This electricity generation. This small increase of 1.6% is due to affected overall consumption figures and showed an increase the fact that there was an 8.9% increase in event numbers of 35.1% in overall energy usage compared to the previous over the period, compared to the previous 12-month period, 12-month period. Bearing in mind our expansion, and to rising from 482 events in 2016/17 to 525 events in 2017/18. ensure validity of reporting data going forward, we need to Consumption has been controlled well, bearing in mind that use this year’s 2017/18 reporting as a new baseline, which must increase. Perhaps more importantly, the attendance figures for be taken into consideration for future calculation purposes. those events – delegates and visitors through our doors – rose by 16.7%, from 416 733 in 2016/17 to 486 314 in the year under review. Year Total kWh Fuel litres Total Year-ongigajoules year 2017/18 2015/16 9 199 200 1 249 33 162 -3% Total Fuel Total YearBaseline 2016/17 8 643 600 1 238 31 161 -6% kWh litres gigajoules on-year 2012/13 2017/18 11 684 111 1 309 42 111 35% 8 780 480 1 309 31 658 2% -9% As per the table below, if we take into account the energy consumption of both buildings for the year under review, the new total baseline figure was 11 684 111 kWh. New baseline year Total kWh Fuel Total CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 litres gigajoules 2017/18 11 684 111 1 309 42 111 31 658 Total gigajoules of energy used at CTICC 1 in 2017/18 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 105 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION DataCon Africa 2018 Continuously monitoring our electricity achieved an average reduction of 5.9% compared to the consumption previous year in the CTICC 1 building. Our electricity consumption average consists of two factors: We are committed to reducing our electrical energy kWh (kilowatt hours, power consumption) and kVA (kilovoltconsumption going forward, particularly in the light of our ampere, peak demand). increased footprint. Our five-year strategy focuses on investing in more sustainable electrical generation. Proposed methods The figures mentioned below for CTICC 1 energy use to reduce consumption include photovoltaic solar panels, demonstrated an increase of 136 880 kWh in power solar water heating and heat pumps. Our technical team is consumption for 2017/18 (1.6%). Efforts were made to reduce also committed to reducing kVA by ensuring that the building the kVA peak demand consumption average per month in management systems are running optimally. CTICC 1 by alarming and monitoring high kVA usage, as well as building management system adjustments. These efforts Year kVA kWh kWh/Day kWh/m2 kVA cost kWh cost Average cost per month 2015/16 2 215 766 600 25 132 0.5 R428 655 R497 117 R925 772 2016/17 2 117 720 300 23 640 0.4 R435 530 R503 931 R939 462 2017/18 1 993 731 707 23 864 0.4 R408 038 R529 376 R937 414 Variance -6% 2% Average monthly kWh per annum (kWh) 1000 000 900 000 800 000 700 000 600 000 500 000 400 000 6% Average reduction 300 000 achieved compared to 200 000 the previous year in the CTICC 1 building 100 000 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 106 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Minimising our waste diversion to landfill We produce a significant amount of waste each year. This An important further step is on-site recycling and our figure has increased by 22.8% this year as our new CTICC 2 recycling bins remain a useful signpost to our environmental building has come on stream and we have also hosted 43 more commitments, while also being an educational tool, which events than in the previous year. However, because our waste we hope has some positive effect on delegates and visitors. management systems are so efficient and our commitment to The infographic below shows the breakdown and total amount recycling so entrenched, our waste diversion score of 84% has of waste generated in metric tonnes, in comparison to the remained constant. That means 84% of our waste is recycled. three previous years. Glass use appears to be trending down, With the current emphasis on clearing our oceans of plastic, we while recyclables of all types are trending up, which hopefully use plastic as little as possible. As an example, we now use only shows a greater awareness amongst suppliers and clients alike paper straws in our coffee shops and for catering purposes. that recycling waste is important. Our emphasis is on implementing a strict procurement policy that sees us working mainly with suppliers who provide reusable or recyclable products. Total amount of waste generated in 2017/18 (in metric tonnes) 50 Paper and board 76 12 Compostable Glass 4 736 20 TOTAL Hazardous Plastics 84% diversion 4 Metals 110 Landfill 460 Mixed recyclables Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 107 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION InForma/AfricaCom and Mothers Unite create upcycling success When waste management meets Recording the success of the initiative social development The client’s videographer captured the entire process from In November 2017, we hosted the 20th AfricaCom Conference waste separation at the event to delivery to Mothers Unite. and Exhibition – a high-profile Africa-focused technology event, The completed videos can be seen on You Tube and are titled which brings together 400 exhibitors, 450 visionary speakers as follows: and 13 000 delegates and visitors. An event of this size, using • Sustainable Informa – Making an Impact on Cape Town, both CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, means many large exhibition Part 1 – this video celebrates the impact Informa’s content stands are custom-built for the occasion and then would need has had on creating growth and opportunity for young to be responsibly removed from our site afterwards. Africans in the technology and communications sectors; The client – Informa – was aware the event had a large • Sustainable Informa – Running Our Show Responsibly, carbon footprint and wanted to work with us to offset this by Part 2 – this video takes a closer look at the way Informa creating environmental and social sustainability initiatives. The seeks to benefit those most in need in Cape Town, whilst initiation of the plan to recycle stand material was therefore a also reducing the impact from our waste. collaborative decision that benefited all parties, including one of our local community partners, Mothers Unite, who took The final facts and figures delivery of the wood “waste” generated by exhibition stands This Informa project allowed us to divert from landfill most being broken down. of the wood generated at the Informa event on behalf of the client. We were able to provide 101.2 metric tonnes of wood What we set out to achieve to the communities of the Seawinds and surrounding areas. The objective of the project was to ensure that all “waste” The wood “waste” made up 66.6% of the waste generated wood from breaking down stands was diverted from landfill at the event, contributing to the remarkable overall and reused or upcycled. The challenge was to find organisations recycling figure of 97.4% for the entire event. Future plans that would be able to find uses for the particular type of wood include ensuring that upcycled wood can be distributed to from which stands are made. There was also the challenge of other organisations and used directly to build skills and finding organisations who could receive the very large amount generate income. of wood available (five skips worth) in a practical way. Implementing the upcycling plan Waste generated from the Informa Working with the client Informa, alongside service providers event (percentage) Averda, Bidvest and event build-up teams, we ensured the initiative was a success for the communities of Seawinds and 31% surrounding areas in the following ways: Mixed • The event breakdown procedure was briefed in and 3% recyclables managed carefully by service providers working with us and General waste the client, which ensured that wood waste was carefully dismantled and correctly separated into the conveniently located wood skips provided. To ensure the wood was successfully separated, clear and correct waste separation signage was designed and installed in all the relevant areas of the CTICC, as well as on the wood skips. • Promotional material was created through sustainability videos, which showed and recorded the success of the initiative. A videographer met with Carol Jacobs of Mothers Unite and recorded her, as well as our CEO, JulieMay Ellingson. There was also a record (video and stills photography) of the community’s response to the arrival of the wood and how the wood was used and upcycled in various ways: to secure living spaces, for carpentry and making furniture, as well as for the Mothers Unite woodwork project, which creates items that can be sold for profit. 67% Wood recycling 108 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 The CTICC updated its waste Informa suppliers were briefed to The Mothers Unite team attended separation signage and posted ensure that post-event reusable wood, the Informa breakdown and these, in high visibility areas, was placed in the correct skips for selected wood for their various throughout our buildings, to delivery to Mothers Unite. projects. The LCP was delighted to help visitors activily identify the later accept the wood, at their site, correct sorting requirements. confirming that the community, in which they work would benefit tremendously from the initiative. Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 The Informa videographer After the final cut, the video, showcasing The initiative saw the donated documented the e n t i re this amazing sustainability initiative, wood being used to educate initiative, which included the was uploaded onto Connecting Africas the community in the form of waste stream process at the YouTube channel. woodwork classes, with some CTICC 1 back-of-house. They also wood sold for profit, by Mothers covered the event breakdown Unite, to benefit the broader process and the final delivery community. of wood, by the CTICC’s waste contractor, Averda, to Mothers Unite. The final step in the showcase included interviews with the Mothers Unite team. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 109 110 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE MANAGING OVERSIGHT AND RISK: CONNECTING WITH KING IV Corporate governance report The Board of Directors (“Board”) is committed to upholding good ethical standards and the application of corporate governance principles in accordance with the King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa (“King IV™”). As a recent adopter of King IV, the Board of Directors ensures that the governance structure in the CTICC cultivates good governance outcomes in relation to its ethical culture, performance, effective control and legitimacy. King IV principles disclosure Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer The requirement for reporting under King IV differs from The roles of the Chairperson of the Board and the Chief reporting under King III™, whereby King IV now requires Executive Officer are separated and clearly defined. The that a company reports on how it has applied the code. Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day A Governance Report outlining the CTICC’s governance management of the company and implementation of the framework in relation to King IV is available on our website: strategy and objectives adopted by the Board. The Chairperson www.cticc.co.za. of the Board manages the relationship between the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the various Board committees. Board of Directors The Board provides leadership and determines the strategic Board Committees objectives of the CTICC and acts as the custodian of the The Board acknowledges that the overall responsibility for CTICC’s corporate governance framework. The Board is managing the CTICC rests with the Board as a whole. To assist supported by five committees and delegates the responsibility it in fulfilling its responsibilities, the Board delegates some of its of running the business to its executives. The Board monitors functional responsibilities to its committees by means of clearly the implementation of its strategies, decisions and key policies defined mandates. These committees report continuously to and is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities required the Board on their deliverables in accordance with their Boardby its mandate this year. approved charters. A detailed report on the composition and responsibilities of these five committees is available in the Composition of the Board online Governance Report and on pages 139-143. The Board comprises eight Directors, of which seven are Non-executive and one is an Executive Director. Of the NonCompany Secretary executive Directors, five (70%) are independent. The Board is The Company Secretary is responsible for providing the Board satisfied that its members have a diverse range of knowledge, with guidance on discharging its responsibilities in terms of skills, qualifications and experience, which enables it to legislation and regulatory requirements and coordinating contribute meaningfully to the CTICC. the functioning of the Board and its committees. The Board is satisfied that the Company Secretary has performed Conflict of interests all formalities and substantive duties timeously and in an Directors are required to declare their personal financial appropriate manner and that an arm’s length relationship interests and those of related persons in contracts with the between the Company Secretary and the Board exists. company. A register in this regard is maintained and reviewed at each Board meeting. Directors are further asked to recuse themselves from any discussions and decisions where they have a material financial interest. The Board of Directors (“Board”) is committed to upholding good ethical standards. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 111 GOVERNANCE Audit and Risk Committee Board meetings The Board met six times during the year under review and will meet at least four times per financial year or more if circumstances require. The table below sets out the Board and Board Committee meetings held and attendance during the reporting period. Details of directors' meeting attendance 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018 Name of Director Board Audit and Risk HR and Nominations Social and Expansion Committee Remuneration Committee Ethics Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 6 4 5 2 3 1 HV Ntoi 6 – 5 1 – 1 DA Cloete 6 – 5 – – 1 JM Ellingson 6 4* 5* 2* 3 1 SW Fourie 5 – – 1 – – EI Hamman 5 4 – – 3 – S Myburgh-De Gois 6 – 4 – – 1 JC Fraser 5 – 4 – – – CK Zama 4 – – – 1 – BJ Lodewyk 4 3 – – 1 – AA Mahmood 2 – – 1 1 – F Parker 5 3* – 1* – – G Harris # – 2 – – – – D Singh # – 3 – – – – L Ndaba # – 2 – – – – M Burton # – 1 – – – – AM Boraine 1 – – 1 – – # Attended meeting in capacity as a committee member only * Attended meeting in a capacity other than as a committee member 112 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE DIRECTORATE AND ADMINISTRATION for the year ended 30 June 2018 Directors Board Committees HV Ntoi (42) Audit and Risk Committee Chairperson EI Hamman (Chairperson) Independent Non-executive CK Zama Appointed: 17/10/2016 L Ndaba D Singh AM Boraine (59) M Burton Chairperson Independent Non-executive Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Appointed: 17/10/2006 DA Cloete (Chairperson) Resigned: 23/10/2017 HV Ntoi JC Fraser EI Hamman (51) S Myburgh-De Gois Lead Independent Director Independent Non-executive Nominations Committee Appointed: 20/04/2013 HV Ntoi (Chairperson) SW Fourie JM Ellingson (50) Chief Executive Officer Social and Ethics Committee Appointed: 01/09/2014 S Myburgh-De Gois (Chairperson) EI Hamman DA Cloete (52) CK Zama Independent Non-executive JM Ellingson Appointed: 27/10/2015 CTICC Expansion Committee S Myburgh-De Gois (53) HV Ntoi (Chairperson) Independent Non-executive DA Cloete Appointed: 16/02/2014 S Myburgh-De Gois JM Ellingson SW Fourie (62) Non-executive Administration Appointed: 22/11/2014 Company Registration Number 1999/007837/30 JC Fraser (64) Independent Non-executive Registered Office Appointed: 24/08/2017 Convention Square 1 Lower Long Street CK Zama (40) Cape Town, 8001 Non-executive PO Box 8120, Roggebaai, 8012 Appointed: 24/08/2017 Company Secretary AA Mahmood (52) Kilgetty Statutory Services (Pty) Ltd Independent Non-executive Appointed: 05/10/2017 Appointed: 20/04/2013 Resigned: 14/02/2018 Auditors Office of the Auditor-General BJ Lodewyk (45) Private Bag X1, Chempet, 7442 Independent Non-executive Appointed: 20/04/2013 Principal Bankers Resigned: 28/05/2018 ABSA Bank Ltd PO Box 7735, Johannesburg, 2000 F Parker (43) Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 16/10/2012 Resigned: 23/03/2018 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 113 GOVERNANCE Convenco Board of Directors Vuyo Ntoi Julie-May Ellingson Kholeka Zama John Fraser Board committees The Convenco Board committees operate in accordance with monitors the implementation of the CTICC’s risk management the terms of reference defined in their respective charters. plan and risk register, which is reviewed by the Board quarterly Regular reports on the committees’ activities are provided and approved annually. The committee meets at least quarterly. to the Board. The members of the committees are listed on It met four times during the past financial year. page 113. Human Resources and Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is constituted as a statutory The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee committee of the company in respect of its statutory duties comprises four Non-executive Directors and meets at least in terms of section 94(7) of the Companies Act and as a four times for the purpose of reviewing annual salary increases, committee of the Board in terms of all other duties assigned bonus incentives and the company’s remuneration strategy. to it by the Board. The committee comprises five members, The committee’s meetings are attended by the CEO, CFO and of which two are Non-executive Directors and all of whom the Human Resources Manager of the company. It met five have appropriate financial qualifications and experience, have times during the past financial year. been nominated by the Board and appointed by the Council of the City of Cape Town. The CEO and CFO attend meetings Nominations Committee of the committee. Both the internal and external auditors have The Nominations Committee comprises two Non-executive access to the committee and are invited to attend committee Directors and is tasked with overseeing and making meetings. recommendations to the Board to ensure that: The committee exercises oversight of the internal financial • The Board has the appropriate composition to execute its controls of the company. It reviews the adequacy and duties effectively, to the extent permissible in terms of the effectiveness of the financial reporting processes; accounting Memorandum of Incorporation; practices; management information systems; the system of • Directors are appointed through a formal and transparent internal controls; the management of financial, investment and process, to the extent permissible in terms of the operational risks; the internal and external audit processes; Memorandum of Incorporation; and compliance with laws and regulations. The committee • Ongoing induction, training, development and evaluation makes submissions to the Board regarding accounting policies, of Directors take place. financial control, records and reporting. As the company does not have a separate risk committee, the Audit and Risk The committee met twice during the past financial year. Committee also oversees the risk management process and 114 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE Ethel Hamman Solly Fourie Sharon Myburgh-De Gois Deon Cloete Expansion Committee The Expansion Committee has been mandated by the Board to company. Members of the company’s Executive Management oversee all aspects of the CTICC’s expansion. The committee team also attend meetings of the committee. The committee currently comprises the Chairperson of the Board, two Nonmet once during the year under review. executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Details of Convenco Board composition 2018 Independence Coloured Above 50 Date of Female Male African Indian White 20 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 Surname First Names Appointment (*) Boraine Andrew Michael 17 Oct 2006 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 23 Oct 2017) (*) Cloete Deon Anton 27 Oct 2015 * * * # Ellingson Julie-May 1 Sept 2014 * * * (*) Fourie Solly William 22 Nov 2011 * * * (*) Fraser John Cameron 24 Aug 2017 * * * * Hamman Ethel Irene 20 Apr 2013 * * * * Lodewyk Barry Joseph 20 Apr 2013 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 28 May 2018) * Mahmood Aklaaq Ahmed 20 Apr 2013 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 14 Feb 2018) (*) Myburgh-De Sharon 16 Feb 2014 * * * Gois * Ntoi Hlompho Vuyo 25 Oct 2016 * * * # Parker Fairoza 16 Oct 2012 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 23 Mar 2018) (*) Zama Caroline Kholeka 24 Aug 2017 * * * Total 4 4 2 2 0 4 0 0 2 6 * Independent Non-executive # Executive (*) Independent Non-executive Director appointed by the City of Cape Town (R) Resigned during the year and not counted as part of the total Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 115 GOVERNANCE Stakeholder engagement review: making our connections work for us As a major global roleplayer in the tourism and events sectors, we connect with a wide range of stakeholders. Their respective roles follow in the table below. List of stakeholder groups Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Shareholders Primary shareholder and investor. Important to our governance. City of Cape Town Partner in economic contribution to the City’s economic success as an opportunity city. Second largest shareholder and investor. Important to our governance. Partner in growing the economic benefits that flow Western Cape Government from the provincial government’s “Open-opportunity Society for All” strategy. Minority shareholder. Partner in overseeing our success as a viable SunWest International (Pty) Ltd commercial enterprise. Clients, staff, community and business partners Clients: professional conference, Vital to our financial sustainability and the retention of the 182 exhibition and event organisers permanent and temporary staff complement we work with. Staff Fundamental to our longevity, sustainability and reputation. Important for effective delivery on organisational goals and KPIs, Service partners including economic contribution and job creation targets. Established partnerships since 2011 with Abalimi Bezekhaya and Local community partners: Abalimi the Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research. New partnerships Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcoholannounced January 2017 with Ikhaya Le Themba, Journey Related Research (FARR), Ikhaya Le of Enrichment, and Mothers Unite. These partnerships were Themba, Journey of Enrichment and established to strengthen community ties and offer ongoing Mothers Unite support to the valuable work of the organisations. South African National Convention Strategic alliances that assist in attracting international conferences Bureau and Cape Town & Western Cape to Cape Town and the CTICC, together with the potential for job Convention Bureau creation they bring with them. Raise the tourism profile of the city and region, while also Cape Town Tourism and other tourism promoting the job and career opportunities this sector offers. industry stakeholders Collaborating in order to position us and the region as top of mind for both leisure and business tourist roleplayers. Partner in raising awareness about us. Primary target audience for Media reputation management action plans and economic contribution promotion successes. CCID: Safety and security stakeholders Partner in ensuring the safety and security of delegates during and hotel security group events within our precinct and surrounding hotels. 116 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE How we connect with our stakeholders and shareholders CTICC Annual General Meeting 2017 Engaging with our stakeholders is about networking efficiently addition, we attend relevant business association meetings and effectively, maximising the benefits of connections across and social stakeholder events such as IMEX and IBTM events, our existing client base, our suppliers, the region’s chosen which take place abroad, and the Event Organisers Network catalytic sectors, international associations and event and meetings here in South Africa. hospitality sector groupings. Depending on the particular Whilst these opportunities for face-to-face discussions are stakeholder segment, we either host or attend a variety of the best way to get direct feedback from our shareholders events throughout the year to ensure that quality connections and stakeholders, the increasing reliance on online and social are made that will create new business opportunities. media-based events means that we must be strategic in our We host important events including our Annual General use of these channels. Meeting, Board meetings and shareholder meetings. In 25 038 Facebook 6 648 Twitter Our social media interaction over the year in review has resulted in the following number of followers as at 686 30 June 2018: Instagram 3 682 LinkedIn A further and important stakeholder focus is our membership of both local and international trade associations, which helps us to position ourselves as an international player in the conventions and events sector (a full list of our memberships is included in the About the CTICC section of this report on page 10). Our staff members are particularly active in these associations and our contribution helps build and promote the industry both nationally and internationally. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 117 GOVERNANCE How we connect with the local business tourism sector to build our success Africa Travel Week 2018 Central to our long-term success is our partnership with our planning information and can advise on every aspect of shareholders, local tourism bodies, eventing organisations and organising a business event in South Africa. It manages our own brand ambassadors. Not only do such relationships national bidding and works with city and provincial build our own reputation, but they also allow us to expand the convention bureaux, such as the Cape Town & Western entire industry together. These partner organisations include, Cape Convention Bureau, to promote business meetings in but are not limited to, the following: South Africa. We often join forces with these organisations • The City of Cape Town: As our major shareholder, the City when travelling to international industry events, frequently of Cape Town is a close partner in the promotion of the sharing stands at exhibitions and trade fairs to save costs. city as a desirable destination for both leisure and business • Cape Town Tourism: Cape Town Tourism is the City of Cape travel. There is no doubt that Cape Town’s attractions are Town’s official regional tourism organisation, responsible part of the reason we won the 19 international conference for destination marketing, visitor and industry services. It bids during 2017/18 and the City of Cape Town is believes tourism is built around involvement, participation, pivotal in creating that demand, as well as creating the relationship and partnership. It is committed to responsible most favourable investment promotion conditions for and fair tourism and business practices, working with and us to land global events. The unstinting support of the encouraging the involvement of previously disadvantaged Executive Mayor, Patricia de Lille, and Mayoral Committee individuals, organisations and companies in tourism in Members for our work, in particular its support during the a number of ways. We are one of its most committed construction of CTICC 2, makes all the difference in our partners and our CEO, Julie-May Ellingson, is currently Vicecollaborative efforts to promote ourselves as the business Chairperson of the Board of Cape Town Tourism. events venue of choice in Africa. • The CTICC Ambassador Programme was conceived to • Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau: This raise the competitiveness of Cape Town as a desirable organisation is part of Wesgro, the official tourism, trade international association conference destination. Modelled and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and on international standards of best practice, this initiative the Western Cape. Its mission is to market Cape Town as aims to make the most of its links to Cape Town’s academic, an inspiring place to meet and do business. It provided medical and scientific fraternity in order to attract a greater invaluable assistance in the form of preand post-bid share of the international association convention market. assistance, as well as event planning support for event The programme recruits recognised experts or key opinion organisers. It is an important partner and ally. leaders in their field, who can serve as ambassadors for • The South African National Convention Bureau Cape Town and help champion the destination abroad. (SANCB): The SANCB is the national body responsible for There were 19 CTICC Ambassadors. promoting South Africa as a world-class business event destination. It is a reliable source of independent event 118 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE Annual Staff Year-End Function How employee engagement builds and long-service awards are made to employees at these our brand events. • Special events are also hosted for the staff during the Connecting with our staff to build better business opportunities, year, including – for the first time this year – a Secretaries especially repeat business, is extremely important to us. Many Day high tea. Staff attended this CTICC-created event of our staff interact directly with clients, often over a long for personal assistants and administrators from various period if they are involved with planning a large event with companies. a significant lead time. Every existing client is a potential connection to another client, and every staff member is the • There was also a Valentine’s Day event. This event created potential link to that new connection. Employee engagement awareness around protecting and keeping the heart healthy is therefore a vital platform to support our staff in the roles as – in every sense! front-line brand ambassadors. • The annual Year-end function is also a great opportunity to build ties with employees, strengthen the company’s culture In the past year under review, our staff got together in the and celebrate the past year’s accomplishments – especially, following ways: this year, the opening of CTICC 2. The event was hosted • The full staff complement gathers at the end of each there. month during informal get-togethers as part of the centre’s • Finally, on the occasion of our 15th birthday, we celebrated incentive programme. These are informal gatherings held in style by having a dress-up and fashion show, accompanied on the Friday before “payday” and staff are encouraged to by the obligatory selfie booth. come to work in smart business-casual attire. After the day’s work is formally completed, staff enjoy the late afternoon • More formal, regular staff meetings also take place during with each other in a relaxing environment intended to build the year covering company performance, staff training connections with each other and other departments. presentations, staff travel feedback and long-service and star performer awards. • A new innovation this year has been sessions with the CEO and Executive Management. These sessions are • In addition, as well as the above internal communication an extension of the staff conference and, in a relaxed platforms, there are digital communication channels such environment, tackle challenges that came out of the staff as our intranet and staff emails, as well as KPA meetings conference in a holistic and fun way. and notice boards – all of which update staff about company news on a continuous basis. • There are also quarterly staff breakfasts, where a motivational speaker is invited to discuss issues of importance to the organisation, such as communication. “Employees of the Quarter” from the different departments are recognised Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 119 governance Stakeholder engagement: building sector connections together Making positive connections with our stakeholders in the leisure and business tourism sectors is important to us. This year’s stakeholder engagement activities showcased our expanded complex, deepened mutually beneficial connections, brainstormed innovative new offerings and created ideas for delivering world-class services. The following examples highlight how we engaged with stakeholders, especially key clients, over the financial year: Giving clients a taste of what’s to come Film Open Day 16 – 17 August 2017 The CTICC in collaboration with Wesgro and the City of Cape Town hosted the film industry briefing and the Wesgro locations workshop at the CTICC. The joint industry meeting focused on updates in the film industry. This event was attended by Executive Mayor Patricia de Lille and Wesgro CEO Tim Harris. On the second day the National Sales department presented the CTICC as a film location to more than 170 film location scouts, location managers and directors. A group of ten location scouts and managers were taken on a site visit of CTICC 2. National Sales Conference Week ISAKOS Site Visit and Chef’s Table 8 September 2017 14 July 2017 The National Sales department hosted an open day with The Business Development Manager: International, approximately 40 clients to promote new business to the together with the Cape Town & Western Cape Convention CTICC. The campaign was centred around “Conferences that Bureau, hosted the Director of Exhibits & Logistics, as well are built to order; we can customise any event”. The event was as the Executive Director from the International Society of held in the roof terrace meeting room and showcased what Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery and Orthopaedic Sports Medicine the CTICC has to offer, from our food and beverage offerings (ISAKOS) for a site inspection and a Chef’s Table lunch. We are to all our preferred suppliers, positioning the CTICC as a currently bidding to host this event in May 2021, which could one-stop shop. A site inspection of CTICC 2 was also conducted attract 4 500 delegates. on the day. 120 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report governance FIP World Congress of Pharmacy and Western Cape Education Department Pharmaceutical Sciences Site Visit and Chef’s Table 26 October 2017 23 October 2017 The National Sales department hosted ten guests from The Business Development Manager: International, the the Western Cape Education Department to encourage Sales Executive: International and the General Manager: new business, and to have our Executive Chef showcase Commercial & Business Development hosted the CEO what the CTICC is able to offer from a food and beverage and Congress Director of the International Pharmaceutical perspective. The Chef’s Table was hosted by the Executive Chef, Federation (FIP), as well as local association members, for a site inspection and lunch. We were bidding for the FIP World Business Development Manager: National, and two National Congress of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 2021. Sales Executives. International Association of Paediatric ICCA Sector Venue International Client/ Dentistry (IAPD) Site Visit and Chef’s Table Supplier Workshop 28 March 2018 19 – 21 April 2018 The CEO, the Business Development Manager: International, The Business Development Manager: International participated the General Manager: Commercial & Business Development in the ICCA Client/Supplier Workshop which took place at and the Sales Executive: International hosted IAPD and their the Vancouver Convention Centre in Vancouver, Canada. conference organisers, as well as the Cape Town & Western Mr Alan Wegener from the American Association for Petroleum Cape Convention Bureau, for a site inspection. The City of Geologists participated as the CTICC client. The workshop Cape Town and the CTICC have submitted a bid to host consisted of a welcome reception and a one-day client/supplier the IAPD Conference in 2023, which looks to attract 1 000 engagement, which took place in a round robin meeting style. delegates to Cape Town. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 121 GOVERNANCE Keeping ahead of our game IMEX America Meetings Africa 2018 10 – 12 October 2017 27 – 28 February 2018 The Business Development Manager: International and the The Business Development Manager: International attended General Manager: Commercial & Business Development Meetings Africa which took place at the Sandton Convention attended IMEX America, hosted in Las Vegas. A total of 15 Centre. A total of 34 meetings were scheduled and conducted meetings were conducted during the show and a further three over two days. Post Meetings Africa a further eight meetings client meetings were conducted in New York as a post-IMEX were concluded. sales trip. Client Appreciation Week IMEX Frankfurt 15 – 17 May 2018 December 2017 The CEO, GM: Commercial & Business Development and Sales The International and National Sales departments did a Executive International attended IMEX Frankfurt. A total of 19 festive season sales blitz after having identified a list of appointments were held. top-producing clients that have hosted a significant amount of events at the centre. The team went off-site to wish these clients a happy festive season and presented each with a gift. A total of 40 gifts were were dropped off in the Cape Town CBD and outerlying areas. 122 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE CTICC 2 launches live on air Cape Talk’s “In the Boardroom” live broadcast 7 November 2017 CTICC 2 hosted its first live outside broadcast with Cape Talk. The Kieno Kammies morning show, from 6am to 9am, hosted a special live broadcast of its Cape Talk “In the Boardroom” segment. The special broadcast centred around CTICC 2, our operations and financial performance and AfricaCom, which we were hosting at the time of the broadcast. This successful event provided ideal media exposure for CTICC 2, as well as the AfricaCom event. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 123 GOVERNANCE Mayor De Lille’s CTICC 2 final site inspection 6 September 2017 At this final CTICC 2 site inspection, the City of Cape Town Below is what she said on this occasion: Executive Mayor, Patricia de Lille, declared the expansion of the Cape Town International Convention Centre, CTICC 2, “In July 2014, I broke the first ground at the construction site. “ready to welcome the world”. The Mayor conducted a final Now, in September 2017, we are standing in the impressive, site inspection of the expansion with Chief Executive Officer, light-filled reception hall of CTICC 2. This has been a long Julie-May Ellingson, to give her final seal of approval of the journey, but it’s only through focused and visionary leadership construction of the expansion before contractors hand over by the City and its partners that we can welcome even larger the building for occupation. events and conferences to our shores and take this city to greater heights. Today I’m even more proud to say that the The Mayor’s inspection included a tour of the impressive main CTICC is indeed a key driver of our efforts to position Cape conference and exhibition halls, meeting pod rooms and the Town as a forward-looking, globally competitive business facility’s extensive back-of-house areas. These included the city… I can’t wait to welcome our first delegates in this control room with its state-of-the-art building management impressive building.” system, as well as the facility’s hot, cold and pastry kitchens. The Mayor also viewed the centre’s open-air rooftop terrace, with impressive views of the city and Table Mountain. The expansion of the Cape Town International Convention Centre, CTICC 2, is “ready to welcome the world”. Executive Mayor Patricia de Lille’s final CTICC 2 site inspection 124 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE CTICC 2 launch 25 January 2018 We planned and hosted an impressive and memorable launch For the last leg of the formalities, guests were taken to another for CTICC 2. Almost 400 clients and stakeholders dressed hall, where a delicious dessert awaited them and they were up to attend this glamorous event, which took the form of further entertained by an extraordinarily talented and lively a journey through the building, starting in the foyer with violinist, as well as the final two speeches of the night. elegantly presented welcome canapés and drinks. To cap it all, there was an after-party upstairs in the Bluebell After the initial welcome, guests were taken on a journey Terrace Room, where a full bar and music entertained those through the building with a Kaapse Klopse band, who with the energy to keep on going. It was a truly magical escorted them to the next venue in the launch programme. occasion and did us proud. There they were entertained by more local talent, in the form of Cape Flats singer Jimmy Nevis, who serenaded guests until Africa Melane from Primedia/Cape Talk compèred the event the formal speeches began. throughout and speeches were made by the Executive Mayor of Cape Town, Patricia de Lille; the Western Cape Minister After the speeches and a video outlining our history to date, for Economic Opportunities, Alan Winde; the CEO, Julie-May guests were ushered through to the next hall where a delicious Ellingson; and both the incoming and outgoing Chairpersons hot main course was served while an array of breathtaking of Convenco, Vuyo Ntoi and Andrew Boraine. and acrobatic entertainment took place on stage. State-ofthe-art service, lighting and sound completed the picture. The CTICC planned and hosted an impressive and memorable launch for CTICC 2. CTICC 2 opening January 2018 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 125 GOVERNANCE Jazz Festival corporate suite and Upper Deck party 23 and 24 March 2018 Each year, we host event and tourism stakeholders, brand This truly world-class entertainment event allows us not only ambassadors and clients at the annual Cape Town International to connect with important stakeholders and clients, but also Jazz Festival, both in our corporate suite and at our Upper to showcase our venues, our cuisine and our environmental Deck party, which overlooked the popular Basil “Manenberg” credentials. This year we put on a carefully considered Coetzee stage. Our guests are truly treated like VIPs over waterwise menu to demonstrate our commitment to water two nights at this prestigious music festival, which has in the conservation – much of the food was grilled or baked, rather past brought international icons such as Randy Crawford, than boiled or steamed. Compostable disposable dishes were Lauryn Hill, Dan Brubeck, Earth, Wind & Fire and local greats used to save on dishwashing and waste. Even vegetables like Hugh Masekela and Miriam Makeba to its stages. which need less water to grow were used. You can read the full story on page 58. Our guests are truly treated like VIPs over two nights at this prestigious music festival, which has in the past brought international icons such as Randy Crawford, Lauryn Hill, Dan Brubeck, Earth, Wind & Fire and local greats like Hugh Masekela and Miriam Makeba to its stages. 19th Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2018 126 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE CTICC 2 atrium Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 127 128 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report OUTLOOK POSITIVELY CONNECTED TO THE FUTURE Events that connect people, change lives and build economies Our combined CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 complex is complete Then, in 2020, we open our doors to the rather smaller but and the road ahead looks very promising. In a consistently equally essential HIV Research for Prevention Conference, competitive marketplace, we have done extremely well to which we hope becomes less and less necessary as we move secure the more than 64 secured international events up until towards either inoculation or a cure for one of the world’s 2023 that we have. bigger medical challenges. After that, in 2021, 7 000 human geneticists are due on our shores and through our doors for We are fortunate to operate from a perennially popular city the International Congress of Human Genetics 2021 (ICHG). at the southernmost tip of Africa, with all the attractions that come with that. And we are blessed with the innate ingenuity, All of these events – and the ones that bring local and global innovation and resilience of South Africans across the range financiers, insurers, geologists and engineers to our centre – are of our stakeholders: a new Chairperson who is raring to go, primarily about knowledge exchange, something we proudly shareholders who have unwaveringly supported us throughout promote. They are also, of course, about creating research our first 15 years – and, in particular, through the sometimes and work opportunities in their various fields – something complex construction phases. we are absolutely and consistently committed to through the economic contribution these very events bring to our region. Sometimes you have to look back to look forward, and we hope you appreciated our review of that first decade and a This starts with the happily persistent need for people to half, which has seen us consistently serve both international actually meet and get to know each other – preferably at a and national clients across the full range of catalytic growth world-class venue in a desirable destination. This fortunately sectors our City and Province promote. keeps us, our city and our province in business. It ends with us fulfilling our purpose – connecting people to create jobs by Today, as we welcome our sixteenth year, our forward book is attracting events in key economic sectors and exceeding our already reaping the benefits of our carefully curated reputation clients’ expectations. and our expansion, with the greater flexibility it brings. The medical sector, in particular, has always been loyal to us, often In the end, it’s about bringing people together in memorable bringing eye-opening, cutting-edge medical technologies ways, about making positive and catalytic connections through our doors. – something that our new sky bridge linking CTICC 1 to CTICC 2 is very much designed to do, if in a rather more literal In the 2016/17 year, we hosted the fast-moving world of way. You can read more about it on pages 132 and 133. prosthetics and orthotics. This financial year we have hosted the important 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health As at August 2018, we have 64 international congresses (WCTOH: see page 41), while in October 2018, we will secured on our forward book as listed in the table on the welcome experts in internal medicine, with 6 000 cardiologists, following pages. endocrinologists, pulmonologists and geriatricians coming to Cape Town. They will travel from all over the world to the World Congress of Internal Medicine (WCIM) 2018. They will be here to find better ways of keeping us healthy. The endocrinologists themselves are back in force in December 2018, again in their 64 thousands, for the 18th International Congress of Endocrinology (ICE) 2018. International congresses secured on our forward book All of these events – and the ones that bring local and global financiers, insurers, geologists and engineers to our centre – are primarily about knowledge exchange, something we proudly promote. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 129 OUTLOOK International bids secured up to 2023 as at 30 June 2018 Start date Description Forecast attendance July 2018 International Congress of Linguists (ICL20) 800 Aug 2018 International Association of Pancreatology (IAP) 1 000 Aug 2018 ICAO Global Aviation Gender Summit 500 Sept 2018 The 3rd Ministerial Conference of the Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) 550 Sept 2018 Congress of the Liga Medicorum Homoeopathica Internationalis 2018 (LMHI) 750 Sept 2018 Africa Oil & Power 2018 600 Sept 2018 Conference of the International Union of Marine Insurance 2018 (IUMI) 600 Oct 2018 BPESA (GSA) Summit 2018 400 Oct 2018 BIOMIN World Nutrition Forum 2018 720 Oct 2018 36th Conference of the International Society for Trenchless Technology (ISTT) – NO DIG 250 International 2018 Oct 2018 World Congress of Internal Medicine (WCIM) 2018 6 000 Oct 2018 International Inorganic-Bonded Fiber Composites Conference (IIBCC) 200 Oct 2018 World Congress of Audiology (WCA) 2018 1 500 Nov 2018 25th Africa Oil Week Conference 2018 1 000 Nov 2018 4th Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF) 500 Nov 2018 AfricaCom 2018 800 Nov 2018 American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) International Conference & Exhibition 2018 1 500 Dec 2018 18th International Congress of Endocrinology (ICE) 2018 5 500 Jan 2019 Enterprise Africa Cape Town 2019 500 Feb 2019 OAC, UITP & UATP Conference 500 Feb 2019 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 3 000 Mar 2019 YPO 2019 Global Leadership Conference & EDGE 2 000 Mar 2019 Bonds & Loans Africa 2019 280 Mar 2019 GTR | Exporta 300 Apr 2019 ASSA Colloquium (Joint PBSS, IAALS and IAAHS Colloquium, hosted by ASSA) 600 Apr 2019 Congress of the International Society for Gynecologic Endoscopy (ISGE) 2019 600 May 2019 SRA World Congress Meeting 400 Jun 2019 144th IATA Slot Conference 700 Sept 2019 General Assembly of the International Organisation for Standards (ISO) 600 Sept 2019 22nd International Conference on Cyclotrons and their Application (CYC) 2019 250 Oct 2019 17th African Regional Conference of the International Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical 300 Engineering (ISSMGE) 130 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report OUTLOOK Start date Description Forecast attendance Oct 2019 World Congress of the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA) 2019 600 Oct 2019 International Society for Quality in Health Cares (ISQua) International Conference 2019 1 500 Nov 2019 AISA International Schools Conference 2019 300 Feb 2020 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2020 3 000 Mar 2020 Bonds & Loans Africa 2020 280 Mar 2020 GTR | Exporta 300 May 2020 Space Ops 2020 850 Jun 2020 ISF World Seed Congress 2020 1 000 Jun 2020 World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC) 2020 15 000 July 2020 30th Annual International INCOSE Symposium 700 Aug 2020 International Symposium on Microbial Ecology (ISME) 2020 1 500 Sept 2020 18th International Congress of Dietetics (ICD) 2020 1 500 Oct 2020 HIV Research for Prevention 2020 1 400 Oct 2020 IndustriALL Global Union Conference 1 500 Oct 2020 International Mineral Processing Congress (IMPC) 2020 900 Nov 2020 The International Association of Forensic Toxicologists (TIAFT) 600 Mar 2021 Bonds & Loans Africa 2021 280 Mar 2021 International Congress of Human Genetics (ICHG) 2021 7 000 May 2021 Congress Meeting of the International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery and Orthopaedic 4 500 Sports Medicine (ISAKOS) Jul 2021 World Congress of the International Health Economics Association (IHEA) 800 Jul 2021 International Conference on Animal Genetics (ISAG) 600 Jul 2021 International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant (ICMGP) 1 000 Mar 2022 Bonds & Loans Africa 2022 280 May 2022 International Federation of Surveyors (FIG) 2 000 May 2022 International Congress of Cytology 750 Jun 2022 World Federation of Paediatric Intensive and Critical Care Societies (WFPICCS) 2022 1 500 Aug 2022 The 17th International Heat Transfer Conference (IHTC-17) 1 200 Aug 2022 18th International Congress of Immunology (IUIS) 2022 6 000 Oct 2022 76th Congress of the International Fiscal Association 2022 2 000 Jun 2023 International Association of Paediatric Dentistry (IAPD) 1 000 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 131 OUTLOOK Building bridges between people Our brand-new sky bridge is now complete and spans the oldest street in South Africa, the Heerengracht. Glass is 17mm thick to minimise heat and control noise The following Q&A will tell you a bit more about the bridge: What are its dimensions? It’s about 5m wide by 3m high and 70m long. What is its capacity? The maximum capacity is estimated at over 5 000 people per hour. 132 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report OUTLOOK Made up of 40 tonnes of steel Designed for wind speed up to 150km per hour Sky bridge connecting CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 What are its special design features? It’s made up of a steel frame with a concrete floor and roof, supported by slanted columns. Aluminium fins finish off the bottom. It has full-length glass sides to allow for panoramic views towards the city, Table Mountain and the harbour. Will it swing in the wind? It will deflect vertically by 5 – 10mm and horizontally by a similar amount. The deflections will not be uncomfortable to users. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 133 134 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS The reports and statements set out below comprise the annual financial statements presented to members: Directors’ Responsibility Statement 136 Report of the Directors 137 Company Secretary’s Certificate 138 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 139 Report of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee 141 Report of the Nominations Committee 142 Report of the Social and Ethics Committee 143 Report of the Auditor-General 144 Statement of Financial Position 148 Statement of Financial Performance 149 Statement of Changes in Net Assets 149 Cash Flow Statement 150 Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts 151 Notes to the Annual Financial Statements 152 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 135 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors’ Responsibility Statement For the year ended 30 June 2018 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (SOC) Ltd (RF). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including any interpretations of such Statements issued by the Accounting Standards Board, the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 and the Companies Act of South Africa. The financial statements are based on appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied. The Directors are also responsible for the company’s systems of internal financial control. These control procedures are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance about the reliability of the financial statements, that assets are safeguarded and to prevent and detect losses. The Directors are not aware of any significant breakdown in the functioning of these measures, procedures and systems during the year under review. The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements. The Directors have no reason to believe that the company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future, based on forecasts and available cash and finance resources. The financial statements have been audited by the Auditor-General of South Africa, who was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board. The Directors are of the opinion that all representations made to the independent auditors during the audit are valid and appropriate. The responsibility of the external auditors is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the accounting framework. Approval of the annual financial statements The annual financial statements which appear on pages 148-180 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 August 2018 and are signed on their behalf by: HV Ntoi EI Hamman Authorised Director Authorised Director 04 December 2018 04 December 2018 136 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Directors For the year ended 30 June 2018 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the year ended 30 June 2018. 1. General review The company’s business and operations and the results thereof are clearly reflected in the attached financial statements. 2. Dividends No dividends were declared or recommended during the year. 3. Share capital There were changes in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the period under review. Refer to note 8. 4. Directors  The Directors of the Company during the year under review and at the date of this report were: HV Ntoi (Chairperson) JM Ellingson (CEO) S Myburgh-De Gois SW Fourie EI Hamman DA Cloete JC Fraser K Zama AM Boraine (resigned 23 October 2017) F Parker (CFO) (resigned 23 March 2018) BJ Lodewyk (resigned 28 May 2018) AA Mahmood (resigned 14 February 2018) 5. Auditors T he Auditor-General of South Africa was reappointed as auditor in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA). 6. Shareholding The City of Cape Town owns 71.4% of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Provincial Government of the Western Cape (23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (5.4%). 7. Subsidiary T he Company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. 8. Holding Company The City of Cape Town. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 137 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Secretary’s Certificate For the year ended 30 June 2018 In terms of section 88(2)(e) of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, as amended, we, Kilgetty Statutory Services Proprietary Limited, in our capacity as Company Secretary of Cape Town International Convention Centre (RF) SOC Limited, confirm that, for the year ended 30 June 2018, the company has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission all such returns as are required of a public company in terms of the Companies Act and that all such returns and notices are, to the best of our knowledge, true, correct and up to date. Kilgetty Statutory Services Proprietary Limited Company Secretary 04 December 2018 138 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE For the year ended 30 June 2018 The Audit and Risk Committee (the committee) submits its • Ensures that the combined assurance received is appropriate report in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2018, as to address all the significant risks facing the company and required by section 94 of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008 monitors the relationship between the external assurance (Companies Act). providers and the company; • Oversees and reviews the expertise, resources and Audit Committee mandate experience of the company’s finance function; The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which • Oversees the internal audit function, which is outsourced have been approved by the Board and are reviewed annually. and which reports directly to the Audit Committee; reviews It fulfils its responsibilities in terms of the Companies Act, and approves the internal audit plan, and monitors the No. 71 of 2008 (Companies Act), the Municipal Finance effectiveness of the internal audit function in terms of its Management Act, No. 56 of 2003 (MFMA), and its terms scope of work, progress with execution of the internal audit of reference. The committee has an independent role with plan and independence; accountability to both the board and the shareholders. It does • Expresses a view on the effectiveness of the internal not assume the functions of management, which remain control environment by monitoring internal controls for the responsibility of the executive directors, officers and effectiveness; other members of management. The committee acts in an advisory and oversight capacity; it does not relieve the board • Oversees the external audit process and approves the terms of its responsibilities but makes objective and independent of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors recommendations. The committee is satisfied that it has, during and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process: the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in any significant issues arising from the audit are brought to its terms of reference and that it has complied with all its legal, the committee’s attention; regulatory and other responsibilities. • Assists the board in ensuring that the company has implemented an effective policy and plan for risk Composition of the committee management, which will enhance the company’s ability to The committee comprises five members, of which two are achieve its strategic objectives; independent Non-executive Directors and all of whom hold • Forms an integral part of the risk management process appropriate financial qualifications and experience, nominated and specifically oversees financial reporting risks, internal by the Board and appointed by the Council of the City of Cape financial controls, fraud risk in relation to financial reporting Town. The committee is chaired by EI Hamman. and information technology risks as they relate to financial reporting; Attendance at meetings • Oversees the development and annual review of the The committee meets at least four times a year and its company’s risk management action plan and ensures meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief that frameworks and methodologies are implemented to Financial Officer, other Executive Managers of the company increase the possibility of anticipating unpredictable risks; and representatives of the internal and external auditors. A • Monitors implementation of the risk management action quorum for meetings is at least 50% of the members present. plan and ensures that risk management assessments are The committee met four times during the period under review. performed on a continuous basis and reports to the Board Refer to page 112 for the attendance at meetings of the in this regard; committee. • Makes recommendations to the Board concerning levels of Key responsibilities of the committee tolerance and risk appetite; The statutory responsibilities of the committee are as set out in • Oversees compliance with all applicable laws and regulations the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and the Municipal Finance and reviews the effectiveness of the company’s systems for Management Act, No. 56 of 2003. monitoring compliance; • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be The committee: determined by the Board from time to time. • Exercises oversight of the internal financial controls of the company; Discharge of responsibilities • Makes submissions to the Board of Directors, and advises The committee has a detailed work plan, which is formally the Board, the Accounting Officer and the management adopted to support its effective functioning during the year. of the company on matters relating to internal financial The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial control and internal audit; risk management; accounting year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of policies; the adequacy, reliability and accuracy of financial reference and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory reporting and information; performance management and other requirements. and evaluation; effective governance, compliance with the MFMA and other applicable legislation and any other matters referred to it by the Board; Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 139 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal controls Internal audit The committee has, during the period under review: The committee has, during the period under review: • Satisfied itself that the Chief Financial Officer has the • Ensured that the company’s internal audit function was appropriate expertise and experience to act in this capacity; independent and that it had the necessary resources and • Reviewed the expertise, resources and adequacy of the standing to enable it to discharge its duties; company’s finance function and found it to be adequate; • Reviewed and approved the internal audit plan in terms of • Reviewed the quarterly and annual financial result, its scope and coverage and monitored progress with the performance information and reporting to ensure proper execution thereof; and complete disclosure of timely, reliable and consistent • Monitored the effectiveness and independence of the information; internal audit function; • Evaluated on an ongoing basis the appropriateness, • Exercised oversight of the co-operation between the adequacy and efficiency of accounting policies and internal and external auditors and served as a link between procedures, compliance with Standards of Generally the Board and these functions. Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and overall External audit accounting standards, as well as any changes thereto; • Discussed and resolved any significant or unusual The committee is satisfied that the external auditors were accounting issues; independent of the company. • Reviewed and monitored the effectiveness, efficiency The committee had considered the fees to be paid to the and the management, as well as reporting, of tax-related external auditors, as well as their terms of engagement, and matters; found it to be acceptable. • Reviewed the effectiveness of the company’s system of Annual financial statements and conclusion internal financial controls, including receiving assurance from management, internal audit and external audit; The committee has reviewed the year-end financial statements and integrated annual report and are satisfied with their • Reviewed relevant company procedures for the prevention integrity. The committee recommended the approval thereof and detection of fraud; to the Board. The financial statements are prepared in • Reviewed and made recommendations to relevant company accordance with the basis of accounting determined by the policies; National Treasury, as set out in accounting policy note 1 and • Reviewed the significant issues raised by the internal and in the manner required by the MFMA. The committee has external auditors; reviewed the external auditors’ management representation • Reviewed the effectiveness of the monitoring of compliance letter and management’s response thereto. with all laws and regulations and satisfied itself that all The Board has subsequently approved the integrated report, regulatory compliance matters had been considered in the which will be open for discussion at the upcoming Annual preparation of the financial statements; General Meeting. • Had oversight of IT governance; The committee is confident of the combined assurance • Exercised oversight of the financial aspects of capital approach with the continued support of the Board, projects including the CTICC 2 expansion. shareholders and key stakeholders in the new financial year. The committee has extensively reviewed quarterly financial and performance reporting, together with findings from the Auditor General and Internal Audit. These findings have been discussed with management. Based on the processes and assurances obtained, the committee believes that the EI Hamman CA(SA) significant internal financial controls are generally effective Audit Committee Chairperson and that accounting practices are appropriate. 23 August 2018 Risk management The committee has, during the period under review: • Exercised oversight in respect of the enterprise risk management function, which remains management’s responsibility; • Exercised oversight of a process, facilitated by the internal auditors, in terms of which management has assessed the effectiveness of the company’s system of internal control and risk management, including internal financial controls; • Monitored implementation of the company’s risk management action plan and made recommendations regarding the improvement thereof and reporting thereon. 140 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE For the year ended 30 June 2018 This report is presented by the Human Resources and • Exercised oversight of matters related to human resource Remuneration Committee (the committee) and describes management and succession planning; how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the • Performed such additional oversight functions as were financial year ended 30 June 2018. determined by the Board from time to time. Mandate of the committee Remuneration strategy and policy The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which The company’s remuneration strategy is aimed at attracting, have been approved by the Board and are reviewed annually. motivating and retaining competent and talented employees The committee has an independent oversight and advisory to ensure that its business remains sustainable. Remuneration role. A detailed work plan was formally adopted to ensure levels are influenced by the scarcity of skills and work the effective functioning of the committee. The committee performance. is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of reference and A performance-based incentive scheme is in place in respect that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other of all levels of the company to acknowledge the contributions responsibilities. of individual employees by rewarding them for exceptional performance. KPIs are identified and agreed between each staff Composition of the committee member and his/her immediate superior. His/her performance The committee comprises of four independent Non-executive is measured against these agreed indicators. Individuals’ KPIs Directors of the company. The Executive Directors and certain are linked to the company’s KPIs as a means of ensuring that members of the company’s Executive Management team also the company achieves its objectives. Furthermore, a reward attend committee meetings. A quorum for meetings is 50% of and recognition programme is in place. the members present. The committee is chaired by DA Cloete. During the period under review and with the assistance Attendance at meetings of independent external advice from Auld Compensation Consulting, the committee reviewed the remuneration trends The committee met five times during the period under review. in the market. All remuneration packages in the company were Details of directors’ attendance at meetings appear on benchmarked to similar positions in the meetings industry to page 112 of this report. ensure that they are fair and competitive. The Committee was Key responsibilities of the committee satisfied that the advisor was independent and objective. The committee: Despite it being a turbulent year for the South African economy and the drought that affected local businesses in the Cape • Assists the board in ensuring that the company remunerates metropole, the CTICC performed strongly and continued its directors and executives fairly and responsibly and that to deliver against its strategic short-, mediumand longthe disclosure of remuneration is accurate, complete and term targets. The committee is satisfied that the company’s transparent and in accordance with the laws and regulations remuneration strategy and policy achieved its desired objectives applicable to the Company; during the period under review. • Monitors the administration of remuneration at all levels in the company; Directors’ remuneration • Oversees the establishment of a remuneration strategy, The company’s strategy for the remuneration of Non-executive which promotes the achievement of the company’s strategic Directors is aimed at ensuring that levels of remuneration objectives and encourages individual performance; are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate suitably skilled • Selects appropriate comparative groups when comparing and experienced Non-executive Directors, recognising the remuneration levels in the company; responsibilities borne by directors and ensuring that they are remunerated fairly and responsibly within the constraints of • Ensures that all benefits, including retirement benefits and the Municipal Finance Management Act, No. 56 of 2003, and other financial arrangements, are justified and correctly the company’s Memorandum of Incorporation. valued; • Evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer in The company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy was last determining her remuneration; approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the company, held on 04 December 2018. It will again be • Exercises oversight on matters relating to human resource put to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General management and succession planning; Meeting of the company to be held on 11 December 2018. • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be determined by the board from time to time. Please refer to page 174 for details of the Directors’ remuneration for the period under review. Discharge of responsibilities During the year under review the committee: • Reviewed the Non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy; • Reviewed the remuneration strategy which included the benchmarking of all remuneration levels in the company; • Exercised oversight over salary increases; DA Cloete • Reviewed various company policies; Human Resources and Remuneration Committee • Set, in conjunction with the CEO, her key performance Chairperson indicators (KPIs) and carried out the necessary review of 23 August 2018 performance against the set KPIs; • Had oversight of the company’s employment equity reporting; Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 141 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE For the year ended 30 June 2018 This report is presented by the Nominations Committee and professional advice by individual Board members; describes how the committee has discharged its duties in • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2018. determined by the Board from time to time. Mandate of the committee Composition of the committee The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, The committee comprises two independent Non-executive which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed Directors of the Company. The Executive Directors also attend annually. The committee has an independent oversight and committee meetings. A quorum for meetings is 50% of the advisory role and makes recommendations to the Board of members present. The committee is chaired by HV Ntoi. Directors. Attendance at meetings Role of the committee The committee met twice during the period under review. The committee: Details of directors’ attendance at meetings appear on • Assists the Board in determining that it has the appropriate page 112 of this report. composition to enable it to execute its duties effectively, to the extent permissible in terms of the CTICC’s MOI; Discharge of responsibilities • Assists the Board in ensuring that directors are appointed The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been through a formal and transparent process, to the extent formally adopted to support its effective functioning during permissible in terms of the CTICC’s MOI; the year. • Assists the Board in ensuring that the respective Board The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial committees have the appropriate skill sets to enable them year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of to fulfil their responsibilities; reference. • Ensures that induction, ongoing training and development and evaluation of Directors take place; • Ensures that an appropriate succession plan is in place in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors; • Assists the Board with the annual Board and Board HV Ntoi committees’ effectiveness evaluations; Nominations Committee Chairperson • Reviews the Board charter annually; 23 August 2018 • Reviews the role of the Chairperson of the Board annually; • Assists the Board in determining the retirement and succession of Directors; • Reviews the policy governing the seeking of independent 142 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE For the year ended 30 June 2018 This report is presented by the Social and Ethics Committee (the Discharge of responsibilities committee) and describes how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2018 The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been as required by Regulation 43 of the Companies Regulations, formally adopted, to support its effective functioning during read in conjunction with section 72 of the Companies Act, the year. No. 71 of 2008. The committee has, during the period under review, monitored the company’s activities, having regard to relevant legislation Mandate of the committee and other legal requirements and codes pertaining to matters The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, relating to social and economic development, the environment, which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), annually. The committee fulfils its responsibilities in terms of employment equity, health and safety, employee wellness Regulation 43 of the Companies Regulations, section 72 of the and stakeholder relationships. It is satisfied that it has, during Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and its terms of reference. The the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in committee is accountable to both the Board and the company’s its terms of reference and that it has complied with its legal, shareholders. It has an independent role and acts in an advisory regulatory and other responsibilities. and oversight capacity. The committee is satisfied that the company takes its Composition of the committee governance, social and environmental responsibilities seriously. While the committee recognises that areas within its mandate The committee comprises three independent Non-executive are constantly evolving, it is confident that management Directors of the Company and one prescribed officer. Certain is committed to integrating ethics into the business of the members of the company’s Executive Management team company and that it continues to pay sufficient attention to also attend committee meetings. A quorum for meetings is ethics management. 50% of the members present. The committee is chaired by S Myburgh-De Gois. In terms of broader organisational ethics, the committee continues to review and monitor the company’s ethics-related Attendance at meetings policies to enable the fostering of a good ethical culture in The committee met three times during the period under the company. Furthermore, a staff conference focusing on the review. Details of Directors’ attendance at meetings appear on values of the company was hosted during the period under page 112 of this report. review. With the assistance of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Key responsibilities of the committee committee monitored compliance with laws and regulations. The statutory responsibilities of the committee are as set out This included, inter alia, the facilitation of a readiness assessment in the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and the Companies in preparation of the implementation of the Promotion of Regulations. Access to Information Act’s regulations. During the period under review, Management confirmed that there has been no In executing its duties, the committee is responsible for material non-compliance with legislation or regulations within monitoring and overseeing: the remit of the committee’s mandate. • Ethics; In terms of environment, health and safety, the committee • Social and economic development; continued to monitor environmental, health and safety aspects • Good corporate citizenship; in accordance with the short-, mediumand long-term strategy • Customer relations; of the company. Apart from the recent drought crisis in the • Environment, health and public safety; Cape metropole, whereby various water initiatives were implemented by the company, including the installation of a • Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE); reverse-osmosis plant, no significant environmental, health and • Labour and employee engagement; safety issues arose during the period under review. • Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Ethics and corporate social responsibility The Board of Directors subscribes to the highest standards of ethics and corporate social responsibility and assesses the company’s performance against various mandatory and voluntary standards. The Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the company’s ethics performance, which is delegated to the Executive Management, but it does not S Myburgh-De Gois relieve management of its duties and responsibilities in this Social and Ethics Committee Chairperson regard. The Chief Executive Officer is the visible link between 23 August 2018 the Board’s corporate ethics expectations and the company’s ethics management. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 143 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the auditor-general to the Western Cape Provincial Parliament and the council on City of Cape Town on Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion 1. I have audited the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) (CTICC) set out on pages 148 to 180, which comprise the statement of financial position as at 30 June 2018, the statement of financial performance, statement of changes in net assets, cash flow statement and statement of comparison of budget information and actual amounts for the year then ended, as well as the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 2. In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the CTICC as at 30 June 2018, and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with South African Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (SA Standards of GRAP) and the requirements of the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA) and the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (the Companies Act). Basis for opinion 3. I conducted my audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). My responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor-general’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of this auditor’s report. 4. I am independent of the municipal entity in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of ethics for professional accountants (IESBA code) and the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit in South Africa. I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA code. 5. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Emphasis of matters 6. I draw attention to the matters below. My opinion is not modified in respect of these matters Contingent liabilities 7. With reference to note 25 to the financial statements, the CTICC is subject to various claims which have arisen from the expansion project brought by the principle building contractor and other professional services. The full extent of the financial exposure is unknown as the matters are still subject to on-going legal proceedings. The value of the claims, as well as related legal fees is not quantifiable as at 30 June 2018. Impairment of property, plant and equipment 8. As disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, impairments on property plant and equipment amounted to R462 599 006 (2016-17: R0). Other matter 9. I draw attention to the matter below. My opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Unaudited disclosure notes 10. In terms of section 125(2) (e) of the MFMA the municipal entity is required to disclose particulars of non-compliance with the MFMA in the financial statements. This disclosure requirement did not form part of the audit of the financial statements and accordingly I do not express an opinion thereon. Responsibilities of the accounting officer for the financial statements 11. The board of directors, which constitutes the accounting officer is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with SA Standards of GRAP and the requirements of the MFMA and Companies Act, and for such internal control as the accounting officer determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 12. In preparing the financial statements, the accounting officer is responsible for assessing the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the appropriate governance structure either intends to liquidate the municipal entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor-general’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 13. My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a 144 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 14. A further description of my responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is included in the annexure to this auditor’s report. Report on the audit of the annual performance report Introduction and scope 15. In accordance with the Public Audit Act of South Africa, 2004 (Act No. 25 of 2004) (PAA) and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the reported performance information against predetermined objectives for selected key performance categories presented in the key performance report. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 16. My procedures address the reported performance information, which must be based on the approved performance planning documents of the municipal entity. I have not evaluated the completeness and appropriateness of the performance indicators included in the planning documents. My procedures also did not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to planned performance strategies and information in respect of future periods that may be included as part of the reported performance information. Accordingly, my findings do not extend to these matters. 17. I evaluated the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information in accordance with the criteria developed from the performance management and reporting framework, as defined in the general notice, for the following selected key performance categories presented in the annual performance report of the municipal entity for the year ended 30 June 2018: Key performance categories (KPC) Pages in the key performance report KPC 2 – Capital Projects 67 KPC 4 – Quality Product Offering 67 KPC 5 – Total number of events 67 KPC 6 – Total number of international events 67 KPC 8 – Human Capital Development 67 KPC 11 – Procurement 67 KPC 14 – Graduate Program 67 KPC 15 – The number of people from the employment equity target groups employed in 67 the three highest level of management in compliance with the municipal entity’s approved employment equity plan 18. I performed procedures to determine whether the reported performance information was properly presented and whether performance was consistent with the approved performance planning documents. I performed further procedures to determine whether the indicators and related targets were measurable and relevant, and assessed the reliability of the reported performance information to determine whether it was valid, accurate and complete. 19. I did not raise any material findings on the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information for the following key performance categories: • KPC 2 – Capital Projects • KPC 4 – Quality Product Offering • KPC 5 – Total number of events • KPC 6 – Total number of international events • KPC 8 – Human Capital Development • KPC 11 – Procurement • KPC 14 – Graduate Program • KPC 15 – The number of people from the employment equity target groups employed in the three highest level of management in compliance with the municipal entity’s approved employment equity plan Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 145 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other matter 20. I draw attention to the matter below. Achievement of planned targets 21. Refer to the key performance report on page 67 for information on the achievement of planned targets for the year. Report on the audit of compliance with legislation Introduction and scope 22. In accordance with the PAA and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the compliance of the municipal entity with specific matters in key legislation. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 23. I did not raise material findings on compliance with the specific matters in key legislation set out in the general notice issued in terms of the PAA. Other information 24. The accounting officer is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report which includes the directors’ report, the audit committee’s report and the company secretary’s certificate as required by the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (Companies Act). The other information does not include the financial statements, the auditor’s report and those selected key performance categories presented in the annual performance report that have been specifically reported in this auditor’s report. 25. My opinion on the financial statements and findings on the reported performance information and compliance with legislation do not cover the other information and I do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 26. In connection with my audit, my responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the selected key performance categories presented in the key performance report, or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 27. I did not receive the other information prior to the date of this auditor’s report. When I do receive and read this information, if I conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, I am required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and request that the other information be corrected. If the other information is not corrected, I may have to retract this auditor’s report and re-issue an amended report as appropriate. However, if it is corrected this will not be necessary. Internal control deficiencies 28. I considered internal control relevant to my audit of the financial statements, reported performance information and compliance with applicable legislation; however, my objective was not to express any form of assurance on it. I did not identify any significant deficiencies in internal control. Other reports 29. I draw attention to the following engagements conducted by various parties that had, or could have, an impact on the matters reported in the municipal entity’s financial statements, reported performance information, compliance with applicable legislation and other related matters. These reports did not form part of my opinion on the financial statements or my findings on the reported performance information or compliance with legislation. 30. The Public Protector is performing an investigation based on the alleged failure by the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (Pty) Ltd and the City of Cape Town to implement the recommendations of the municipality’s forensic service department issued on 21 October 2014. The investigation is still ongoing and has not been finalised. Cape Town 30 November 2018 146 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annexure – Auditor-general’s responsibility for the audit 1. As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout my audit of the financial statements, and the procedures performed on reported performance information for selected key performance categories and on the municipal entity’s compliance with respect to the selected subject matters. Financial statements 2. In addition to my responsibility for the audit of the financial statements as described in this auditor’s report, I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the municipal entity’s internal control • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the board of directors, which constitutes the accounting officer. • conclude on the appropriateness of the board of directors, which constitutes the accounting officer’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements. I also conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements about the material uncertainty or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the opinion on the financial statements. My conclusions are based on the information available to me at the date of this auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a municipal entity to cease continuing as a going concern • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation Communication with those charged with governance 3. I communicate with the accounting officer regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. 4. I also confirm to the accounting officer that I have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to have a bearing on my independence and, where applicable, related safeguards. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 147 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2018 NOTES RESTATED* 2018 2017 R R ASSETS Non-current assets 704 703 082 965 327 037 Property, plant and equipment 2 574 441 684 961 750 268 Intangible assets 3 697 307 – Investment in subsidiary 4 100 100 Deferred taxation 5 129 563 991 3 576 669 Current assets 245 144 637 268 622 943 Inventories 6 1 591 437 1 198 165 Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 7 19 796 330 13 437 674 South African Revenue Services 16.2 – 3 002 222 Cash and cash equivalents 16.3 223 756 870 250 984 882 Total assets 949 847 719 1 233 949 980 NET ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Net financial position 843 147 667 1 152 903 559 Contribution from owners 8 1 277 427 701 1 277 427 701 Accumulated deficit (434 280 034) (124 524 142) Current liabilities 106 700 052 81 046 421 Client deposits 9 28 162 844 19 687 299 Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 10 71 820 350 56 399 313 Provisions 11 4 723 383 4 959 809 South African Revenue Services 16.2 1 993 475 – Total net assets and liabilities 949 847 719 1 233 949 980 *Note: T he audited comparative figures for Cash and cash equivalents and Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions have been restated following the identification of a prior period error. Refer to note 16.4. 148 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE for the year ended 30 June 2018 NOTES 2018 2017 R R Revenue from exchange transactions 13 238 874 596 210 552 246 Cost of sales (29 891 260) (23 790 905) Gross profit 208 983 336 186 761 341 Other operating income from exchange transactions 25 298 447 33 920 360 Finance income 14.1 17 829 123 28 824 690 Other income 14.2 7 469 324 5 095 670 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2.2 (462 599 006) – Operating expenses (199 028 778) (163 219 164) Operating (loss)/profit 12 (427 346 001) 57 462 537 Finance costs 14.1 – (3 016) (Loss)/Profit before taxation (427 346 001) 57 459 521 Taxation 15 117 590 109 (13 983 108) Net (loss)/profit for the year (309 755 892) 43 476 413 Statement of changes in net assets for the year ended 30 June 2018 CONTRIBUTIONS FROM ACCUMULATED TOTAL OWNERS DEFICIT R R R Balance at 1 July 2016 1 084 427 701 (168 000 555) 916 427 146 Profit for the year – 43 476 413 43 476 413 Share issue 193 000 000 – 193 000 000 Balance at 30 June 2017 1 277 427 701 (124 524 142) 1 152 903 559 Loss for the year – (309 755 892) (309 755 892) Balance at 30 June 2018 1 277 427 701 (434 280 034) 843 147 667 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 149 CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2018 NOTES RESTATED* 2018 2017 R R Cash flow from operating activities 88 732 036 44 826 713 Cash receipts from customers (venue rental, sale of goods and other services) 248 151 461 194 518 338 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (173 847 032) (157 955 761) Suppliers (118 882 616) (106 035 408) Employee costs (54 964 416) (51 920 353) Cash generated from operations 16.1 74 304 429 36 562 577 Finance costs paid 14.1 – (3 016) Finance income received 14.1 17 829 123 27 621 805 Taxation paid 16.2 (3 401 516) (19 354 653) Cash flow from investing activities (115 960 048) (405 436 857) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2 (115 090 983) (405 436 857) Acquisition of intangible assets (869 065) – Cash flow from financing activities – 193 000 000 Proceeds from share issue 8 – 193 000 000 (Decrease)/Increase in cash and cash equivalents (27 228 012) (167 610 144) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 16.3 250 984 882 418 595 026 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 16.3 223 756 870 250 984 882 *Note: T he audited comparative figures for Cash and cash equivalents and Finance income received have been restated following the identification of a prior period error. Refer to note 16.4. 150 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report STATEMENT OF COMPARISON OF BUDGET AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 NOTES ACTUAL ORIGINAL FINAL Favourable/ Favourable/ APPROVED APPROVED (Unfavourable) (Unfavourable) BUDGET BUDGET variance variance 2018 2018 2018 2018 R R R R % STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 21.2 PERFORMANCE Revenue and other income 246 343 920 272 780 085 249 737 862 (3 393 942) (1) Revenue 205 009 496 240 787 599 208 324 909 (3 315 413) (2) Other income 41 334 424 31 992 486 41 412 953 (78 529) 0 Less: Direct costs 50 916 564 53 986 365 45 352 197 (5 564 367) (12) Cost of sales 29 891 260 37 231 234 29 795 704 (95 556) 0 Direct personnel (i) 15 965 732 10 689 599 7 941 321 (8 024 411) (101) Parking costs (ii) 3 466 277 4 231 970 5 731 970 2 265 693 40 Event-related marketing costs 862 969 800 000 1 000 000 137 031 14 Equipment hire 730 326 1 033 562 883 202 152 876 17 Add: Finance income (iii) 17 829 123 11 670 993 11 670 993 6 158 130 53 Less: Indirect expenditure 640 602 480 910 171 523 885 655 743 245 053 263 28 Personnel costs (iv) 58 983 869 89 691 353 83 664 946 24 681 077 29 Operations general 2 060 971 3 111 513 2 629 727 568 756 22 Utility services (v) 19 048 631 37 815 882 29 908 546 10 859 915 36 Maintenance 10 885 711 13 296 602 10 736 042 (149 669) (1) Building costs (vi) 22 428 169 27 726 433 24 254 821 1 826 652 8 Office costs 3 457 565 5 437 304 4 372 710 915 145 21 Computer expenses 4 025 245 5 216 017 4 127 221 101 976 2 Advisors (vii) 2 450 748 6 043 947 5 788 424 3 337 676 58 Travel and entertainment 1 682 042 2 099 481 2 072 215 390 173 19 Marketing and corporate 10 054 244 9 090 162 9 607 847 (446 397) (5) communications Catering materials 2 048 936 3 823 085 2 875 856 826 920 29 Bad debts 1 056 904 300 000 300 000 (756 904) (252) Depreciation, amortisation and (viii) 502 419 445 702 868 281 705 317 388 202 897 943 29 impairment of assets Interest expense – 3 651 463 – – – (Loss) before taxation (427 346 001) (679 706 810) (669 599 085) 242 253 084 (36) Capital expenditure for the year ended 30 June 2018 NOTES ACTUAL ORIGINAL FINAL Favourable/ Favourable/ APPROVED APPROVED (Unfavourable) (Unfavourable) BUDGET BUDGET variance variance 2018 2018 2018 2018 R R R R % Building enhancements (i) 11 783 731 23 300 000 43 560 627 31 776 896 73 IT and electronic infrastructure (ii) 8 621 454 15 224 333 15 224 333 6 602 879 43 Kitchen enhancements 1 597 073 1 348 100 2 348 100 751 027 32 Catering furniture and equipment (iii) 3 182 533 6 110 000 6 110 000 2 927 467 48 Other capex items (iv) 90 775 257 2 000 000 108 232 802 17 457 545 16 Total capital expenditure 21.3 115 960 048 47 982 433 175 475 862 59 515 814 34 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 1. Accounting Policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including interpretations guidelines and directives issued by the Accounting Standards Board in accordance with the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003). The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis and incorporate the principal accounting policies set out below. The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies applicable to a going concern. The basis presumes that funds will be available to finance future operations and that the realisation of assets and settlement of liabilities, contingent liabilities and commitments will occur in the ordinary course of business. The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the direct method. The amount and nature of any restrictions on the cash balance are disclosed. The company does not prepare consolidated financial statements as the subsidiary is dormant and not considered material. GRAP Standards issued but not yet effective The following GRAP Standards have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the entity: Standards that have been assessed: Assessed impact Standard Description Date Effective on entity Reason for assessment IGRAP 17 Interpretation of the Standard 1 April 2019 Low The entity has not granted of GRAP on Service Concession any service concessions. Arrangements Where a Grantor Controls a Significant Residual Interest in an Asset. GRAP 18 Segment This standard establishes principles 1 April 2020 Low The entity does not have Reporting for reporting financial information by individual segments to segments. report on. IGRAP 18 Recognition Interpretation of the Standard 1 April 2019 Low The entity does not own and Derecognition of of GRAP on Recognition and land. Land Derecognition of Land. IGRAP 19 Liabilities to Pay Levies. 1 April 2019 Low The entity does not have liabilities to pay levies. GRAP 20 Related Party This standard ensures that a 1 April 2019 Medium The entity has transactions Disclosures reporting entity’s financial statements with Related Parties. The contain the disclosures necessary to entity used IPSAS 20 to draw attention to the possibility that develop its accounting its financial position and surplus or policy for Related Parties. deficit may have been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances with such parties. GRAP 32 Service Accounting for service concession 1 April 2019 Low The entity has not granted Concession arrangements by the grantor, a any service concessions. Arrangements Grantor public sector entity. GRAP 34 Separate This Standard prescribes the To be Low The entity discloses its Financial Statements accounting and disclosure determined by investments in controlled requirements for investments in the Minister of entities at cost. controlled entities, joint ventures and Finance associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements. GRAP 35 Consolidated This Standard establishes principles To be Low The entity is not required Financial Statements for the presentation and preparation determined by to present consolidated of consolidated financial statements the Minister of financial statements. when an entity controls one or more Finance other entities. 152 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report Assessed impact Standard Description Date Effective on entity Reason for assessment GRAP 36 Investments This Standard prescribes the To be Low The entity does not hold in Associates and Joint accounting for investments in determined by investments in associates Ventures associates and joint ventures and the Minister of and joint ventures. sets out the requirements for the Finance application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures. GRAP 37 Joint The Standard establishes principles To be Low The entity does not have Arrangements for financial reporting by entities that determined by joint arrangements. have an interest in arrangements the Minister of that are controlled jointly (i.e. joint Finance arrangements). GRAP 38 Disclosure of This Standard prescribes additional To be Low The only interest the entity Interests in Other disclosures by entities that have determined by has in other entities, is Entities any interests in controlled entities, the Minister of an interest in a dormant unconsolidated controlled entities, Finance company. The entity joint arrangements and associates, discloses its investment at and structured entities that are not cost. consolidated. GRAP 108 Statutory This standard prescribes the 1 April 2019 Medium The entity has a VAT Receivables accounting requirements for receivable, which meets the recognition, measurement, the definition of a statutory presentation and disclosure of receivable statutory receivables. GRAP 109 Accounting This standard prescribes the 1 April 2019 Low The entity is not a party by Principals and Agents principles to be used, to assess to a principal-agent whether an entity is party to a arrangement in terms of principal-agent arrangement. GRAP 109. GRAP 110 Living and This standard prescribes the 1 April 2020 Low The entity does not own Non-living Resources recognition, measurement, living and non-living presentation and disclosure resources. requirements for living resources and disclosure requirements for non-living resources. Where a standard of GRAP is approved as effective, it replaces the equivalent statement of International Public Sector Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Where a standard of GRAP has been issued, but is not yet in effect, an entity may select to apply the principles established in that standard in developing an appropriate accounting policy dealing with a particular section or event before applying paragraph 12 of the Standard of GRAP on Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. The significant accounting policies are set out below, and are consistent with those applied in the previous financial year. The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed in the relevant notes. In the process of applying the accounting policies, management has made the following significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions, which has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Property, plant and equipment The useful lives of assets are based on management’s estimation. Management considers the impact of technology, availability of capital funding, service requirements and required return on assets to determine the optimum useful life expectation where appropriate. The estimation of residual values of assets is also based on management’s judgement whether the assets will be sold or used to the end of their useful lives, and what their condition will be at that time. Impairment of Assets in Progress As part of the impairment calculation, management estimates the recoverable amount by calculating the value in use of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs. In arriving at the value in use, management has needed to make significant assumptions regarding future cash flows and discount rates which are disclosed in note 2.2. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 153 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.1 Basis of preparation (continued) Operating lease commitments – entity as lessor The entity has entered into commercial property leases on its property portfolio. The entity has determined that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties, and so accounts for them as operating leases. Rental is paid based on turnover rental contracts and is recognised as accrued. Impairment of trade receivables from exchange transactions The calculation in respect of the impairment of debtors is based on an assessment of the extent to which debtors have defaulted on payments already due, and an assessment of their ability to make payments based on their creditworthiness. This was performed per service-identifiable categories across all classes of debtors. Provisions and contingent liabilities Management’s judgement is required when recognising and measuring provisions, and when measuring contingent liabilities as set out in note 25. Management’s judgement is also required in the assessment for the provision of doubtful debts as set out in note 7. 1.2 Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. Costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. If a replacement cost is recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment ceases when the item is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Capital work-in-progress is carried at cost and depreciated from the date the assets are capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: 2018 2017 % % Escalators and elevators 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 16.67 Carpets/laminated flooring 16.67 – 25.00 16.67 – 25.00 Curtains/blinds 11.11 – 20.00 11.11 – 20.00 Signage 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Audiovisual 7.69 – 16.67 7.69 – 16.67 Fences and gates 6.67 – 16.67 6.67 – 16.67 Cold rooms 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Air-conditioning system 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 16.67 Sprinkler system 16.67 – 20.00 16.67 – 20.00 Auditorium seating 8.33 – 16.67 8.33 – 16.67 Building management system 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Building 2.50 – 50.00 2.50 – 50.00 Plant and equipment 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Motor vehicles 5.26 – 25.00 5.26 – 25.00 Furniture and fittings 6.67 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Kitchen and catering 5.26 – 50.00 5.26 – 50.00 Office equipment 6.25 – 50.00 6.25 – 50.00 Computer equipment 11.11 – 50.00 11.11 – 50.00 Computer software 11.11 – 50.00 11.11 – 50.00 The assets’ estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis. Repairs and maintenance are generally charged to expenses during the financial period in which they are incurred. However, major renovations are capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits of the renovation will flow to the company. Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. 154 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits or service potential are expected from its use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included in operating profit when the item is derecognised. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the item. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds the calculated recoverable amount, the asset is immediately written down to the recoverable amount. 1.3 Intangible assets An intangible asset is defined as an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance. Intangible assets are recognised initially at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortised on the straight-line basis over the useful lives of the assets. The residual value, amortisation method and useful life, if not insignificant, are reassessed annually, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. Amortisation per year Useful life of acquired software licences 33,33% Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal (including disposal through a non-exchange transaction) or when no future economic benefits or service potential are expected from its use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of a an intangible asset shall be included in surplus or deficit when the asset is derecognised. 1.4 Impairment of assets 1.4.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets Definitions Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit-orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. The CTICC consider cash-generating assets to be those assets which are used to host events, which represent the company’s core revenue stream. Impairment is a loss in the future economic benefits or service potential of an asset, over and above the systematic recognition of the loss of the asset’s future economic benefits or service potential through depreciation (amortisation). Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position after deducting any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses thereon. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets held with the primary objective of generating a commercial return that generates cash flows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income tax expense. Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life. Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less costs of disposal. Recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Useful life is either: a) The period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or b) The number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the assets by the entity. Criteria developed by the entity to distinguish cash-generating assets from non-cash-generating assets are as follows: Identification When the carrying amount of a cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. Value in use Value in use of a cash-generating asset is the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. When estimating the value in use of an asset, the entity estimates the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal and the entity applies the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 155 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.4 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.4.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets (continued) Composition of estimates of future cash flows Estimates of future cash flows include: • Projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset; • Projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset (including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the asset; and • Net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the asset at the end of its useful life. Estimates of future cash flow exclude: • Cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; and • Income tax receipts or payments. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life is the amount that the entity expects to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal. Discount rate The discount rate is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, represented by the current risk-free rate of interest and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. Recognition and measurement (individual asset) If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that is a requirement in the standard of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Redesignation The redesignation of assets from a cash-generating asset to a non-cash-generating asset or from a non-cash-generating asset to a cash-generating asset may only occur when there is clear evidence that such a redesignation is appropriate. Reversal of an impairment loss The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a cash-generating asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of that asset. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a cash-generating asset is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable service amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable service amount. The increase is a reversal of an impairment loss. The increased carrying amount of an asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating asset is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. Non-cash-generating assets are assets other than cash-generating assets. Identification When the carrying amount of a non-cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable service amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a non-cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of the asset. Recoverable service amount is the higher of a non-cash-generating asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. 156 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Value in use Value in use of an asset is the present value of the asset’s remaining service potential. The present value of the remaining service potential of an asset is determined using the following approaches: Depreciated replacement cost approach The present value of the remaining service potential of a non-cash-generating asset is determined as the depreciated replacement cost of the asset. The replacement cost of an asset is the cost to replace the asset’s gross service potential. This cost is depreciated to reflect the asset in its used condition. An asset may be replaced either through reproduction (replication) of the existing asset or through replacement of its gross service potential. The depreciated replacement cost is measured as the reproduction or replacement cost of the asset, whichever is lower, less accumulated depreciation calculated on the basis of such cost, to reflect the already consumed or expired service potential of the asset. The replacement cost and reproduction cost of an asset is determined on an “optimised” basis. The rationale is that the entity would not replace or reproduce the asset with a like asset if the asset to be replaced or reproduced is an overdesigned or overcapacity asset. Overdesigned assets contain features which are necessary for the goods or services the asset provides. Overcapacity assets are assets that have greater capacity than is necessary to meet the demand for goods or services the asset provides. The determination of the replacement cost or reproduction cost of an asset on an optimised basis thus reflects the service potential required of the asset. Recognition and measurement If the recoverable service amount of a non-cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable service amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. Any impairment loss of a revalued non-cash-generating asset is treated as a revaluation decrease. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the non-cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that is a requirement in the Standards of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge of the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Reversal of an impairment loss The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of that asset. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable service amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable service amount. The increase is a reversal of an impairment loss. The increased carrying amount of an asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss for a non-cash-generating asset is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Redesignation The redesignation of assets from a cash-generating asset to a non-cash-generating asset or from a non-cash-generating asset to a cash-generating asset may only occur when there is clear evidence that such a redesignation is appropriate. 1.5 Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the statement of financial performance on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Operating lease revenue is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 1.6 Inventories Inventories are recognised as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits or service potential associated with the item will flow to the entity and if the cost of the inventories can be measured reliably. Inventories are initially measured at cost. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the weighted average method and includes transport and handling costs. The weighted average cost is determined using a weighted average cost for the month based on the most recent month’s purchases. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. When inventories are utilised or consumed, the carrying amounts of those inventories are recognised as an expense in the period. The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value and all losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period the write-down or loss occurs. Reversals of any write-downs of inventories arising from the increase in net realisable value, are recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 157 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.7 Taxation Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Taxation is recognised in profit or loss. 1.7.1 Current taxation Current taxation comprises tax payable calculated on the basis of the estimated taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment of tax payable for previous years. An entity shall offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities if, and only if, the entity: (a) has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and (b) intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 1.7.2 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base, except to the extent that the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable surplus/deficit. The amount of deferred taxation provided is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is released or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates/laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting date. Deferred taxation is charged to profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised in net assets, in which case it is recognised in net assets, or a business combination that is an acquisition, in which case it is recognised as an adjustment to goodwill. The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited to equity. A deferred taxation asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the associated unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the tax benefit will be realised. 1.8 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. When the effect of the time value of money is material, the entity determines the level of provision by discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate reflecting the current risks specific to the liability. 1.9 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the invoiced value of sales of goods and services net of value-added tax, rebates and all discounts. Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue arising from the rendering of services is recognised when the event takes place. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable. 1.9.1 Revenue from exchange transactions Revenue from exchange transactions relate to income earned from venue rental, sale of goods and other services. Commission income is recognised for the rendering of services as an agent in accordance with the contract of hire agreements. 1.9.2 Finance income Finance income comprises interest income. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion basis, taking account of the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate over the period to maturity, when it is probable that such income will accrue to the entity. 1.10 Financial instruments The company classifies financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost and cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. 158 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial instruments at amortised cost Financial instruments at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets for maturities less than 12 months after the reporting date. Assets with maturities greater than 12 months are classified as non-current assets. Initial recognition The company recognises financial instruments in the statement of financial position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The company recognises financial assets using trade date accounting. Impairment and uncollectibility of financial assets The entity assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired. Derecognition Financial assets The entity derecognises a financial asset only when: • The contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, are settled or waived; • The entity transfers to another party substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset; or • The entity, despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, has transferred control of the asset to another party and the other party has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party, and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer. In this case, the entity: – derecognises the asset; and – recognises separately any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received is recognised in profit or loss. 1.10.1 Financial assets at amortised cost Receivables from exchange transactions Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment through the use of a separate allowance account. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of six months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial position. 1.10.2 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Payables from exchange transactions Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Client deposits Client deposits received in advance for upcoming events are recognised at amortised cost and are derecognised and accounted as revenue when the event occurs. Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancels or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 159 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.10 Financial instruments (continued) 1.10.3 Financial risk factors The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The company’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the company’s financial performance. (i) Interest rate risk The company’s cash balances are impacted by changes in market interest rates. (ii) Credit risk Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the company’s large number of customers, who are both internationally and nationally dispersed. The Company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. The Company has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and cash transactions are limited to creditworthy institutions. (iii) Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. (iv) Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 1.10.4 Fair value estimation In assessing the fair value of financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Company for similar financial instruments. 1.11 Translation of foreign currencies Transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in Rands, by applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the Rand and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. At each reporting date: (a) foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing rate; and (b) non-monetary items, which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on reporting an enterprise’s monetary items at rates different from those at which they are initially recorded during the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which they arise. 1.12 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 1.13 Employee benefits Short-term employee benefits The cost of all short-term employee benefits is recognised during the period in which the employee renders the related service. The amounts for employee entitlements to salaries, performance bonus and annual leave represent the amounts which the entity has a present obligation to pay as a result of employees’ services provided at the reporting date. The provisions have been calculated at discounted amounts based on current salary levels at the reporting date. There are no critical assumptions or judgements involved in determining the short-term employee benefits. Defined contribution plan The majority of the company’s employees are members of the defined contribution plan. A defined contribution plan is a provident fund under which the company pays fixed contributions into a trustee administered fund. The company’s contributions to the defined contribution plan are charged to the statement of financial performance in the financial year to which they relate. The company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 160 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report 1.14 Irregular expenditure Irregular expenditure is expenditure that is contrary to the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003), the Municipal Systems Act, 2000 (Act No. 32 of 2000), and the Public Office Bearers Act, 1998 (Act No. 20 of 1998), or is in contravention of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Policy. Irregular expenditure that was incurred and identified during the current financial year, which was not condoned, must be recorded appropriately in the irregular expenditure register. If liability for the irregular expenditure can be attributed to a person, a debt amount must be created if such person is liable in law. Immediate steps must thereafter be taken to recover the amount from the person concerned. If recovery is not possible, write-off of the amount must be considered. Where irregular expenditure is not condoned, it is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and classified in accordance with the nature of the expense, and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. However, the irregular purchases of assets are accounted for in the statement of financial position and will be disclosed in the financial statements as irregular expenditure. 1.15 Fruitless and wasteful expenditure Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is expenditure that was made in vain and would have been avoided had reasonable care been exercised. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. 1.16 Comparative information Comparative figures are classified or restated as necessary to afford a proper and more meaningful comparison of results as set out in the affected notes to the financial statements. Budgeted amounts have been included in the annual financial statements for the current financial year only. 1.17 Investment Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost, less impairment losses. 1.18 Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 1.19 Budget information The annual budget figures have been prepared in accordance with the GRAP Standards on an accrual basis, and are consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Board for the preparation of these financial statements. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. The amounts are scheduled as a separate additional financial statement, called the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. Explanatory comments on material differences are provided in the notes to the annual financial statements. These figures are those approved by the Board as part of the annual business plan process. Comparative information is not required for the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. The budget information is prepared for Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF). 1.20 Related parties The related party accounting policy were formulated using the definitions as noted in IPSAS 20. The Company regards a related party as a person or a company with the ability to control the company either individually or jointly, or the ability to exercise significant influence over the Company, or vice versa. Key management personnel are regarded as a related party and includes Board members, as well as other persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the reporting entity. Where they meet this requirement key management personnel include any key advisor of key management personnel, as well as the senior management group of the reporting entity. Close members of the family of an individual are close relatives of the individual or members of the individual’s immediate family who can be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that individual in their dealings with the entity. All related party transactions are disclosed. 1.21 Value-added tax (VAT) The Company accounts for VAT on an invoice basis. 1.22 Post-balance sheet events Events after the reporting date are those events, both favourable and unfavourable, that occur between the reporting date and the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue. Two types of events can be identified: (a) those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the reporting date (adjusting events after the reporting date); and (b) those that are indicative of conditions that arose after the reporting date (non-adjusting events after the reporting date). Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2018 Integrated Annual Report | 161 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment 2018 2017 Accumulated Accumulated Assets depreciation Assets depreciation in Progress and Carrying in Progress and Carrying Cost Cost** impairment value Cost Cost** impairment value R R R R R R R R Escalators 6 467 709 8 570 814 7 618 329 7 420 194 3 985 310 8 570 814 2 105 992 10 450 132 Elevators 8 838 685 12 110 254 13 859 329 7 089 610 8 588 446 11 277 107 7 324 185 12 541 368 Carpets/laminated flooring 10 161 912 8 435 000 8 756 922 9 839 990 9 242 705 6 651 558 2 826 497 13 067 766 Curtains/blinds 62 600 6 292 600 3 244 045 3 111 155 62 600 1 953 742 12 890 2 003 452 Signage 3 774 684 – 2 029 541 1 745 143 3 674 242 – 1 541 212 2 133 030 Audiovisual 9 686 230 – 8 094 061 1 592 169 8 942 424 – 7 917 836 1 024 588 Fences and gates 1 276 960 – 729 945 547 015 953 706 – 666 209 287 497 Cold rooms 3 301 547 1 550 000 3 704 775 1 146 772 3 301 547 1 550 000 2 730 733 2 120 814 Air-conditioning system 35 227 682 37 987 245 46 670 777 26 544 150 34 974 029 57 895 086 26 007 949 66 861 166 Sprinkler system 5 130 829 13 692 737 11 755 742 7 067 824 4 746 371 10 816 588 4 746 371 10 816 588 Auditorium seating 1 744 982 – 1 075 992 668 990 1 744 982 – 345 227 1 399 755 Building management system 16 761 852 – 11 813 315 4 948 537 16 808 333 – 10 451 299 6 357 034 Building 922 053 118 255 444 787 774 205 577 403 292 328 479 320 246 632 222 608 391 670 981 719 871 873 Plant and equipment 11 015 508 61 331 215 36 834 885 35 511 838 7 316 864 49 432 728 4 491 564 52 258 028 Motor vehicles 1 688 179 – 1 473 820 214 359 1 688 179 – 1 329 564 358 615 Furniture and fittings 20 520 809 – 9 570 230 10 950 579 12 326 330 – 9 114 797 3 211 533 Kitchen and catering 29 462 586 – 11 144 666 18 317 920 13 614 977 – 8 842 573 4 772 404 Office equipment 2 240 941 – 910 297 1 330 644 1 598 399 – 549 059 1 049 340 Computer equipment 27 289 296 35 248 338 32 854 614 29 683 020 21 352 049 32 210 305 9 210 215 44 352 139 Computer software* 13 171 985 – 9 752 538 3 419 447 12 785 769 – 5 972 623 6 813 146 1 129 878 094 440 662 990 996 099 400 574 441 684 647 027 509 812 580 536 497 857 776 961 750 268 * Computer software assets which form an integral part of computer equipment that were previously disclosed together with Computer equipment, have been reclassified and disclosed separately. Separately acquired software licenses are classified as intangible assets. Refer to note 3. ** Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the expansion project which is due for final technical completion during the second half of the 2019 financial year. The amount included in the depreciation/impairment column, relates to the impairment value for the year. 162 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1 Assets in progress Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre (CTICC 2). The construction project for CTICC 2 was started in 2014 and was originally due for completion in October 2016. The expected completion date of the project has been delayed numerous times and as at the reporting date, final technical completion and final works completion have not yet been achieved due to significant issues affecting the ability to operate the building in the manner intended by management. Consequently, the company has continued to recognise the costs incurred under “Assets in progress” and has not reclassified all the costs into its separate categories of property, plant and equipment. A portion of the costs (R439 200 617) was, however, capitalised and reclassified to building during the current financial period because the company was able to earn some revenue from the use of the new building after accepting deemed practical completion in September 2017. The building was also officially opened by the Mayor of Cape Town in January 2018. The portion capitalised was determined based on the rentable area of CTICC 2, considering the construction status during the year. Reclassification of the various assets within Assets in progress will be completed upon achieving final technical completion, which is expected to occur during the second half of the 2019 financial year. Given the significant delays in construction the company has assessed the asset for impairment in accordance with GRAP 26. Property, plant and equipment that is taking a significantly longer period of time to complete than expected has a cost of R440 662 990 and a carrying value of R199 200 598 (after recognition of an impairment loss of R225 371 048 (2017: Rnil). See note 2.2. The reason for the delay in completion relates to issues with general workmanship and difficulty in resolving the functionality of vertical transportation (goods lifts and escalators) between the main contractor and sub-contractor. Please also refer note 25, Contingent liabilities. The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: 2018 Carrying value at Assets in Carrying beginning of Progress Other value at end year Additions** Additions Disposals NBV Depreciation Impairment of year R R R R R R R Escalators 10 450 132 – 2 482 399 – 1 128 912 4 383 425 7 420 194 Elevators 12 541 368 833 147 250 239 – 341 521 6 193 623 7 089 610 Carpets/laminated flooring 13 067 766 1 783 442 919 207 – 1 616 460 4 313 965 9 839 990 Curtains/blinds 2 003 452 4 338 858 – – 12 891 3 218 264 3 111 155 Signage 2 133 030 – 100 442 – 488 329 – 1 745 143 Audiovisual 1 024 589 – 833 805 – 266 224 – 1 592 170 Fences and gates 287 497 – 323 254 – 63 736 – 547 015 Cold rooms 2 120 813 – – – 181 317 792 726 1 146 770 Air-conditioning system 66 861 166 (19 907 841) 253 653 – 1 234 772 19 428 056 26 544 150 Sprinkler system 10 816 588 2 876 149 384 458 – 6 408 7 002 963 7 067 824 Auditorium seating 1 399 755 – – – 730 764 – 668 991 Building management system 6 357 034 – – 417 1 408 080 – 4 948 537 Building 719 871 873 62 422 796 3 532 256 – 14 662 903 367 871 694 403 292 328 Plant and equipment 52 258 028 11 898 487 3 698 646 – 976 312 31 367 010 35 511 839 Motor vehicles 358 615 – – – 144 256 – 214 359 Furniture and fittings 3 211 534 – 9 049 982 18 104 1 292 832 – 10 950 580 Kitchen and catering 4 772 404 – 18 400 962 132 725 4 722 720 – 18 317 921 Office equipment 1 049 340 – 854 892 2 573 587 – 1 330 643 Computer equipment 44 352 138 3 038 033 6 086 952 632 5 766 193 18 027 279 29 683 019 Computer software * 6 813 146 – 636 765 – 4 030 464 – 3 419 447 961 750 268 67 283 071 47 807 912 151 880 39 648 681 462 599 006 574 441 684 None of the company’s assets are encumbered at the reporting date. * Computer software assets which form an integral part of computer equipment that were previously disclosed together with Computer equipment, have been reclassified and disclosed separately. Separately acquired software licenses are classified as intangible assets. Refer to note 3. ** Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the expansion project which is due for final technical completion during the second half of the 2019 financial year. The amount included in the depreciation/impairment column, relates to the impairment value for the year. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 163 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2017 Carrying value at Reclassification Assets in Carrying beginning of and Progress at value at end year adjustments*** end of year Additions Disposals NBV Depreciation of year R R R R R R R Escalators 1 767 485 – 8 570 814 420 699 – 308 866 10 450 132 Elevators 1 678 527 – 11 277 107 149 973 – 564 239 12 541 368 Carpets/laminated flooring 4 354 889 – 6 651 558 3 742 886 301 603 1 379 964 13 067 766 Curtains/blinds 10 267 – 1 953 742 47 000 2 267 5 290 2 003 452 Signage 2 121 357 – – 586 948 12 213 563 062 2 133 030 Audiovisual 806 522 – – 556 696 50 000 288 629 1 024 589 Fences and gates 356 308 – – 38 647 426 107 032 287 497 Cold rooms 794 458 – 1 550 000 – – 223 644 2 120 813 Air-conditioning system 10 856 894 – 57 895 086 278 388 – 2 169 202 66 861 166 Sprinkler system 10 037 – 10 816 588 – – 10 037 10 816 588 Auditorium seating 147 667 – – 1 405 382 – 153 294 1 399 755 Building management system 7 245 798 – – 852 937 44 175 1 697 526 6 357 034 Building 105 380 252 (264 584) 616 131 264 7 512 707 – 8 887 766 719 871 873 Plant and equipment 2 670 242 250 312 49 432 728 791 436 837 885 853 52 258 028 Motor vehicles 258 410 – – 64 996 – (35 209) 358 615 Furniture and fittings 2 675 437 4 739 – 1 443 212 95 975 815 880 3 211 534 Kitchen and catering 5 897 125 3 088 – 1 912 141 534 725 2 505 225 4 772 404 Office equipment 488 480 6 445 – 986 367 78 524 353 428 1 049 340 Computer equipment* 11 755 703 – 32 210 305 10 806 427 66 741 3 540 410 51 165 284 Assets in progress** 460 149 735 (796 489 192) – 336 339 458 – – – 619 425 592 (796 489 192) 796 489 192 367 936 300 1 187 486 24 424 138 961 750 268 None of the company’s assets are encumbered at the reporting date. * Computer software assets which form an integral part of computer equipment that were previously disclosed together with Computer equipment, have been reclassified and disclosed separately. Separately acquired software licences are classified as intangible assets. Refer to note 3. ** Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the expansion project which is due for practical completion during the second half of the 2019 financial year. The amount included in the depreciation/impairment column relates to the impairment value for the year. *** The reclassification relates to assets reclassified in the year between different classes of assets. Repairs and maintenance The following costs were incurred on assets to prolong the useful lives of assets: 2018 2017 R R Service providers 9 544 422 7 246 155 Materials 2 023 070 1 070 694 Total repairs and maintenance expenses 11 567 492 8 316 849 164 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 2017 R R Cost (fully depreciated property, plant and equipment) Audiovisual 986 830 986 809 Building 3 612 809 8 290 240 Building management system – 4 566 763 Carpets/laminated flooring 19 876 – Curtains/blinds 15 600 – Signage – 58 965 Sprinkler system 4 746 371 4 746 371 Air-conditioning system 114 856 140 168 Motor vehicles 3 350 – Computer equipment 540 097 294 901 Computer software 4 293 061 – Office equipment 29 709 – Furniture and fittings 5 923 892 55 917 Artwork 1 321 095 1 321 095 Plant and equipment 350 962 – Kitchen and catering 2 116 554 – 24 075 062 20 461 229 2.2 Impairment of the CTICC Building and assets in progress In line with our accounting policy for cash-generating assets, property, plant and equipment were assessed during the period for possible indicators of impairment. At the time of making the investment decision in respect of CTICC 2 it was considered that the main purpose of establishing the CTICC 2 centre would be to generate spin-off returns for Cape Town and the Western Cape economy. Consequently, it was foreseen that a significant portion of the returns on this investment would not accrue directly to the company. Nevertheless, the CTICC 2 building has been classified as a cash-generating asset, consistent with the classification of the CTICC 1 building as it is expected to contribute to the company’s main revenue streams in the event hosting business. As such, the impairment testing process applicable to cash-generating assets has been applied. The total carrying value of the CTICC 2 centre at the reporting date is included in the balances of Buildings and Assets in progress. During the review, management considered the significant delay in construction of CTICC 2 as well as the consequential delay and reduction in expected cash flows from that asset as indicators of potential impairment. During the year a portion of the CTICC 2 building cost which was included as part of Assets in progress, was capitalised. The portion capitalised was determined based on the rentable area of CTICC 2, considering the construction status during the year. Management views the Building and Assets in progress as forming part of a single cash-generating unit together with the existing CTICC building, and therefore it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount for the CTICC 2 centre as an individual asset. Management estimated the recoverable amount by calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit (being CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 combined) of R490 617 296 and comparing it to the carrying value of the relevant assets in that cash-generating unit of R953 216 302 at the date of impairment testing. Therefore the company recognised an impairment loss of R462 599 006, which was apportioned between Assets in progress (R225 371 048) and Building (R237 227 958) and has been disclosed in the Impairment line item on the Statement of Financial Performance. Consideration, methods and significant assumptions applied in arriving at the value in use (a) The main purpose of establishing the centre was to generate spin-off returns for the region. An overall increase will be experienced upon completion of CTICC 2 in the contribution to GDP through the spend of tourists/visitors attending conferences. In contrast to commercial enterprises where the full economic benefit of an asset accrues directly to the entity, a substantial portion of the benefit of CTICC 2 accrues to the hotels, restaurants, transport providers, etc., which positively impacts employment and the GDP of the City and Province. (b) Due to the restrictions imposed on the use of the facility and site, no active market exists within which the value of the centre can be determined through an arm’s length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, and as such the value in use of the centre has been used to determine whether the building’s carrying value may not be recoverable. (c) Since inception, all initial targets for the region (spin-offs) and the operation of the convention centre have consistently been exceeded and are forecast to maintain this level of performance for the foreseeable future. Despite this, the value in use of the centre can only be attributed to the present value of the future cash flows generated within the centre itself, and excludes any value which it generates for other entities or business sectors. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 165 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2.2 Impairment of the CTICC Building and Assets in progress (continued) (d) No value could be attached to the centre at the end of its useful life due to its disposal being highly unlikely with no reliable basis for measuring the disposal value. (e) The two buildings of the business as well as the remaining property, plant and equipment are considered a single cashgenerating unit for the following reasons: –– CTICC 2 does not operate independently from CTICC 1; –– the buildings are managed together as part of the event hosting business; and –– large events are hosted in a combination of venues across the two buildings. Accordingly, they are evaluated as a single cash-generating unit when testing for impairment. (f) The value in use was estimated using a discounted cash flow model which incorporated approved budget figures for a 3 year projection period. Cash flows were forecast for an additional four years assuming inflationary revenue growth of 6% for CTICC 1, and 9.7% revenue growth for CTICC 2 until it reaches a steady state of growth after seven years, in line with inflation. (g) A discount rate of 14.04% (2017: 14.2%) was used, which was calculated using the risk-free rate of the R186 bond of 8.84%, adjusted by 5.2% to take into account the company’s long-term borrowing cost of 9.55% as well as a market risk premium for uncertainty regarding timing and extent of future cash flows. Based on the value-in-use calculation, an amount of R491m (2017: R134m) was determined. The current carrying value of R954m (2017: R123m) was established for the relevant assets in that cash-generating unit. This has resulted in the recognition of an impairment loss of R463m (2017: Rnil impairment). 2.3 Revision of useful lives of property, plant and equipment During the year the company revised the estimated useful lives of certain items of property, plant and equipment. The change in estimate was necessary as these items were approaching the end of their originally assessed useful lives and management determined that the assets were still going to be in use for an extended period beyond the reporting date as a result of the good condition and maintenance of the assets. The net effect of the changes in the current year was a reduction in the depreciation charge of R7 201 152. The effect on future years will be an overall increase of the same amount over the subsequent financial years. 3. Intangible assets 2018 Accumulated Cost Amortisation Carrying value R R R Software licences 869 065 171 758 697 307 869 065 171 758 697 307 The carrying amounts of intangible assets can be reconciled as follows: Carrying value at beginning Carrying value of year Additions Amortisation at end of year R R R R 2018 Software licences – 869 065 171 758 697 307 – 869 065 171 758 697 307 4. Investment in subsidiary The Company has an investment in the following company: Unlisted 2018 2017 R R Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) 100 100 The agency agreement between Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF) (Convenco) and Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) was terminated on 30 June 2010. OPCO does not reflect any trading activities in its financial results and will be deregistered. The company is dormant and has net asset value of R100. 166 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. Deferred taxation Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the balance sheet method using a tax rate of 28%. The deferred tax balance is made up as follows: 2018 2017 R R Asset/(liability) at beginning of year 3 576 669 2 653 644 Temporary differences 125 987 322 923 025 Asset at end of year 129 563 991 3 576 669 The balance comprises of the following temporary differences: Property, plant and equipment 129 563 991 3 576 669 Asset at end of year 129 563 991 3 576 669 6. Inventories 2018 2017 R R Food 392 618 311 756 Beverage 655 457 589 970 Consumables 498 679 228 679 Chemicals 44 683 67 760 Total 1 591 437 1 198 165 7. Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions Restated 2018 2017 R R Trade receivables 10 491 660 2 166 251 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (1 078 052) (190 094) Trade receivables from exchange transactions – net 9 413 608 1 976 157 Prepayments 3 389 280 1 721 611 South African Revenue Services: VAT 5 686 232 8 498 604 Interest receivable (refer to note 16.4 for details of restatement) 1 202 884 1 202 885 Other receivables 104 326 38 417 Total 19 796 330 13 437 674 Trade receivables ageing Current (0 – 30 days) 3 011 293 1 553 358 31 – 60 days 594 938 117 116 61 – 90 days 245 274 286 776 91 – 120 days 183 417 42 840 + 120 days 6 456 738 166 161 Total 10 491 660 2 166 251 Provision for impairment (1 078 052) (190 094) Trade receivables – net 9 413 608 1 976 157 Trade receivables past due and not impaired 61 90 days 53 405 17 725 91 120 days 183 419 1 183 Total 236 824 18 908 Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 167 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 7. Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions (continued) Trade receivables past due are assessed on an individual basis and provisions are raised based on management’s judgement. The amount due from the City of Cape Town relates to costs incurred on behalf of the City relating to the basement expansion. A provision for bad debts has been raised against the amount outstanding of R1 067 989 due to the CTICC as they expect a delay in receiving the payment due to the amount being disputed by the City. Therefore, the amount has been discounted to account for the time value of money. The carrying value of these trade receivables is denominated in the following currency: South African Rand. Restated 2018 2017 R R Provision for impairment of trade receivables Opening balance (190 094) (4 052) Additional provision (1 078 052) (190 094) Unused amounts reversed 190 094 4 052 Closing balance (1 078 052) (190 094) The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. The Company does not hold any collateral as security. 8. Contribution from owners Authorised share capital 10 000 000 “A” ordinary shares of no par value 1 000 000 “B” ordinary shares of no par value 2018 2017 Number of Stated Number of Stated Issued and fully paid ordinary shares shares capital shares capital R R Opening Balance 259 966 1 277 427 701 204 823 1 084 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 245 966 1 137 788 000 190 823 944 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 Movements – – 55 143 193 000 000 Share issue – “A” ordinary shares (1 July 2016) – – 17 143 60 000 000 Share issue – “A” ordinary shares (15 August 2016) – – 18 714 65 500 000 Share issue – “A” ordinary shares (30 August 2016) – – 7 143 25 000 000 Share issue – “A” ordinary shares (17 October 2016) – – 10 714 37 500 000 Share issue – “A” ordinary shares (14 December 2016) – – 1 429 5 000 000 Closing balance 259 966 1 277 427 701 259 966 1 277 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 245 966 1 137 788 000 245 966 1 137 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 9. Client deposits 2018 2017 R R 0 – 1 year 26 325 314 19 105 075 > 1 year 1 837 530 582 224 Total 28 162 844 19 687 299 Client deposits are received in advance for upcoming events. Client deposits are paid back to clients if an event is cancelled and an event cancellation fee is payable by the client. As an event can be cancelled at any point in time, the total balance of client deposits is disclosed as current liabilities. 168 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10. Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 2018 2017 R R Trade payables 28 237 026 16 617 314 Accruals 43 415 716 39 558 266 Sundry payables 167 608 223 733 Total 71 820 350 56 399 313 The carrying amount of trade and other payables is stated at amortised cost, but due to the short-term nature of trade payables, amortised cost and cost is the same. The carrying value of these trade payables is denominated in the following currency: South African Rand 28 237 026 16 617 314 11. Provisions 2018 2017 R R Performance bonus provision Opening balance 4 959 809 3 537 828 Additional provisions 4 723 383 4 959 809 Prior year provision utilised (4 959 809) (3 537 828) Closing balance 4 723 383 4 959 809 Performance bonuses accrue to staff on an annual basis based on the achievement of predetermined performance. The provision is an estimate of the amount due to staff in the service of the Company at reporting date. 12. Operating (loss)/profit 2018 2017 R R Operating (loss)/profit is stated after: Other Income Insurance recovered (309 348) (32 307) Rental income Vexicure Proprietary Ltd t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited (4 495 129) (4 691 419) Expenditure Auditors’ remuneration – audit fee 1 050 311 1 173 089 Loss on foreign exchange 7 697 5 553 Depreciation (property, plant and equipment) 39 648 681 24 424 138 Amortisation 171 758 – Impairment – Property, plant and equipment 462 599 006 – Repairs and maintenance on property, plant and equipment 11 567 492 8 316 849 13. Revenue from exchange transactions 2018 2017 R R Commissions 21 177 117 19 641 511 Parking 13 970 075 13 421 688 Sales 203 727 404 177 489 047 Total 238 874 596 210 552 246 Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 169 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 14.1 Finance income and costs 2018 2017 R R Finance income (earned in respect of cash and cash equivalents) 17 829 123 28 824 690 Finance cost (finance costs incurred to financial institutions) – (3 016) Net finance income 17 829 123 28 821 674 14.2 Other income 2018 2017 R R Turnover rental 4 495 129 4 691 419 Sundry income 2 974 195 404 251 Total 7 469 324 5 095 670 15. Taxation 15.1 South African normal taxation 2018 2017 R R Current year 8 397 213 14 906 133 Deferred taxation (refer note 5) (125 987 322) (923 025) Taxation (117 590 109) 13 983 108 15.2 Reconciliation of effective tax 2018 2017 R R (Loss)/Profit before taxation (427 346 001) 57 459 520 Tax at statutory rate (28%) (119 656 880) 16 088 666 Permanent differences 2 066 771 (2 105 558) Effective tax (117 590 109) 13 983 108 16. Notes to the cash flow statement 16.1 Cash generated from operations 2018 2017 R R (Loss)/Profit before taxation (427 346 001) 57 459 520 Adjustment for: Depreciation and amortisation 39 820 439 24 424 138 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 462 599 006 – Finance income (17 829 123) (28 824 690) Asset write-off 151 880 1 187 609 Finance costs – 3 016 (Decrease)/Increase in provision for bonuses (236 426) 1 421 981 Increase in provision for impairment of receivables from exchange transactions 887 958 186 042 58 047 733 55 857 616 Movements in working capital Decrease/(increase) in inventories (393 272) 61 647 Decrease/(increase) in receivables (7 246 614) 5 649 882 (Decrease)/increase in payables 23 896 582 (25 006 568) 74 304 429 36 562 577 170 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.2 Taxation paid 2018 2017 R R Balance at beginning of year (3 002 222) 1 446 298 Current taxation charged to income statement 8 397 213 14 906 133 Balance at end of year (1 993 475) 3 002 222 3 401 516 19 354 653 16.3 Cash and cash equivalents Restated 2018 2017 R R Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and balance with banks. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following balance sheet amounts: Current accounts 6 138 316 14 140 677 Call and investment accounts 217 475 159 236 683 980 Petty cash 5 500 5 500 Cash float 132 500 130 500 Cash on hand 5 395 24 225 Cash and cash equivalents 223 756 870 250 984 882 The following bank and investment accounts were held by the entity: Nedbank – Current Account (Acc Number: 1232043850) 752 804 462 760 Nedbank – Call Deposit Account (Acc number: 03/7881544007/000105) 18 849 17 758 ABSA Bank – Current C (Acc Number: 4072900553) 1 253 490 8 638 605 ABSA Bank – CTICC East – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900228) 966 979 2 644 927 ABSA Bank – Exh Serv – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900731) 642 085 23 645 ABSA Bank – Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073731246) 71 479 68 295 ABSA Bank – Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073733701) 2 451 479 2 302 446 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4074708347) 14 407 371 39 546 307 First National Bank – RMB Investment Account (Acc Number: 00 506 190 167 40) 14 830 872 13 799 821 Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 551436367) 27 739 151 2 535 600 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (462097) 1008645) 37 715 476 34 939 933 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4083941322) 2 507 924 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (1800167964) 8319631) 28 404 622 48 010 184 Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 Account (Acc Number: (1452-027-900) 8319631) 35 082 376 17 142 909 ABSA Bank – Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 9295637051) 709 231 402 ABSA Bank – CTICC Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 09316676360) 13 564 704 35 069 758 ABSA Bank – Guarantee Account (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 43939765) 45 000 000 45 620 383 Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 171 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 16. Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 16.4 Restatement of prior period error Following the identification of an error by the auditors, management decided to restate the prior year comparatives in respect of cash and cash equivalents and interest receivable. In the prior year interest receivable on bank and investment accounts was incorrectly classified as part of cash and cash equivalents. These amounts have now been reclassified and reflected under trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions. The correction for each of the financial statement line items and notes affected are disclosed below. Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2017 As previously Correction Restated reported of error R R R Current accounts 14 140 677 – 14 140 677 Call and investment accounts 237 886 865 (1 202 885) 236 683 980 Petty cash 5 500 – 5 500 Cash float 130 500 – 130 500 Cash on hand 24 225 – 24 225 Cash and cash equivalents 252 187 767 (1 202 885) 250 984 882 The following bank and investment accounts were held by the entity: Nedbank – Current Account (Acc Number: 1232043850) 462 760 – 462 760 Nedbank – Call Deposit Account (Acc number: 03/7881544007/000105) 17 758 – 17 758 ABSA Bank – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900553) 8 638 605 – 8 638 605 ABSA Bank – CTICC East – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900228) 2 644 927 – 2 644 927 ABSA Bank – Exh Serv – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900731) 23 645 – 23 645 ABSA Bank – Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073731246) 68 295 – 68 295 ABSA Bank – Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073733701) 2 302 446 – 2 302 446 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4074708347) 39 622 400 (76 093) 39 546 307 First National Bank – RMB Investment Account (Acc Number: 00 506 190 167 40) 13 799 821 – 13 799 821 Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 551436367) 2 751 458 (215 858) 2 535 600 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (462097) 1008645) 35 163 486 (223 553) 34 939 933 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4083941322) 924 – 924 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (1800167964) 8319631) 48 356 444 (346 260) 48 010 184 Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 Account (Acc Number: (1452-027-900) 8319631) 17 254 760 (111 851) 17 142 909 ABSA Bank – Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 9295637051) 402 – 402 ABSA Bank – CTICC Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 09316676360) 35 299 028 (229 270) 35 069 758 ABSA Bank – Guarantee Account (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 43939765) 45 620 383 – 45 620 383 252 027 542 (1 202 885) 250 824 657 Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions Interest receivable – 1 202 885 1 202 885 Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 12 234 789 1 202 885 13 437 674 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Cash flow from operating activities Finance income received 28 824 690 (1 202 885) 27 621 805 172 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17. Expenses by nature 2018 2017 R R Depreciation 39 648 681 24 424 138 Amortisation 171 758 – Impairment of property, plant and equipment 462 599 006 – Employee-related costs (note 19) 57 477 767 55 545 476 Cost of sales 29 891 260 23 161 868 Marketing and advertising costs 10 263 749 6 262 378 Other expenses 91 638 582 77 619 225 Total cost of sales and operating expenses 691 519 045 187 013 085 18. Related parties 18.1 Holding company The company is controlled by the City of Cape Town, which owns 71.4% (2017: 71.4%) of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Western Cape Government, which owns 23.2% (2017: 23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd, which owns 5.4% (2017: 5.4%). The City of Cape Town has leased the land on which the convention centre is built to the Company for a period of 99 years at a cost of R100 per annum. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. 2018 2017 R R Related party transactions – City of Cape Town Rates and taxes 3 000 320 4 803 877 Electricity 13 642 596 11 289 706 Water 1 566 735 1 252 082 Lease P1 Parking (including refuse, sewerage, rates and water) 3 466 277 3 334 774 Related party transactions – Other Y-Waste Solutions CC* 10 400 – Related Party Balances Amounts owing to City of Cape Town 948 194 3 125 889 Amounts due by City of Cape Town** 6 404 715 – * Waste management service supplier where the manager’s spouse (SW Fourie) is a Non-executive Director and in the service of the State (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism). ** The amount due from the City of Cape Town relates to costs incurred on behalf of the City relating to the basement expansion. A provision for bad debts has been raised against the amount outstanding of R1 067 989 due to the CTICC as they expect a delay in receiving the payment due to the amount being disputed by the City. Therefore, the amount has been discounted to account for the time value of money. 18.2 Subsidiary The Company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 173 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 18. Related parties (continued) 18.3 Director’s remuneration 2018 2017 R R Non-executive Directors’ remuneration AA Mahmood 24 645 49 606 AM Boraine 22 228 91 634 BJ Lodewyk 56 977 87 506 EL Hamman 67 446 80 404 RSH Eksteen – 44 972 S Myburgh-De Gois 59 100 60 490 DA Cloete 72 390 80 819 HV Ntoi 75 096 52 754 S Sibanda – 29 595 CK Zama 34 777 – JC Fraser 46 504 – Executive directors do not receive any directors’ fees. Executive Directors’ remuneration CEO’s remuneration Basic salary 2 136 871 1 996 632 Bonus and performance-related payments 287 656 271 373 Total 2 424 527 2 268 005 Grand total 2 883 690 2 845 785 Key management remuneration Basic salary 5 335 760 5 092 358 Bonus and performance-related payments 683 961 527 413 Total 6 019 721 5 619 771 Number of key management personnel 4 4 19. Employee-related costs 2018 2017 R R Salaries and wages 45 195 471 41 914 986 Contributions for UIF, WCA, medical aid, etc. 3 936 000 3 587 172 Provident fund 4 014 334 3 661 245 Overtime 651 773 1 002 287 Performance bonus* 2 513 351 3 625 124 Other: staff transport and health and safety costs 1 166 838 1 754 662 Total employee-related costs 57 477 767 55 545 476 Number of employees 182 184 * During the financial year ending 30 June 2017, an amendment to the bonus policy was approved by the board. The amendment affects the timing of the payment of bonuses. 174 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. Operating leases 20.1 Lessee 1 year 2 – 5 years Over 5 years 2018 R R R Future minimum lease payments (including VAT) 2 992 747 13 185 503 181 003 226 2017 Future minimum lease payments (including VAT) 3 006 885 13 943 140 301 532 298 In accordance with the lease agreements from the City of Cape Town, the increases in lease payments are negotiated periodically. Management has estimated the value of future minimum lease payment using the historical trend of increase percentages. Therefore, this estimate may change significantly from year to year. Future minimum lease payments for the operating leases relate to the following leases: 1. City of Cape Town – 99-year lease of land, remaining term 82 years 5 months. 2. City of Cape Town – 50-year lease of P1 Parking garage, remaining term 33 years 3 months. 3. City of Cape Town – 30-year lease Erf 270, option to renew, remaining term 24 years 20.2 Lessor The Company receives rental income from Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited, which is a percentage based on turnover. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. Total rental income received for the period was R4 495 129 (2017: R 4 691 419). 21. Budget information 21.1 Explanation of variances between approved and final budget amounts The budget is approved on an accrual basis by nature classification. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. Both the budget and the accounting figures are prepared on the same basis. The variances between the approved and final budgets are mainly due to the adjustment of: • A decrease in revenue to account for the delayed practical completion of phase 1 of the expansion project of CTICC 2; and • A decrease in interest expense as the Company no longer required a loan to finance a portion of the expansion project. The reasons mentioned above resulted in an overall decrease in revenue and costs between the approved and final budget amounts. 21.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1m: Final budget and actual amounts Statement of financial performance (i) Direct personnel (R8 024 411 – over) The Company had envisaged permanently employing staff previously provided through its labour brokers. As a result of labour relations and basic conditions of employment matters, this migration from direct to indirect personnel costs has been deferred. Therefore, direct personnel costs were higher than budgeted in the current period. (ii) Parking costs (R2 265 693 – under) Parking costs include all costs associated with the parking areas. Due to the delay in the construction of CTICC 2, this had the effect that not all the parking garages were functional. Therefore parking costs (e.g. security, cleaning and ticket costs) were lower than expected. (iii) Finance income (R6 158 130 – over) Due to steady interest earned from favourable cash balances, finance income was more than budgeted due to the delay in completion of CTICC 2, which resulted in higher than budgeted bank balances throughout the period and therefore a resulting increase in finance income. (iv) Personnel cost (R24 681 077 – under) The Company had envisaged permanently employing staff previously provided through its labour brokers. As a result of labour relations and basic conditions of employment matters, this migration from direct to indirect personnel costs has been deferred. (v) Utility services (R10 859 915 – under) Utility services were lower during the current period, mainly due to water savings as a result of the drought and a delay in CTICC 2 construction. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 175 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 21. Budget Information (continued) 21.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1m: Final budget and actual amounts (continued) (vi) Building cost (R1 826 652 – under) Building costs were marginally lower based on savings achieved with certain suppliers, as well as due to the fact that CTICC 2 was not fully operational as intended in the current financial period. (vii) Advisors (R3 337 676 – under) During the current financial period, the CTICC made use of more cost-effective service providers and had less legal expenses due to fewer services required. (viii) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment asset (R202 897 943 – under) The initial amount per the budget relating to the impairment expected for the current period was significantly higher than the value-in-use calculation performed at the end of the year. Refer to note 2 for more details. 21.3 Explanation of variances greater than 10% and greater than R2m: Final budget and actual amounts Capital expenditure 89% of capital expenditure projects were either complete or in progress as at year end. (i) Building Enhancements (R31 776 896 – under) Certain projects were delayed in the current financial year, due to availability of the venues being occupied by the contractor to complete work orders, as well as the availability of resources due to the expansion of CTICC 2. These costs were carried over to the 2018/2019 financial period. (ii) IT and electronic infrastructure (R6 602 879 – under) Venue availability due to venues being occupied by the contractor to complete work orders, savings relating to decreased costs incurred and a delay in CTICC 2 completion for AV installation. Three boardroom upgrades will be performed in the subsequent period due to the delay in CTICC 2 completion. (iii) Catering furniture and equipment (R2 927 467 – under) Old Pier Café refurbishment which was pushed out to the 2018/2019 financial period as the project did not commence. (iv) Other capex items (R17 457 545 – under) The unspent capital expenses relate to the timing of expenditure on the CTICC 2 expansion programme delays and revamping of CTICC 1. Capital expenditure relates to the operation and has no impact on service delivery. 21.4 Revenue and other income reconciliation Classification of certain income and expenditure differs in instances from the statement of financial performance compared to statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. 2018 R Revenue per the statement of financial performance 238 874 596 Other income per statement of financial performance 7 469 324 246 343 920 Revenue per the statement of comparison to budget 205 009 496 Other income per statement of comparison to budget 41 334 424 246 343 920 Cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales per the statement of financial performance 29 891 260 Expenses per the statement of financial performance Operating expenses 199 028 778 Impairment 462 599 006 691 519 044 Finance costs included in indirect expenditure – Direct costs per the statement of comparison to budget 50 916 564 Indirect costs per statement of comparison to budget 640 602 480 691 519 044 176 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22. Financial instruments 22.1 Risk management Foreign exchange risk The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Euro and British Pound. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities. The company has no exposure to foreign exchange risk on its revenues as all its invoicing, including invoicing to foreign clients is denominated in South African Rands. Limited foreign exchange risk exposure arises from payments to third parties denominated in foreign currency, which includes membership fees, advertising and marketing spend, and conference attendance costs. Payments denominated in foreign currency are limited and therefore the company’s risk exposure is minimal. Market risk The company’s activities expose it primarily to risks of fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate risk The company’s interest rate profile consists of fixed and floating rate bank balances which expose the Company to fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest risk. The Company manages interest rate risk in terms of the Municipal Investment Regulations Interest rate sensitivity risk The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the financial instruments’ exposure to interest rates at reporting date. A sensitivity analysis shows reasonable expected change in the interest rate, either an increase or decrease in the interest rate percentage. The equal but opposite 1% adjustment to the interest rate would result in an equal but opposite effect on net surplus and therefore has not been disclosed separately. 2018 2017 R R Cash and cash equivalents 223 756 870 252 187 767 Increase/Decrease in interest rates 1% 1% Net surplus (post-tax) 1 611 049 1 815 752 Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligation, and arises principally from the company’s customers. The company’s policy is to receive the majority of payment upfront from customers. Any outstanding balances is managed through frequent communications with customers. Due to the nature of the business, a majority of the outstanding amounts are with customers with whom the Company has dealt with previously and who have not defaulted in the past. Financial assets, which potentially subject the entity to credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. The company’s cash and cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality financial institutions. Credit Risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the credit approval processes. Credit quality of trade and other receivables The following represents the credit quality of the trade receivables: 2018 2017 R R Key accounts customers 3 436 951 1 713 962 Other accounts customers 639 931 262 195 High risk customers 10 063 190 094 Related party recoverable* 6 404 715 – 10 491 660 2 166 251 The Company believes that no further impairment is necessary on trade receivables as reflected in note 6. * The related party recoverable balance is due from the City of Cape Town relating to the second basement of the expansion. This amount has been assessed for recoverability and a provision of R1 067 989 was raised to account for the time value of money as the CTICC believes that this amount will be recovered within the next 24 months. Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 177 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 22. Financial instruments (continued) 22.1 Risk management (continued) Liquidity risk The liquidity risk is the risk that the company will not have sufficient financial resources to meet all obligations as they fall due, or will have to do so at excessive cost. This risk can arise from mismatches in the timing of cash flows from revenue inflows and capital and operational outflows. The entity manages liquidity risk through an ongoing review of its future commitments and available resources by preparing regular cash flow forecasts. The Company ensures that adequate funds are available to meet its expected and unexpected financial commitments, through effective working capital management. The following table provides details of the company’s remaining contractual liability for its financial liabilities. Less than 2 – 6 months greater than Total 1 month 6 months R R R R 2018 Client deposits 7 941 433 16 982 942 3 238 469 28 162 844 Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 17 854 717 53 965 633 – 71 820 350 25 796 150 70 948 575 3 238 469 99 983 194 2017 Client deposits 4 611 570 8 643 350 6 432 379 19 687 299 Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 16 088 691 40 310 622 – 56 399 313 20 700 261 48 953 972 6 432 379 76 086 612 Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings and trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions, as shown in the statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as net assets, shown in the statement of financial position, plus net debt. The gearing ratios as at 30 June 2018 and at 30 June 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 R R Cash and cash equivalents 223 756 870 252 187 767 Less: Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions (71 820 350) (56 399 313) Net cash 151 936 520 195 788 454 Total equity 691 211 147 957 115 104 Total capital 843 147 667 1 152 903 558 Gearing ratio 18% 17% 178 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.2 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied below: 2018 FINANCIAL ASSET MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 9 517 934 Cash and cash equivalents 223 756 870 FINANCIAL LIABILITY MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Liabilities per financial position R Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 71 820 350 Client deposits 28 162 844 2017 FINANCIAL ASSET MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 2 014 573 Cash and cash equivalents 250 984 882 FINANCIAL LIABILITY MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Liabilities per financial position R Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 56 399 313 Client deposits 19 687 299 23. Supply chain management regulations 23.1 Deviations In terms of section 36 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Regulations and the CTICC Supply Chain Management Policy, the CEO may ratify any minor breaches of the procurement process. 2018 R Total deviations for the year amounted to R13 688 285 Listed below are material deviations: Incident Exceptional/Impractical cases 6 695 135 Sole/Single provider 1 256 568 Emergency situation 2 281 448 Minor breaches 3 437 134 Works of art 18 000 13 688 285 Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 179 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) 23. Supply chain management regulations (continued) 23.1 Deviations (continued) 2017 R Total deviations for the year amounted to R17 501 216 Listed below are material deviations: Incident Exceptional/Impractical cases 3 949 507 Sole/Single provider 6 403 606 Emergency situation 569 511 Minor breaches 6 578 592 17 501 216 23.2 According to section 45 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Policy, disclosure needs to be given of awards to close family members of persons in the service of the state, in compliance with the provisions of CTICC’s Supply Chain Management Policy. Appointment of food waste management services was awarded to Y-Waste Solutions CC (non-VAT vendor). The manager’s spouse (SW Fourie) is in service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and a Non-executive Director of the Company. The amount of the award in 2018 was R10 400 (2017: R0) Tender CTICC024/2014: Appointment of upgrade P1 Parkade renovation was awarded to Exeo Khokela Civil Engineering (Pty) Ltd. The director’s child (T Meyer) is in service of the state (Educator: Western Cape Education Department). The amount of the award in 2018 was R0 (2017: R237 908). AT Catering t/a 3 Peas was appointed onto the panel for the supply and delivery of Fresh and Prepared Fruit and Vegetables (CTICC027/2016). The director’s spouse (Mrs M Brink) is in service of the state as a doctor at the Red Cross Hospital. The amount of award in 2018 was R0 (2017: R838 842). Tender CTICC010/2016: Professional services – Upgrading of Existing Generating System was awarded to SMEC. The spouse (Mrs Y Phosa) of the chairperson of SMEC’s board of directors, is in the service of the state as Chairperson – Parliament Committee of Higher Education and Training. The amount of the award in 2018 was R0 (2017: R296 823). 24. Capital commitments 2018 2017 R R Commitments in respect of capital expenditure CATEGORY Other capex items 27 738 154 112 799 734 Total capital commitments 27 738 154 112 799 734 25. Contingent liabilities The CTICC is subject to various claims which have arisen from the expansion project brought about by the Principal Building Contractor and other professional services consultants. The company is also expecting to incur legal fees in the process of responding to these claims. The claims that will be dealt with in the next financial year do not represent a financial risk to the CTICC as the CTICC is seeking to recover monies already paid. Claims which will be dealt with beyond the next financial year as well as any related legal fees are not quantifiable at this time. 26. Events subsequent to year-end The directors are unaware of any events after the reporting date that would materially alter the amounts or disclosure in these annual financial statements. 180 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a t io n al Co n ven t io n Cen t re | 2 0 1 8 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE INFORMATION as at 30 June 2018 Country of incorporation and domicile South Africa Registration number 1999/007837/30 Nature of business and principal activities Convention centre hosting conferences, exhibitions, trade shows and special events Directors HV Ntoi JM Ellingson S Myburgh-De Gois SW Fourie EI Hamman DA Cloete JC Fraser CK Zama Presentation currency South African Rands (“R”) Registered and business address Convention Square 1 Lower Long Street Cape Town 8001 Western Cape Postal address PO Box 8120 Roggebaai Cape Town 8012 Western Cape Company Secretary Kilgetty Statutory Services (Pty) Ltd Preparer of annual financial statements Prepared under the supervision of the Accounting Officer, Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC LTD (RF) Bankers Nedbank ABSA Bank First National Bank Stanlib Investec Shareholding City of Cape Town (71.4%) Western Cape Provincial Government (23.2%) SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (5.4%) Cape Town I nter nati onal C onventi on Centre | 2018 I ntegrated Annual R ep or t | 181 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX No. Principle Met Page reference 1 Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of 2-3, 14-16, 67-69, internationally proclaimed human rights. 86-91 2 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights 89 abuses. 3 Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 87 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 87 compulsory labour. 5 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 87 6 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 2-3, 14-16, 67-69, of employment and occupation. 86-91 7 Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 101, 102, 104 environmental challenges. 8 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 3, 8, 16-17, 26-28, environmental responsibility. 58, 83-84, 100-109 9 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 70, 102, 104, 106 environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 111, 114 extortion and bribery. 182 | C ap e T o wn I n t ernat ional Conv ent ion Cent re | 2018 I ntegrated Annual Report Connecting the world to the CTICC CTICC 1 Convention Square, 1 Lower Long Street, Cape Town 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: -33.915141°, 18.425657° CTICC 2 Corner of Heerengracht & Rua Bartholomeu Dias, Foreshore, Cape Town 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: -33.91747°, 18.42908° Tel: +27 21 410 5000 | Fax +27 21 410 5001 info@cticc.co.za | www.cticc.co.za facebook.com/CTICC @CTICC_Official official_cticc cape town international convention centre This report is printed on Gallerie, a recyclable, biodegradable and acid-free paper, which has been produced from certified and sustainable raw materials. Gallerie’s environmental credentials include being endorsed by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
