S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Contents CEO and MD's Address 04 Report Contour 06 Company Proﬁle 09 Corporate Governance 16 Sustainable Business 23 Care for People 29 Care for Environment 34 Occupational Health & Safety 40 Economic Performance 44 Care for Customers 47 Care for Community 55 GRI EUSS Content Index 61 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Index 65 Assurance Statement 66 Annexures 70 Abbreviations 72 Feedback Form 73 CEO & MD’s Address Dear Stakeholders, The power sector in India continues to face challenges due to curtailed power demand from It is my pleasure to present to you Tata Power ﬁnancially weak Discoms. Recent initiatives like Company Limited’s Seventh Sustainability UDAY (Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana) is likely R e p o r t f o r 2 0 1 5 1 6 . We c o n t i n u e o u r to support the demand side reforms. Another sustainability journey guided by our values and notable initiative from Government is fuel sector steered by ‘Leadership with Care’. This report reform, emphasis on renewable energy capacity presents progress made on the material aspects addition under the Intended Nationally including challenges faced and lessons learned. Determined Contribution (INDC), competitive The report is prepared according to the Global tariﬀ for solar projects and Make in India Repor ting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines programme that could revive the power (including the Electrical Utility Sector disclosure) demand. The company is strengthening its with conformance to the ‘In accordanceComprehensive-level’ and as per AA1000 international presence in select geographies Accountability Principles Standard 2008. through partnerships, investment and services for key projects. The company continues to show great resilience and promise in successfully navigating geoThe company’s strategy aims at sustainable political and economic challenges through its proﬁtable growth across generation, foresight, prudence, breadth of its value chain, transmission, distribution and value added operational expertise, growing global footprint services leveraging electricity trading, open and customer focus. access, rooftop solar, solar EPC and defence. The 04 company continues to focus on renewable of each of its employees, contractors, customers energy as a thrust area and targets capacity and the communities in which it operates. A addition in line with the India's Intended Safety Management System (SMS) is in place to Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC). ensure that both employees and contractors The company has announced strategic intent, to adhere to good safety practices and procedures have 30-40% share of total generation capacity at all times. The routine health checks are from non-fossil fuel sources (including hydro conducted to monitor occupation related power) by 2025. illness/diseases. The company continues to grow sustainably The collective eﬀorts from the employees and with strict compliance to applicable management are recognised by various awards environmental regulations, progressive with notable few being World's Most Ethical biodiversity initiatives, responsible ash Company by Ethisphere Institute, National utilisation or disposal, health and safety, product Energy Conservation Awards for Discoms, stewardship. The company continues to monitor Sustainable Plus Platinum by Confederation of environmental emissions and improve the Indian Industry, Portzer Prize for Excellence for generation eﬃciency. To address water resource Corporate Integration & Governance and many challenges, company has taken up many studies prestigious awards at the plant level. and programs to lower or maintain the speciﬁc water consumption at its major power We continue our sustainability journey from generation stations. The company also monitors where we left oﬀ last year. As you will see in the all categories of waste and disposes it through report, we have made signiﬁcant progress in a lot appropriate authorised vendors. of initiatives in the area of Sustainability. Our sustainability roadmap over the next three years The company has taken many initiatives in will focus on the expectations of our key customer service and product stewardship. The stakeholders including our employees and have initiatives include, customer awareness and deﬁned strategies to be more economically, training through various programs such as Club socially and environmentally beneﬁcial and Enerji, NGO partnerships, customer camps, on impacting the triple bottom line. demand energy audits, participation and encouragement to customers for joining The report will provide you with accounts of Domestic Eﬃcient Lighting Program (DELP) etc. actions taken by us along with results achieved. I The company has also adopted many digital also encourage you to give us your feedback on initiatives from Personal Digital Assistant for the report, and share your kind views, which will meter data collection, e-billing, electronic help us improve. payments, feedback tabs to 24x7 customer care call centre. Many other initiatives in transmission With best regards, and distribution continue to reduce time to attend to complaints, and lower power supply interruptions. In Mumbai, company remains the lowest cost power supplier to the lower income Anil Sardana families with sub 300 units per month CEO & Managing Director consumption. Our employees continue to be main pillar for delivering on company's vision. Company has devised need based trainings post detailed assessments, implemented state-of– the-art and innovative safety measures across its operations. At Tata Power, maintaining high safety standards at all its stations is of signiﬁcant importance, as it is committed to protecting the health and safety 05 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Report Contour Tata Power always strives to deliver the best to all its The report presents the progress made towards addressing stakeholders with the highest ethical practices. The the material issues, requirements of the National Voluntary company has successfully overcome geo-political and Guidelines on Social, Environmental, and Economic economic challenges with great resilience. The company is responsibilities of Business (NVG-SEE) of Ministry of progressing towards improving the breadth of its supply Corporate Aﬀairs, Business Responsibility Reporting (BRR) chain, operational excellence and expanding international by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Carbon footprint without compromising on the customer focus. Disclosure Project (CDP) UK, United Nation Global Compact The Company has adopted the GRI G4 Guidelines (UNGC), Schedule VII of The Companies Act 2013, for the Sustainability Report 2015-16 and was and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the among the early adopters of these new guidelines United Nations. The Sustainability Report is in the India post its launch. This is the seventh brought out in addition to CSR Annual Report and Sustainability Report and the last Sustainability Tata Power Community Development Trust Report was published in January 2016. The details ( TPCDT ) Annual Repor t, accessible at on the purpose, reporting period, scope and w w w. t a t a p o we r. c o m a n d w w w. t p c d t . o r g boundary, methodology and scope limitations of respectively. the report are provided in the next sections. Report Scope and Boundary Purpose The Report is speciﬁc to the Indian operations of Tata Power’s Sustainability Report is published Tata Power, viz. Generation, Transmission and annually for the company's stakeholders with an Distribution of power. These includes seven intent to provide account of economic, social, generating stations namely Trombay; Coastal governance and environmental value delivered to Gujarat Power Limited (CGPL), Mundra; Maithon diﬀerent stakeholders groups and a cross-sectional view of the business regarding able governance ` Power limited (MPL), Maithon; Jojobera; Haldia; Industrial Energy Limited (IEL), Jamshedpur (Plant and sustainability practices. 5 and Power House 6) and 3 generating stations (Hydro), namely Khopoli, Bhira and Bhivpuri. Reporting Period However, the wind and solar generation are not in The reporting period for this report is April 1, 2015 the scope of the report. Like last year, Strategic to March 31, 2016. Tata Power has aligned the report in Engineering Division (SED) continues to be part of the accordance with the G4 reporting framework of GRI and reporting boundary whereas Chemical Trombay Terminal Electric Utility Sector Supplement (EUSS). To ensure Limited (CTTL) which was a 100% subsidiary underwent transparency and to showcase the best practices in Tata merger with Tata Power and therefore not reported Power, it was decided to adopt the ‘in accordance separately. There have been no signiﬁcant changes in the Comprehensive level’ of disclosure of the G4 Guidelines. structure or ownership, data measurement method, etc. An in-house team has worked exhaustively to create during the reporting period. Therefore, the reporting basis reporting process, review mechanism, collection, and does not contain any change, nor aﬀects the assimilation of data. comparability principle. 06 Report Scope Limitations This Report excludes all International Operations, Joint Ventures (JV), Associates and Upcoming projects. The table below presents the Subsidiaries, JVs and Associates and main Divisions of Tata Power. SUBSIDIARIES ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES Chemical Terminal Trombay Ltd. Yashmun Engineers Ltd. Cennergi Pty. Ltd. NDPL Infra Ltd. Tsitsikamma Community Wind Farm (Pty.) Ltd. Amakhala Emoyeni RE Project 1 (Pty.) Ltd. Af-Taab Investment Co. Ltd. PT Mitratama Perkasa Tata Power Solar Systems Ltd. PT Mitratama Usaha Powerlinks Transmission Ltd. Panatone Finvest Ltd. PT Arutmin Indonesia Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. PT Kaltim Prima Coal Indocoal Resources (Cayman) Ltd. Tata Power Green Energy Ltd. PT Indocoal Kalsel Resources Nelco Ltd. PT Indocoal Kaltim Resources Dagachhu Hydro Power Tatanet Services Ltd. Tubed Coal Mines Ltd. Corporation Ltd. Mandakini Coal Company Ltd. Maithon Power Ltd.* Gamma Land Holding Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd.* Solace Land Holding Ltd. Industrial Power Utility Ltd. Beta Land Holdings Ltd. Tata Projects Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Ginger Land Holdings Ltd. Candice Investments Pte. Ltd. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd.* PT Nusa Tambang Pratama Bhira Investments Ltd. PT Marvel Capital Indonesia Bhivpuri Investments Ltd. PT Dwikarya Prima Abadi ASL Advanced Systems Pvt. Ltd. Khopoli Investments Ltd. PT Kalimantan Prima Power PT Citra Prima Buana Energy Eastern Pte. Ltd. PT Guruh Agung Trust Energy Resources Pte. Ltd. PT Citra Kusuma Perdana Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd The Associated Building Co. Ltd. OTP Geothermal Pte. Ltd. PT OTP Geothermal Tata Power Jamshedpur Distribution Ltd. PT Sorik Marapi Geothermal Power PT Sumber Energi Andalan Tbk PT Baramulti Sukessarana Tbk Dugar Hydro Power Ltd. PT Antang Gunung Meratus Brihat Trading Private Ltd. Adjaristsqali Netherlands BV Tata Power International Pte. Ltd Adjaristsqali Georgia LLC Tata Ceramics Ltd. Indocoal KPC Resources (Cayman) Ltd Supa Windfarm Ltd. Koromkheti Netherlands BV Poolavadi Windfarm Ltd. Koromkheti Georgia LLC Nivade Windfarm Ltd. Nelito Systems Ltd. Itezhi Tezhi Power Corporation * Entities included for reporting 07 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Methodology The report is reviewed and approved by the Chief Tata Power’s sustainability performance is process-based Sustainability Oﬃcer (CSO). Tata Power appreciates for all the parameters pertaining to the triple bottom line. feedback from its stakeholders to improve any aspect The SAP-based or other web-based systems are deployed pertinent to the report. To aid this, a form is attached at the for management of data related to aspects such as Finance, end of the report to collect feedback which can be sent to Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), the address; Human Resources (HR), Occupational Health and Safety, Supply chain, Product stewardship etc. The data on Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer environmental parameters, consumption/emissionThe Tata Power Company Limited related is intensity-based and reﬂects the trends over the 34, Sant Tukaram Road, previous years. The data provided in the report is externally Mumbai 400009. assured by Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP as per ISAE 3000 and AA 1000 AS Standards. 08 Company Proﬁle Tata Power is well aligned to the business ethos of the Tata Agreement with Telangana State Northern Power Group. Major business activities of the Company are in Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL) for 15 MW Generation, Transmission, Distribution-cum-Retail, Power Solar project, which it won through competitive Trading, Power Services, Coal Mines and Logistics, Strategic bidding Engineering for defence applications, Solar Photovoltaic (PV) manufacturing and associated project management l Company’s subsidiary, TPREL, signed Share Purchase services (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction). Agreement for acquisition of 100% shareholding in Indo Rama Renewables Jath Limited (IRRJL), which is a Tata Power presently generates electricity from Thermal, 100% subsidiary of Indo Rama Renewables Limited Hydro, Wind, and Solar, as well as from Waste heat recovery. (IRRL). IRRJL has a 30 MW operating wind farm in Sangli Some of the Business highlights of the reporting period are District of Maharashtra presented below. l Company’s subsidiary, Tata Power International Pte. Ltd. Business Overview Key Highlights (TPIPL), signed a Share Purchase and Share Sale l Company de-commissioned the 81 MW Belgaum Agreement for OTP Geothermal Pte with KS Orka Power Plant pursuant to conclusion of the PPA term Renewable Pte. l Company’s 100% subsidiary Tata Power Renewable Tata Power is among the leading private power generating Energy Limited (TPREL) commissioned 104 MW of Wind companies in India with gross power generation capacity and Solar projects in India, consisting of 60 MW of Wind of 9,184 MW (as of 31st March 2016) with value chain projects in Gujarat (Rojmal) and 44 MW of Wind projects existence in all the segments; viz. G eneration, in Madhya Pradesh (Lahori) Transmission, Distribution, Trading and has assets for 9,184 MW l Company subsidiary Industrial Energy Limited (IEL), ensuring fuel supply. The portfolio has a balanced mix of commissioned waste gas based thermal plant of 135 operating, under construction and development projects MW capacity (i.e. 67.5 MW X 2 units) in Kalinganagar, with new capacity of 682 MW under execution (as of Tata Steel 31st March 2016). Further, there exists a broad mix of tariﬀ models including regulated returns, captive, Independent l Itezhi Tezhi Power Corporation Limited (ITPC), a JV Power Producer (IPP), Ultra Mega Power Project (UMPP) between Company and Zambian utility ZESCO Limited and merchant sales. (ZESCO), commissioned Hydro power plant of 120 MW (60 MW X 2 Units) in Zambia To reduce reliance on conventional energy sources, the strategy is to diversify into renewable energy including l Company's subsidiary, TPREL, signed a Power Purchase hydro, wind and solar with 1,374 MW of existing capacity 09 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 and approx. 614 MW in new capacity under construction and 610 MW under development (as of 31st March 2016) which makes Tata Power as one of the largest non-conventional energy players in the country. Tata Power has international presence in Indonesia, Bhutan, Georgia, South Africa and Zambia. These projects are under various stages of execution and development. Tata Power Business Overview Generation Transmission TTML 7% TTSL 8% Panatone 40% Investments Tata Comm 17% Cennergi Georgia Hydro 40% Power Distribution Business Other Businesses Trading Fuel & Logistics Indonesian Coal Mines KPC, Arutmin 30% Indonesian Coal Mines BSSR 26% Mandakini 33% Tubed 40% Trust Energy 100% Division Other SPVs Investment % stakes Global Portfolio of Assets across Value Chain India & Neighboring Countries International Presence Operational Thermal Hydro South Africa Georgia Wind Solar 50:50 JV with Development of three Dugar Hydro Transmission Exxaro Resources hydro projects in 2 phases Distribution of 185 MW and 215 MW Delhi TPDDL Powerlinks Rajasthan Rithala DHPC Bhutan 126 MW (TPDDL) Maithon Mundra Maithon Tubed Jojobera Gujarat Tiruldih IEL 1960 MW (UD) Haldia Begunia Kalinganagar Mumbai Mandakini Maharashtra Lodhivali 40 MW Dherand Belgaum Karnataka Under Execution (Development) Thermal Wind Hydro Coal Tamil Nadu Indonesia Notes: 1. Mumbai includes the power plants in Trombay, Bhira, Bhivpuri, Khopoli and certain Wind projects 2. Projects under execution / development UE under execution, UD under development 3. Some projects under execution / development are overseas 10 Fuel Fuel Transportation Tata Power has secured the supply of fuel for its operations Tata Power’s Trust Energy Resources is a wholly owned through long term contracts. The details of fuel supply are subsidiary in Singapore. Trust Energy’s scope of business is given below. Tata Power will continue to tap new fuel assets to securitise regular coal supply and the shipping of coal for from across the globe as and when the need arises for Tata Power’s thermal power generation operations. Tata sustainable supply for its operation. Power is not quantifying the emissions from coal logistics during sea transportation. Project Requirement Source Trombay 3 MTPA coal Coal Mines, Indonesia Generation Oil Nearby reﬁneries Tata Power’s present portfolio in power generation is 9,184 1 MMSCMD of Gas GAIL MW and has over 7,362 MW projects in various stages of Mundra 12 MTPA coal Coal Mines, Indonesia execution and development. Tata Power ’s Hydro Maithon 4.5 MTPA coal Coal India Ltd generating stations are in Khopoli, Bhivpuri and Bhira. The Jojobera Coal West Bokaro Coal Fields thermal power generating stations are at Trombay, and Mahanadi Coal Fields Mundra, Maithon, Jojobera, Haldia, Kalinganagar and Jamshedpur. In this reporting year, there was an addition of Haldia Flue Gas Tata Steel, Haldia 389 MW to the generation capacity from thermal, hydro, IEL Furnace & Coke oven Gas Tata Steel, Jamshedpur wind, and solar power. The details of installed capacity are Coal West Bokaro Coal Fields provided in the table below. Details of Installed Capacity Fuel Source Location State/Country Installed Capacity (MW) Total Capacity (MW) Trombay Maharashtra 1,580 7,328 Mundra Gujarat 4,000 Thermal Maithon Jharkhand 1,050 Jojobera Jharkhand 548 Oil/Gas Rithala* New Delhi 108 108 Haldia West Bengal 120 Thermal Waste/ Jamshedpur (unit 6) Jharkhand 120 375 Heat Recovery Kalinga Nagar (unit 1 & 2) Odisha 135 Bhira Maharashtra 300 Khopoli Maharashtra 72 Hydro Bhivpuri Maharashtra 75 693 Dagachhu Bhutan 126 Itezhi Tezhi Zambia 120 Maharashtra 238 Madhya Pradesh 44 Gujarat 149 619 Wind Farms Karnataka 50.4 Renewable Tamil Nadu 99 Rajasthan 39 Maharashtra 3 Gujarat 25 Solar Maharashtra 29 60 Delhi 1.65 Total 9184 * Not Operational 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Renewable Portfolio aligned to the strategic intent to generate 30-40% of total Tata Power is conscious of its role as a sustainability steward installed capacity from non GHG sources by 2025. and embraces the challenges of climate change. Tata Power strives to lead the path towards growth with responsibility Forthcoming Projects and committed for generating electricity using non Tata Power is on a multi-fold growth path. By 2025, Tata greenhouse gases (GHG) sources (i.e. from hydro, wind and Power strategic intent plan is to have Sustainable Proﬁtable solar). Tata Power has 15% of MW capacity i.e. 1,374 MW (as Growth: ROCE >= WACC from below. on 31st March 2016) through non GHG sources, which is Generation 20,000 MW Share of non-fossil 30-40% share of generation capacity to be non-fossil (including Hydro) based generation Transmission, Distribution Transmission, Distribution and DDG catering to 5 GW capacity and 2.5 million consumers & DDG Fuel Resources Securitization of long term fuel requirements (Coal and Gas) 10X growth in Revenue and PBT– O&M/ PM Services, Trading, Open Access, Rooftop Solar, Value Added Businesses Solar EPC, Defence To achieve the set target, various domestic as well as international projects are under execution and development stages, as given below: Projects under Execution Project Fuel Capacity (MW) Status of Completion Power oﬀ-take Expected COD Renewable Wind/ ~200 Under Execution PPA with states FY 17 Projects Solar Georgia Land acquired; PPA to be executed Hydro 185 FY 17 40% stake civil work in progress closer to COD Kalinganagar, 2 units (2 x 67.5MW) 2 units (2 x 67.5MW) Flue Gas 67.5 FY 17 Odisha (3rd) synchronized synchronized Financial closure completed. PPA with Eskom South Africa Wind 229 FY 17 Construction in progress for 20 years Projects under Planning Project Fuel Capacity (MW) Current Status Dugar, Himachal Pradesh Hydro 380 Approval of the detailed project report awaited Maithon Phase II, Land obtained and Environmental Impact Coal 1,320 Jharkhand Assessment (EIA) in progress Mundra Phase II, Gujarat Coal 1,600 Land obtained Dehrand, Maharashtra Coal 1,600 Land acquisition in progress Georgia Phase-II, III Hydro 215 In planning stage Vietnam Coal 1,320 In planning stage Total Development Capacity 6435 Transmission Centre (PSCC) through the state of the art uniﬁed Transmission operations in the Mumbai License area spread Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. over the entire city of Mumbai and suburbs with its receiving Tata Power transmission is continuously upgrading and stations, and extended up to the hydro generating stations augmenting the transmission system to cater to the in Raigad district of Maharashtra. The entire transmission increasing demand of customers. The Transmission assets, system is centrally controlled from Power System Control which are part of the Mumbai License Area, had a grid 12 availability of 99.45% as against the Maharashtra Electricity (direct) and 42,157 consumers transferring from other Regularity Commission (MERC) norm of 98%. Availability networks (welcome consumers), during FY16 was maintained at high level by proactive actions taken based on preventive maintenance practices, eﬀective l Annual distribution sale was 5,783 MUs in FY16 as condition monitoring and judicious planning and execution against 5,969 MUs in FY15 of planned outages. l In FY16, 266 kms of network was added in Mumbai During the year, the Company added 500 MVA of license area, which comprised of 102 km High Tension Transformation Capacity and added/augmented (HT) and 164 km Low Tension (LT) network. In addition, 18.15 ckms of network. It includes the following major 75 consumer substations (capacity addition 98 MVA) projects: and 2 distribution substations (capacity addition 240 MVA) were commissioned l 220 kV up-rating of Kalwa-Salsette-4 line (it has been completed in a benchmark time of 28 days to enable l Maharashtra’s ﬁrst solar rooftop net metering solution import of 300 MW additional power to Mumbai) was operationalized for a Tata Power consumer l 220 kV Salsette Saki Transmission line to strengthen l Distribution Projects have been certiﬁed under the network in North Mumbai Integrated Management System (IMS) (ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007), a globally l 220 kV Mahalaxmi GIS to cater to load growth accepted and recognized system l 110 kV Dharavi-BKC Line for enhanced reliability l To enhance safety, to care for the environment and to overcome the challenges of paucity of space, Tata To spread awareness on safety across the state of Power has commissioned Maharashtra, Tata Power has actively participated in India’s ﬁrst Natural Ester ﬁlled power transformer 'Electrical Safety Week' organized by Chief Electrical (20/28 MVA) and 13 distribution transformers Inspector as per direction of Government of Maharashtra. 29 distribution transformers were retroﬁtted with Natural Ester for life and capacity enhancement The Company organized special awareness programs India’s ﬁrst compact, pre-fabricated, plug and play during pre-monsoon, Ganapati Festival and Sankranti 33/11 kV substation, E-house (Electrical House). season in the vicinity of High Tension (HT) lines in Mumbai, under its Jan Jagruti Abhiyaan initiative. The objective is to reduce electrical accidents that can be caused by unEnergy Availability and Reliability authorizedly living in areas which are close to high voltage Tata Power as a sustainable power utility, endeavours to transmission lines. This is third year of success where no line operate its stations eﬃciently, have non-interrupted tripping or human suﬀering was there due to kites during energy supply or acceptable levels of energy interruptions Sankranti season. Over 34,000 people were sensitized in to generate a consistent electrical output and is available to various sessions throughout the year. meet predicted peaks in demand. The Generation (Thermal/Renewables), Average Generation Eﬃciency (%) of Thermal Station based on the Energy Source and Distribution and Supply Average Plant Availability factor of Thermal Stations by Tata Power has 4,058 kms of distribution network with 844 energy source are given below. customer substations and 32 distribution sub-stations across Mumbai Distribution License Area. The customer base of more than 600,000 in Mumbai and some of its bulk customers include BEST, Railways, Port Trust, BARC, Reﬁneries and other important installations in the city. As in all parts of the business, improvement in operational eﬃciency is a key focus area. Tata Power has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality and reliability of its power supply and enhance customer service. Some of the highlights of the year include: l Total consumer base increased to 6,64,407 with the addition of 18,511 consumers to the Company’s network 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Generation (Thermal/Renewables) Net Thermal Production (MUs) 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Coal Trombay (Unit 5 & 8) 5,003.32 3,796.80 5,064.29 Mundra 21,971.69 24,502.1 23,678.9 Maithon 5,963.52 6,312.12 6,779.9 Jojobera 3,597.56 3,833.39 3,740.53 Oil Trombay (Unit 6) 453.68 770.18 14.97 Trombay CCGT (Unit 7) 1,241.60 1,119.27 1,148.8 Thermal Waste (PH 6) 929.36 876.97 873.4 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 942.35 815.18 789.07 Net Renewable Production Hydro 1,597 1,406.13 1,067.2 Wind 761.51 768.11 857.00 Solar 47.92 86.15 96.3 Average Generation Efﬁciency (%) of Thermal Station based on the Energy Source Thermal Plant Eﬀiciency 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Coal Trombay (Unit 5) 34.38 34.30 34.13 (Unit 8) 38.06 37.80 37.40 Mundra 39.77 41 41.27 Maithon 35.98 36.14 36.68 Jojobera 32.85 33.15 33.30 Oil / Gas Trombay (Unit 6) 32.47 30.34 29.21 Gas Trombay CCGT (Unit 7) 43.04 43.71 40.26 Thermal Waste (PH 6) 33.24 32.16 32.55 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 96.05 90.64 80.21 Average plant availability factor of Thermal Stations by Energy Source (%) Coal 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Trombay (Unit 5 & 8) 91.78 69.45 95.29 Jojobera 95.92 95.09 95.34 Nundra 82.57 83.14 82.17 Maithon 87.12 87.44 89.59 Oil / Gas Trombay (Unit 6) 30.08 59.27 3.20 Gas Trombay CCGT (Unit 7) 86.22 77.81 92.79 Thermal Waste (PH 6) 96.60 94.40 99.64 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 98.35 95.81 96.74 14 Other Key Business Tata Power l 100% subsidiary, holds a trading license for a period of 25 years starting from 2004 Trading l Holds a Category I trading license, which permits it to trade any amount of power l Trust Energy Resources Pte Ltd incorporated in Singapore for owning bulk carriers to meet shipping requirements and trading in fuel, Energy Eastern Pte Ltd incorporated for Shipping chartering of ships Subsidiaries l To be met through a combination of long term charters and out right purchases of cape size vessels 3 long term charters signed and 2 cape size ships purchased l Solar Cell Manufacturing Faility at Bengaluru, Karnataka l Has four main business lines: Tata Power l manufacturing and sale of solar photovoltaic cells and modules Solar l providing engineering, procurement and construction/commissioning Systems Ltd. l services as well as operations and management services to solar project developers, developing and selling solar photovoltaic products in rural markets l developing and selling solar thermal (water heating) products in urban markets l Originated as an internal R&D unit for power electronics; designs and develops electronic Strategic devices Engineering l SED was awarded the modernize airﬁeld infrastructure for the Indian Air Force Division (SED) l Does not manufacture ammunition or explosives of any kind, including cluster bombs and anti personnel mines Awards l Won three prestigious awards at the Tata Aﬃrmative Tata Power’s commitment to operational excellence and Action Programme Annual Convention sustainability is honored in national and international l Excellent Energy Eﬃcient Unit and Most Useful platforms. Some of the awards received in FY 15-16 are Presentation for Trombay Thermal Power Station and below; Energy Eﬃcient Unit for Haldia Generating Station at 16th CII National Energy Award for Energy Management l Second Prize for Trombay Thermal Power Station in l Named as the Word’s Most Ethical Company by Power Generation Group at the Best Safety Practices Ethisphere Institute, for the third year in succession Award Competition l Economic Times National CSR Survey –Tata Power l Won two prestigious awards at 55th Association of Ranked 2nd for the second consecutive year Business Communicators of India Awards ‘Special l Second prize in National Energy Conservation Awards Column Award’ for Enerji Talk and ‘Civik and Moral for Discoms Values’ for Tata Power Club Enerji l Conferred Sustainable Plus Platinum by CII l CBIP Award for Overall Outstanding Performance in l Portzer Prize for Excellence for Corporate Integration & Power Sector at Central Board of Irrigation and Power Governance (CBIP) Day Celebration. l Tata Power won ‘Gold Award’ at the Arogya World Healthy Workplace Award l Best Performing Project of the Year Dalot Wind Farm, at Indian Wind Energy Forum l Won Silver Shield in category ‘Per formance of Distribution Companies’ for Tata Power Distribution and Consolation Award in category Performance of Thermal Power Stations for Trombay Thermal Power Station by CEA 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Corporate Governance Governance Philosophy Vision The essence of Corporate Governance is about maintaining To be the most admired and responsible Integrated Power the right balance between economic, social, Company with international footprint, delivering environmental, individual and community goals. At Tata sustainable value to all stakeholders. Power, good corporate governance is a way of life and the way of doing business, encompassing every day’s activities Mission and is enshrined as a way of working. The Company is Tata Power aims at becoming the most admired and focused on the enhancement of long-term value creation responsible power Company delivering sustainable value for all stakeholders without compromising on integrity, by societal obligations, environment, and regulatory l Operating assets at benchmark levels compliances. The Tata Power team’s actions are governed l Executing projects safely, with predictable benchmark by the company values and principles, which are reinforced at all levels of the organisation. These principles have been quality, cost and time and will continue to be the guiding force in future. l Growing the Tata Power businesses, be it across the value chain or across geographies, and also in allied or For the Company, good corporate governance is a new businesses synonym for sound management, transparency and l Driving Organisational Transformation that will make disclosure, encompassing good corporate practices, the Company have the conviction and capabilities to procedures, standards and implicit rules which propel a deliver on the strategic intent Company to take sound decisions. As a Company with a l Achieving the Company’s Sustainability intent of strong sense of values and commitment, Tata Power ‘Leadership with Care’, by having leading and best-inbelieves that proﬁtability must go hand in hand with a class practices on Care for Environment, Community, sense of responsibility towards all stakeholders. This is an Customers, Shareholders, and People. integral part of Tata Power’s business philosophy. The cardinal principles such as independence, accountability, Values responsibility, transparency, trusteeship, and disclosure The values today are ‘SACRED’ to the Company serve as means for implementing the philosophy of l Safety: Safety is a core value over which no business Corporate Governance. objective can have a higher priority l Agility: Speed, responsiveness and being proactive, This philosophy is reﬂected and practised through the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), the Tata Business Excellence achieved through collaboration and empowering Model (TBEM) and the Tata Code for Prevention of Insider employees Trading and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices, which l Care: Care for our environment, care for our customers form guidelines for “Leadership with Trust”. The Company is and shareholders both existing and potential. Care for committed on focussing its energies and resources in our community and care for our people (our employees creating and positively leveraging shareholders’ wealth, and partners) and at the same time, safeguarding the interests of all l Respect: Treat all stakeholders with respect and dignity stakeholders. This is the path to sustainable and proﬁtable l Ethics: Achieve the most admired standards of Ethics existence and growth. through Integrity and mutual Trust 16 l Diligence: Do everything (set direction, deploy actions, areas, and especially in operations, execution and analyse, review, plan and mitigate risks, etc.) with a growth. thoroughness that delivery, quality and excellence in all Strategic Intent Tata Power Strategic Intent 2025 has drawn up concrete plans for business growth across the value chain Tata Power Strategic Intent 2025 Sustainable Proﬁtable Growth: ROCE* >=WACC** Governance Framework standards and processes are aligned with the TCoC1 and Corporate Governance is necessary to oversee strategy and various policies for robust governance. ensure responsibility and ethical corporate behaviour towards all stakeholders thus creating conditions Board of Directors necessary to nurture Sustainable Development. A part of Size and composition of the Board the 145-year old Tata Group, Tata Power has inherited a As on 31st March 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors comprised 9 members, 2 of whom are Executive Directors legacy of standing strong and being fair, transparent, and and 7 are Non-Executive Directors (NEDs). Out of these 7 ethical in all the facets of business. Corporate governance NEDs, 5 are Independent Directors*. Designation Age Name (ED / NED / Independent) (years) Gender Mr. Cyrus P. Mistry, Chairman Non-Independent, 47 Non-Executive Dr. Homiar S. Vachha 73 Mr. Nawshir H. Mirza 64 Independent, Mr. Deepak M. Satwalekar 67 Non-Executive Mr. Piyush G. Mankad 74 Male Mr. Ashok K. Basu 74 Mr. Pravin H. Kutumbe Non-Independent, 54 (Representative of LIC as investor/Lender) Non-Executive Mr. Anil Sardana, CEO & Managing Director 56 Executive Mr. Ashok S. Sethi, COO & Executive Director 61 * Ms. Vishakha V. Mulye, Independent (Woman) Director on the Board, submitted her resignation as Director, which was eﬀective 18th January 2016. In her place, Ms. Sandhya S. Kudtarkar was appointed as an Additional (Woman) Director of the Company with eﬀect from 16th April 2016. 1 http://www.tata.com/ebook/tcoc/index.html 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 These Directors bring in a wide range of skills and Committees of the Board experience to the Board. The Board provides leadership, The Committees of the Board focus on speciﬁc areas and strategic guidance, objective, and an independent view to make informed decisions in line with the delegated the Company’s management while discharging its authority. Each Committee of the Board functions ﬁduciary responsibilities, thereby ensuring that the according to its role and deﬁned scope. management adheres to high standards of ethics, transparency and disclosure. The Board periodically evaluates the need for change in its composition and size. Audit Committee of Directors The four member committee consists only of Independent Term of Board membership Directors. The CEO & Managing Director, COO and The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (the NRC) Executive Director, the Chief Finance Oﬃcer (CFO) and determines the appropriate characteristics, skills, and Chief of Internal Audit attend the meetings. experience required for the Board as a whole and for individual members. Board members are expected to The role and responsibilities of this Committee include: possess the required qualiﬁcations, integrity, expertise, l Oversight of the Company’s ﬁnancial reporting and experience for the position. They should also possess p ro c e s s e s a n d d i s c l o s u re o f expertise and insights in sectors / areas relevant to the ﬁnancial information to ensure that Company, and have ability to contribute to the Company’s t h e ﬁ n a n c i a l s t ate m e nt s a re growth. As per the Governance Guidelines, the retirement correct, complete, consistent with age for Managing / Executive Directors, NEDs and information known to the Independent Directors is 65 years, 70 years and 75 years, Committee members, suﬃcient respectively. and credible. l Reviewing, with management, the Selection and appointment of new directors quarterly/annual ﬁnancial The Board is responsible for the selection of new directors. statements and Auditor’s Report The Board delegates the screening and selection process thereon, before submission to the involved in selecting new directors to the NRC. Considering Board for approval the existing composition of the Board and requirement of new domain expertise, if any, the NRC reviews the potential candidates. The assessment of members to the Board is Nomination and based on a combination of criteria that include ethics, Remuneration Committee personal and professional stature, domain expertise, (NRC) gender diversity, and speciﬁc qualiﬁcation required for the The NRC comprises of 4 members of position. The NRC then places the details of the shortlisted candidates who meet these criteria, to the Board for its which 3 are Independent Directors, the consideration. If the Board approves, the person is C h a i r m a n o f t h e Co m m i t t e e i s appointed as a Director, subject to the approval of the Independent and the Non-Executive shareholders at the Company’s general meeting. Chairman of the Board is the Member of the Committee. The details pertaining to expertise and qualiﬁcation of the Directors is given in Annexure 1. None of the Directors on The Committee is responsible for formulating the criteria the Board is a Member on more than 10 Committees and for determining qualiﬁcation, positive attributes and Chairman of more than 5 Committees across all the independence of a director. The Committee is also companies in which he/she is a Director. responsible for recommending to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration of the directors, key The Governance structure of the Organisation and it's managerial personnel and other employees. The Board has committees are responsible for decision making on adopted the Policy on Board Diversity & Director Attributes Economic, Environmental and Social impacts, as well as and Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial delegating authority for Triple bottom line topics from the highest Governance body to senior executives and other Personnel and other employees of the Company. The Board employees The organisation has also appointed Executive has also adopted a Charter of this Committee which level positions responsible for Economic, Environmental speciﬁes its principles and objectives, composition, and Social focus areas and these report to the Chief meetings, authority and power, responsibilities, reporting, Executive Oﬃcer and Managing Director (CEO & MD). evaluation etc. 18 Remuneration of Board of Directors parameters aligned to Company’s objectives. The ratio of The philosophy for remuneration of directors, Key remuneration of the highest paid employee (CEO & MD) to Managerial Personnel and all other employees of Tata the median annual total compensation of all employees for Power is based on the commitment of fostering a culture of the year 2015-16 was 69.65. The percentage increase of leadership with trust. The remuneration policy has been annual total compensation of the highest paid individual is prepared by the Nomination and Remuneration 18% and the percent increase in the annual total Committee (NRC). compensation of all employees is 6.50%. Non-Executive Directors (NED) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The NEDs are paid remuneration by way of Commission (CSR) and Sitting Fees. In terms of the Members’ approval The CSR Committee comprises of 3 members, is chaired by obtained at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on an Independent Director and has 2 Executive Directors. August 16, 2013, the Commission is paid at a rate not exceeding 1% per annum of the net proﬁts of the Company. The broad terms of reference of the Committee are as The distribution of Commission under: amongst the NED's is placed before the l Formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR Policy Nomination & Remuneration which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by Committee and the Board. the Company or may be prescribed by the rules thereto; l Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred Executive Directors on the activities referred to in the above clause; and The Company pays remuneration by l Monitor the CSR Policy of the Company from time to way o f s a l a r y, p e rq u i s i te s, a n d time. allowances (ﬁxed component) and commission (variable component) to Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC) the CEO & MD and the Executive The SRC considers and resolves the grievances of security Director. Salary is paid within the range holders of the Company. It consists of 1 Independent approved by the Members. Annual Director who is the Chairman of the Committee, 1 Nonincrements eﬀective 1st April each year, as recommended by the NRC, are Executive and 1 Executive Director as Members. placed before the Board for approval and shareholders views are also taken The role and responsibilities of this Committee are to: into account on salary and related l Review statutory compliance relating to all security details of the CEO & MD and Executive holders. Directors. The ceiling on perquisites l Resolution of the grievances of all security holders. and allowances as a percentage of l Oversight of compliances in respect of dividend salary is ﬁxed by the Board. Within the payments and transfer of unclaimed amounts to the prescribed ceiling, the perquisite Investor Education and Protection Fund. package is recommended by the NRC l Oversight and review of all matters related to the and approved by the Board. transfer of securities of the Company. l Ensure setting of proper controls and oversight of Management Staﬀ performance of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. Remuneration of employees largely consists of basic l Approval of issue of duplicate share certiﬁcates of the remuneration, perquisites, allowances and performance Company. incentives. The components of the total remuneration vary l Approval of transmission of securities. for diﬀerent grades and are governed by industry patterns, l Review of movements in shareholding and ownership qualiﬁcations and experience of the employee, structure of the Company. responsibilities handled by him, his annual performance, l Recommend measures for overall improvement of the etc. For the last few years, eﬀorts have also been made to quality of investor services. link the annual variable pay of employees with the l Conduct a Shareholder Satisfaction Survey to judge the performance of the Company. The performance pay policy level of satisfaction amongst shareholders. links the performance pay of each oﬃcer to his individual, l Suggest and drive implementation of various divisional and overall organisational performance on shareholder-friendly initiatives. 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Risk Management Committee l Capital and Revenue Budgets and capital expenditure The Risk Management Committee consists of three programmes independent directors, one Executive Director, CFO and l Acquisitions, divestments and business restructuring Chief of Audit. The Chairman of the Committee is an proposals Independent Director. l Senior management succession planning l Any other item as may be decided by the Board The Board has adopted Risk Management Strategy which speciﬁes the objective, beneﬁts of Risk Management, Risk Ethics and Compliance Committee Management Policy, Risk Management Process, Risk The Company adopted the TCoC for Prevention of Insider Organization Structure, Risk Culture etc. The Risk Trading and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices (the Management policy is available on the Company’s website Code) to be followed by Directors, Oﬃcers and other www.tatapower.com. e m p l o ye e s. T h e Co d e c o n t a i n s re g u l a t i o n s fo r preservation of price sensitive information, pre-clearance The role and responsibilities of this Committee include the of trade and monitoring and implementation of the Code. following: Ethics and Compliance Committee comprises of two l To review Risk Management Policy and its deployment. members, of whom the Chairman is an Independent l To review Risk Management framework and its Director and other is Executive Director. eﬀectiveness and set direction. l To monitor and review Risk Management Plan. Board Evaluation l To decide the risk appetite of the Company and, The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its own accordingly, guide the Board in taking up new performance, as well as the working of its Committees. investments. The Board works with the Committee to lay down the l To review the major risks. criteria for the performance evaluation. The contribution l To report high value risks and its mitigation to the and impact of individual Directors is reviewed through a Board. peer evaluation on parameters such as level of engagement and participation, ﬂow of information, Executive Committee of the Board independence of judgement, conﬂicts resolution and The Executive Committee of the Board comprises of 5 their contribution in enhancing the Board’s overall members, out of which the Chairman, is a Non-Executive eﬀectiveness. Feedback-cum-assessment of individual Director, 2 are Independent Directors and 2 are Executive directors, the board as a whole and its committees is Directors. This Committee covers a detailed review of the conducted. The feedback obtained from the interventions following items before being presented to the Board: is discussed in detail and, where required, independent l Business and strategy review and collective action points for improvement are put in l Long-term ﬁnancial projections and cash ﬂows place. Shareholding Pattern Shareholding pattern as on 31st March 2016. Name of Shareholder Total holdings % to capital Tata Sons Limited 83,97,99,682 31.05 Life Insurance Corporation of India 36,98,66,780 13.68 Matthews Paciﬁc Tiger Fund 16,56,20,436 6.12 National Westminster Bank Plc As Depositary of First State Global Emerging Markets Leaders Fund A Sub Fund of First State Investments 8,78,45,474 3.25 ICVC The New India Assurance Company Limited 6,89,54,953 2.55 General Insurance Corporation of India 6,81,76,404 2.52 Tata Steel Limited 3,91,22,725 1.45 Aberdeen Global Indian Equity (Mauritius) Limited 3,65,98,000 1.35 SBI Mutual Funds 2,80,25,908 1.04 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 2,32,75,987 0.86 20 Corporate Governance Policies As per the regulatory requirement, a Risk Management The Corporate Governance policies cover areas ranging Committee (RMC) was constituted comprising of 3 from Business dealings to Media Policy, from Human Rights Independent Directors, 1 Executive Director, Chief to Responsible Supply Chain. These help in making the Financial Oﬃcer and Chief Risk Oﬃcer. The RMC meets governance mechanism more robust. All the policies are regularly to review critical strategic risks and summary of reviewed as per the need. Few of these policies are given top risks of each of the eleven categories and their status in below: terms of mitigation actions. l Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading The Company has renewed its risk quantiﬁcation method l Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices, Code of which helps identify key risks of the organisation and Conduct for NED and Code of Conduct for Business reduce subjectivity in assessment of residual value of each Dealings risk. This will further help implement appropriate controls l Whistle Blower Policy in business processes. Also, grouping of risks has been l Policy of Information Security undertaken for better management control. l IT Policy l Gift Policy The Company was also awarded ISO 31000:2009 Statement l Customer Service Policy of Compliance for Enterprise Risk Management System l Business Continuity Policy from British Standards Institute (BSI) for its Enterprise Risk l Risk Management Policy Management System. In addition to the Corporate Governance policies, Tata Business Ethics Power is also governed by many unique policies, such as; Tata Power adheres to the TCoC which is a comprehensive Sustainability, Environment, Community Relations, Edocument with an ethical road map for Tata employees, Waste Management, Health and Safety, Human Rights companies, including third parties. TCoC consisting of 25 (HuR), Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), clauses, includes codes to be followed in ﬁnancial Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM), Advocacy, disclosures, addressing national interests, political nonAﬃrmative Action (AA), Corporate Communication, Energy alignment, health, safety and environment, corporate Conservation and Customer Satisfaction and Media. The citizenship, ethical conduct, anti-corruption . The Code is a links to all these policy statements are available on Tata dynamic document that reinforces the Tata canon of Power’s website2. The roles and responsibilities of the honourable behaviour in business. TCoC also forms a part committees of the Board are given in Tata Power’s Annual of all the investment and contract agreements. Tata Power Report 2015-163. also has a Human Rights Policy which is applicable to the entire organisation and its operations. During the Risk Management reporting period there were no instances of nonBased on the Risk Management Policy a standardized Risk compliance and demonstration of any anti-competitive Management Process and System has been implemented behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices in the across Tata Power Group. Risk plans have been framed for Company and no ﬁnes incurred from any regulatory body. all identiﬁ-ed risks and uploaded in the system with mitigation action, target dates and responsibility. This has Tata Power is committed to support the constitution and enabled continuous tracking of status of mitigation action governance systems of the country in which it operates. and monitoring of Risk Mitigation Completion Index Tata Power does not support any speciﬁc political party or (RMCI). The Risk Register contains the mitigation plans for candidate for political oﬃce. No monetary beneﬁts were eleven categories of risk . Eight Func tional Risk provided in any form to any political party. Tata Power Management Committees (FRMCs) closely monitor and complies with all the statutory requirements of the location review the risk plans. in which it operates. The Senior Leadership Team (SLT) of Tata Power reinforces the ethical culture through the All risks have been classiﬁed into strategic, tactical and guiding clauses of the TCoC in communications to all operational risks. Apex Risk Management Committee stakeholders. The Apex Committee of Ethics chaired by MD, (ARMC) meets every quarter to review major strategic and comprises of the ED and other senior leaders who regularly tactical risks, identify new risks and assess the status of monitor the functioning of the ethics structures, and mitigation initiatives. 1 http://www.tatapower.com/aboutus/corporate-policies.aspx 2 https://www.tatapower.com/investor-relations/pdf/97Annual-Report-2015-16.pdf 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 provide thought leadership. Chief Ethics Oﬃcer and Local Public Policy Advocacy Ethics Counsellors (LEC), help drive the culture of ethics. Tata Power has articulated its position on advocacy. Tata The Apex Committee on Ethics meets once every six Power interacts with various institutions/non-government months, to provide guidelines for the implementation of organisations, industry associations, and chambers, etc. to TCoC and resolve ethical concerns. The Chief Ethics be updated with the current scenarios related to industry Counsellor meets up with the Chairman, Ethics Executive as and also put across its position. The Company is a Committee every quarter, to review the status of Ethical member of various institutions which are provided below. concerns received, and actions taken. As a part of the compliance by the governing body, TQMS, the MD submits l National Safety Council (NSC) an annual declaration on Business Ethics to the Chairman l Electrical Research and Development Association of the Tata Group. Every year, Ethics Week is celebrated in l Association of Power Producer (APP) the month of March, to drive an ethical culture across the l Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) organisation. Communication on ethics is given high l IMC Chambers of Commerce and Industry importance and this is carried out through LECs l The Institute of Internal Auditors throughout the year. l Indian Energy Exchange. In the reporting year, Tata Power was awarded “World’s The CEO & MD is also the member of following Most Ethical Company” by Ethisphere Institute for second Committees/Boards; consecutive year. Ethisphere Institute is an independent l India Energy Exchange Member Advisory Board centre of research in USA, which promotes best practices in l CII Chairman National Committee on Power corporate ethics and governance. l IMC Chair Environment and Energy Committee l UN Women Member of the Business Sector Advisory In the reporting year, total 89 concerns (complaints) were Council received from employees, vendors and society and all the l SAP Member Executive Advisory Board concerns have been resolved. Out of 89 concerns 32 were l Member Task Force on Public Private Partnership, anonymous concerns. There was one POSH related concern Planning Commission, Government of India (GoI) and resolved within 90 days. Majority of the concerns l Member Industry Joint Task Force, Ministry of received were related to the TCoC clauses on ethical Commerce and Industry, GoI conduct and equal opportunities. In 2015-16, there were 8 concerns reporting incidents of corruption and out of these Tata Power does not lobby or use its positions/membership one case was genuine and suitable disciplinary action has in trade associations, professional bodies to lobby in its been taken against the employees. There were no i n te re s t s. I n a l l t h e s e fo r a , Ta t a Powe r a n d i t s complaints on discrimination, Child labour, forced labour, representatives articulate and advocate views that are in freedom of association and right of collective bargaining, common interest. Tata Power does not contribute, in kind HuR etc. In the reporting year, there have been no incidents or cash, to any political party and during the reporting of violation of rights of indigenous people. TCoC is period, no ﬁnancial transactions or in-kind contribution communicated to all the members of the governance body. made directly or indirectly to political parties. 22 Sustainable Business Management Approach driving the Sustainability performance at grass root level Sustainability as a practice is intricately weaved into every across stations. The performance of CSC is reviewed halffunction of Tata Power in a way that addresses the interest yearly and future strategies are chalked out. At the of all its stakeholders and the society at large. Tata Power Divisional level, monthly reviews are conducted to ensure has adopted sustainability model ‘Leadership with Care’ that the Company cruises smoothly on the Sustainability which streamlines the Company’s commitment towards journey. So in order to ensure the optimum level of Care for major stakeholders. The Company is well performance on Environment, Social and Sustainability compliant with the UNGC principles, SDGs as well as front, the Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer (CSO) reviews the National Voluntary Guidelines for Corporate Social performance of the stations for Environment and CSR Responsibility which is the core of BRR of SEBI and submits activities monthly. Tata Power communicates its progress its performance report annually. on the four pillars of Leadership with Care, to stakeholders by sharing the update in the public domain, at regular Sustainability Governance intervals. In a unique governance approach for Sustainability, Tata Sustainability Governance Structure Power has set up the Sustainability Advisory Council (SAC), where apart from Tata Power senior management, the exMD and two independent Board members, the council also includes national and international members of civil Board of Directors society who are experts in the ﬁelds of environment protection, biodiversity conservation, climate change and MD & CEO (Chairman, SAC) community relations. The SAC’s role is to challenge the organisation’s strategies on these issues and also guide Sustainability Advisory Council l Senior Management, the ex-MD and Tata Power to formulate improved approaches. Topics 2 Independent Board members pertaining to technology upgradation, global best l Members of civil society expert in various areas practice, preparedness for future regulatory regime, of Sustainability Community & Biodiversity initiatives and sustainability Challenge the organisation’s strategy on sustainability issues strategy are discussed in SAC. Guide company to formulate improved approach The Company has a deﬁned Sustainability policy and has Corporate Sustainability committee laid down processes to monitor the same. Further, the Deﬁnes processes and prepares, monitors and Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC) is responsible reviews action plans that emerge out of SAC for driving sustainability in the organisation, has deﬁned and reports back to SAC processes and prepares, monitors and reviews action plans that emerge out of SAC. The divisional committees, Divisional Sustainability committee comprising of divisional champions drive the action plans. Drive and implement the action plans and reports The CSC at the Corporate level drives the agenda of status to SAC ‘Leadership with Care’, and there are Divisional Sustainability Committees (DSC) at all generating stations, 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Sustainability Strategy c) Social impact of the organisation’s activities on its The sustainability strategy mainly focuses on goals for stakeholders (communities around the plant; people reduction of carbon footprint, conservation of biodiversity working in the plant, etc.) and natural resources, clean and eﬃcient technologies and stronger renewable portfolio. Tata Power is using low ash d) Cultural focus to help individuals connect to ethics and and low sulphur coal for its current operations, to minimise moral values. This is an important element to drive adverse impacts on the environment. The periodic behaviour in an organisation and to help embrace interactions with communities and community need sustainability across all dimensions. assessment survey are the instruments in developing community investment plans. Sustainability Model At Tata Power, it is believed that growth and development The Sustainability Strategy for Tata Power is aimed at are imperative for a developing economy. However, it ensuring that Tata Power conducts its business in a manner needs to be sustainable and must beneﬁt the that is socially, environmentally, economically and culturally stakeholders in the long run, with least impact on the sustainable, thereby not only beneﬁtting the society within environment. Tata Power embodies the Tata Group’s which it operates, but also creating, in the long term, a philosophy of building a strong Sustainable business that competitive advantage over other players. The Sustainability is ﬁrmly rooted in the concept of beneﬁt sharing and Strategy is intended to help set aspirations and levels of demonstrates Leadership with Care. Tata Power has commitment along the key elements of sustainability. It is instituted ‘Care’ as one of the core values which entrust deployed across the value chain of the organisation and Care for Environment, Care for Community, Care for covers all relevant geographies where Tata Power operates. Cu s to m e r s, a n d Ca re f o r Pe o p l e, i . e. e m p l oye e s, The key elements in the Tata Power context are: shareholders, suppliers, partners, etc. in the sustainability a) Eco n o m i c we l l b e i n g a n d p ro s p e r i t y o f t h e model. The Sustainability Model aims at strengthening organisation, its shareholders-both today as well for the structures and processes for environmental performance, future stronger engagement with community, customers and employees, by using enablers like new technology, b) E nv i ro n m e nt a n d Eco l o g i c a l i m p a c t o f t h e benchmarking and going beyond compliance in key organisation’s activities and reduction and mitigation operational parameters. of the same Tata Power Sustainability Model Enablers Leadership and Oversight Institutional Structures Advocacy on Sustainability and Systems Conforming to Providing sustainable high ethical Leadership returns to all our key standards with Care economic stakeholders Care for our Care for our Care for our Care for our people Environment shareholders Community (impacted Employees, Partners, (society at large) and customers by us and proximate to us) Suppliers What needs to be done (material to both stakeholders and us) What we are good at doing or is linked to our business What we should support as national causes in our areas of influence What we should define as our standards on the strategic interventions above: From compliance to competing to leading Benchmarking, New Technology Architecture of Care Going beyond compliance 24 Sustainability Policies The Policies and Model for Sustainability emanate from the Tata Philosophy based on the powerful and benevolent visions of the founders. These policy statements are available at Tata Power website4. l Sustainability Policy l Environment Policy l Energy Conservation Policy l CSR and Volunteering Policies Materiality Assessment l Safety & Health Policy l E-Waste Management Policy Management Approach l PRADAAN Employee Volunteering Booklet Tata Power has always been vigilant about the Material l HIV AIDS Policy issues for business and the involvement of Stakeholders in l Advocacy Policy the process of identifying them. The ﬁrst Stakeholder l Human Rights Policy Engagement and Materiality assessment (SHM) was l Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy conducted in FY 11 with the help of a third party consultant. With the changing regulatory scenario, dynamics of the power sector and upgrade in reporting Sustainability Recognition requirements in the form of GRI G4 guidelines, Tata Power Tata Power has been recognized as one of India’s most revisited SHM study in 2015 with the help of globally sustainable companies with the Sustainable Plus Platinum acclaimed consultants. The process and outcomes were Label for FY 2015. The company has received a highest discussed in company’s sustainability report for 2014-15. A Sustainability Rating ‘A’ for its Sustainability performance snapshot of the result is presented below. according to a new assessment done by CII. High Impact on Local Community Availability of Power at competitive prices Water Availability Waste Management Air Emissions Importance to Stakeholders Water Discharge Medium Emergency Preparedness Security & Asset Regulatory Compliances High Maintenance Cost Protection Customer Satisfaction Availability of Skilled Man Power Ethics and Integrity Occupational Health and Safety Plant Eﬃciency Transparency Government Shortage of Coal Policies Low Medium High Importance to Business 4 https://www.tatapower.com/sustainability/policies.aspx 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Outcomes Ten material aspects for Tata Power are given below and these are addressed in the report in relevant sections. Sustainability Impact of the aspect in the value chain Aspect Value S G D C Care for Environment Emissions to Air M H Water Availability L H Eﬄuent Discharge L L Waste Management L M Regulatory Compliance H H L L Care for Community Impact of Local Community M L L M Care for Customers Availability of power at Competitive rates L M H Customer Satisfaction H H H Fuel Availability H H Plant Eﬃciency H Value chain stages: S supply chain, G generation, D – distribution, C consumer/end user, Impact: H high, M medium, L low Stakeholder Engagement has been implemented across 10 select locations including In line with the identiﬁed major stakeholders of Tata Power Mundra, Maithon, Trombay, Dharavi, Kalinganagar, Haldia, various activities that were conducted during this and Jojobera amongst others. The programs implemented reporting year to address the stakeholder requirements are here aims at enhancement of the economic cycle through elaborated below. an objective selection of villages based on the community consultation, establishment of grass root level Community functionaries, social mobilisation, improving access of existing government schemes and projects, identiﬁcation Model Village: Tata Power has been continuously and promotion of social entrepreneurs to create job based undertaking sustainable development initiatives to growth at the village level. improve the quality of life and social well-being of the communities where it operates. In line with this vision, the Tata Power Skill Development Institute (TPSDI) Company initiated the holistic approach based “Model Village Development Program” in 2015, aimed at helping To bridge the competency gap in the power sector. Tata rural communities become sustainable and self-reliant Power has established the TPSDI as a non-proﬁt corporate across 56 villages of the country covering Maharashtra, social responsibility initiative in its centenary year. TPSDI is Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Gujarat in phased mandated to provide modular training and certiﬁcation in manner. the Power Sector and allied skills leading to employability. TPSDI being a Corporate Social Responsibility initiative will complement the eﬀorts of Government of India and other State Governments. The objective of the initiative is to augment additional income sources by bringing villages to the mainstream of the development process, targeting key prioritised issues, TPSDI will provide training and certiﬁcation to create a and addressing them through collective engagement of competent and skilled workforce in the power sector and key stakeholders, thereby, enabling the local communities allied areas. TPSDI will empower people with learning for to become self-sustaining. The ﬁrst phase, i.e. 2015-2017, livelihood and help skilled people to pursue growth 26 opportunities within the entire chain of Power Utilities Resolutions and mutual agreement for the continual focus Skills. TPSDI training approach ensures the holistic on sustainability are crucial for mutual business sustenance development of trainees. Every course oﬀered a composite and hence it is periodically discussed and reviewed with built of many building blocks including: Cognitive skills, key stakeholders annually. Functional, Technical Knowledge and Soft Skills and Personality Development. To cater to all India requirements Shareholders for skill development, centres have been established at The shareholders are kept updated on the important Shahad, Trombay, Mundra and Maithon. Tata Power has milestones and announcements via news papers, news planned to have all Services workforce to be TPSDI certiﬁed. releases and presentations, company website (web based Accordingly, targets have been set for contractor workforce queries under Investor Relations, SEBI Complaints Redress certiﬁcation of at least 25% by FY 2017, 50% by FY 2018 and System and factory visits etc. The Annual General Meeting 100% FY 2019. (AGM) is held each year to keep the shareholders informed and company also publishes its annual report and BRR. Suppliers Responsible Supply Chain Management: Policy displays Customers the Company's commitment towards sustainable supply Social Networking: With time, the communication chain operations and emphasises to all its stakeholders approach has also transformed, only to cater to a wider that it would be prudent to follow the RSCM policy to have audience. Embracing social media marketing is one such mutual success. change to not just promote the products, but also receive customer feedback on the same. Facebook and Twitter are The sustainable supply chain guidelines are cascaded to all the the online communication channels used by Tata Power for stakeholders in the supply chain. The Company shares with its social networking. In addition to the above, Customer Talk – a suppliers/contractors documents like Tata Code of Conduct, monthly magazine is circulated internally that elaborates on Environment Policy, RSCM, Sustainability Policy and the progress made by the Distribution segment of Tata Contractors Safety Code of Conduct that form an integral part Power. of the Enquiry Documents (RFQ/RFP) for making them aware of Tata Power’s commitments towards its adjacent community Be Green A unique consumer initiative where Tata and stakeholders at large. This is comprehensively integrated at Power’s consumers could exchange their old, ineﬃcient the time of contract award by making it a part of each electrical appliances for new, 5 star rated energy eﬃcient Purchase/Work Order. The Company has also revised its vendor impanelment guidelines to screen the suppliers on safety and appliances at a discounted price. During 2015-16, company environmental performance parameters, in addition to provided 15.5 lakh LED bulbs to its customers in Mumbai existing commercial criteria through the ERP platform. and Delhi and also facilitated the replacement of nearly 20,000 ineﬃcient appliances such as old fans, air The company also took up few supplier development conditioners etc. with new star rated energy e¬ﬃcient initiatives under the aﬃrmative action, such as: ones. Also, for the large industrial and commercial l Promoted 240 community entrepreneurship ventures consumers, the company carried detailed energy audits at like ﬂy ash brick making, poultry farming, garment a discounted price. manufacturing, etc. l Outsourced `17.65 crore of products and services from Club Enerji Tata Power’s Club Enerji is focused on school 36 vendors/contractors. students to champion the noble cause of conservation of resources and moral and civic values. The Company has Partners Meet Tata Power conducts Partners Meet to further scaled up the magnitude of this initiative by discuss various issues, business scenarios, concerns and launching an online module of the Club Enerji programme. other information pertinent to the business every year. The objective of this initiative was to reach out to a larger During regular events, the Company and its audience and impact a larger group of IT skilled children partners/suppliers share their views and concerns. 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 with a vision to transform by adopting a holistic and robust Power runs Aﬃrmative Action (AA) programs. These approach towards conservation. The module, since its include implemented several initiatives for Employment, launch, has also reached out to audiences in new Entrepreneurship, Employability, Education and Essential international geographies like Philippines, UAE, USA, UK Amenities for the communities around its operating sites. and South Africa and newer national geographies like Chandigarh, Hyderabad and Chennai. Srijan An organisation wide initiative where employees are involved in redrafting and co-creating all HR policies. It Employees enables employees to understand, co-create and co-own Tata Power encourages its employees to actively HR policies resulting in better acceptance and participate in the forums created at the Tata Group level like dissemination. Tata Innoverse and Tata Innovista5 (an annual celebration of the innovation eﬀort in the Tata group). Tata Power was one Media of the early companies to join Tata Innoverse and leveraged The company has maintained professional relationship the resource available by consistently posting some of its with media and the information shared is managed under critical challenges in this group forum. the Media Relation Policy. The various news bites are shared routinely with media on company website in form Tata Power encouraged employee volunteering through its of press releases for wider circulation and information of Arpan initiative. Various volunteering programs were also the relevant stakeholders. organized at Jawhar (a district in Maharashtra), where Tata 5 The Tata InnoVerse Program is an endeavour to bring together innovators, scientists and academicians from across the globe to solve some of the toughest challenges facing us and the world. www.tatainnoverse.com/page.php?id=3 28 Care for People Tata Power recognises that its people are a key resource Capability Development and endeavours to enable its employees to deliver on To enhance technical and functional excellence of its business requirements while meeting their career employees, Tata Power provides environment where aspirations. Human resources plays a pivotal role in continuous lear ning takes place. This will help enabling smooth implementation of key strategic employees and the company in turn to meet the decisions through aligned capability development, changing demands and priorities of the business leadership development, diversity and industry relation including emerging businesses and geographies. The practices. company has developed a structured mechanism to support people development as described below: Tat a Powe r h a s va r i o u s e m p l oye e e n g a g e m e nt l Competency/Learning levels for various roles are initiatives coupled with enhanced focus on individual regularly evaluated and established training needs that is aligned to help Company achieve l Individual level gaps are identiﬁed through an its vision of Employer of Choice. It also maintains policies assessment mechanism or PMS cycle (Training Need for various facets of Human Resource Management, Identiﬁcation) which highlights its commitment of being an employee l Training needs fulﬁlled through relevant and best in friendly organisation. There are processes in place for class interventions recruitment and selection of personnel at all levels, well l Job rotation opportunities discussed and enabled deﬁned manuals for induction, per formance l Company established Tata Power Skill Development management, learning and development, retirement, Institute (TPSDI) for addressing the skill gap in power and separation. and allied sectors by training incumbents in the community. Tata Power engages its employees on continuous basis through various initiatives such as HR100+, Town Halls, Leadership Development Newsletters, Cascading the Strategic Intent, Tata Power has a Leadership Development Framework Communication from the MD's Desk, MD's which caters to the developmental needs of senior leaders Communication Meet, Enerji TV, HR Connect, Forum and key employees in its talent pool to meet these needs. with Top Leadership, Forum with HR (VOICES), Employee Leaders undergo various programs like the Tata Group Engagement Surveys and Engagement Action Planning, Induction for Business Leaders (new joinees), Tata Group Shikhar Awards, and Appraisal Step Redressal (ASR) Strategic Leadership Seminar ( TGSLS), Tata Group Process etc. The employee engagement score Executive Leadership Seminar ( TGELS), Tata Group conducted for Oﬃcers determined through Aon Hewitt emerging Leaders Seminar (TGeLS) and Tata Group survey in FY16 was 74% as against the 69% in FY15. This is Management Development Program (TGMDP). Senior above the industry average of 67% and is a sector leaders are nominated to Cambridge Sustainability benchmark in India. Leadership Program, Spokesperson Media Training, Market segmentation, Safety conference, Enterprise Risk The various initiatives taken up for the employees Management, Tata Group Learning Mission and the World development are as follows. Utility Summit. Periodic nominations are made to best in 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 class external leadership programs oﬀered by TMTC, IIMs, Celebrations. Additionally, the induction and on XLRI, ASCI, and CII as also to the 3 module in-house boarding of new joinees included direct communication ﬂagship programs STEP (Strategic Training for on key themes such as TCoC, Prevention of Sexual Employees’ Progress), EDP (Executive Development Harassment at work and mutual respect towards Program) and MDP (M anagement Development colleagues irrespective of their cultural and social Program). background. Talent Retention Industrial Relations Tata Power believes that retaining talent gives a Cordial relations exist between Management and Union competitive advantage in a fast evolving and challenging based on mutual respect and understanding which business environment. Meritocracy is the central theme allows for smooth and uninterrupted functioning of your for all employee life cycle processes like Recruitment, Company. Meetings were held periodically between Performance Management, Rewards & Recognition, Management and Union to discuss various issues and the Ca re e r G row t h a n d E x i t M a n a g e m e nt . Pl a n n e d Union is consulted on all signiﬁcant changes. For all inter ventions are carried out across all levels of operational changes, the company in consultation with management to identify and retain the right talent. Some the person concerned, gave a minimum notice period of these interventions includes, Accelerated Career and followed legal requirements. Agreements with the Enhancement (ACE) a fast track talent management Union have been signed for four years covering aspects programme, identiﬁcation of High Potential o¬ﬃcers for related to health and safety, salary, allowances, beneﬁts fur ther development, succession management, and productivity clauses, in line with the business Myfeedback a developmental tool for senior and top requirements. Company has a robust legal compliance management to enable them to obtain developmental monitoring system for labour laws which is reviewed by feedback whereby learning and development can be top Management. initiated by self or aided by the organization and Management Planning Discussion a career planning Labour Management Relations exercise for senior management. The Company has held Tata Power respects the rights of employees to exercise its attrition rate below 4% for the past four years. The freedom of association as per applicable Trade Union minimum entry level wage is well above the minimum Laws. In the reporting year 26% of the permanent wage in industry. All the employees receive annual career / workforce was from the non-management cadre, which performance review. There is no discrimination in is an internal Union with no political or external recruitment and promotions based on gender, race, aﬃliations. The Union is consulted by the Management religion, ethnicity etc. on all signiﬁcant changes through regular meetings with management. There have been no grievances ﬁled about Diversity labour practices through formal grievance mechanism. Tata Power is an Equal Opportunity Employer in all All of the (100%) employees are covered under Collective practice areas. Around 35 senior leaders underwent bargaining agreements. There are no unionised Diversity and Inclusion workshops to ensure that the employees in SED, Mundra and Maithon. organizational agenda percolates from the apex leadership and pervades smoothly throughout the Employee Wellbeing organization. In FY16, 19 workshops were organized Tata Power believes that work-life balance is about covering around 400 employees for sensitization of creating and maintaining a supportive and healthy work employees towards promotion of workplace diversity in environment, which enables employees to have a addition to cultural sensitivity trainings, community balance between work and personal responsibilities. The outreach and cultural celebrations at work. Company oﬀers range of beneﬁts to the employees like Life Insurance, Health Care, Disability/Invalidity Also, in line with Tata Group’s vision to create 1,000 coverage, Maternity leave/ Adoption leave, Retirement women leaders by 2020, the company has been provision, Housing beneﬁts, Car beneﬁts etc. promoting gender diversity within the Tata Power Group of companies through focused interventions like I nternational assignments for women, specially designed LDPs for women colleagues, MD’s Dialogue with women employees to encourage women participation in various forums and to address their concerns and challenges and International Women’s Day 30 Parental leave & return to work Tata Power 2015-16 Employees that availed parental leave during the year 18 Employees due to return from parental leave during the year 22 Employees who returned to work during the year after end of parental leave 9 Employees retained for 12 months after resuming from parental leave 2 Employees due to return to work after taking parental leave 8 Return to work rate 41% Retention Rate 100% SED Employees that availed parental leave 2 Employees returned to work and retained for 12 months after resuming from parental leave 2 Retention Rate 100% Workforce Snapshot Tata Power has 4,068 employees where in female and male workforce accounts for 338 and 3,730 respectively. The details of total workforce by employment categories for Tata Power (including IEL, Mundra and Maithon), and SED for FY 2015-16 is given below. All the employees are local to respective location (local taken as country of plant location). Tata Power 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 225 9 1 104 129 234 242 12 2 110 142 254 243 13 1 110 145 256 Management Middle 374 20 9 304 81 394 392 18 5 315 90 410 403 19 3 324 95 422 Management Junior 2,125 240 1,276 910 179 2,365 2,069 249 1,147 998 173 2,318 1,975 245 944 1,111 165 2,220 Management Workmen 1,182 26 25 548 635 1,208 1,097 25 20 487 615 1,122 1,026 22 14 434 600 1,048 FDA 87 40 76 40 11 127 88 42 73 52 5 130 83 39 60 58 4 122 Total 3,993 335 1,385 1,906 1,035 4,328 3,888 346 1,247 1,962 1,025 4,234 3,730 338 1,022 2,037 1,009 4,068 SED 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 16 0 0 8 8 16 0 16 0 0 8 8 16 0 0 8 8 16 Management Middle 182 22 9 157 38 204 182 22 9 157 38 204 235 22 7 192 58 257 Management Junior 288 69 207 128 22 357 288 69 207 128 22 357 448 122 351 194 25 570 Management Workmen 15 0 0 1 14 15 15 0 0 1 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 FDA 16 2 14 16 16 0 0 1 15 16 Third Party 192 0 165 47 6 218 177 27 134 64 6 204 189 18 128 70 9 207 Contract (Outsourced) Others 6 26 6 0 0 6 6 0 6 0 0 9 1 10 0 0 10 (Trainees/App rentice) Total 699 177 387 341 88 816 699 177 387 341 88 816 913 163 496 465 115 1076 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Employees Hired Tata Power ensures signiﬁcant attraction and retention of employees, primarily backed by a robust talent management strategy of oﬀering diverse experiences and challenges across varied projects. In FY 2015-16, the total number of employees hired by Tata Power and SED is given below. Tata Power 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 9 0 8 1 9 14 1 0 8 7 15 10 0 0 3 7 10 Management Middle 19 1 18 19 16 0 1 15 0 16 6 2 0 6 2 8 Management Junior 144 25 121 48 0 169 103 30 104 29 0 133 55 21 61 15 0 76 Management Workmen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FDA 19 6 11 13 1 25 8 7 7 8 0 15 Total 172 25 122 74 1 197 152 37 116 65 8 189 79 30 68 32 9 109 SED 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Management Middle 4 0 0 2 2 4 14 2 2 14 0 16 29 0 1 25 3 29 Management Junior 40 10 39 11 0 50 51 22 59 12 2 73 187 43 185 45 0 230 Management Work Man 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 10 39 13 2 54 68 24 61 27 4 92 226 43 186 70 3 250 Employee Turnover The turnover and its percentage by workforce level of Tata Power and its subsidiaries/divisions are elaborated below. The turnover rate does not include superannuation, death, group transfer cases, etc. and considers only resignation cases. The average tenure consists of experience of employees in Tata Power. Tata Power 2014-15 2015-16 Senior Middle Junior Senior Middle Junior Workforce Workmen Total Workmen Total Turnover level Management Management Management (Union) FDA Employees Management Management Management (Union) FDA Employees Turnover Gender Male 1 12 98 0 1 12 8 10 89 1 8 116 Female 0 0 16 0 0 0 0 0 21 0 4 25 Age <30 0 1 79 0 0 1 0 1 82 0 8 91 31-50 0 11 35 0 0 11 5 8 28 0 4 45 >50 1 0 0 0 1 0 3 1 0 1 0 5 Overall 1 12 114 0 1 12 8 10 110 1 12 141 Turnover % Gender Male 0.4% 3.1% 4.7% 0.0% 0.4% 3.1% 3.3% 2.5% 4.4% 0.1% 9.4% 3.0% Female 0.0% 0.0% 6.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 8.5% 0.0% 9.9% 7.3% Age <30 0.0% 14.3% 6.5% 0.0% 0.0% 14.3% 0.0% 25.0% 7.8% 0.0% 12.0% 8.0% 31-50 0.0% 3.6% 3.7% 0.0% 0.0% 3.6% 4.5% 2.5% 2.7% 0.0% 7.3% 2.3% >50 0.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.7% 0.0% 2.1% 1.1% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.5% Overall 0.4% 3.0% 4.9% 0.0% 0.4% 3.0% 3.1% 2.4% 4.8% 0.1% 9.5% 3.4% Average Tenure of employees 2.67 5.69 3.40 0 0.97 3.42 6.25 5.28 4.49 29.84 2.31 4.64 leaving (in years) 32 SED 2014-15 2015-16 Senior Middle Junior Senior Middle Junior Turnover Workforce Workmen Workmen level management management management (Union) management management management (Union) Gender Male 0 7% 93% 0 7% 2.55% 12.05% 0 Female 0 0 7% 0 0 13.63% 11.47% 0 Age <30 0 0 93% 0 0 43% 17% 0 group 30-50 0 67% 7% 0 0 4.16% 3.60% 0 >50 0 33% 0 0 14% 0 0 0 Employee Retirements The employees superannuating in the next 5 to 10 years respectively is provided below. Tata Power Next 5 years Next 10 years Workforce Level Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Senior Management 33% 23% 63% 46% Middle Management 9% 0% 10% 0% Junior Management 13% 2% 15% 2% Workmen (Union) 59% 2% 58% 2% SED Next 5 years Next 10 years Workforce Level Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Senior Management 21% 0% 36% 0% Middle Management 4% 9% 18% 9% Junior Management 2% 0% 7% 1% Workmen (Union) 0% 0% 0% 0% Employee Training Tata Power 2015-16 M F M F Employee Training In Hours Avg. Hours Senior Management 5715 250 24 19 Middle Management 25711 1652 64 87 Junior Management 93945 11539 48 47 Workmen 31871 538 31 24 FDA 1331 284 16 7 SED 2015-16 M F M F Employee Training In Hours Avg. Hours Senior Management 9 0 0.56 0 Middle Management 321.15 46.5 1.37 2.11 Junior Management 864.62 228.56 1.93 1.87 Workmen 0 0 0 0 Fixed Term Contract 222.5 0 13.91 0 The training details are reported for 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 cycle to match with the internal training calendar. Monthly average 39 security personnel trained, 24 people trained in HR aspects and total 317 training hours (monthly average = 26.42 hours). 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Care for Environment C A R E fo r e nv i r o n m e n t i s p a r t o f Ta t a Po w e r ’s from internal and external parties. The stakeholder’s Sustainability Model, i.e. Leadership with Care. Tata complaints regarding environmental issues that may aﬀect Power has been meticulously working towards resource the Company’s reputation are escalated to the Top eﬃciency, adoption of advanced clean technologies and management . protecting vital species and habitats. The approach is grounded with a commitment for 100% compliance on all Environmental Expenditure environmental requirements wherever the company is The environmental expenditure is identiﬁed at the operating. conceptual stage and O&M is allocated on a year on year basis to develop eﬀective environmental programmes. This Environment Management and FY15-16, Rs. 592 million was spent on various environment Responsibility protection and pollution abatement and monitoring Tata Power’s commitment to environmental stewardship measures. stretches across its entire energy value chain. The activity includes from sustainable resource conservation through Compliance Management eﬃcient operation and Demand Side Management (DSM) The environmental policy and governance practices are programmes. The governance structure at Tata Power for designed to ensure regulatory/statutory compliance, as environment management is reinforced with the CSO well as to provide a platform for environmental oﬃce being responsible for Environment, Corporate Social performance to go beyond the legal and regulatory limits. Responsibility, and Biodiversity. A robust compliance management system is in place to review the environment compliance by the top In addition, Tata Power aligns with various voluntary management, as well as departmental heads at a deﬁned initiatives and compliance requirements such as UNGC frequency. principles on environment, NVGs, BRR, CDP etc. As an environmentally proactive responsible corporate, The COO and Executive Director monitors the environment environment management consideration starts at the compliance through a Daily Environment Dashboard conceptual stage of all the company’s projects. It is given which covers mainly incidents and exceptions to top priority through the commissioning, execution and it environmental norms and conditions stipulated by State continues into operation as well. Eﬀective pollution Pollution Control Board (SPCB). An environment minimisation and control and monitoring mechanisms are compliance certiﬁcate is also submitted to SEBI along with in place at all the projects. Few examples of these are Air other requisites as part of section 49 of SEBI guidelines. The Pollution Control Equipment (APCE), wastewater CSO reviews the environment performance of all thermal treatment plants and ambient & stack emissions, noise stations on a monthly basis, whereas the wind, hydro and levels etc. Eﬀective monitoring is also carried by accredited waste-heat recovery projects are monitored quarterly. An third party agencies, on a periodic basis. integrated central reporting system DISHA is in place for monitoring all Environmental parameters as per Consent Environmental Grievance Mechanism to Operate (CTO) issued by the respective SPCBs. Internal This mechanism is within the ISO 14001 Environmental Audits are carried out by the Corporate Environment and Management System to handle complaints/grievances 34 Climate Change Team with a deﬁned frequency across all Air Quality generating stations. In this reporting year, no notice about Tata Power is aware of the potential health impacts due to exception or non-compliance to any of the operating air emissions of Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxides stations has been issued. (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM) which are emitted during electricity generation. Online CEMS (continuous Environment Sustainability emission monitoring system) analysers installed on stacks Tata Power continues to implement activities which focus for continuously measuring of pollutants across locations majorly on resource conservation, waste minimisation, and periodically monitoring are carried out through third energy and water conservation. These initiatives are tracked party laboratories authorised by statutory agencies. through Green Manufacturing Index (GMI) at the Emissions across Tata Power locations are well within station level. The GMI is tracked on a quarterly basis for all stipulated limits. The emissions are monitored as per the operating locations by the MD during the Balance Score Card approved procedures of regulatory authorities. As an environment conscious company, none of the operations (BSC) review and by the CSO monthly during the emit Polychlorinated Biphenyl (Persistent Organic environment reviews. GMI is a quantitative matrix of Pollutants, POP) as well as Volatile Organic Compounds baseline, target and achievements on various environment (VOC). The emissions in tonnes are given below. initiatives such as speciﬁc water consumption, zero eﬄuent discharge, utilisation of scrap, bottom ash utilisation, Air Emissions by Weight (tonnes) plantation, rainwater harvesting, energy conservation, etc. Parameter Year Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL GMI targets along with results achieved by stations are given SO2 FY 13-14 6,320 15,059 23,209 27,283 below. FY 14-15 4,366 16,547 55,226 30,978 Green Manufacturing Index FY 15-16 5,577 16,433 82,599 25,149 Division Target NOx FY 13-14 4,449 2,120 40,612 9,125 Actual 24 24 FY 14-15 511* 2,133 34,823 10,279 Trombay Jojobera 28 25 FY 15-16 5,234 3,182 25,939 13,634 Maithon 26 48 PM FY 13-14 1,360 525 3,187 1,242 Mundra 86 91 FY 14-15 1,159 522 2,920 1,105 Haldia 45 58 FY 15-16 1,103 824 3,142 1,324 Bhira 24 15 Bhivpuri 39 39 No emissions from Hydro, Haldia and PH6 due to use of water and waste gas for power generation respectively. * only unit 7 of Trombay Khopoli 40 30 PH 6 42 64 Transmission 36 43 Ambient Air Quality Ambient air quality is typically Tata Power Consolidated 39 44 measured at atleast three locations, near ground level, away from direct sources of pollution. Tata Power monitors ambient Material Consumed and Recycled air across locations around all operating stations. Continuous At Tata Power, the major material consumption is fuel (coal, Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) are oil, gas), which is used for generating electricity. Tata Power installed in operating locations. Also the monitoring is carried does not use Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) in any of out by third party authorised laboratories. The measurements its operations. The materials consumed by Tata Power’s are sent to the respective SPCBs on a monthly basis as well as generating units are given below. to the regional oﬃces of the MoEFCC along with the six Materiai Consumption monthly compliance reports. The ambient air quality is monitored at all locations and is well within the statutory Station Material FY FY FY compliance levels (except for PM) and deviations are (Tonnes) 13-14 14-15 15-16 observed mainly due to local atmospheric conditions. Trombay Coal 2,557,512 1,997,053 2,704,951 Low Sulphur Heavy 43,169 23,196 2,321 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Stock (LSHS) One of the important sustainability eﬀorts is to reduce the Gas 288,934 353,872 206,828 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions which arise from the use Jojobera Coal 252,4507 2,703,715 2,587,908 of fossil fuels (coal, oil and gas) for electricity generation. At Mundra Coal 11,495,860 9,875,599 9,970,026 Maithon Coal 4,032,486 3,989,477 4,092,996 Tata Power, as a commitment towards combating climate PH # 6 Blast Furnace Gas 2,566 2,522 2,483 change, emissions are tracked regularly and assessment (MNm3) carried out on a yearly basis as per the World Business Haldia is excluded as it is uses waste ﬂue gas as a material. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) guidelines There is no signiﬁcant material consumption in Hydros. and GHG protocol. 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 CO2 Intensity (g/kWhr) United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Year Trombay Jojobera Mundra Maithon Total for (UNFCCC). Tata Power currently has ﬁve of its renewable Tata Power projects registered under the CDM program by UNFCCC. These projects include Wind projects at Gadag (Karnataka), FY 13-14 833 883 824 869 759 Khandke (Maharashtra), Samana and NewGen Saurashtra FY 14-15 824 923 785 885 747 (Gujarat). The Company also has Mithapur Solar project registered under CDM. In FY 2015-16, total of 1,15,249 Carbon FY 15-16 883 945 781 958 773 Credits (CERs) were traded from these projects combined. The Excludes Haldia, PH#6 and Hydros as they do not contribute to any signiﬁcant gross revenue generated from such sale is ~ INR 10.66 Crores. CO2 emissions. Power generation from solar and wind projects have also been considered while calculating GHG intensity Also, the company's Joint-Venture of 120 MW Itezhi Tezhi Further, as a part of its voluntary disclosures, the GHG Hydro Power Project in Zambia has received CDM approval emissions are reported to CDP, UK and the details as per from UNFCCC. The total emission reductions from the Scope I, II and III are as follows. project are estimated to be 5,892,480 tCO2e over a 10 year crediting period. Category wise emissions in tCO2e Year Direct Greenhouse Indirect Greenhouse Emissions due to Total gas emissions gas emissions Business Travel (Scope I) (Scope II) (Scope III) Tata Power FY 13-14 34,296,380 5,346 2,231 34,303,957 FY 14-15 35,267,826 3,263 2,474 35,273,563 FY 15-16 36,334,745 3,357 3,391 36,341,494 SED* FY 13-14 110 1,720 118 1,948 FY 14-15 149 1,996 311 2,456 FY 15-16 203 1,841 2,044 *SED is not a part of CDP due to operational control Renewable Energy Eﬃciency in Energy Consumption Tata Power has historically been a leader in foraying into At Tata Power, energy eﬃciency is a way of managing and Non-Carbon Emitting Sources (NCES) with its hydro power limiting the increase in energy consumption. As a utility station being commissioned in 1915. This is more so company, the operations are more energy eﬃcient if it evident now with the strategic intent of the company, generates more units for the same energy input, or which endeavours to generate 30-40% share of generation maintains the units generated for less energy input. The capacity to be non-fossil (including hydro) by 2025. energy consumption arises from the consumption of fuel for power generation (direct consumption). Emission Reduction Market Mechanism CDM is an instrument established under the Kyoto Protocol All the power generation plants do not consume any to achieve both sustainable development and contribute to energy directly apart from the auxiliary consumption given the cost-eﬀective mitigation of climate change. It allows below. This is monitored as diﬀerence between total countries with emission reduction commitments to meet generation and net export to grid. The auxiliary energy part of their reduction abroad, where greenhouse gas (GHG) consumption details are given below. abatement costs can be lower. The company has Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects registered with Auxiliary Energy Consumption (GJ) Station Million Units Gigajoules (GJ) FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Trombay 387 334.29 382.54 1,393,200 1,203,446 1,377,144 Jojobera 369 375.56 366.97 1,328,400 1,352,023 1,321,092 Hydro 37 36.62 31.52 133,200 131,825 113,483 Mundra 1,956 2,075.49 2,000.84 7,041,600 7,471,764 7,203,024 Maithon 365 371.95 391.61 1,314,000 1,339,005 1,409,780 Haldia 72 67.67 61.4 259,200 243,610 221,040 PH #6 61 60.74 62.76 219,600 218,671 225,957 36 Energy consumption outside the organisation has been process of taking up various energy eﬃciency measures to monitored only in terms of business travel of employees, achieve these PAT targets. which has been captured and reported as Scope III emissions. This is calculated based on the distance based Water Management method6 as vehicles are provided by third party operator/s Tata Power is committed to preserving the long-term and fuel consumption is not shared with Tata Power. viability of the water resources upon which its operation relies and is addressing site-speciﬁc water-related issues at The energy intensities of the plants are based on the total each of the operating stations. Water is essential for Tata fuel consumption (primary, secondary and start up Power’s production of electricity, water drives hydro-electric included). facilities and cools fossil fuel ﬁred stations. Being a material issue for Tata Power, the company recognises that water is a Energy intensity (GJ/kWh) shared resource, critical to economic development, Station FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 communities and wildlife in the areas where it operates. Trombay 0.0099 0.0101 0.0100 Jojobera 0.0109 0.0108 0.0108 At Hydro power plants, water diverted from river / barrages Mundra 0.0090 0.0080 0.0087 is used for power generation and given back to the river Maithon 0.0110 0.0099 0.0098 without changing or aﬀecting its quality and this water PH#6 2.62 2.58 2.54 usage doesn’t account for any absolute consumption of Haldia operations are based on waste heat recovery water. All eﬀorts are in place for regulatory compliance and no water bodies with biodiversity value are aﬀected due to All the plants regularly undertake energy audits and the wastewater discharge across all stations. The trade propose energy eﬃciency measures. Based on the savings eﬄuent, as well as domestic wastewater at all the locations, estimated and investment required, the company is treated to meet discharge quality parameters as per the implements select projects. Jojobera and Trombay plants statutory norms of respective SPCBs. The treated water is are also covered in the BEE’s PAT Cycle 2. Tata Power have reused internally for horticulture/plantation/greenbelt completed respective plant’s baseline energy consumption development, as well as used for control of fugitive (for 2014-15) and are given targets for speciﬁc energy emissions from coal yards. The System is in place to submit consumption (in metric tonne of oil equivalent) to be monitoring results of water management to respective achieved by 2018-19 (over ﬁve years). These plants are in the statutory agencies at regular intervals. Water Consumption Trends Station Source & Use FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Speciﬁc water Absolute water Speciﬁc water Absolute water consumption consumption consumption consumption (m3/MWh) (Mm3) 3 (m /MWh) (Mm3) Municipal Water consumption 0.23 1.38 0.217 1.40 (Process+ Domestic Water) Trombay Sea water consumption 160.81 967.85 142.91 958.73 (Condenser Cooling water) Municipal Water consumption 3.1 3.0 11.14 Jojobera (Process+ Domestic + Make up 11.78 for Condenser Cooling) Municipal Water consumption 2.6 2.30 2.61 2.45 PH # 6 (Process+ Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Municipal Water consumption 3.5 3.1 3.5 2.98 Haldia (Process+ Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Surface Water Withdrawal 2.4 16.10 2.36 16.94 Maithon (Process + Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Sea Water Withdrawal 175.67 4,668.36 172.17 44,21.35 (Process & Domestic after RO Mundra treatment + Make up for Condenser Cooling) There is no material water consumption for hydro power plants. 6 Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions, India GHG Program (http://indiaghgp.org/transport-emission-factors) 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Waste Management generated during operation are disposed oﬀ through Tata Power ensures that the best waste management authorised recyclers practices are in place to reduce, reuse and recycle the waste generated. In addition to recycling a strong focus on Bio-medical Waste identifying opportunities to prevent waste or bring new life The waste generated from medical facilities is of higher to materials that might otherwise be discarded. As a part of signiﬁcance and improper management of this waste regulatory compliance, the waste generated is disposed causes a direct health impact on the community. Tata through authorised vendors. Hazardous waste is stored Power understands the signiﬁcance of bio-medical waste and disposed as per Hazardous Waste (Management, management in line with the Bio-medical Waste Handling and Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2016. Tata (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 and its Power does not import or export any wastes in/from power subsequent amendments thereafter. Bio-medical Waste is generation and there has been no hazardous waste disposed oﬀ through authorised vendors across locations imported or exported as per the Basel Convention. The and the quantum disposed in kgs is given below. reporting year did not witness any spills across locations. Being a power generating company with coal being its Location FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 major fuel, a large quantity of ﬂy ash is generated, the Corporate Oﬃce, Carnac, 270 215 285 quantity depends on the quality of coal used. Tata Power is Mumbai conscious of its resource usage and thus using low ash, low Trombay 27 11 11.5 sulphur coal, for its current operations, to minimise adverse Hydros 38 39 37.58 Jojobera 3 2 1.7 impacts on the environment and the public. There are Maithon 5 6.5 5.43 eﬀorts in place that ensures the ash generated from Mundra 234 170 143.77 thermal power plants would be gainfully utilised in Total (kg) 577 443 485 creating value. Gainful ash utilisations is achieved through Backﬁlling in abandoned mines, Cement & brick industry, e-waste and road construction. The quantity of ﬂy ash and Tata Power’s Information Technology department hazardous wastes disposed during the period is given manages a company-wide asset recovery programme to below. The disposal of ﬂy ash and hazardous wastes are reuse and recycle obsolete electronic assets. Through ongoing process and waste generated is disposed. authorised vendors, Tata Power ensures that all of its Ash electronic waste is de-manufactured for reuse or Station Disposal (kg/MWh) reclamation in a responsible manner. Tata Power has disposed 11.62 tonnes e-waste to authorized recyclers in FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 FY 16. Trombay 8.7 9.06 7.36 8.29 Jojobera 296 314 312 284 Quantity of e-waste disposed Mundra 24 22.15 19 20.09 Station through authorized recyclers Maithon 271.5 304 246 229.09 (Tonnes) Trombay 9.64 Hazardous Waste Hydros 1 Station Disposal (Tonnes / Annum) Haldia 0.88 Mundra 0.1 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Trombay 51.67 53.7 55.97* Jojobera 15 45.78 15.12 Biodiversity Mundra 109.6 35.03 53.56 Conservation of biodiversity is not new to Tata Power. Indeed, Maithon 12 14.7 17.2 the company’s ﬂagship biodiversity conservation program, PH # 6 0 0 6.72 the Mahseer Conservation Project was initiated more than Hydros 0 0 28.31 four decades ago, at a time when biodiversity conservation *Includes 48.5 MT Used oil and 7.470 MT of Spent Ion exchange resin by businesses was yet to be as mainstream as it is today. At Tata Power, non-hazardous waste minimisation and The Mahseer Program operates on three thematic areasreuse is one of the initiatives under GMI, as mentioned captive breeding, ecology and awareness. The company above. However, waste material such as scrap steel, wood has successfully bred the species in captivity and works which form a part of various auxiliary materials used in closely with Government agencies and ﬁsheries institutes installation, construction, maintenance activity etc. are for responsible re-introductions of the species in the wild. reused internally for fencing, tree guard, etc. However, the The breeding facility at Walvhan, Lonavla, maintained by quantities were not measured. Used and waste oil the company is open to scientists and students for research 38 and training purposes, thus helping build capacities in this plant and animal species in and around their villages. specialized ﬁeld. In 2015, a conference on Mahseer Among these are the white naped tit (Parus nuchalis), white Conservation was held at Lonavla wherein over 30 rumped vulture (Gyps bengalensis), Spiny-tailed Lizard scientists from various states in India participated. (Saara hardwickii), Marsh Crocodile (Crocodylus palustris), a Company volunteers are also part of the Mahseer rare and endemic plant species, Olax nana, and many Conservation eﬀort. An awareness campaign, Act for others. As a part of these programs, habitats of these Mahseer was launched for the company's internal as well as species will be conserved. The company has not carried out external stakeholders. The campaign included various any biodiversity oﬀset projects in the reporting year. components such as Pledging to save the Mahseer, a Mahseer manual, and the creation of a mascot, Tor and such Expertise on Biodiversity is now an integral part of the SAC other activities for participants. of Tata Power with the addition of a senior representative of a prime international conservation organization in the The catchment area of Hydros in Lonavala region consists of Council. semi-evergreen forests that are contiguous with Reserve Forests . It is surrounded by a rich biodiversity and is home Although biodiversity conservation eﬀorts in the company to a diverse assemblage of plants and animals. The Hydros are an on-going phenomenon, a formal strategy for personnel work closely with the State Forest Department to conservation has been formulated in the reporting year to protect and conserve the forests around reservoirs. The align biodiversity management eﬀorts with the company company is also closely involved with conserving other rare operations and aspirations. The document outlines goals species in the Western Ghats as well, such as an important and objectives, identiﬁes areas for further work in this ﬁeld indigenous tree of the Indian subcontinent, Saraca asoka, and has set targets for achieving these. listed vulnerable in the IUCN Red List. Experiments on propagating wild orchids of the northern Western Ghats, One of the core aspects identiﬁed in the Biodiversity using tissue culture techniques is also in progress. The Strategy is that of awareness generation across all company has also helped in the recording amphibian and stakeholders of the importance of biodiversity and its reptile species found in the northern Western Ghats. relation to business. This is achieved by various programs and sessions. To further the cause of raising awareness, Tata Besides the deccan mahseer (Tor khudree), which is an Power is a member of the International Union for e n d a n g e r e d ﬁ s h s p e c i e s , t h e Le s s e r Fl a m i n g o Conservation of Nature, Leaders for Nature (IUCN LfN) (Phoeniconaias minor) is listed near threatened, in the Red Programme. The IUCN LfN Programme works with member List and is found in the vicinity of Trombay and Mundra businesses to enhance biodiversity awareness in the power plants. Part of the Thane creek in Mumbai, adjoining company as they bring with them expertise from around the Trombay power plant is proposed to be designated as a the world on this subject. wildlife sanctuary. It is in close proximity to the Trombay power plant. None of the company's operations have any Capacity is also built through in-house classroom sessions, signiﬁcant impact on biodiversity in protected areas or campaigns and mass e-mailers. A Monthly Biodiversity areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. An Photography Contest is organized for all employees of the immense number of lesser and greater ﬂamingos organization which follows a citizen science model and (Phoeniconaias minor and Phoenicopterus roseus) visit the helps capture the ﬂora and fauna around the company's mahul mudﬂats adjoining the Trombay power plant. There operations. This has helped the organization build a record has not been any signiﬁcant negative impact on the birds of the ﬂora and fauna around the sites. Winning entries are and the population seems to be thriving in the vicinity of shared across the company accompanied with pertinent the plant. No IUCN Red-Listed species and national ecological information. conservation list species is aﬀected by operations. Two of the thermal power plants are situated along the coast. The I n 2 0 1 6 , Ta t a P o w e r s i g n e d M e m o r a n d u m o f temperature of thermal water discharge from power plants Understanding (MoU) with IUCN for Biodiversity is kept well within the regulatory limits. Management with a special focus on its Mundra plant site. It is two-years partnership at the end of which the company Mundra conducts intense biodiversity conservation work will be provided with recommendations to better manage in the Kutch region of Gujarat. Through partnerships with a its site in terms of biodiversity. reputed NGO and the Gujarat Biodiversity Board (GBB), the company empowers local communities through provisions In the reporting year, Tata Power signed up as a pilot tester made in the Biological Diversity Act, 2002. It has helped for the Natural Capital Protocol created by the Natural form about 20 Biodiversity Management Committees Capital Coalition. Thus, a natural capital valuation project (BMCs) in Kutch. They have created People’s Biodiversity for one of the sites is under preparation. Registers (PBRs) and are working on conservation of rare 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Occupational Health & Safety Tata Power strongly believes in Zero harm to the Reports, Help & Feedback. The app allows users to register any employees, allied workforce and the communities within issue or incident that they come across in real-time by which the Company operates. In order to achieve this, uploading images, describing the same in the free text box world-class safety standards and procedures have been while enabling them to directly submit the issue to the implemented for establishing safety culture and concerned authorities. The most signiﬁcant feature of the app inculcating safe behaviour among the employees. is that it allows users to deﬁne the risk of the issue/incident and the GPS tracker automatically provides the geographical At Tata Power, safety is a core value and in pursuit of this belief location in latitude and longitude details. Tata Power Suraksha and commitment, the company has undertaken various app is available for free on Android handheld devices oﬀering Digital projects. One such initiative is the employees a fast and convenient way to report a safety ‘Tata Power Suraksha’, a safety mobile application launched concern. The app also allows its user to track the issues in 2016 for its employees. Designed to foster high-level reported by them along with the status update on the same. engagement and provide a user-friendly experience, the app The app generates a unique ID for every issue reported and a aims at reporting and tracking any unsafe practice/scenarios. date search option is available for viewing the records posted ‘Tata Power Suraksha’ provides an easy tool to the user for in a speciﬁc period. Users can also provide their feedback reporting unsafe scenarios. The application dashboard through the Help & Feedback option provided in the app itself exhibits the four key verticals i.e. Post Issues, My Issues, which will further help in enhancing safety in the organisation. Log in Screen for the “Suraksha” App Home Screen Dashboard 40 At Tata Power, a healthy workforce is an important contributor preventative action plans are developed through SMS. to its competitiveness and Sustainability. All stations maintain Further, to handle unforeseen events or disasters, Business conducive work environments meeting Indian/ International continuity and Disaster Management Plan (BCDMP) is in standards on hygiene, lighting, ventilation and eﬀective place at all generating stations. These BCDMPs are location controls on noise and dust. Stations are provided with speciﬁc and are reviewed on a regular basis. occupational health centres with adequate medical staﬀ to monitor occupational health and provide immediate relief In recent years, Tata Power has been raising greater awareness when required. Adequate numbers of ﬁrst aiders are trained among its employees on the importance of safety in eﬀorts to in various in-house sessions; such sessions are conducted keep the operations accident-free. This is done through periodically by well-known specialists/medical practitioners setting annual Safety Targets as well as on-going initiatives on the occupation related health hazards. that seek to engage both employees and contractors on safety issues. The Safety Targets are communicated to all its Each power plant has a central safety committee with employees by its highest decision-making authority. It is the representation from the major departments/work areas. responsibility of the senior management at respective These departments/work areas further have divisional sublocations to make sure that the safety targets at met. committees and represented by workers as well. All workers are covered in formal joint management-worker The performance against safety targets of the reporting health safety committees. The contract workers are also year as provided below. Proactive Targets Target Achieved Adherence to Annual Safety Plan (%) 100% 100% PTW Audits (Nos) 100% 100% Near miss reported 1,980 2,168 Safety Training Index 0.5 0.45 Implementation of recommendation (%) 100 100 Reactive targets Plan Actual Fatality (Nos) 0 2 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 0 0.1683* Lost workday cases 0 6 i) Incident Investigation using RCA 100 100 ii) Implementation of CAPA (%) 100 100 Sharing of lessons learned (%) 100 100 *LTIFR combined data for employees and contractors have been maintained in SAP from FY16. trained in safety in their induction training and also At Tata Power, Safety culture is guided by the 10 undergo speciﬁc trainings based on area of work and commandments of Safety and it is the responsibility of all duration of their stay etc. its employees to adhere to them. Further, the commitment is shown through the Safety vision, pledge and policy. Identiﬁed medical examinations, as per statute, are conducted for various categories of employees based on Ta t a P o w e r r e l i e s o n a s i z e a b l e n u m b e r o f age-groups as well as exposure to occupational hazards. contractors/vendors (on term contracts) to perform regular These statutory medical examinations take place annually tasks at the generating stations, under the supervision of or as applicable. In the reporting year, no employees were employees throughout the year. To ensure that Tata Power found suﬀering from any occupation related continues to uphold its good safety performance, illness/diseases. contractors’ safety is taken seriously. Contractors are not only required to take part in the regular safety brieﬁngs at daily At Tata Power, maintaining high safety standards at all its toolbox meetings, they also participate in safety initiatives stations is of signiﬁcant importance, as it is committed to and emergency drills organised. Various Health and Safety protecting the health and safety of each of its employees, topics are covered in the formal agreements with Trade contractors, customers and the communities in which it Unions. The entire Contractor Safety Management has been operates. A Safety Management System (SMS) is in place to revised and a new code is now in place w.e.f. Dec 2015. ensure that both employees and contractors adhere to good safety practices and procedures at all times. The risks Tata Power also has a Consequence Management Policy are assessed; incidents tracked and corrective and which sets out the general approach to managing the 41 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 safety deviations and establishes processes for corrective Report) is also shared with select senior leaders which gives counselling. It discusses the disciplinary actions in details of the incidents across the organisation occurring response to safety misconducts or violations as described during the day. All incidents are investigated using in the Industrial Employment Standing Orders Act 1946 or standard root cause analysis checklists to establish the root such other Acts/Rules applicable to the Company. This causes. For high potential/ high severity incidents and near Policy also ensures that while laying down an approach, it misses, a cross-functional team is formed to thoroughly does not overlook the intent behind any safety deviation or investigate causes and identify suitable corrective and malpractice. The objective of the policy is to ensure that preventive actions to avoid recurrence. Implementation of each employee is committed to Safety and at the same the recommendations is veriﬁed for close out through online system and the Divisional Head (where the incident time, gives them independence to take appropriate has occurred) is responsible for ensuring timely close out. decision as per the necessary process and operation. As a standard practice, a 'Lesson Learnt' presentation is Safety Statistics shared as a ‘Safety Pause’ during the MD’s monthly BSC Total 2 Fatalities were reported in FY-16. Both these review meeting attended by all senior leaders. These fatalities happened at Mundra and both of these were incidents are also shared company-wide through monthly contract workmen. One fatality happened during lift ‘Safety & Security’ newsletter. maintenance and the other due to electrocution. The claims were settled with insurance and other Safety Reward and Recognition compensation payouts as per the agreement with unions. Tata Power has a reward and recognition policy. A person Injury Statistics Permanent Contractor Permanent Contractor Permanent Contractor employees and employees and employees and subconsubconsubcontractor tractor tractor workforce workforce workforce Tata Power FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Total Days Worked 1097,233 3,988,414 1,200,598 4,064,448 4689873 Total Hours Worked 8,777,865 31,907,319 9604789 32,515,586 7376203 30,142,782 Lost Days (Man-days Lost) 12,067 18,235 130 12,240 246 12,022 Fatalities 2 3 0 2 0 2 Total recordable injuries 34 39 42 The data pertains to the entire workforce and is not segregated as per gender. However, there were 0 injuries to female employees Tata Power has a struc tured way for repor ting, who reports maximum number of near misses, unsafe investigating, and monitoring incidents. Tata Power has a conditions, work stoppage cases and special category written procedure to report and investigate incidents. All actions will be awarded as a Divisional Safety Champion for incidents are now reported through SAP-EHSM. A Safety that month. There is also an ED’s award, once a quarter and alert is immediately generated (through the system) for high severity incidents (LTI etc.) and brought to the CEO’s award every 6 months on safety. There are ﬁxed immediate notice of senior leadership team for issuing criteria for selection. In addition, the Best Division is also necessary instructions/further line of action. A system awarded every quarter. The list of award received by Tata generated report of all other incidents (Daily Incident Power on Safety in FY16 are enumerated below: S. No. Name of Award Awarding Agency 1 Best practices award to Trombay National Safety Council and Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health GoM 2 Prashansha Patra to Maithon National Safety Council of India 3 Certiﬁcate of Appreciation to Haldia National Safety Council of India 4 Certiﬁcate of Appreciation to PH#6 National Safety Council of India 5 Memento to Tata Power for active participation in Electrical safety week Govt of Maharashtra 6 Certiﬁcate of Excellence for Visitor safety Induction Module developed by The Mega Corporate Film Awards 2016 Tata Power and Tata Interactive Systems 7 Certiﬁcate of Appreciation to Tata Power for active participation in GoM Industrial Safety Rally organized by DISH 42 Safety Training Initiatives l Safety Intervention on Wheels: Training setup made on To improve the quality of safety trainings, third party a vehicle and moved around the site, during tea break at agencies and TPSDI is providing training and certifying the evening time, this is utilised to share Safety videos along with unsafe situation observed during site round. employees. l 5 N’s Train the Trainer programme on Critical Safety l Disaster Management and Business Continuity Plan: Procedures conducted and 509 O&M engineers were Disaster Management Plan and Business Continuity trained in FY’16. Total 15 O&M Engineers were trained in Plan has developed in line with NDMA guidelines for practical training on Work at Height from external Tata Power across divisions as per ISO: 22301. vendor l 500 O&M Engineers are undergoing web-based EContractor Safety Management As a part of new initiatives, company has focussed this year learning for 10 High Hazard Safety Modules. Monthly on Contractor Safety Management and Workforce Skill report of training progress is being shared with development. Dupont six step contractor's safety divisions Management process followed by Tata Power over last decade has been simpliﬁed during the current year l 200 Oﬃce employees are undergoing 5 oﬃce safety speciﬁcally to suit Tata Power and named as Contractors web-based E-learning modules. Safety Code of Conduct (CSCC). This is a three step process Safety Trainings which comprehensively takes care of the various aspects of safety at the time of Registration, bid evaluation and Post FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Contract Award stages. The Service contractors are Safety Training mandays 256,342 34,329 26,564 classiﬁed into various categories (high, medium and low risk) based on their past safety performance and ability to Training Index 0.53 0.59 0.45 handle a magnitude of safety risk. To enable a supplier to Safety Training is reduced in reporting year as from FY16, procedure of training is changed. qualify to undertake high and medium risk jobs they would need to fulﬁl stringent criteria. In order to understand the Safety Key Initiatives level of compliance of Tata Power's major and critical l Visitor Safety Induction Module: This initiative was suppliers, the suppliers were screened on various criteria started to give safety instructions to visitors before including Environment Management, Health & Safety, acquiring a gate pass to enter the plant. Human Rights and Ethics. No violation has been found on these counts. Tata Power has already incorporated vendor l Employee Safety Induction Module: To induct GETs, evaluation/screening based on a skilled workforce, safety DETs and Lateral joinees to be aware of safety systems qualiﬁcation and other parameters like commercial and available at Tata Power. Each new joinee has to undergo statutory obligations as a part of vendor registration on the this training module before they join duty. ERP platform. Safety Performance Trends Safety Performance Reportable Injuries frequency Rate (RIFR) (Nos. /10^6 manhrs ) 3000 8.53 8.5 9 0.4 2512 8 0.37 2500 Million Man Hours 7 0.3 0.30 6.2 2000 5.47 6 5 5.3 Nos 5 RIFR 0.2 1500 1454 4 0.13 0.13 0.1 1000 3 778 595 590 2 0 500 301 1 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 FY 16 0 0 FY 11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 FY 16 The TRI is showing a decreasing trend over the past few years Total Injuries Man hours Worked due to safety induction & training, awareness on PPE, Inspections 43 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Economic Performance The power sector landscape across diﬀerent focus l Signed Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) with Ideal geographies such as ASEAN countries, Middle East, Energy Projects Limited (IEPL) for acquisition of 540 MW Georgia, Turkey and sub-Saharan Africa region has been coal based thermal power project evolving rapidly. The global coal prices have remained under pressure throughout last year, like for all other l Fully commissioned 2 units (63 MW each) of its 126 MW commodities. This has impacted the attractiveness of the Dagachhu Hydro Power Corporation (DHPC) in Bhutan coal mining business in Indonesia. Regulatory reforms in the power sector are critical given the current challenges l Completed ﬁnancial closure for its 185 MW Adjaristsqali across the value chain. In the reporting period, there have been many new regulations, notiﬁcations such as hydro project in Georgia in association with Clean Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2014; Revised Standard Energy Invest AS Norway (Clean Energy) and IFC Bidding Documents; Draft Renewable Energy Act 2015; InfraVentures (IFC). The project is being ﬁnanced by IFC, UDAY Scheme; Revised norms of Emission Standards for ABD and EBRD Coal based thermal power plants and many state level regulations etc. Tata Power has analysed impact of these l Entered into a SPA with Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Pty) and is prepared to meet the new requirements. Ltd. for formalising the acquisition of their 50% shareholding in Itezhi Tezhi Power Corporation Ltd Financial Highlights: FY16 vs FY15 (ITPC) Signed MoU with Russian Direct Investment Fund l Dividend recommended is Rs. 1.30 per share to increase Energy Investment between India and Russia l Consolidated PAT at Rs 873 crore as compared to Rs. 168 crore l Crossed the landmark milestone of crossing 500 MW through wind energy l Standalone PAT at Rs. 772 crore as compared to Rs. 1,010 crore l Tata Power Solar won 100 MW NTPC solar project. Key Business and Growth Highlights Management Commitment and Beneﬁts l Successfully commissioned its 2nd solar farm (29 MW) For employees, unfunded/funded deﬁned beneﬁt in Palaswadi, Maharashtra schemes are operated by Tata Power. These schemes are Exl Commissioned India’s ﬁrst Natural Ester ﬁlled Gratia Death Beneﬁts, Retirement Gifts, Post Retirement distribution transformer in Mumbai Medical Beneﬁts, Health Care Insurance and Pension along with a funded deﬁned beneﬁt plan-Gratuity, which is l Tata Power’s 100% subsidiary reﬁnanced existing USD administered by the Trustees Tata Power Gratuity Fund. The 450 million Fixed to Floating rate subordinated notes by distinct contribution plans of Tata Power such as Provident medium term loan Fund (PF) and Superannuation is in place for eligible 185 MW 44 Financial Snapshot Economic Performance (in INR Crore) FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Economic Value generated 9,283 9,702 8,993 Economic Value distributed 8,606 8,358 7,771 Operating costs 6,375 6,067 5,476 Employee Wages & Beneﬁts 545 687 656 Payments of providers of capital 1,320 1,218 1,327 Payments to government 355 358 283 Community Investments 12 28 29 Tata Power includes Trombay, Hydro, Jojobera, Haldia, Wind, services & SED. Tata Power did not receive any ﬁnancial assistance from the government in FY 15-16. employees. Under these schemes, the Company is required which helped to increase family incomes upto to contribute a speciﬁc percentage of salary to retirement Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 80,000 per year. beneﬁt schemes to fund the beneﬁt, as stipulated by Government of India. As on March 31, 2016, the Deﬁned l Outsourced Rs. 17.65 crore of products and services Beneﬁt Obligation for the current reporting year is 2845.4 from 36 vendors / contractors. million for Tata Power. All the employees including contract /short term ones are paid more than the local minimum l Provided technical and monetary support for various wage. agricultural interventions to enhance the income of about 730 SC/ST farmers. Indirect Economic Impacts As part of its Aﬃrmative Action (AA) program, Tata Power l Supported 731 SC/ST persons across various Industrial has implemented several initiatives for communities near Training Institutes (ITIs), skill development programs. its operations. The major programs carried out in the l Built a full-ﬂedged hostel for outstation SC/ST youth at neighbourhood of the operating plants and projects ITIs at Mulshi. include skill development programs for youth (Industrial Training Institutes, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) l Enabled access to computer education and spoken training and vocational trainings), entrepreneurial education to 2,422 SC/ST students across locations. programs like ﬂy ash brick making/supporting Self Help Groups (SHGs) and support for educational initiatives for l Provided scholarships to 53 SC/ST students amounting school children like scholarships and coaching classes in to Rs. 13.17 lakh. the evenings along with assistance in the development of adequate infrastructure. l Extra/night coaching classes beneﬁted about 318 SC/ST students appearing class X and XII board The activities in Jawhar taluka (in Palghar, Maharashtra) examination. included new initiatives like livelihood generation kitchen garden and poultry farming and setting up of the Village l Facilitated access to basic essential amenities like safe Development Committee (VDC). The VDC has elected drinking water, healthcare, solar lights etc. to over members from the village as well as Tata Power and are 41,000 SC/ST population across locations. responsible for the sustainable development of the village. Some major AA program details are: Responsible Supply Chain Management l Promoted 240 community entrepreneurship ventures Tata Power sources ultra-low Sulphur, low ash coal from like ﬂy ash brick making, poultry farming, garment Indonesia, which results in lower emissions and ash manufacturing, etc. with an investment of Rs. 139 lakh, generation from the operations. This coal is branded as 2014-15 2015-16 Procurement (INR millions) Local Import Total % of Local Local Import Total % of Local Procurement Procurement Non-Fuel Procurement 28,053 588 28,642 97.9% 38,779 209 38,987 99.47% Fuel Procurement 34,463 39,774 74,238 46.4% 33,093 51,100 84,194 39.31% exclusive of taxes & duties 45 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 enviro-coal considering its lower environmental impacts as and other parameters like commercial and statutory compared to other coal. This coal is sourced from globally obligations as a part of vendor registration on the ERP reputed mines in Indonesia which primarily opt for fullyplatform. Going forward, the company intends to gradually mechanised operations following international safety widen its screening base on a continual basis. The standards; thereby eliminating the possibilities of Child sustainability criteria are intended to be incorporated at labour. The coal which is sourced from India primarily the vendor online registration stage to ensure that the comes from mines owned by Coal India Limited which is a supplier adheres to all the criteria in the Sustainability government agency. The human resource employment chain. guidelines of these agencies are in line with the compliance requirements. A signiﬁcant spend of Tata Power is conﬁned to the local sourcing; i.e. Suppliers and service providers having Tata Power has already incorporated vendor evaluation/ facilities and/or manufacturing bases within the Indian screening based on a skilled workforce, safety qualiﬁcation geography. FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Supply Value Tata Power (INR Million) (INR Million) Monetary value of Signiﬁcant (Top 10) Suppliers 72,980 122,378.7 Monetary value of Local Suppliers (Top 10) out of signiﬁcant suppliers 41,382 68,681.54 46 Care for Customers Tata Power’s generating stations sell power to the state Distribution Management System in its Mumbai network to owned distribution utilities and to the users directly facilitate eﬀective monitoring and control of its network through bilateral agreements and through electricity operations in real time. With this innovative technology, exchanges. Tata Power also distributes electricity in the city Tata Power would be able to restore supply to its customers of Mumbai. In the reporting period, the Distribution in the shortest possible time without any manual License of Tata Power was granted for the entire city of intervention. Also, Tata Power implemented the innovative Mumbai, including suburban and South Mumbai for the technology with the use of Natural Ester ﬁlled transformers next 25 years. Tata Power is not into the sale of banned or in line with the company’s preference for green technology. disputed products. Tata Power fairly and eﬀectively The natural ester ﬂuid is made from a carbon neutral engages with its institutional and business customers viz., renewable resource and with its high ﬁre point reduces the the state owned distribution utilities and the electricity risk of ﬁres in the electrical installations. buyers through bilateral agreements and electricity exchanges. R&D strategy integrates sustainability with research, technology, innovation in generating and distributing Management Approach power. Tata Power distribution projects have received IMS Tata Power serves around 6.64 lakh consumers. Tata Power certiﬁcation and this demonstrates systematic eﬀorts to endeavours to make all its consumers happy, at all touch keep the customer, safety, environment and quality at the points, through its supply and service. Tata Power also centre, in the distribution activities. The company has contributes to providing an uninterrupted power supply to introduced multilingual customer care web portal, pictorial some of the major lifelines of the Mumbai city like airport, depiction of signage/safety warnings and 24x7 call centre reﬁneries and major hospitals with cutting edge facility. The Company believes that adequate & eﬀective technology. Tata Power supplies the cheapest power to communication is important to avoid any kind of consumers in the 0-300 residential category (cheaper by misrepresentation, incorrect statements or misleading about 25%-30% over the competitive distribution impressions. Fully integrated systems are in place to licensees). Tata Power is growing at a rapid pace through its conform to all the statutory laws and standards related to increased focus on Consumer Acquisition Camps for lowmarketing communication, advertising, promotion and end consumers and oﬀering all the possible aids for sponsorship. There have been no incidents pertaining to consumer’s beneﬁt. violation of any regulation or voluntary codes pertaining to marketing communication. In the distribution business, in Mumbai, Tata Power has taken a number of initiatives viz., Sankalp to improve the Tata Power would continue to balance stakeholder’s quality and reliability of its power supply and enhance interests within the distribution area by welcoming customer service. Sankalp Initiative focuses on improving residential customers along with commercial and operational eﬃciency, cost eﬃciency, delivery eﬃciency industrial consumers while keeping good relations with and building capabilities for continuous performance the other operators in the area. Tata Power strongly i m p r o v e m e n t . T h e Co m p a ny h a s i m p l e m e n t e d believes that the vision of MERC and Governments to get 47 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 consumers a competitive cost option with reliable supply, Length and Ef ﬁciency FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 must rather be augmented and Tata Power would continue of Transmission to facilitate the same with positive and close association Length overhead (CKT km) 995.078 1026 1044.67 with all stakeholders. Tata Power continues to aggressively (220 kV and 110 kV) expand its network in Mumbai to connect more and more Length underground (CKT 129.634 148 154 consumers on its wires so that they can avail of tariﬀ km) (220 kV and 110 kV) beneﬁts. The Company remains committed towards strict Transmission loss (%) 1.54 1.97 compliance of MERC’s Electricity Supply Code and ‘lighting up lives’ for the years to come. robust network backbone which includes distribution Substations (DSS) and the HT network to be able to cater to With an annual sale of 5,774 MUs, the retail customer base the growing market demand in addition to the has increased to 6,64,407 with an addition of 18,511 development of last mile connectivity to reach consumer consumers from the previous year. The licensed area for premises. The infrastructure developed in FY16 includes : distribution is 485km2 and the entire licensed area is Distribution Sub-stations (DSS) served through Tata Power’s distribution network without 33 kV/22 kV/11 kV = 30 no. any unserved area. High Tension network (HT) = 2,200 km approx Tata Power has been regularly conducting Consumer Consumer Sub Stations (CSS) Acquisition Camps for low-end consumers and oﬀering all 11 kV/ 440 V = 828 no. the possible aids for consumer’s beneﬁt such as: Low Tension network ( LT) = 1,700 km approx l Awareness sessions through addressing mass gatherings of area/society residents. Tata Power is creating a backbone (33kV/11kV) of distribution’ l Guidance meetings with Society’s Oﬃce Bearers/ network, identifying sources or outlets at Receiving Representatives/Inﬂuencers/Consumers for Substations (RSS) to feed supply to DSS, establishing procedures and advantages of shifting to Tata Power. connectivity to feed the DSS from identiﬁed RSS and creating l Banners and Posters in the catchment areas along with 11kV main ring network. The network addition has been the application collection drive. achieved against all odds, the most crucial being loss of time for l Sensitisation and meeting with Inﬂuencers, e.g. cable laying due to permission related delays. Tata Power is also NGO’s/Leaders/Society Members before rolling out complying with network rollout philosophy as per the MERC Application collection camps. Supply Code Regulations, SOP Regulations and CEA (Technical l Advertisement in local Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati Standards for Construction of Electrical Plant and Electrical newspapers informing consumers about competitive Lines) Regulations, 2010. Tata Power plans to set up additional tariﬀ for low-end consumers. 30 DSS out of which 17 are planned to be commissioned in the next 5 years and the remaining 13 DSS post-FY 2018-19. The l The announcements of schedule of camps in leading Company is also planning to increase MVA Capacity from 1525 local newspapers. MVA to 2445 MVA by FY 2018-19. The developed capacity of l Flyer insertions in widely circulated newspapers. Tata Power is expected to meet 50% of the future Mumbai load l Fleet on Street team visiting consumers with respect to assuming a growth rate of 3% per annum. providing guidance, collecting applications. Distribution and Transmission Network Highlights The transmission and distribution business of Tata Power Tata Power has grown its distr ibution net wor k ensures energy reliability and availability in the areas of infrastructure manifold and its focus has been to develop a presence. The length of Distribution and Transmission lines has been provided below. Length and Ef ﬁciency FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 of Distribution Length overhead (km) 95.29 95.29 104.4 Customer Statistics Tata Power has three categories of customer base as below: Length underground (km) HT 1805.6 HT 2,093 HT 2200 Aggregated Technical & LT 958 LT 1,510 LT 1700 Category FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Commercial loss 1.1 0.96 0.64 Residential 4,45,942 5,74,824 6,21,613 (% of energy loss) Industrial 6,482 5,569 5,248 Circuit Kilometres = No. of route length multiplied with No. of circuits Commercial 41,287 38,018 37,546 48 Customer Engagement India, sensitized more than 11.6 million citizens and saved Tata Power is conscious of the fact that its products and more than 17.25 million units till date. This saving is services touch many lives and livelihoods in more ways equivalent to saving 17,000 tons of CO2. Total 1,337 Mini than one. The Company constantly strives to develop Clubs are formed all over India under the Club Enerji trusted relationships with consumers by winning them initiative. over through anticipating their behaviour and preferences and engaging with them on a regular basis. Demand Side Management This initiative constitutes cooperative activities between a utility and its customers to implement options for increasing the eﬃciency of energy utilisation (and therefore a reduction in waste), with resulting beneﬁts to the customer, utility, and society as a whole. Unders My Mumbai, Green Mumbai, Energy audits, demand response (reduction in load by the consumers on request by utility ﬁrst time in India), thermal storage (innovative technology ﬁrst time in India) are some of the unique interventions. Based on market survey and scientiﬁc load research several initiatives are implemented in Demand Side Management (DSM) schemes. This includes Appliance Exchange Tata Power has a ﬁrm belief in “Leadership with Care” which program, Energy audits and Peak load shifting program. is demonstrated by its eﬀorts to address hindrances like These initiates have lead to signiﬁcant saving from the language, culture, low literacy and disability related customer base. Domestic Eﬃcient Lighting Program (DELP) barriers in safely using electricity and accessing customer has been launched for residential consumers. Being support services. Tata Power has a multilingual portal in implemented by M/s. EESL, a union Govt. undertaking, the three languages (viz. English, Hindi and Marathi) and a call DELP Program promotes the penetration of the LED Bulbs venter for 24X7 customer support. Additionally, most of the in the residential sector. Tata Power also operationalized oﬃcers at Customer Relations Centres (CRC) are ﬂuent in the Net Metering arrangement for the Rooftop Solar PV the local languages. At CRCs, preferential service is system at the premises of a consumer. It is expected to accorded to physically challenged customers, wherein their provide a major boost to the promotion of solar energy by queries/concerns are resolved on priority basis. Tata Power the end consumer. Tata Power launched the ‘Be Green’ has a team of dedicated Key Account Managers who play a initiative to unify all consumers in the green movement. crucial role in customer engagement initiatives for HT Through this initiative, the company intends to motivate consumers by apprising them of all the valuable consumers to associate with and contribute to ensuring a information and initiatives beneﬁcial to the mutual greener and sustainable planet. relationship and to entrust the values of organisation. A dedicated team is there to facilitate as a single window Be Green Tata Power launched the ‘Be Green’ initiative to mobile service unit for LT consumers. unify all consumers in the green movement. Through this initiative, the company intends to motivate consumers to In alignment to the India’s INDC, ‘To put forward and further associate with and contribute to ensuring a greener and propagate a healthy and sustainable way of living based on sustainable planet. The following programs are run under traditions and values of conservation and moderation’, Tata the aegis of Be Green, Power has initiated various initiatives for engaging with its l Energy Eﬃciency (DSM programs)promoting customers which are elaborated below. judicious, optimum and environmentally sound utilisation of energy Club Enerji This initiative by Tata Power works with l Carbon footprint mapping Calculation of the amount schools and school children along with college students, of CO2 that is emitted into the atmosphere as a result of parents, teachers, partners and the society at large to help daily activities curb the wasteful usage of electricity. Based on the l e-billing, electronic payments response and feedback received, this initiative is extended l Energy conservation awards to consumers during nation-wide. Club Enerji has reached 500 schools across Consumer meets 49 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 To drive awareness of Environment conservation and causes of electrical accidents at home and preventive safety to its customers, Tata Power has various programs in measures. Two simulator kits, developed in-house, were place; used to for demonstrate the use of Earth Leakage Circuit Ghar Ghar Me Jan Jagruti Abhiyan Ghar Ghar Me Jan Breaker (ELCB) and overloading. Jagruti Abhiyan is conducted to create safety awareness amongst public residing below the overhead lines. Wireman Training Programme Many times residential Employees visit diﬀerent locations of Transmission Lines consumers face challenges due to shortfall in skilled and create awareness amongst the public. In FY16, more wireman. Tata Power launched a hands-on training ﬁvethan 16,600 people were sensitized in this drive that day module of Wiremen Training Programme for residential comprised 55 Street Plays, involving 566 rigorous Consumers. Presently, Tata Power has trained 54 wiremen volunteering man hours and 254 active volunteers. successfully in the reporting year, this programme, adding up to approximately 300 trained wiremen so far. Energise Newsletter Tata Power reaches out, through its quarterly newsletter “Energise, to its key Commercial and Industrial consumers in order to keep them updated about the sector and various initiatives taken by the company in the sector. The newsletter tracks key developments, analyses major market trends, features opinions of industry experts, interviews top managers, captures technology developments, proﬁles people of interest and provides key data and statistics. This engagement platform has been highly appreciated by consumers as high quality, user friendly and relevant. Residential Consumer Meets Tata Power is committed to helping its consumers in their energy conservation OEM Training for Consumers Tata Power has conducted initiatives and ensure a safe environment. Tata Power knowledge sharing sessions on 415 VLT Breaker for the conducts various consumer meets across various segments Industrial category consumers on a monthly basis with the to create awareness about safety and energy conservation, support of ABB India, Schneider and L&T; which shared together with understanding their needs and process their expertise on the subject and updated them on the constructive feedback. technological trends. Participation by 408 consumers from 148 organisations was recorded. These sessions impart With focus on Customer centricity, Tata Power has designed knowledge to consumers in the areas of Principle of some value added services to deliver excellent customer breakers; Operations and Maintenance of breakers; experience and these are elaborated below. Replacements of parts in case of any defects; Safety aspects Safety Audit for Consumers To control safety risks or during handling; Latest technological trends. hazards in high risk establishments, Safety Audits are being carried out for determining necessary actions to minimise “No to Paper Bills” For the Company’s commitment to such hazards. Professional safety consultants along with ‘Care for Environment’, the consumers have joined hands Divisional Operation & Maintenance Engineers have by opting for e-bill. So far, 22,403 consumers have opted for carried out 282 safety audits in diﬀerent major places of only e-bill. public congregation. Consumer Beneﬁts Safety Inspections Tata Power ’s Operations & New system SOOCHNA introduced for enhancing Maintenance Engineers conduct inspections in small commercial, industrial establishments and residential consumers’ communication regarding planned outages societies to identify electrical hazards in consumer’s and force shut down. Consumers are communicated premises with special attention to unsafe installations, through an SMS seven days in advance of their planned potential electrical ﬁre hazards, etc. Tata Power has carried outage and also during their forced outage. out more than 1000 safety inspections till date. Development of SAP-based Dashboard for CRC and CC Safety Awareness Speciﬁcally for residential consumers, executives for deeper clarity in understanding of high Tata Power Distribution Division arranged safety training registration cases resulting into the spot revert to the programmes to make consumers aware of electrical safety, consumers and reduction of non-genuine complaints. 50 Bill Payment Options Consumer Payment behaviour analysis Through SAP To facilitate easy bill payment facility for consumers, the system, Tata Power analyses its consumers on the basis of Company has numerous bill payment options available their payment behaviour trends and segregates them in and are adding on to these options based on the diﬀerent group thereby helping Tata Power to arrive at a technology improvements and demands from consumers. speciﬁc group of consumers who are not availing the The bill payment options oﬀered by Tata Power under prompt payment discount. Thereafter, Tata Power various categories are as follows: encourages them by means of reminder SMS, Tele-calling Brick and Mortar Options CRCs/Bill Collection Centers and other personal communications to avail the prompt (BCCs) Existing 23 CRCs and 11 BCCs. Tata Power has also payment discount. tied up with Post Oﬃces across Mumbai; provision of cash payment through Suvidha / ITZ-Cash Cards; and tie-up with Marketing Communications more than 200 bank branches and six for cash and cheque The Tariﬀ and Regulatory orders are the major according to payments. the standards/laws of marketing for the power sector. These are communicated via print media and consumer collaterals. On-the-Go Options These options include installation of To remove all the impediments in the communication, the more than 25 kiosks with a provision of accepting cheque company has introduced multilingual customer care web payment and providing instant receipts; more than 800 portal, pictorial depiction of signage/safety warnings and drop boxes at public places where consumers can opt to 24x7 call centre facility. The Company believes that eﬀective deposit bill payments by cheques; and Mobile Bill Payment communication is vital to avoid any kind of misrepresentation, Collection Van which covers remote locations weekly incorrect statements or misleading impressions. Fully catering to about ~2700 consumers per month. integrated systems are in place to conform to all the statutory laws and standards related to marketing communication, Electronic Payment Options These include Immediate advertising, promotion and sponsorship. There have been no Payment Service (IMPS) which allows the consumers to incidents pertaining to violation of any regulation or voluntary make payment of electricity bills directly through their codes pertaining to marketing communication. mobile phones; Online payment through debit card, credit card and net banking; Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) Social Networking Tata Power embraced social media enabling consumer to make monthly Tata Power bill marketing not just promote the products, but also receive payment directly through bank account; and through customer feedback on the same. Facebook and Twitter are Electronic Bill Payment with standing instruction on their the online communication channels used by Tata Power debit card or credit card to make a monthly payment to Tata for social networking. In addition to the above, Customer Power. Talk monthly magazine is circulated internally that elaborates on the progress made by the Distribution segment Consumer Relation Centres (CRCs) of Tata Power. CRCs provide its consumers with easy access to a number of services and the opportunity to directly interact with Tata Innovations Power representative, all under one roof. Various services Tata Power initiates various innovations to ensure provided at CRCs include providing and accepting application forms; handling Consumer queries, request improvement in the processes and operations, thus and complaints; and bill payments in cash and cheque. continuously striving to enhance customer service and enrich consumer experience. In line with its commitment to Some of the initiatives taken in Customer Relations Centre: constantly innovate for the beneﬁt of its customers. The Q u e u e M a n a g e m e nt Sys te m Tat a Powe r h a s company has always been a pioneer in ushering innovative implemented Queue Management System in CRCs, which interventions and adoption of new technologies for is a complete branch analytics system that not only enhancing the services to its customers. With the manages Consumer queues in real-time inside CRCs, but implementation of DMS, Tata Power would be able to also provides the management real-time access to restore supply to its consumers (in the unlikely event of a performance metrics like Consumer Wait Time, Average power failure) in the shortest possible time without any Service Time and Employee Eﬃciency. manual intervention. The system instantaneously determines fault location with a real-time geographical Feedback Tabs Tata Power has replaced the paper-based view and actual scenario of the aﬀected area. This is a result Feedback forms with TABS for Automated Feedback of the various advanced functionalities of DMS like AutoMechanism at the CRCs. This system enables us to tap Fault Identiﬁcation, Localization, Isolation and Service consumer’s feedback in less than 10 seconds. Restoration (FLISR), Switch Order Management, Feeder 51 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Reconﬁguration, State Estimation & Dynamic Load Flow, Some of the innovations undertaken in operations and etc. The DMS is currently rolled out for 2 zones. The balance maintenance area include: (1) In-house Breaker Testing Kit 4 zones will be covered in a phased manner by March 2016. Due to the usage of this kit during maintenance and testing, activity maintenance time is reduced from 2 hrs to It has been the endeavor of the company to constantly 30 min as there is no need to open breaker cover to identify innovate to enhance safety, overcome the challenges of the the problem. (2) In-house Fuse puller tool for Kit-Kat fuses paucity of space and care for the environment. In line with With the development of in-house Kit-Kat fuse puller, his philosophy, Tata Power has partnered with Toshiba and engineering method has been developed for the process Cargill to design and develop India’s ﬁrst Green, Safe and thus a maintaining safe distance from live parts. (3) InCompact Natural Ester based Pad Mount Substation. A Pad house SF6 Gas ﬁling Kit for RMU It is observed that due to mount substation is an integrated unit which houses the HT low SF6 pressure, it is imperative to replace entire RMU unit elements, transformer and LT elements in a tank ﬁlled with and it increases shutdown time to the consumers. (4) Trolley Cargill’s Envirotemp™ FR3™ natural ester ﬂuid. This design Mounted Substation Here, LT Panel and RMU are installed has helped reduce the land footprint requirement by on a trolley which can be moved anywhere as per almost 70% as compared to conventional substations. This requirement and can be used in case of breakdown of fully enclosed safe, ﬁreproof, green and compact design is existing installed equipment. ideal for installation in public places like parks, malls etc. The safe and green design of transformers is attributed to the use of Natural Ester, which have a Fire point of more Disconnection and Re-connection of Power than 360°C (as against 160°C for Mineral Oil) and hence are Supply highly safe. These substations are the safest solution to Consumers disconnected due to non-payment The details gradually replace the conventional plinth mounted and of residential disconnections for non-payment and Pole Mounted Sub-station ﬁlled with mineral oil, installed in reconnec tion, broken down by the duration of public spaces which have a fair degree of vulnerability to disconnec tion and by regulator y regime as on ﬁre, thus endangering public safety. March 31, 2016 are given below: Tata Power signed a MoU with the Ministr y for By time between disconnection & payment Development of Russian Far East, Government of the FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Russian Federation, to explore and develop investment <48 hours 903 1,034 1,163 opportunities in the energy sector. Tata Power (SED) and 48 hours 1 week 346 435 794 Cranﬁeld University have signed MOU for possibility of 1 week 1 month 438 551 777 entering into a strategic partnership through research and development (R&D) and academic study in the areas of 1 month 1 year 536 986 1,117 defence related engineering and emerging technologies >1 year 1 Nil Nil Systems Engineering including Large System of Systems and MoDAF for Software Systems, Guns, Military vehicles By time from payment to reconnection (including Tracked) for both Combat & Launcher vehicles, FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Generic Vehicle Architecture (GVA), and Weapon Systems. As per old New SOP SOP24 Hrs. 8 Hrs. Tata Power Distribution Projects has been certiﬁed under < 8 Hours 2,588 3,793 the Integrated Management System (IMS) (ISO 9001:2008, < 24 hours 2,192 253 NA NA ISO 14001:2004, BS OHSAS 18001:2007), a globally 24 hours 1 week 32 1 173 60 accepted and recognized system. The certiﬁcation substantiates execution excellence with quality, safety & (as per old SOP) environmental care for the beneﬁt of business and key 8 hrs 1 week stakeholders including consumers. (as per new SOP) week 0 Nil Nil Nil This is a beﬁtting accolade to the distribution projects which has exhibited exemplary performance track record Service Interruption with safety and quality in achieving network expansion to The service interruptions frequency and duration that the the tune of 600-700 kms and installation of 85 to 100 consumers have faced is given in the table below: consumer substations per year within record time as directed by MERC. 52 Power outage frequency and Average Power outage duration FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Average number of interruptions that a customer would experience, 1.69 times 1.104 times 0.828 times measured in units of interruptions per customer (SAIFI) Average outage duration for each customer served, measured in units of 29.48 minutes 17.83 minutes 13.75 minutes time, often minutes or hours. (SAIDI) Average time taken for restoration of power supply measured in terms of 17.42 minutes 16.16 minutes 16.6 minutes minutes per aﬀected customer. This is a Benchmark for this parameter (CAIDI) Customer Satisfaction system is the proactive real-time monitoring and analysis Customer Satisfaction Sur veys are key indicator of power failure complaints by the Tata Power Call Centre parameters to measure customer satisfaction and which ensures speedy restoration of power and enhances dissatisfaction levels. The surveys are conducted on a customer satisfaction. Further, implementation of quarterly basis across all segments, i.e. commercial, Personal Digital Assistant for meter data collection has industrial and residential consumers. The ﬁndings of the resulted in a quick and accurate mapping of new meter report guide us to understand the key improvement areas locations in GIS. The integration of GIS with Network which are shared with the concerned departments and Analysis System and DMS has resulted in the modeling of accordingly the necessary action is taken based on the key the networks more closely and accurately to physical ﬁndings. Overall Customer Satisfaction Assessment Total property which has ultimately aided planning, designing, (CSAT) score in percentage for the reporting year are given operations with data consistency and common network below; models. Customer Satisfaction Health and Safety Practices Score (%) FY13-14 FY14-15 FY15-16 Tata Power believes good safety is one of the key Residential 83 83 85 parameters which helps sustain business performance. Industrial 87 77 80 Tata Power has always ensured that safe practices are Commercial 86 81 79 followed by the employees together with educating its customers on safety parameters. Street plays are organised Tata Power has always been committed to providing on safety for citizens living near high transmission lines in quality and uninterrupted power to its consumers and is a Mumbai. pioneer in the application of innovation and technology for value added beneﬁts to its customers. In line with its Tata Power endeavours to make the neighbourhood commitment to constantly innovate for the beneﬁt of its safe through wireman training. The consumers always long consumers, the Company has implemented GIS in Mumbai for a good quality Electrician to service their day to day in past which provides a comprehensive view of Tata needs. Thereby to cater to the above, Tata Power Power’s network elements with geographic advantage. launched a Wiremen Training Programme for residential The purpose of this technology is to help in the locationconsumers. based analysis for numerous business processes, short and long term distribution business planning including Electrical Safety Handbook Continuing with its eﬀorts, network feasibilities, technical planning, designing and Tata Power released a ‘Household Electrical Safety implementation of distribution projects, network Handbook’ along with safety training for its consumers in monitoring, customer acquisition and compliance to Mumbai. The objective behind this initiative is to provide a regulatory queries. Tata Power has now integrated GIS with uniﬁed solution to consumers’ concerns related to other Enterprise Systems such as SAP, Electronic Land household safety and address the diverse challenges faced Record Managements System (eLRMS), Network Planning in case of high rise buildings. The Company through this System, Distribution Management System (DMS), educative handbook aims to advise on safety guidelines Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Vehicle for household electrical appliances, maintenance and Tracking System (VTS) and Personal Digital Assistant (PDA). testing of electrical installations, practices to prevent ﬁre, This integration helps Tata Power augment workﬂow lift safety and steps to follow in case of a ﬁre. Total 25 ﬁre management, automated updation of data, safety training were conducted for high rise building in synchronisation and tracking of equipment/asset Mumbai area and 655 Electrical Safety Handbooks were information. The highlight of some of the integration distributed after training to high rise building residents. 53 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 regulations of product and service; voluntary codes concerning health and safety; product information and labelling. Organisation complies with the existing regulations for responsible operations related to the environment, social a n d g o ve r n a n c e. I t u n d e r s t a n d s t h e p o t e n t i a l environmental, health and safety risks associated with the business and its stakeholders. Regular and systematic engagement with customers is ensured and the suggestions are incorporated in the improvement of policies or processes. Product and Service Information Customer centricity, information security and delivering high quality and timely information are integral parts of the solution. There have been no complaints pertaining to the breach of customer privacy and loss of customer data. It is believed that providing accurate and appropriate information enhances the quality and productivity of power distribution. Thus it is an endeavour to comply with mandatory disclosures and ensure that all electrical installation is labelled as warranted. The information stated in products and services and on product brochures clearly list out the known potential utility risks and mention ways to disseminate or Compliance eliminate such risks. Health and Safety Regulations At Tata Power, the goal is to deliver 100% conformance to compliance with 54 Care for Community Reinforcing its commitment towards sustainability, Tata CSR Thrust Areas Power will continue to strive to carry its CSR legacy Tata Power believes a vibrant society is the progressive one towards 'Sustained Inclusiveness' and being a 'neighbour for a Company’s sustainable business growth. To ensure of choice'. The Tata Power Community Development Trust that the social canvas in which the Company operates, (TPCDT) which has been the development vehicle of Tata continues to be rich and multifaceted, Tata Power invested Power CSR Initiatives has worked closely with local in ﬁve primary palettes of change. It has been nurtured communities and civil society, academia and local and branded coherent with the community development government bodies. initiatives covered under the following Thrust Areas: In the year 2015, Tata Power was ranked 2nd in CSR by Economic Times and IIM Udaipur Survey for CSR Initiatives 2014. Model Village programmes focused on water management at Kadachimate (Maharashtra), Solar Micro VIDYA AROGYA & SWATCH JAL Grid connectivity at Maval and Mulshi (Maharashtra), Augmenting Primary Education Building & Strengthening System with a focus on Girl Healthcare Facilities, including promoting education and livelihood at Delhi & Child Education Safe Drinking Water K alinganagar (Odisha) in addition to improving agricultural productivity and women empowerment at AKSHAY Nurturing Sustainability for Jamshedpur (Jharkhand), Haldia (West Bengal) & Maithon Inclusive Growth (Jharkhand). SAMRIDDHI & DAKSH SANRACHNA Enhancing Programmes on Building Social Under Aﬃrmative Action, Tata Power has committed to Livelihood and Employability Capital & Infrastructure reaching out to 25% SC/ST population across all locations to empower remote communities. Livelihood, girl child Outreach education, entrepreneurship development through ﬂy In this reporting year, Tata Power has operated in eight ash brick making and vocational courses were upscaled states of the country (i.e. Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Odisha, during the year. This year also marked the commencement West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu) of four state-of-the-art Tata Power Skill Development covering more than 250 neighbouring villages/urban Institutes in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Jharkhand wherein area/habitations, and also in Delhi. The company has more than 17,000 work days were generated through reached out to half a billion people across locations 16 diﬀerent vocational courses. through its community development initiatives. Tata Power Employee Volunteering Mission (ARPAN) saw a CSR Highlights surge in volunteering hours generated by employees in In line with its nationalistic spirit, Tata Power believes in the various community engagement initiatives including grow t h o f t h e n at i o n t h ro u g h t h e grow t h a n d Mass Plantation drives across plant locations. Going empowerment of each of its citizens whether in the rural beyond neighbourhood, Tata Power extended support or urban areas. The cornerstone of growth lies in Education towards Tamil Nadu Flood Relief and disaster relief work at and Health these are the two mainstay initiatives that Nepal and Georgia. have gathered momentum across all the operative areas. 55 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 The company has also initiated focused education towards Employability and Entrepreneurship with the Tata Power Educational Excellence Skill Development Institute (TPSDI). TPSDI aims to beneﬁt through Remedial over thousands of Power Sector workers through various Classes, Learning Materials, Extracurricular E-Learning in skills training programmes and bridge the existing skill Activities (Movie Shows, the form of Computer Drawing Classes, Sports Education, Smart Classes, gap in the value chain through concerted eﬀorts thereby Classes, Art Classes), Interactive Classes, Libraries for Students, Digital Workshop fuelling India's growth and building it as a monument of Sports Competitions and Sports Club excellence. In addition, as a special centenary year contribution, Tata Power has identiﬁed several new programmes for Scholarships for Primary, Secondary and Higher community development in the areas of sustainable Education students livelihood, organic and integrated agricultural methods, aﬀorestation, infrastructure and organised community economic welfare such as women Self Help Groups (SHGs) 2. Building and Strengthening Healthcare Facilities etc. Tata Power has been able to touch the lives of several ( A R O G YA ) i n c l u d i n g S a f e D r i n k i n g Wa t e r thousand tribals, scheduled castes and tribes, farmers, (SWATCH JAL) ﬁshermen cattle owners and rural women through these initiatives. Through the various interventions, the company l Mobile/Specialised/ l Awareness on general General Health Camps health and hygiene is able to touch the lives of human beings at the very core of Purchase of medicine and l Specialised Training medical equipments programmes on health their existence leading the way towards progress, related issues educating, following up on their progress up the value chain. Primary Training Health and Care Awareness An important aspect here is the upliftment of the status of women in society right from creating awareness about the Safe Drinking Special right of education, propagating the health care of women, Water and Health Sanitation Interventions especially expectant and pre-natal care, as well as creating avenues for livelihood where women play an active role in contributing to the family income. l RO plant, Water ﬁlters l Prosthetic Limbs l Building toilets l Lifeline Project l Waste Tata Power has initiated grassroots level programmes where awareness about various government social welfare 3. Enhancing Programmes on Livelihood (SAMRIDDHI) schemes and beneﬁts is brought to the eligible & Employability (DAKSH) beneﬁciaries. Tata Power has managed to touch many lives by facilitating key Government schemes providing social On-farming activities (Saplings & Training programmes/Income security for workers from unorganized sectors and their Seed Distribution) generation for youth l Providing irrigation facilities l Skill Development Initiatives families. The company has engaged with various NGOs and l Linkages with Government schemes l Career Oriented Initiatives partners to get villagers, farmers, women engaged and l Capacity building for ﬁsherman enrolled in such schemes where they can avail beneﬁts like Promoting sustainable livelihood through insurance, scholarships, employment based on caste agricultural practices certiﬁcates, etc. Vocational Training/Income Tata Power Skill Development generation programmes for women Institute (TPSDI) l Women Training (Tailoring, Nursing, l Power Skills Training programs The thrust area wise activities undertaken in this reporting Beautician, etc) l Holistic development l Support to Self Help Groups l Certﬁcation for employability year are as follows: 1. Augmenting Primary Education System with 4. Building S o cial Capital and I nfrastruc ture emphasis on Girl Child Education (VIDYA) In FY16, the company reached out to schools covering (SANRACHNA) over 2 lakh students through various educational In FY16, reached out to more than 84,500 beneﬁciaries initiatives such as: through various initiatives under Social Capital and 56 Infrastructure Mumbai Marathon A Run for a Cause Building Promotion of Women Infrastructure Govt. scheme Empowermen A horde of Tata Power volunteers ran on the streets of l Construction and l Awareness of l SHG repair of school government formation Mumbai pledging their support towards cancer patients infrastructure schemes l Construction l Construction of l Enrollment of of training battling for life at the Tata Memorial Hospital. It was the day roads, beneﬁciaries and community development of the Mumbai Marathon. A most dreaded disease, the centres, centres mystery around cancer is compounded by the fact that it community toilets, stays undetected for long, and the treatment is crematoriums, etc unaﬀordable by many. About 100 volunteers have also been spending their time to spread awareness about 5. Nurturing Sustainability for Inclusive Growth cancer. Funds were contributed to the Tata Medical Centre (AKSHAY) Trust. In FY16, reached out to more than 2,44,000 beneﬁciaries through the following programs Disaster Relief Program Rural energy solutions The 2015 Chennai ﬂoods resulted from heavy rainfall l Support for Bio-gas/LPG Connections l Establishing Solar Energy Resources generated by the annual northeast monsoon in NovemberEnvironment December 2015. They aﬀected the Coromandel Coast l Environment Awareness Programmes l Plantation region of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, and the city of l Aﬀorestation Chennai was particularly hard-hit. More than 500 people Promoting sports & games l Sports Coaching were killed and over 18 lakh (1.8 million) people were l Provision of Sports Kits displaced. Tata Power took up relief eﬀorts at the ground Support to natural calamities level in the worst aﬀected areas. From arranging supplies l Distribution of Disaster Relief Kits l Engagement of Volunteers like water bottles, snacks, milk, mosquito coils and Model village medicines, to emergency essential materials like tarpaulins and woollen blankets, Tata Power volunteers worked at the Employee Volunteering back end to reach relief materials to the disaster-hit areas. Aligning with the company’s value of ‘Care for Community’, Emergency Medicines and health drinks were distributed at Tata Power has sowed and fostered community the health camp. Critical relief materials were also development by motivating employees for devoting skilldistributed to the ﬂood-aﬀected people at one of the sets and time, under ARPAN an initiative for employee project sites, where 2,000 families beneﬁtted from the volunteering. The company has always supported social initiative. causes and encouraged employees to participate in various Initiatives which have panned across various cross sections of topics from Energy Conservation, Healthcare and Af ﬁrmative Action (AA) Education etc. Currently, there are 1,000+ registered Tata Power has endeavoured to positively empower the volunteers on the Tata Engage website across Tata Power. To lives of communities around its areas of operation. In line promote employee volunteering across all locations of Tata with the Tata Group belief that addressing the social needs Power, Tata Power ARPAN Annual Awards have been of traditionally disadvantaged groups is the ‘right thing to constituted with the aim of institutionalizing eﬀorts do’ and as part of Tata Power’s nation building endeavour, through employee volunteering and recognition of the company has carved out a focused approach for the divisions for exemplary work in volunteering. An external upliftment of these communities through Aﬃrmative jury panel is instituted to undertake the assessment of the Action. Tata Power has aligned its AA programs to Volunteering Applications from all locations and develop a Employment, Education, Essential Amenities, framework for the same. Mulshi division bagged the Tata Employability and Entrepreneurship, 5 Es for the Power Arpan Award in the year 2015 for the initiatives development of deprived communities particularly SCs & undertaken in the year 2014-15. STs. Some AA highlights: 5Es Target Actual % Employment 63 43 68 Entrepreneurship 215 276 128 Employability 364 250 69 Education 1,420 1,321 93 Essential Amenities 1,400 983 70 TOTAL 3,462 2,873 83 57 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Overall Impact CASE STUDIES The overall impact of CSR initiatives was measured through Digital Learning The Way Forward the Community Engagement Index (CEI) tool which was It’s the age of smart phones, smart children so how can the used to determine engagement levels of the various classrooms be left behind! Various innovative and stakeholders across the stages of the CR intervention. In the comprehensive educational solutions are adopted by Tata Power to bring e-learning into the lives of students in reporting year RASCI Model (Responsible, Approve, various pockets of states. The initiative helps in the holistic Support, Consulted and Informed) was customized to development of the students with innovative teaching aids determine engagement levels of the various stakeholders to address their educational habits and is currently across stages of CSR intervention. reaching out more than 69000 students. The use of Trombay Mulshi (Bhira) Maithon Haldia Jojobera computer-aided learning stations has witnessed exemplary academic performance among the students in 63.5 79.5 72 94 77.5 the past. The overall results in the curricular subjects of the In the reporting year, Trombay was added as a new location students have improved signiﬁcantly with the help of to conduct the study. The criteria for selecting these innovative tools. More and more children are enjoying their locations depended upon the maturity of the project school life where every subject is now a favourite one! Tata Smart Class was launched with the aim of innovatively running for minimum 2 years and sustainable continuation using technology to improve learning outcomes for of the project for the next 2 years. It has shown a 10% children through interactive learning. With a highly increase over last year. energized team of multi-disciplinary specialists, Tata Smart Class constantly innovates in pedagogy, technology and Managing Relocations content aimed at enhancing learning experiences for CBSE, Tata Power has always remained cognizant of potential ICSE and various State Board schools in the K12 education sites for assessing the socio-economic impact and working landscape in India. closely with communities. Before selecting a site, studies are conducted which include demographic, economic, political, cultural and social aspects. On the Begunia front, the Company has continued assessment on various aspects pertaining to the proposed site and business proposition has maintained an evolving stage in the reporting year. In this reporting year, at Maithon, there has been no relocation of households. 77.3 67.6 Ghar Ghar mein Sauchalaya Taking a cue from the government’s slogan for ‘Ghar ghar mein Sauchalaya’, Tata Power has taken up the initiative of creating Defecation Free Villages. The initiative is not restricted to building toilet blocks in the villages, but also FY15 FY16 addressing the need for awareness of hygiene, maintenance of the toilets and changing age-old practices Overall CEI Score and rigid mindsets. CSR Statistics FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 No. of Volunteers 1,462 1,655 1,041 Employee Volunteering Hours 9,722 8,086 11,552 CSR Expenses in Rs. Million 256.8 493 290.1 CSR Expenses for Social Capital and Infrastructure (in Rs. Million) 54.13 98.18 22.9 58 l Repairing of 25 hand pumps and construction of 11 soak pits at Tiruldih, Jharkhand l 9,229 households built toilets to end zero open defecation. Life Line Express Tata Power, in partnership with Impact India Foundation, hosted the Lifeline Express (ﬁrst hospital on train) at Kumardhubi Station in Jharkhand. Lifeline Express is the world's ﬁrst State-of-the-art hospital on a train and has changed the lives of thousands of underprivileged people and has so far provided medical services to about a million The poor hygienic conditions of villages near Jojobera, disabled poor all free of cost and made possible by the Mulshi, Haldia, Mundra and other locations instilled the volunteer services of about 200,000 medical professionals requirement to take up this project on priority. Poor across India and abroad. sanitation practices had been aﬀecting the quality of life of the villagers and causing enormous hardship especially for women and girls. In partnership with NGOs and welfare organizations, the sanitation projects were initiated in 2015. The project adopts the “Community-Led Total Sanitation” model through awareness creation, demand generation for improved sanitation and hygiene behaviours resulting in the construction of functional toilets at the individual household level. The following objectives have been met with the total involvement of the communities: Open defecation free villages, Awareness and behaviour change on sanitation and hygiene issues, Development of skilled manpower as masons for postconstruction services for improved and sustainable The Lifeline Express consists of coaches equipped with sanitation services, Adoption of safe hygiene practices and sophisticated medical and surgical facilities to provide onfacilitate construction of toilets in each household. the-spot diagnostic medical and surgical treatment. This initiative received full support from local panchayats, school teachers and local communities in making it a complete success by participating and making use of the facilities provided. Approximately 50,000 people have beneﬁted from this initiative.” Highlights l 35 RO plants installed at government schools, Jhuggi Jhopri clusters & Delhi Metro Railway station providing potable drinking water to nearly 1,64,000 individuals every day. l Building of toilets at 12 schools and 900 households in Odisha. Highlights l 10 Specialist Doctors l Revamping water supply system and groundwater l 20 General Doctors aquifer beneﬁtting 210 households in Odisha. 59 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 l 23 Paramedics Stationed l Increase awareness about the tailoring programmes l 77 Surgeries and enable the empowerment of other women in their l More than 50,000 patients treated communities. l Specially equipped to detect cancer, operate eye cataract and perform orthopaedic corrective surgery Solar Micro grid l Houses diagnostic machines and surgical rooms Three 5W LED lights were provided to 310 Households in 5 Villages on unique “pre-paid” model. The rains beckon good Tribal Girls go to school luck, happiness and new beginnings. Not so for the 310 Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) is the largest households living in villages of Maval & Mulshi, residential institute for tribals in the world, providing Maharashtra. Rains mean further power cuts and days on accommodation, food, health care, and education from end without electricity. This is, apart from the weekly load Kindergarten to Post Graduation, vocational training and shedding that they have to bear! Tata Power has taken up all other basic amenities of life, including job facilities after the responsibility of providing Solar Micro Grids to these completion of education. 20 tribal girl children were villages. The micro grid installation is managed by the identiﬁed from nearby villages of Kalinganagar and joined communities and uses a unique “pre-paid” model for hands with the KISS for their education from standard 4th utilization. to 10th. Students are provided with all facilities such as food, clothing, medicines, study materials, books, notepads etc. Sewing up the social gaps A vocational training aimed at women addresses their emotional and psychological needs and gives them the skills they need to achieve economic stability for themselves and their families. Such skills can be life changers, helping women especially in countries like India, where the gender social divide is very large to gain conﬁdence and an economic status. Tata Power has chalked out various skill development programmes aimed at women, such as tailoring, beauty services, assistant nursing. Tata Power implemented six months tailoring, and three months fashion designing courses, with fully equipped centres having sewing machines, other material and able trainers. The courses have helped them become self-reliant through skill development on sewing, tailoring and basic fashion designing, thus creating employment opportunities for disadvantaged adolescent girls and women. After the training, the women can: l Proﬁt from their products l Apply marketing and management skills learned in the training 60 61 GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Requirements Page Number/Link Remarks External Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Letter 4-5 G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4-5, 20 Section: Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 Organization name 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 9-10 G4-5 Headquarters location back cover G4-6 Where the organization operates 9-11 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 20 G4-8 Markets served 9-11 G4-9 Scale of the organization 9-11 G4-10 Total number of employees by type 31-33 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 30 G4-12 Supply chain description 11, 27, 45-46 G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period 6 G4-14 Precautionary principle 20 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives 6, 22 G4-16 Membership associations 22 Section: Stakeholder Engagement G4-17 Entities included in ﬁnancial statements 6-11 G4-18 Process for deﬁning report boundaries and content 6-11 G4-19 Material aspects included in the report 25-26 G4-20 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries within the organization 25-26 G4-21 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries outside the organization 25-26 G4-22 Restatements 6 G4-23 Changes from previous reports in terms of scope and/or boundaries 6 Section: Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups 26-28 G4-25 How stakeholders were identiﬁed 26-28 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26-28 G4-27 Topics raised during stakeholder engagements 26-28 Section: Report Proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period 6 G4-29 Date of most recent report 6 G4-30 Reporting cycle 6 G4-31 Report contact 8 G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI Index and report assurance 6 G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Section: Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 17-20 G4-35 Process of authority delegation 17-20 G4-36 Executive level position for sustainability reports to Board 17-20 G4-37 processes for consultation between stakeholders & Board 17-20 G4-38 Composition of Board & Committees 17-20 R E P O R T G4-39 If Chair of the Board is executive 17-20 G4-40 Nomination and selection process for Board 17-18 G4-41 Process for Board conﬂict of interest avoidance 17-20 G4-42 Board and senior executives’ roles in strategy 17-20 G4-43 Measures to develop Board’s sustainability knowledge 17-20 G4-44 Process for evaluation of Board’s performance wrt sustainability 17-20 2015 16 G4-45 Board’s role in sustainability management, due diligence 23-26 G4-46 Board’s role in sustainability risk management 23-26 62 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Requirements Page Number/Link Remarks External Assurance G4-47 Frequency of Board’s sustainability risk review 23-26 G4-48 Highest committee/position that reviews sustainability report & ensures material completeness 8 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Board 23-26 G4-50 Total complains to Board and resolution mechanism 23-26 G4-51 Remuneration policies of Board and senior executives 17-18 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 17-18 G4-53 Report how stakeholder views are taken on remuneration 17-18 G4-54 Ratio of annual mean compensation of highest paid individual to median salary 17-18 G4-55 Ratio of increased in above parameter G4-54 17-18 Section: Ethics & Integrity G4-56 Code of conduct 21-22 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach (DMA) at respective indicators Category: Economic G4-EC1 Economic value 45 G4-EC2 Climate change risks 23, 35-36 G4-EC3 Beneﬁt plan coverage 44 G4-EC4 Financial assistance from the government 45 G4-EC5 Ratio of entry level wage to local minimum wage 45 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 31-32 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments 45-46 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 45-46 G4-EC9 Local suppliers 45 Category: Environment G4-EN1 Materials by weight or volume 35 ü G4-EN2 Recycled input materials 35 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation (Scope 1 + 2) 36-37 ü G4-EN4 Energy consumption (Scope 3) 36-37 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 37 ü G4-EN6 Energy reductions 36-37 G4-EN7 Energy reductions in products and services Not applicable G4-EN8 Water withdrawals by source 37 ü G4-EN9 Water sources aﬀected by withdrawals 37 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused 37 G4-EN11 Facilities in or near areas of high diversity 38-39 G4-EN12 Impacts on biodiversity 38-39 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 38-39 G4-EN14 IUCN Red List species 38-39 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 35-36 ü G4-EN16 GHG emissions (Scope 2) 35-36 ü G4-EN17 GHG emissions (Scope 3) 35-36 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 35-36 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 35-36 G4-EN20 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 35 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other emissions 35 ü G4-EN22 Water discharge 37 G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method 38 ü G4-EN24 Signiﬁcant spills 38 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste 38 G4-EN26 Biodiversity aﬀected by runoﬀ 38-39 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 34-35 G4-EN28 Products and packaging materials reclaimed Not applicable 63 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Requirements Page Number/Link Remarks External Assurance G4-EN29 Environmental ﬁnes and sanctions 21 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts from product distribution and employee travel 11, 36 G4-EN31 Environmental investments 34 ü G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 27 G4-EN33 Supply chain environmental impacts 27 G4-EN34 Environmental grievances 34 Category: Social Labour Relations G4-LA1 Number and rate of new employee hires and turnover 32-33 ü G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees 30 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 31 ü G4-LA4 Notice periods regarding operational changes 30 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and safety committees 42 G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities 42-43 ü G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence risk of diseases 42-43 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions 42 G4-LA9 Average hours of training for employees 33 ü G4-LA10 Programs for skills management managing career endings Nil G4-LA11 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews 30 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employees 17, 31 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 30 G4-LA14 New suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 27 G4-LA15 Negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 27 G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices 27, 43 Human Rights G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening 27, 43 G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights 22, 33 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination 22 G4-HR4 Signiﬁcant risk of freedom of association in operations and suppliers 22, 27 G4-HR5 Signiﬁcant risk of child labor in operations and suppliers 22, 27 G4-HR6 Signiﬁcant risk of forced or compulsory labor in operations and suppliers 22, 27 G4-HR7 Security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies 22 G4-HR8 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not applicable G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human rights assessments 21 G4-HR10 New suppliers screened for human rights 27 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in the supply chain 27 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights impacts 27 Society G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 55-60 G4-SO2 Negative impacts on local communities 55-60 G4-SO3 Risks related to corruption 21-22 G4-SO4 Communications and training on anti-corruption 21-22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G4-SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption 21-22 G4-SO6 Political contributions 22 G4-SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour 22 G4-SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws 21 G4-SO9 New suppliers screened for impacts on society 27 G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain 27 G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society 27 R E P O R T Product Responsibility G4-PR1 Health and safety impact assessments of products and services 53 G4-PR2 Non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 54 G4-PR3 Product and service information required for labelling 51 G4-PR4 Non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service labelling 51 G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction 49, 53 2015 16 64 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Requirements Page Number/Link Remarks External Assurance G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 47-49 G4-PR7 Non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications 51 G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 51 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services 51 Electric Utility Sector Speciﬁc (EUSS) Supplement Indicators Index Reference Indicator Page Number Remarks External Assurance EU 1 Installed Capacity 11 EU 2 Net energy output 11-12 EU 3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customers 48 EU 4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines 48 EU 5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework 36 EU 6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 49 EU 7 Demand-side management programs 49 EU 8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development 51-52 EU 9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites Not applicable EU 10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source 11-12 EU 11 Average generation eﬃciency of plants by energy source 13-14 EU 12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 48 EU 13 Biodiversity of oﬀset habitats compared to the biodiversity of aﬀected areas 38-39 EU 14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 26-27 EU 15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region 33 ü EU 16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors 40-41 EU 17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities 42 EU 18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training 42 EU 19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 26 EU 20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement 58 EU 21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans 20, 41 EU 22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project 58 EU 23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services 47-54 EU 24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services 47-49 EU 25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases 53-54 EU 26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas 48 EU 27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime 52-53 EU 28 Power outage frequency 13 EU 29 Average power outage duration 13 EU 30 Average plant availability factor by energy source 14 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Index With the launch of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the businesses are expected to align their core business to the SDGs to achieve a sustainable future. Tata Power has embarked on this journey and some of the Tata Power initiatives already in alignment to SDGs has been mapped and are presented below. UN SDG Coverage in report UN SDG Coverage in report 30-33 19, 30, 44-46, 45-46 55-60 55-60 12-13 19, 55-60 47-54 55-60 30, 40-43, 45, 34-38 55-60 12 26-27, 29-30, 33, 45, 50 35-37 30-33 37 55-60 38-39 35, 37, 39 56 45, 55, 57, 59 57-59 5 16-22 47-53 34 55-60 55-60 6 44-46 22 29-30 23 40-42 56 59 10-14 47 51-52 65 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Assurance Statement 66 67 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Assurance Statement 68 69 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Annexure I: Details of expertise, qualiﬁcation, appointment with other companies Name Date of Expertise in speciﬁc areas and Qualiﬁcations appointment Mr. Cyrus P. Mistry 23.12.2011 Mr. Cyrus P. Mistry graduated with a degree in Civil Engineering from Imperial College, UK in 1990. In 1997, Chairman he received a M.Sc. in management from the London Business School. He is also a fellow of the Institution Non-Independent, of Civil Engineers, London. Mr. Mistry was earlier Managing Director of the Shapoorji Pallonji Group. Under Non-Executive his leadership, Shapoorji Pallonji’s construction business grew into a billion dollar enterprise, evolving from pure-play construction to execution of complex projects in the marine, oil and gas and rail sectors, across a number of international geographies. He joined the board of directors of Tata Sons in 2006 and was appointed Chairman of its board of directors in December 2012. In addition to being Chairman of Tata Sons, Mr. Mistry is also the Chairman of major Tata Group companies including Tata Steel, Tata Motors Limited, Tata Consultancy Services Limited, The Indian Hotels Company Limited, Tata Global Beverages Limited, Tata Chemicals Limited, Tata Industries limited and Tata Teleservices Ltd. Dr. Homiar S. Vachha 13.03.2001 Dr. Vachha has a post-graduate degree and a doctorate in Economics from the University of Bombay (Gold Independent, medalist in Industrial Economics). He was the General Manager of ICICI Limited in a career spanning over Non-Executive 25 years. He was appointed as Nominee Director on the board of directors of the erstwhile The Andhra Valley Power Supply Company Limited in 1993. On ceasing to be such nominee director, he was reappointed on the board of directors of the company and continued as director till its amalgamation with the Issuer in 2000. He has been subsequently appointed on the Board of the Issuer in 2001. He is also on the board of other companies. Mr. Nawshir H. Mirza 29.09.2006 Mr. Mirza is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and was a Partner of S. R. Batliboi & Independent, Co., Calcutta. He is an advisor to Jardine Matheson Limited, Hong Kong. He is also a director on the boards of Non-Executive Thermax Limited, CGPL, Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited. Mr. Deepak M. Satwalekar 12.02.2008 Mr. Satwalekar was the Managing Director and CEO of HDFC Standard Life Insurance Company Limited Independent, from November 2000 till November 2008 and prior to this, he was the Managing Director of HDFC Limited Non-Executive from 1993 2000. Mr. Satwalekar obtained a Bachelors Degree in Technology from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and a Masters Degree in Business Administration from The American University, Washington DC. He has considerable experience in the ﬁelds of ﬁnance, infrastructure and governance. Mr. Piyush G. Mankad 03.07.2008 Mr. Mankad is a retired civil servant with a distinguished career of over 40 years in the Civil Services. He Independent, graduated with a Masters’ degree from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi University, and a Post Graduate Non-Executive Diploma in Development Studies from Cambridge University, United Kingdom. He has held a number of oﬃcial positions including Counsellor (Economic) in the Indian Embassy, Tokyo; Controller of Capital Issues, Ministry of Finance; Finance Secretary, Government of India. He was the executive director for India and four other countries and board member for the Asian Development Bank, Manila until July 2004. Mr. Ashok K. Basu 26.03.2009 Mr. Basu was First Class First with Honours in Economics and Political Science in the BA (Honours) Independent, Examination, University of Calcutta in 1962. He joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1965 Mr. Basu is Non-Executive a former Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Steel, Secretary Power and Chairman of the CERC. Mr. Basu is also on the boards of other Tata companies viz. Maithon Power Limited, Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited, Tata Metaliks DI Pipes Limited and The Tinplate Company of India Limited and was also Member (Industry and Infrastructure) of the West Bengal State Planning Commission. Mr. Basu was also elected as Chairman, South Asia Forum of Infrastructure Regulators during 2005-2006. Mr. Pravin H. Kutumbe 07.09.2015 Mr. Kutumbe, is a Chartered Accountant (CA). He joined LIC in 1985 and worked in LIC Branch & Divisional (Representative of LIC Oﬃces in the functional areas of F&A, Marketing P&GS and Investment. He headed LIC’s Fiji operations as Investor/Lender) from 1998 to 2002. He is also LIC’s nominee on the Boards of Stock Holding Corporation of India Limited Non-Independent, and SHCIL Services Limited. Non-Executive Mr. Anil Sardana 01.02.2011 An Electrical Engineer from Delhi College of Engineering and a Post Graduate Diploma in Management, CEO & Managing Director Mr. Sardana brings with him over three decades of experience in the power and infrastructure sector and has worked with companies like NTPC Limited, BSES (prior to it becoming an ADAG group company), Tata Power Delhi Distribution (erstwhile NDPL). Mr. Sardana also served as the Executive Director (Business Development & Strategy) for Tata Power from March 1, 2007 to August 3, 2007 and continued to be on its until July 1, 2008. Mr. Sardana was the Managing Director of Tata Teleservices Limited for over 3 years from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Ashok S. Sethi 07.05.2014 Mr. Ashok S. Sethi, is a B.Tech from IIT, Kharagpur. He was Chief Corporate Operations Management and is COO & Executive Director also an Executive Director of Maithon Power Limited, a subsidiary of the Issuer. He has wide experience in power sector ranging from thermal and hydro generation, transmission and distribution, commercial and regulatory and also advocacy. He has been with the Issuer for the last 40 years and has deep understanding and commitment to the business and stakeholders. 70 Annexure II: Roles, Responsibilities and Duties of Independent Directors Roles and Responsibilities Assist in bringing an independent judgment to bear on the Board’s deliberations especially on issues of strategy, performance (including economic, social, environment performance), risk management, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct Bring an objective view in the evaluation of the performance of Board and management Scrutinize the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance Satisfy themselves on the integrity of ﬁnancial information and that ﬁnancial controls and the systems of risk management are robust and defensible Safeguard the interests of all stakeholders, particularly the minority shareholders Balance the conﬂicting interest of the stakeholders Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors, key managerial personnel and senior management and have a prime role in appointing and where necessary recommend removal of executive Directors, key managerial personnel and senior management Moderate and arbitrate in the interest of the company as a whole, in situations of conﬂict between Management and shareholder’s interest. Duties Undertake appropriate induction and regularly update and refresh the skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company (G4 43) Seek appropriate clariﬁcation or ampliﬁcation of information and, where necessary, take and follow appropriate professional advice and opinion of outside experts at the expense of the Company Strive to attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Board committees of which he/she is a member Participate constructively and actively in the committees of the Board in which they are chairpersons or members Strive to attend the general meetings of the Company Where they have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action, ensure that these are addressed by the Board and, to the extent that they are not resolved, insist that the concerns are recorded in the minutes of the Board meeting Keep themselves well informed about the company and the external environment in which it operates; Not to unfairly obstruct the functioning of an otherwise proper Board or committee of the Board Pay suﬃcient attention and ensure that adequate deliberations are held before approving related party transactions and assure themselves that the same are in the interest of the Company Ascertain and ensure that the Company has an adequate and functional vigil mechanism and to ensure that the interests of a person who uses such mechanism are not prejudicially aﬀected on account of such use Report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct or Ethics Policy Acting within his authority, assist in protecting the legitimate interests of the company, shareholders and its employees Not disclose conﬁdential information, including commercial secrets, technologies, advertising and sales promotion plans, unpublished price sensitive information, unless such disclosure is expressly approved by the Board or required by law. 71 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 16 Abbreviations AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) MTPA Million Tons Per Annum ABB Asea Brown Boveri Limited MVA Mega Volt Amp ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations MU Million Unit ASCI Administrative Staﬀ college of India MW Mega watts BEE Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency MWh Mega Watt hour BEST Brihanmumbai Electricity & State Transport Nm3 Normal Cubic meter BSC Balance Score Card NGOs Non Government Organizations CAPA Corrective and Preventive Actions NDMA National Disaster Management Authority CEO Chief Executive Oﬃcer NTPC National Thermal Power Corporation Limited CO2 Carbon Dioxide NOx Nitrogen Dioxide COO Chief Operating Oﬃcer O&M Operation and Maintenance CKT Km Circuit Kilometer ODS Ozone Depleting Substances CRC Consumer Relation Centres OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers CSS Consumer Sub Station OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment DMP Disaster Management Plan OMSA Operations Management Servive Agreement E-House Electrical House PAT Proﬁt After Tax (in economic section) ECS Electronic Clearing Service Performe Achieve and Trade (in Energy ED-O Executive Director Operations section) EDP Executive Development Program PM Particulate Matter ED Executive Director PMS Performance Management System ELCB Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker PMSA Project Management Service Agreement EPC Engineering, Procurement & Construction POP Persistent Organic Pollutants ERP Enterprise Resource Planning PPA Power Purchase Agreement EU Electric Utilities PPP Public Private Partnership EUSS Electric Utilities Sector Supplement PV Photovoltaic FDA Fixed Duration Associates R&D Research & Development FY Financial Year RASCI Responsible, Approve, Support, Consulted and GETs Graduate Engineer Trainees Informed GJ Giga Joule RCA Root Cause Analysis GIS Geographical Information System ROCE Return on Capital employed GoI Government of India RFP Request for Proposal GRI Global Reporting Initiative RFQ Request for Quotation GW Giga Watt RMU Ring Main Unit HIV Human Immunodeﬁciency virus RSS Receiving Sub Station HR Human Resources SAP System Application & Products IIM Indian Institute of Management SC/ST Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe INR Indian Rupees SEBI Securities Exchange Bureau of India IPP Independent Power Producers SO2 Sulphur Dioxide ISO International Oranization for Standardization SPA Share Purchase Agreement IT Information Technologies SPCBs State Pollution Control Boards ISAE International Standard on Assurance tCO2 e Tonnes of CO2 emission Engagements TMTC Tata Management Training Centre km Kilometres UAE United Arab Emirates KV kilo Volt UMPP Ultra Mega Power Plant Kwhr Kilo watt hour UN United Nations L&T Larsen & Toubro UNGC United Nation's Global Compact LDP Leadership Development Program USA United States of America LPG Liquiﬁed Petroleum Gas VOC Volatile Organic Compounds LED Light Emitting Diode VOICES Voices of Internal Customer Engagement & LIC Life Insurance Company of India Satisfaction LSHS Low Sulphur Heavy Stock WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable MD Managing Director Development MMSCMD Million Standard Cubic feet per day WACC Weighted average cost of capital MoEFCC Ministry of Environment & Forests and Climate XLRI Xavier School of Management Change 72 Feedback Form for Sustainability Report 2015-16 Your few minutes in responding the queries, can go long way in improving our disclosures and engagement with all stakeholders to deliver sustainable value. 1. Is the information provided in the report adequate to assess that we deal with all stakeholders’ in fair and ethical manner and do our best to add value to economy, environment, and society? It’s more than enough Yes, it is precise, not too much; not too little No, more details could have been provided 2. What do you think about the structure of the report in terms of content organisation making it interesting to read and easy for locating relevant information? The report is well structured with a ﬂow linking the chapters The report structure is good but could have been better The report is not well structured; the content has no ﬂow 3. After reading the report, what do you think about Tata Power’s eﬀorts in Sustainability? I think Tata Power is doing a lot in Sustainability I think Tata Power is doing a lot, but a lot more can still be done No, I don’t think Tata Power is doing much in Sustainability 4. Can you suggest areas in which we could further improve ourselves in Sustainability? 5. Please rate the report in terms of design and layout Coverage in the report Excellent Good Average Poor Clarity of contents Data availability Data representation Coverage of topics Presentation of contents You can also email your feedback at sustainability.reporting@tatapower.com or write to: Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer The Tata Power Company Limited 34, Sant Tukaram Road, Carnac Bunder, Mumbai 400 009 India Bombay House, 3rd Floor, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: 91 22 6665 8282 Fax: 91 22 6665 8801 www.tatapower.com Printed on 100% recycled paper
