2017 Sustainability Report Watch the video on Ansaldo STS Letter from the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager Letter from the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager Build the future, fuelling the present. “Our industry is considered to play a key role in answering the demand for a better, smarter and safer mobility with a clear social and environmental responsibility”. 2017 has been an important year and I am particularly pleased with the work of my team. I would like to thank all the staff for their effort in reaffirming the Company’s commitment to being a reliable partner to many of the major rail and Andy Barr transit authorities worldwide. Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of Ansaldo STS Key figures and achievements of the year confirmed the Company’s growth trend across all regions, its high level of competitiveness and strong delivery capabilities. Ansaldo STS is unique in the business it conducts and the projects it delivers. Our industry is considered to play a key role in answering the demand for a better, smarter and safer mobility. At Ansaldo STS we are at the forefront of this challenge. Being part of the Hitachi Group we have already been able to benefit from access to new exciting technologies maximizing the technical expertise aimed at supporting our established product. This helps us to widen our horizons and our 2018 Best CEO in business opportunities: we are heading towards Sustainable Transport Industry. 2 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Letter from the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager multimodal solutions and a full service approach We continue seizing the new opportunities to Operations. by sharing the ethics and principles that have always characterised Ansaldo STS. Particularly Our company is changing into a market of major with one vision of the Social Innovation mission project delivery. However the rail signalling and the awareness, as consequence of our work market, core of what we deliver, calls for for the daily lives of millions of people, for their increasingly innovative, reliable and competitive movements and for the transport of goods that solutions in terms of savings in costs, time and everyone needs. energy, in addition to safety and environmental impact. This is sustainability for social development, contributing with safe, efficient, We are particularly proud to be testing our reliable and ecologically compatible solutions, innovative technology today, for which many with direct relation between the existing major statements of interest have already been business and the well identified UN Sustainable received from infrastructure managers and rail Development Goals focusing on technical operators both in Italy and in Europe due to the solutions in response to the user’s needs in numerous benefits of this system. increasingly complex and diverse contexts and lifestyles. For Ansaldo STS it means proactively Our future focus will be on integration and explore and respond to business opportunities innovation in order to become a full provider and risks for future growth. Our strategy is of mobility solutions where the rail system is to develop a responsible corporate activity the key contributor, integrating information in an innovative business, by addressing the with other transport systems, leveraging its issues and contributing to the achievement of technological competitive advantages, and Sustainable Development Goals, through shared safety / security expertise. and concrete initiatives. We are working to develop new applications All of this is possible thanks to our customers, creating a solution package for smart colleagues, shareholders, partners and all the utilizations. The use of Big Data and the stakeholders, which I thank for this great effort. Internet of Things helps to precisely pinpoint the position of a train on the line and to analyse the This is why we continue to share this vision behaviour of travellers in order to better meet both outward and within our company, to create their actual needs. This trend is increasing a opportunities for gaining knowledge about us need of personalised offer. This is why Ansaldo and the development of our human resources. STS took into consideration these topics within We continue providing priority support to the many areas of our activities, maintaining a clear business through consolidation actions that Corporate Social Responsibility mission. Today, increasingly strengthen the potential of our we continue following the principle and the company, which has now become a certainty in possible future developments with the utmost an ever more complex and evolving market. care. Visit the website: www.ansaldo-sts.com/en Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 3 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Contents COMPANY PROFILE 6 Global presence 10 Business segments 11 Organisational Structure 12 Significant events in 2017 13 Performance 16 Sustainability at Ansaldo STS 17 The UN Sustainability Development Goals 17 Policies on Sand SDGs 18 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 22 Sustainability topics 24 Management of risks and opportunities 25 Ethics and integrity 28 Our Mission 28 Our values 29 Code of ethics 30 Partnerships for sustainable development 31 Stakeholder engagement 32 Stakeholder mapping 32 Relations with stakeholders 33 Sustainability programme 34 Our 2018/19 Corporate Social Responsibility plan 36 Internal Sustainability Committee 37 SOCIAL INNOVATION 38 Targets achieved in 2017 40 The Value of Innovation 40 Main products conceived and in development 41 Product and solution safety and reliability 42 Energy efficiency and respect for the environment 43 Ansaldo STS joining Hitachi’s Social Innovation Forums 45 OUR PEOPLE 46 Targets achieved in 2017 48 Human resource management policy 48 Company workforce 49 Recruitment and hiring 52 Training and development 55 Performance assessment 57 Internationalisation and multiculturalism 58 Remuneration systems 59 People care 61 Pension plan 65 Protected categories 65 Parental leave 66 Social dialogue 67 Collective labour agreements 67 In-house communications 68 4 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX | Ansaldo STSContents in breve CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMUNITIES 70 Targets achieved in 2017 72 Involvement of local communities 73 Main initiatives 74 Protection of human rights 77 Research partnerships 78 European research projects 78 Italian research projects 79 Partnerships with universities: Technological and Managerial Training 80 Promotion of safe and sustainable mobility 81 Digital communities and the media 82 Donations and sponsorships 85 THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 86 Targets achieved in 2017 88 Environmental sustainability 89 The commitment of ansaldo sts: the four strategic objectives 89 Integrated management system 90 Environmental performance 92 Fight against climate change 93 Energy consumption 95 Consumption of raw materials and other resources 98 Polluting emissions 98 Water management 99 Management of waste and effluents 100 Biodiversity 101 Health and safety 102 Health and safety performance 103 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN 104 Targets achieved in 2017 106 Types of supplies and suppliers 106 Selection and qualification criteria 108 Supplier mapping according to HSE criteria 108 The selection process 109 Eligibility criteria 110 Contractual tools 110 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 112 Our business model 114 Economic value generated and distributed 115 Corporate governance 116 Management bodies 117 Internal control and risk management system 122 Anti-corruption 124 Customer satisfaction 125 Customer communications 126 Relations with shareholders and members 129 Share capital 129 Investor relations 129 Relations with banks and insurance institutions 132 Methodological note 133 GRI Content Index 136 Report of the Independent Auditors 145 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 5 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Company Profile 6 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Company Profile Ansaldo STS considers the social, economic, logistics, architectural, environmental and structural context of each project it handles, planning, designing and building signaling and railway and mass transit systems that provide the best possible combination of safety, efficiency and return on investment. 32 new sustainability Leadership in ERTMS satellite objectives technologies 93,368 88 events: 70 openings, total hours of training 13 trade shows, 5 conferences + 25.7% (average of 22.1 hours per employee) – 3.5% 151% Total energy consumption (2015-2017) + –11.9% Total Methane consumption 13.6% 311 – Total energy consumption per hour worked (2015-2017) new qualified – 9.7% suppliers Electricity consumption per hour worked (2015-2017) Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 7 Company Profile Ansaldo STS Ansaldo STS1 creates value for society by designing and implementing solutions and components for rail transport and mobility; is committed to provide innovative products that improve the quality of life and that responsibly support the world in which we live. Ansaldo STS combines experience and human, financial and The more we make sustainable long-term decisions, technological resources to provide innovative solutions in the better the interaction between our company, society the design and construction of equipment and systems for and the environment will be. This approach is part of our conventional and high-speed railway lines and mass transit rail competitive edge. network signalling and automation for passengers and freight. 1. In this report, the terms “Ansaldo STS” and “Group” refer to all companies included in the 2017 scope of consolidation. “Ansaldo STS S.p.A.” refers to the Parent Company. 8 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Company Profile To achieve its objectives and growth and maintain its sector leadership, Ansaldo STS bases its operations on solid, unwavering ethical values and principles. Everyone in the Organization is required to uphold this culture and make the same commitment to ethical conduct, embracing the company’s principles and values. It is an international Organization based in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, the Americas and the Asia Pacific region. Ansaldo STS’s values on which it has based its business are: • CUSTOMERS FOCUS – Our technologies safely move millions of people every day. This drives Ansaldo STS to do its best to increase and maintain high excellence services for rail transport users. • INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE – Understanding, studying and developing solutions to improve responses to customers and market offers lie at the crux of Ansaldo STS’s activities, in which work is constantly focused on providing customers with innovative and excellent products that represent the company’s competitiveness on the market. •  PEOPLE – Customer satisfaction and the development of new products depend on the abilities of the professionals working to achieve them, Ansaldo STS’s employees. This is why Ansaldo STS is a company founded on people. Everyone in our organization works to make Ansaldo STS a good environment and place to work, where people learn, achieve and celebrate success. Ansaldo STS always prioritizes its people and their safety. • TEAM SPIRIT – None of these operating objectives can be achieved by one person alone. The company’s professionals work in a single, integrated organization, capable of making the most of their different cultures and professional training. This team spirit can also be found in managers who ensure cooperation and the growth of the company culture, while achieving established objectives and the company’s mission. • INTEGRITY – If people are to work together effectively, mutual trust must be fostered, and this is only possible if everyone works and acts in a way that is transparent, loyal, honest and proper. Similarly, customers must have the absolute certainty that integrity is a fundamental value for Ansaldo STS, and that this value is reflected in its products, through the utmost care and attention to safety. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 9 Company Profile | Global presence Global presence Ansaldo STS, headquartered in Genoa, has four main operating companies: • Ansaldo STS S.p.A. with offices in Genoa, Naples, Piossasco (TO) and one production site in Tito Scalo (PZ); • Ansaldo STS US, with offices in Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) and one production site in Batesburg (South Carolina); • Ansaldo STS France, with offices in Les Ulis and one production site in Riom; • Ansaldo STS Australia with offices in Brisbane, Perth and Karratha. Ansaldo STS also owns operating entities in Germany, Sweden, the UK, Spain, China, India, Malaysia, Botswana, South America and Canada as well as many permanent establishments and partnerships in other countries such as South Korea and Turkey. Europe, North Africa & Middle East: Genoa, Naples, Turin, Potenza, Paris, Riom, Copenaghen, London, Madrid, Munich, Stockholm, Thessaloniki, Ankara, Tunis, Oran, Rabat, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh Americas: Pittsburgh, Batesburg, Honolulu, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Rockville, Toronto, Kingston, Lima, Fortaleza, Caracas Global Headquarters (Genoa) Main Offices & Sales Offices Factories Production sites Projects underway in these Countries HEADCOUNT (units) REVENUE (K€) ORDERS (K€) LEGAL ENTITIES 2017 2016 GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 2017 2016 2017 2016 ASTS ITALY* 1,863 1,712 Italy 273,513 308,403 761,761 429,311 ASTS FRANCE** 913 868 Rest of Europe 398,549 390,653 209,938 427,345 ASTS USA 754 712 North Africa and Middle East 135,697 122,057 28,722 3,659 ASTS APAC 635 597 Americas 325,577 255,194 321,789 129,508 ASTS CHINA 63 62 Asia Pacific 227,631 251,079 178,613 486,013 Total 4,228 3,951 Total 1,360,967 1,327,386 1,500,823 1,475,836 * Includes Ansaldo STS Deutschland GmbH. ** Includes Ansaldo STS UK Ltd., Ansaldo STS Sweden AB. 10 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Business segments | Company Profile Business segments2 Ansaldo STS operates globally to support its customers in the creation and development of reliable and sustainable solutions for rail transportation networks, helping to provide an increasingly effective and secure mobility service; from passenger transport networks to freight, from urban transport to regional and international high-speed or conventional lines, Ansaldo STS designs and implements cutting-edge technology to meet operators’ needs and optimise service performance. HIGH SPEED MAIN LINES AND FREIGHT PLANNING, SUPERVISION AND TRAFFIC CONTROL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COMPUTER BASED INTERLOCKING METROS AND TRAMWAYS EQUIPMENT & COMPONENTS As a part of the Hitachi Group, Ansaldo STS further integrates its technological expertise into various projects and solutions, bringing a real competitive advantage and offering economically and technologically innovative solutions for our customers. The complementary nature of the products and services, along with the distribution of production facilities and development sites will help to further consolidate the Company’s presence in existing markets and increase its effectiveness in new markets. 2. For more information on market segments and products visit: http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/business/business-segments Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 11 Company Profile | Organisational structure Integrated system solutions Ansaldo STS has made its mark on the railway sector by • CBTC signalling technologies to improve service using the using state-of-the-art technologies for large projects, such distancing logic based on moving blocks, mainly used for as: metros; • ERTMS / ETCS technologies, adopted to make high speed • a large component portfolio, which includes all signalling lines safer and more interoperable; aspects and system solutions (such as point machines, • satellite positioning technology for the effective and safe signals, level crossings, relays, etc.). management of railway traffic; • driverless and unmanned solutions for better operating efficiency and flexibility and to cut operating and maintenance costs; Organisational structure Ansaldo STS is unique in the business it conducts and the projects it delivers. Our industry is considered to play a key role in answering the demand for better and safer mobility, together with having a key social and environmental responsibility. The Ansaldo STS target is to keep growing; in 2018 the Company will evolve its operating model according to the vision for the future, in addition to benefitting from being part of Hitachi Group. Ansaldo STS boasts an integrated, global Organisation capable of providing an adequate response to demand for standardised solutions in the railway transport market and, in particular, the signalling technology market. Its structure is based on the coexistence of: • ORGANISATION: organisational units with specific professional areas of expertise; CEO CEO Office Internal Audit Human Resources CFO & Organization Investor Relations Institutional Affairs, General Counsel External Relations & Compliance & Communication HSE, Facility Risk Management & Management Physical Security Railways & System Assurance Freight BU Operations Mass Transit BU & Control • TEAM-BASED ORGANISATION: functional teams that aim to achieve an objective in order to ensure the effective and efficient functioning of the main business processes: offer, execution, development and innovation. 12 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Significant events in 2017 | Company Profile Significant events in 20173 FEBRUARY On 24 February, Ansaldo STS Ferroviaria Italiana and Trenitalia, and develop the evolution of the ERTMS launched ERSAT and ERSAT EAV, with a trial journey from Cagliari to signalling system thanks to train geothe first satellite technology in Decimomannu. positioning using satellite technology. Europe to be applied to railway The satellite technology used has been traffic management. The first The project, coordinated by Ansaldo designed to safely control and manage test in Europe was carried out in STS, is part of the European research rail traffic on conventional secondary, Sardinia in collaboration with Rete project Horizon 2020 and aims to define local and regional lines. Andy Barr, Managing Director of Ansaldo STS, commented: “The rail signalling market, which represents the core business of Ansaldo STS, demands increasingly innovative, reliable and competitive solutions in terms of cost, time and energy efficiency, as well as high standards of safety and environmental sustainability. We are particularly proud to test this innovative technology today, which has already generated significant interest among infrastructure and rail operators in Italy and Europe thanks to the numerous advantages offered by the system”. MORE INFORMATION The technology uses the results of the previous 3InSat project funded by the European Space Agency and supported by the Italian Space Agency. ERSAT EAV uses satellite technology to geo-position trains and interfaces with the system used to supervise rail traffic (ERTMS). This exchange of data and information has been made possible through special devices installed on the trains and the radio receivers located on the wayside along the railway line. The information points used by the current signalling system the coils along the line will be replaced with virtual coils managed by the satellite receiver which are integrated into the ERTMS signalling system. The latest-generation ERSAT signalling project interfaces and supplements for the first time in Europe the European Traffic Management System (ERTMT) with Galileo satellite navigation and positioning technology. The trial at the site in Sardinia also represents the recently developed a proprietary project to extract iron conclusion of the Roy Hill Iron Ore project in Australia, the minerals and transport 55 million tonnes of material by rail first rail signalling system in the world to use this type of from the mine to the port each year, with a total of 350 km technology for freight transportation. In fact, Roy Hill has of railway line. Roy Hill, Australia 3. For more details on the History of Ansaldo STS, visit http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/about-us/history Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 13 Company Profile | Significant events in 2017 JUNE In June, Ansaldo STS signed a technologies; able to analyse, dynamic solution that helps to resolve Memorandum of Understanding through sensors, passenger flows on possible congestion before with the company Metroselskabet platforms, it will automatically optimize it affects passengers’ experience, to develop a “Proof of Concept” the number of available trains, thus increasing the level of (prototype) for the new Dynamic responding dynamically to sudden customer satisfaction. For the Headway Solution developed changes in the number of service operator, this highly reactive solution using Hitachi technology for the users. adapts the number of trains to Copenhagen Metro M1/M2. The effective demand in real time and Dynamic Headway Solution will be This technology is particularly offers the possibility of reducing developed using the railway control useful in cases where the demand energy and operating expenses with systems designed by Ansaldo STS for transport increases during the a consequent improvement in service and Hitachi IoT (Internet of Things) normal operation of the Metro. It is a performance. Metro Copenhagen HSE Award in Riyadh: Ansaldo STS sees off the competition to win the award for safety Ansaldo STS has won the “Best the sites along the six lines under involving the construction of 85 stations line HSE” (Health, Safety and construction. along a 176 kilometre route. Recognised Environment) award for its current for their professionalism and expertise, construction works on Metro Line 3. The competition concerned the six lines Ansaldo STS employees were named The 3D3 station received the award, which are currently being constructed by the best team compared to their peers while the 3A2 station was named three consortia (BACS, FAST and ANM, belonging to other leading companies in as the safest place to work of all of which Ansaldo STS is a member), the global civil railway sector. HSE Award, Riyadh 14 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Significant events in 2017 | Company Profile JULY In July, Hitachi Ansaldo Baltimore Rail new trains and Communication and Partners LLC, a company formed of Control systems (CommunicationHitachi Rail Italy S.p.A. and Ansaldo Based Train Control CBTC) for STS USA Inc. (the United States the Baltimore Metro Subway Link. subsidiary of Ansaldo STS S.p.A.) The project to replace the current signed a contract worth USD 400.5 signalling system with the innovative million for the Baltimore Metro CBTC solution developed by Ansaldo operated by the Maryland Transit STS is worth approximately USD 148 Administration (MTA) for the supply of million. Metro Baltimore DECEMBER At the end of December, the CIPE Verona-Padua track. Ansaldo STS is Condotte d'Acqua 11.35%, Fintecna approved the definitive project contributing to the project through its 0.01%), which holds the concession. for the section of high-speed line participation in the consortium Iricav The value of the contribution by between Verona-bivio Vicenza and Due (composed of Astaldi 37.49%; Ansaldo STS is approximately EUR authorised the construction of the Salini Impregilo 34.10%, Ansaldo 336 million. first production batch of the AV/AC STS 17.05%, Società Italiana per Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 15 Company Profile | Significant events in 2017 Performance PROJECTS ACQUIRED Country Project Customer Value (EUR/mln) Italy A.V. Verona-Padua IRICAVDUE Consortium 336 US Baltimore Metro MTA 133 Italy Framework Agreement with RFI RFI 100 Denmark Copenhagen Cityringen change of orders (including O&M) Metroselskabet 82 Italy Onboard equipment for Caravaggio trains Hitachi Rail Italy 63 Australia Rio Tinto change of orders Rio Tinto 48 Italy ACC and ACC-M signalling systems RFI 40 Italy Naples Line 6 change of orders Municipality of Naples 24 US New Haven – signalling systems MNRR 22 US Los Angeles – Westside extension – section 2 LACMTA 21 Australia Onboard equipment Rotem 20 Other EU/Asia Components Other 82 Other EU/Asia Service & Maintenance Other 58 US Components Other 56 ACTIVATIONS PROJECTS DELIVERED 70 KM OF LINES 1,700 Km STATIONS ACTIVATED 285 Conventional lines Metro CTC Sapri Nord: Paola Battipaglia Green Metro Line LIRR Ronkonkoma Activation of Gioia Tauro Sud SCMT (Completion of Phase 1) Upgrading of the Turin Padua line / Reconfiguration of Module 4 Selangor Malaysia ACC Multi-station hub in Genoa (Subang Skypart Project) ERTMS/ETCS level 2 Milan-Lambrate-Treviglio Revamping SEDT Rome/unscheduled maintenance Technological upgrading of the Turin-Padua line High speed ACC Ventimiglia Tours Bordeaux section of high-speed line Revamping of the Naples hub between Paris and Bordeaux Le Mans Rennes AV Aarhus Denmark Revenue service urban line Morocco AV Tangeri Kenitra PBI 45 stations KfW 1 station Karagpur 1 station Freight lines Roy Hill Project Heavy Haul Western Australia Rio Tinto State Railways of Thailand (SRT) Completion of the entry into service of the CBI upgrade of five stations ATO-assisted system 16 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability at Ansaldo STS | Company Profile Sustainability at Ansaldo STS Ansaldo STS considers the social, economic, logistical, architectural, environmental and structural context of each project it develops, planning, designing and building signalling, railway and mass transportation systems that provide the best possible combination of safety, efficiency and return on investment. The UN Sustainability Development Goals On 25 September 2015, the United Nations approved the Ansaldo STS has identified the goals that it is able to help Global Agenda for sustainable development and defined reaching: 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) structured in • directly, through management models which enable the 169 targets to be reached by 2030. Company to follow a path of sustainable growth and guarantee a cohesive culture of responsibility and promote The Agenda requires significant engagement from sustainable actions by individual collaborators: corporate all members of society, including businesses, civil commitment; companies, the public sector, philanthropic institutions, • indirectly, through the achievement of the company’s mission, universities, research centres, news operators and cultural which is to develop railway and mass transit systems and organisations. create increasingly sophisticated products and solutions that are safe and environmentally sustainable: business strategy. CORPORATE COMMITMENT BUSINESS STRATEGY Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 17 Company Profile | Sustainability at Ansaldo STS Policies on Sustainability and SDGs ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ATTENTION PAID TO THE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY OUR PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Materiality analysis Ansaldo STS defines the content of its report by asking stakeholders which sustainability topics impact their judgement and decisions. Sustainability programme Reporting on its commitments, surveys to assess the quality of its interaction with its stakeholders and the results of the materiality analysis allow Ansaldo STS to compile an annual sustainability programme aimed at constant improvement. Stakeholder engagement Ansaldo STS is committed to understanding the needs and expectations of its people and involving them in projects to develop skills and expertise. It is focused on constantly monitoring its customers’ satisfaction and plays an active part in handling relations with local communities, be they municipal authorities, citizen associations, users of metros and trains, companies or local laborers. It also participates in research and training projects with institutions and universities. Corporate communication and a culture of sustainability This is the ninth edition of the Ansaldo STS Sustainability Report produced in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative and is subject to limited assurance. Ansaldo STS adheres to the Global Compact and is a Founding Member and Sponsor of the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation. It also participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and is on UNIFE’s Sustainable Transport Committee. Internal sustainability committee Composed of the managers of the main company departments, this committee defines strategic guidelines, commitments and projects for sustainable development and social responsibility. It reports directly to the Managing Director and General Manager and, through him, to the Board of Directors. 18 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability at Ansaldo STS | Company Profile SOCIAL INNOVATION In the course of its daily activities, Ansaldo STS aims to improve quality of life through: • the design of transportation systems that transport millions of people and tonnes of materials safely each day, helping to reduce environmental impacts; • the development of increasingly compact and energy efficient hardware and the development of new green technologies to streamline consumption and avoid waste. Today the Ansaldo STS team within the Hitachi group can further develop its innovative approach by tapping the Group’s references in the Big Data and Internet of Things field. As such, the Group is now able to devise solutions that improve performance and services offered by combining different technologies. Research and development for cutting edge products and solutions In 2017, Ansaldo STS invested approximately EUR 41.3 million (EUR 36.7 million in 2016) to continue to supply its customers and end users with cutting-edge products and solutions and the very best railway and urban rail transport system design and construction methods and procedures in order to increase safety and reduce direct and indirect environmental impacts. Safety and reliability Ansaldo STS ensures that it develops and delivers products, applications and systems that are safe, in compliance with Italian and international laws and reliable, in line with its customers’ needs and its internal quality standards. It achieves this through RAMS (Reliability, Availability, Maintainability & Safety) activities. Products and solutions that respect the environment For Ansaldo STS, innovation is synonymous with respect for the environment. It is committed to researching products and solutions that reduce the consumption of energy and raw materials. It pays increasing attention to using environmentallyfriendly materials, starting at the design stage. OUR PEOPLE PEOPLE CARE “People” is one of the five values selected by the Company to represent its identity: people are at the very heart of the Organisation, demonstrating the Company's aim to create a working environment where they can continuously gain experience, develop skills, forge relationships and find motivation. Flexible working hours, the provision of recreational circuits for employees, benefits such as health insurance, access to employee scholarships are just some of the corporate welfare tools established by the Company. Training and professional growth Ansaldo STS considers professional, managerial and specialist training a fundamental lever to enhance the skills of its employees. The Global Job System is applied to the entire workforce and interacts with the Performance Development Plan to plan career objectives and individual development paths that match new business contexts. SOCIAL DIALOGUE The relaxed relationship that Ansaldo STS maintains with its employees is reflected by an extremely low rate of trade union disputes. Through this approach, any issues with employees can be resolved internally and only rarely involve intervention by trade unions, which, in any case, act in an environment of general cooperation. Ansaldo STS promotes equal opportunities, ensuring fair treatment on the basis of individual expertise and abilities and hiring people under legal employment contracts mainly on an open-ended basis. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 19 Company Profile | Sustainability at Ansaldo STS CSR AND COMMUNITIES Involvement of local communities Acting in partnership with the customer, Ansaldo STS actively contributes to communication, engagement and development programmes focused on the local communities affected by its projects, including through participation in committees that represent local stakeholders. Protection of human rights Ansaldo STS is committed to upholding and promoting human rights in every context in which it operates, by creating equal opportunities for its people and fair treatment for all – regardless of race, nationality, political creed, religion, gender, age, minority status, disability, sexual orientation, personal or social condition – and always respecting the dignity of each individual and each employee. Ansaldo STS does not allow nor tolerate the establishment of employment relationships which violate the existing legislation on child, woman and immigrant labour, and carefully controls the risks associated with the employment of forced workers. Furthermore, the Company requires its contractors and subcontractors to ensure the same attention in order to contribute to abolish such illegal behaviours. Research programmes with institutions and partnerships with universities Ansaldo STS contributes to our society’s technological advancement by participating in research projects with Italian and EU institutions and training projects with universities on issues such as safety, energy efficiency, satellite signalling and the monitoring of railway transport system infrastructure. THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Fight against climate change Ansaldo STS reports on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) in accordance with the GHG Protocol, undertaking to decrease these emissions through people mobility policies, plans to cut energy consumption and improve energy efficiency, the use of energy from renewable sources and effective waste management. Consumption of resources Ansaldo STS is committed to projects which aim to reduce energy consumption at its sites and offices. Each year, the Company obtains RECS certificates (Renewable Energy Certificate System) to incentivise the generation of electricity using renewable sources. Moreover, it has distributed a series of internal “Water Management Guidelines” with the aim of defining the methods to be followed by the Group’s companies for the sustainable management of water at its industrial sites and offices. The focus on standardised designs and innovation will increasingly lead to an overall reduction in the consumption of raw materials both directly and indirectly through a reduced use of components. Waste and polluting emissions Ansaldo STS’s policy is to reduce waste production and increase the re-use, recycling and recovery of waste. All of the Company's sites feature waste collection facilities based on the type of waste and site layout. In particular, a specific policy has been introduced to promote the re-use of certain types of wood and plastic packaging to transport similar products. The commitment to reducing energy consumption (methane and diesel) for the operation of thermal systems helps to reduce the emission of pollutants into the atmosphere. Workers’ health and safety Protecting the health and safety of its workers is a strategic commitment for Ansaldo STS. The Company also monitors “near misses” – which are accidents without consequences resulting from undesired or unexpected situations, which could potentially harm people or things – in order to identify the appropriate solutions before a real accident happens. Integrated quality, safety and environmental management system Ansaldo STS has an Integrated Management System (IMS) for quality, safety and the environment, which integrates all Group processes in one single structure, enabling the Organisation to operate with shared objectives. It has also certified its individual sites in accordance with UNI EN ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards. 20 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability at Ansaldo STS | Company Profile ETHICAL MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN Ansaldo STS is committed to defining, sharing and implementing a sustainability roadmap for its supply chain to promote a sustainable business culture with its suppliers. The aim is to progressively improve the economic, environmental and social impact (labour and safety practices, respect for human rights and the development of local communities) along the entire supply chain. Suppliers and contractors are selected according to a series of objective, transparent and documented evaluation criteria, in line with the principles of the Code of Ethics. The supplier qualification process is coordinated by the Supplier Qualification and Monitoring Board which collaborates with the Procurement, Quality and Health, Safety and Environment departments, defining for the latter a list of “sensitive” goods. The qualification questionnaire distributed to all suppliers includes questions on environmental and health and safety topics. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Business strategy and model Ansaldo STS’s economic sustainability is its strategic response to the macroeconomic context and transportation market trends, based on a business model that develops distinctive abilities and the necessary skills to boost the Company’s competitiveness on markets. Corporate governance Ansaldo STS’s corporate governance system is designed to maximise value, monitor business risks and achieve transparency with the market, balancing the interests of all its shareholders and focusing specific attention on minor ones. Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is central to Ansaldo STS’s strategy: the ability to understand and meet customers’ needs and expectations is the top value on which it bases its company culture. Market evolution in recent years has also led to the demand for turnkey transportation solutions that effectively respond to the needs expressed by local and national institutions. This new type of offer requires the ability to support our customers, who are increasingly considered less as buyers and more as partners, in the management of a project throughout its entire life cycle. Anti-corruption Within the scope of its business, Ansaldo STS promotes the fight against corruption in all its different forms at all levels, whether active or passive, direct or indirect, involving subjects related to the public or private sector. In this context, the Company has adopted a zero tolerance approach, which entails that the Company does not tolerate any kind of corruption, in any form, manner or jurisdiction in which it may occur, including any such conduct that may be permitted, tolerated or not prosecuted in the countries in which the Group does business. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability governance Sustainability governance Ansaldo STS boasts a widespread presence on international markets with operations in varied contexts and a multitude of different stakeholders; consequently, the governance of sustainability issues and the management of relationships between Ansaldo STS and its stakeholders is of the utmost importance. Stakeholders include any public or private party individuals, groups, companies or institutions with a direct interest in the Company’s activities. New materiality analysis 32 new sustainability objectives Analysis of risks and Global Compact opportunities membership for the 7th year Carbon Disclusure Project Founding Member and Sponsor membership for the of the Global Compact 7th year Network Italy Foundation Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability governance | Sustainability topics Sustainability topics To define which sustainability topics are considered material, Ansaldo STS has conducted a new materiality analysis. These topics were updated to take into consideration the content of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/16 and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards published in 2016 by the GRI Global Reporting Initiative, also considering internal factors such as mission, values, risk assessment activities, Quality, Safety and Environmental Management Systems, climate change strategies and research and development activities into increasingly safe and environmentally friendly products and solutions. The external analysis was characterised issues, taking into account the activities Company's performance and the by the broad engagement of different carried out by the Company, in order to possibility of improving its reputation groups of stakeholders: 34 suppliers, understand to what extent they could and competitive advantage, taking into 13 civil society players, 13 customers, influence their judgement and decisions. account the related risks. 11 banks and insurance companies, 3 business partners and 8 financial The internal analysis, carried out The overall level of materiality originates analysts, totalling 82 stakeholders overall. by the Sustainability Committee, from the intersection of the internal and Ansaldo STS asked these stakeholders assessed the level of materiality of external analyses and is shown in the to assign a priority level to the different the various issues in relation to the following matrix. Materiality matrix 9.0 IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS’ OPINIONS AND CHOICES CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 8.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION RESPECT OF HEALTH AND SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS ETHICAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS OF MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES OF SUPPLY CHAIN EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING INTEGRATED EQUAL SOCIAL INNOVATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY ENERGY CONSUMPTION ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUITED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT POLLUTING EMISSIONS SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 7.0 USE OF MATERIALS MANAGEMENT OF WASTE AND EFFLUENTS AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GHG EMISSIONS WATER CONSUMPTION PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY 6.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 IMPACT OF ANSALDO STS’ PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS SOCIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC AND GOVERNANCE TOPICS 24 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability topics | Sustainability governance Economic and governance topics exert a significant of supplies are of equal significance internally and externally; influence both in terms of stakeholders’ opinions and social innovation and dialogue with trade unions are the impact on the Company’s performance. Customer considered as internal strategic levers, while respect for satisfaction and anti-corruption were considered as the human rights and the development programmes for local most relevant topics both internally and externally, while the communities were more relevant to stakeholders. creation and distribution of economic value, stakeholder engagement and sustainability governance were deemed to Environmental topics exert a medium influence over have a greater impact on business performance. stakeholders and the business. This is mainly due to the fact that the types of business carried out by Ansaldo Social topics have a medium to high influence on STS and its sector are considered to be of low impact in stakeholders’ opinions and business performance. Health environmental terms; at an internal level, the Company is and safety, training and development, employee welfare, aware of the high levels of care required to manage these diversity and equal opportunities and ethical management aspects. Management of risks and opportunities One of the key elements of the spreading the culture of risk, In accordance with the European Corporate Governance System of monitoring and compliance. standard ISO 9001:2015, the Ansaldo Ansaldo STS is the Enterprise Risk STS Enterprise Risk Management Management (ERM)4 system, which Risk Assessment5 is an essential model has been updated so as to involves all organisational levels with element of the ERM Framework and consider the opportunities that may be different roles and responsibilities. The contributes to defining business presented by a situation that favours aim of ERM is to: strategies by identifying and the achievement of an expected • increase the awareness of business managing potential risk events result, determined by considering as a risks by identifying, measuring and that are likely to affect the actual reference the Company’s Strategic Plan monitoring risks; achievement of business goals and Sustainability Report. • improve the sustainability of and results. Risk Assessment also business performance through risk includes the identification and As such, certain sustainability topics prioritisation and mitigation strategies; preparation of action plans which are are included in the ERM. •e  nsure transparency and strengthen implemented to mitigate the main the Company’s reputation by risks. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS CATEGORY SUB-CATEGORY HSE awareness HSE OHS and Environmental non Compliance STRATEGIC Process improvement THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Business Interruption BUSINESS CONTINUITY Crisis management Technical standards evolution HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT RESOURCES Resources allocation DELIVERY Customer satisfaction SOCIAL ASPECTS SUBCONTRACT Supplier qualification ANTI-CORRUPTION LEGAL Export Compliance The risks considered in the SUB-CATEGORIES of the ERM are described below. 4. The Enterprise Risk Management approach considers Article 7 of the Corporate Governance Code published by “Borsa Italiana” for publicly traded companies and complies with the principles of standard ISO 31000:2009. 5. The Risk Assessment process adopted by Ansaldo STS refers to the internationally recognised “Enterprise Risk Management” framework of the “Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission” (COSO report). Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability governance | Sustainability topics THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY standards such as IRIS or CENELEC EN 50128, which • HSE awareness: possible risks of extra costs in the could result in lost opportunities, customer dissatisfaction tendering phase, concerning health, safety and the and sanctions. environment (HSE) with particular regard to emerging countries (with low standards ), especially when particular HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT issues can occur in business relations with partners who do • Resources allocation: possible risk of late development not have the same attention levels adopted by Ansaldo STS. of the necessary skills for the Company’s strategic needs. • OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) and Environmental non Compliance: possible risks of SOCIAL ASPECTS non-compliance, by the Company or subcontractors, with •C  ustomer satisfaction: possible risk of not being able requirements related to regulations on the environment, to respond to feedback from customers, thus impacting occupational health and safety and respect for human rights; their level of satisfaction. Opportunities to improve possibility of accident occurrence, with suspension of works, the process of gathering feedback and managing the reputational damage, delays and penalties. Opportunities lessons learned. to improve ECO design aspects and the reduction of • Supplier qualification: possibility of inadequate environmental impacts in product design to exploit new evaluations of the technical and financial reliability of business opportunities and, through the communication of suppliers due to the lack of preliminary analysis related to these aspects, to enhance the image of the Company. the information collected by the project teams. • Process improvement: opportunities to reduce electricity consumption of the lighting systems for Italian sites, with consequent environmental benefits. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Business interruption: possible risks of catastrophic • Export Compliance: possible risk of late implementation events (natural disasters, epidemics and communicable of the export control regulation; possible critical issues diseases, work conflicts, strikes, terrorism and political related to the application of an anti-corruption plan able changes) that could have an impact on IT systems and to meet the different regulatory requirements at local level services with consequent business interruption. worldwide. • Crisis management: issues related to the health and safety of workers caused by the worsening of BUSINESS CONTINUITY the geopolitical situation of at-risk countries in which In 2017 Ansaldo STS started the creation of a Business the Company operates, caused by natural disasters, Continuity Management System integrated with the existing accidents, conflicts, and terrorism. risk prevention and mitigation activities, that ensures the • Technical standards evolution: risks of non-compliance necessary operational continuity even against potentially of the Integrated Management System with international disruptive events. 26 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability topics | Sustainability governance Other risks assessed and managed With a view to continuous improvement, Ansaldo STS carries ENERGY CONSUMPTIONS out the assessment of specific environmental risks which, due Risk description to their low inherent and residual value, are not included in the • Growth in costs related to energy consumption. ERM. The following is a brief description of these risks and the • Less ability to compete. related management methods. Risk management DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS • Investments to reduce consumption by verifying potential Risk description profitability. • Environmental impact of production processes, product • Adoption of projects aimed at reducing energy composition and increase in energy consumption. consumption in factories and using energy from renewable • Possible negative effects on the activities to be carried out sources. influenced by climate change. • Increased energy consumption costs. WASTE AND WASTE WATER Risk description Risk management • Failure to comply with the regulations by the company and • Analysis and assessment of risk to climate change at the suppliers on projects / activities international level. • Changes to the legislation with sanctioning risks. • Implementation of operational control procedures. • Definition of environmental objectives. Risk management • System for monitoring the evolution of regulations worldwide. POLLUTING AIR EMISSIONS • Adoption of projects aimed at reducing the production of Risk description factory waste and waste water management. • Environmental impact of production processes, product composition and the need to reduce or eliminate WATER RESOURCES hazardous substances. Risk description • Increase in technology investment costs. • Increase in technology investment costs. • Changes to laws that involve risks of penalties. • Changes to laws that involve risks of penalties. Risk management Risk management • Implementation of monitoring systems for processes and • Implementation of monitoring systems for processes plants. and plants. • Specific training on company standards and changes in • Specific training on company standards and changes terms of process / product. in terms of process / product. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 27 Sustainability governance | Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity Considering its history and vocation, Ansaldo STS has always based its business development on the creation of safe, efficient, reliable and environmentally-friendly railway and metro transport systems and solutions, placing its full focus on the people these systems and solutions serve, who live in increasingly complex contexts with increasingly complex lifestyles. Our mission We combine experience and human, The more we make sustainable longfinancial and technological resources to term decisions, the better the interaction provide innovative solutions in the design between our Company, society and the and construction of equipment and systems environment will be. This approach is part for conventional and high-speed railway of our competitive edge. lines and mass transit rail network signalling and automation for passengers and freight. 28 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Ethics and integrity | Sustainability governance Our values To achieve its growth objectives and principles. Everyone in the embracing the Company’s principles and maintain its sector leadership, Organisation is required to uphold and values. Ansaldo STS’s values, Ansaldo STS bases its operations this culture and make the same and those on which it has based its on solid, unwavering ethical values commitment to ethical conduct, business are: PEOPLE FOCUS Customer ON CUSTOMERS satisfaction and the Our technologies safely development of new products move millions of people every depend on the abilities of the day. This drives Ansaldo STS to do professionals working to achieve them, its best to increase and maintain high Ansaldo STS’s employees. This is why excellence services for rail transport users. Ansaldo STS is a company founded on people. Because of its customers, Ansaldo STS is able Everyone in the Organization works to make Ansaldo to understand and meet their specific requirements STS a good environment and place to work, where with advanced solutions. people learn, achieve and celebrate success. Ansaldo STS always prioritizes its people and their safety. TEAM SPIRIT None of these operating objectives can be achieved by INNOVATION AND one person alone. The company’s EXCELLENCE professionals work in a single, Understanding, studying and integrated Organization, capable of developing solutions to improve making the most of their different responses to customers and cultures and professional training. market offers lie at the crux of This team spirit can also be found in Ansaldo STS’s activities, in which managers who ensure cooperation and work is constantly focused on the growth of the company culture, while providing customers with innovative achieving established objectives and the and excellent products that represent company’s mission. Ansaldo STS strongly the company’s competitiveness on the encourages attainment of its people’s market. aspirations through team objectives. INTEGRITY If people are to work together effectively, mutual trust must be fostered, and this is only possible if everyone works and acts in a way that is transparent, loyal, honest and proper. Similarly, customers must have the absolute certainty that integrity is a fundamental value for Ansaldo STS, and that this value is reflected in its products, through the utmost care and attention to safety. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability governance | Ethics and integrity Code of ethics The Code of Ethics Training on the Code of Ethics clarifies the commitments and responsibilities Ansaldo STS relentlessly promotes and fosters awareness that should guide the of the Code of Ethics and the related protocols and Company’s business updates, as well as knowledge of the areas of activities and activities, requiring in the various functions with responsibilities, hierarchical compliance by anyone relationships, duties and training. It informs employees involved in any way with on the Code of Ethics and the related protocols first by Ansaldo STS. distributing specific documentation to all employees and workers collaborating with the Company in any The Code of Ethics, way, and requires, when the material is delivered, that which is available on the they sign a statement certifying that they have read the Company’s website6, documentation received. is a key element of the internal control system. In addition, company personnel can, at any time, ask Compliance with the supervisors for guidance and clarifications on the content Code of Ethics enables of the Code of Ethics, protocols and duties assigned to Ansaldo STS and Group companies to prevent certain them. When new employees are hired and/or contracted, irregularities or illegal acts which are prohibited by the Ansaldo STS immediately gives them the information regulations of the various countries where Ansaldo STS necessary to gain an adequate understanding of the Code operates. In Italy, Legislative Decree no. 231/01 is of of Ethics and protocols, with particular respect to those particular note. that concern them specifically. The Code of Ethics was formally adopted by Group companies by resolution of the respective Boards of Directors or equivalent management bodies. It was shared with all Group personnel using the same methods as those applied by the Parent Company Ansaldo STS S.p.A. In addition, a Code of Ethics control body was set up within each Group company to promote the implementation of the Code of Ethics. A special information channel for the Code of Ethics was also created, and can be used to report any conduct that is inconsistent with the principles of the Code of Ethics by sending an email. The reports are sent and managed in accordance with a Group procedure. In 2017, the Code of Ethics control body did not receive any reports of violations of the code relating to Ansaldo STS S.p.A. or other companies belonging to the ASTS Group. 6. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/governance-system/code-ethics 30 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Ethics and integrity | Sustainability governance Partnerships for sustainable development Commitment to the Global Compact CSR manager network Once again, this year Ansaldo STS has Through Andrea Razeto – External Communications, signed up to Global Compact, a voluntary Ansaldo STS participates in the CSR Manager Network, United Nations initiative to encourage respect the National Association that unites the professionals of for human rights, labour, the environment the main Italian companies committed to sustainability and fight against anti-corruption through a issues. The Association is a place to discuss Italian and series of 10 principles. The confirmation of the Group's foreign best practices and acts as a representative body membership in the initiative reiterates its commitment to and communicates with the world of politics, business considering the Global Compact and its main principles as associations, trade unions, environmental associations an integral part of the Company’s strategies and culture. and other NGOs. It also promotes and tests sustainability and actively participates in national and international discussions. It is the Italian network hub for similar Global Compact Network Italy associations that are being set up around the world. The CSR Network is Italy’s official representative in the Global Foundation Network of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Global Compact Network Italy (GCNI) was founded in 2002 to contribute to the development of the “Global Pact” in Italy. In June 2013, the GCNI created the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation, with Ansaldo STS as Founding Member Trade associations and Sponsor, along with 17 other organisations, private companies, universities and research institutes, non-profit Ansaldo STS actively participates in UNIFE projects foundations and civil society organisations. (association of European railway builders), UNISIG (association of European railway signalling companies) and UITP (international public transportation association), ANIE (National Federation of Electrotechnical and Electronic Companies), AICQ (Italian Association for a Quality Culture), the Italian partner of EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management), Cosila (consortium for safety in the workplace) and Unione degli Industriali/ Confindustria (Industrialists’ Union/Italy’s main organisation representing Italian manufacturing and service companies), in Naples and Genoa, specifically. In the scope of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS collaborates to, among other things, promote the extension of the use of railway transportation through the implementation of technological standards (ERTMS and TSI) and by proposing European research projects to improve safety, energy efficiency and environmental protection in the field of railway transportation. Specifically, this project, proposed as a Joint Undertaking in the railway sector, SHIFT2RAIL, aims to reduce emissions and promote for a modal shift in transportation, in line with the indications of the transportation white book published by the EU Commission. Furthermore, also as part of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS sits on the Sustainable Transport Committee, which aims to define a common, consistent and effective consensus in the railway industry with respect to environmental issues and, particularly, energy efficiency (reliable standards to measure energy consumption), the evaluation of the life cycle as one of the main criteria in the decision-making process, eco-procurement and noise and emission reduction. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability governance | Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement For Ansaldo STS, social responsibility translates into the daily focus and care of its relations with stakeholders, understanding their needs and expectations through the definition and implementation of specific tools for dialogue and interaction. Stakeholder mapping Ansaldo STS has analysed the nature Ansaldo STS’s performance is evaluated • environment, health and safety, i.e. of its relations with different stakeholder considering the three components that meeting objectives to reduce the categories to understand to what characterise sustainable growth: Company’s direct and indirect impact extent and in what way these may •e  conomic, i.e. attainment of turnover, on the environment and its workers’ impact business performance and, new customers, order backlog and health and safety. at the same time, to what extent the profitability objectives; Company can influence the welfare of • s ocial, i.e. the Company’s capacity The scores assigned by each its stakeholders. to create “shared value” (not just member of the Sustainability economic) by satisfying requirements Committee are reflected in the and expectations; following map: 3.00 Stakeholder Map Ansaldo STS influence on its stakeholders 2.50 FUTURE GENERATIONS FINANCIAL CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES 2.00 SUPPLIERS LOCAL UNIVERSITIES BANKS AUTHORITIES TRADE CENTRAL ASSOCIATIONS PUBLIC 1.50 INSTITUTIONS DIGITAL USERS 1.00 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 Stakeholders' influence on Ansaldo STS The stakeholder category perceived to be most strategic Suppliers, local authorities and central public institutions for the Company, in line with its culture and values, is that are slightly lower on the matrix. Once again, their influence of the customers, followed by employees, members and on Ansaldo STS is seen to be greater than Ansaldo shareholders. Employees’ influence on the Company is seen STS’s influence on them. Local communities, the financial to be greater than the Company’s influence on them. This community and future generations are more influenced by assessment reflects Ansaldo STS’s culture of placing its the Company’s operations. people at the heart of its organisation which is an essential component of its success. 32 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Stakeholder engagement | Sustainability governance Relations with stakeholders In this sustainability report, Ansaldo STS has aimed to •p  artnerships: specific projects carried out and/or present the different ways in which it interacts with its managed with stakeholders. stakeholders, distinguishing between: • information sessions: one-way communication by the This description is useful to understand how to improve Company to stakeholders; the interaction methods with different stakeholder • consultation/dialogue: when the Company asks for categories to gradually increase the opportunities for stakeholders’ opinions (e.g., through surveys, polls, dialogue and partnerships, and in so doing create focus groups, etc.) or sets up permanent discussion shared value. groups; STAKEHOLDERS INFORMATION SESSIONS CONSULTATION/DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIPS CUSTOMERS • Periodic project meetings • Customer satisfaction survey • Joint venture agreements • Meetings with customer senior and • Hazard Workshop to test the top management safety of products and solutions • Participation at trade fairs, • Open Day to collect feedback conferences and opening from end users ceremonies • Communication via the social media HUMAN • Communications about the • Climate analysis through • Partnership with the Electrical Engineering RESOURCES Company’s performance, delivery launching of a global yearly survey Department of the University of Genoa, of its main projects, acquisitions of • Assessment of managers joining the career guidance committee. new orders by groups of peers (360° for Laying the foundations for a scholarship executives) initiative aimed at promoting engineering • Talent selection and development studies and investing in new graduates programmes • Collaboration with the Department of • Coaching sessions for Civil, Construction and Environmental international work teams (Project Engineering of the University of Rome team effectiveness) “La Sapienza” in relation to the Level II Masters in “Infrastructural and Rail Systems Engineering” SUPPLIERS • Requests for information, • Requests for technical and price • Medium to long-term supply contracts references, catalogues, etc. bids; negotiations • Online survey of sustainability issues (TenP of Global Compact Network Italy Foundation) BANKS • Invitations to participate in deals • Meetings to present projects and • P  artnership for the guarantees related to • Communication and presentation of their details the O&M Riyadh Metro and O&M Riyadh project data • Negotiation of terms and prices Princess Noura, mRing 3 Copenhagen, Tel Aviv Red Line, Mumbai Line 3 and the Florence Hub projects • Partnerships and beauty contests for the guarantees related to the newly acquired projects: Framework ERTMS Germany, Transitio Mälab Sweden and IRICAV 2 • Partnership for the negotiation of new credit letters INVESTORS/ • Roadshows • Roadshows FINANCIAL • Conferences • Conferences ANALYSTS • Video Conferences • Video Conferences ITALIAN AND • Institutional communications • Consultations about potential • Joint research projects EU PUBLIC (internet news, press releases, etc.) partnerships for research projects INSTITUTIONS LOCAL • Regular institutional • Charity Day AUTHORITIES/ communications PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION LOCAL • Reports on the progress of projects • Participation in local stakeholder • Participation in programmes to develop COMMUNITIES to the local community (together with committees local communities the local institutions) • Customer satisfaction of rail users TRADE • Institutional communications (internet • Consultations about potential • Joint research projects ASSOCIATIONS news, press releases, etc.) partnerships for research projects THE MEDIA • Regular institutional • Consultations for more details of communications specific issues DIGITAL • Regular institutional • Ongoing communications and • Partnerships with social networks to USERS/SOCIAL communications regular updates of the website develop web communications and NETWORK relations Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability governance | Sustainability programme Sustainability programme Ansaldo STS draws up a sustainability programme each year, made up of the objectives to be targeted to ensure the ongoing improvement of its performance using annual reports of its commitments, surveys on the quality of its engagement with stakeholders and the aspects that emerged from the materiality analysis as a base. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING PROCEDURE • Definition of a specific internal procedure that formalizes contents, roles and GOVERNANCE responsibilities of the reporting process for the realization of the Sustainability Report and the Consolidated non-financial discolsureDNF (2018). BUSINESS CONTINUITY • Formalization of Governance for the management of the Business Continuity System (2018). • Launch of pilot projects on critical processes and scenarios shared with company management (2018). • Extension of the management system to the remaining business processes and sites (2019/2020). SOCIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT • Evolution of the Interlocking System platform, responsible for the safe INNOVATION movement of trains, with the possibility of a dynamic configuration that avoids interruption of service. • Automation 2.0 the new evolution of management software for control centers . OUR PEOPLE PEOPLE CARE • Extension of corporate welfare (2018/2019). • Increase in flexible working hours (2019). • Smart working trial (2018). SOCIAL DIALOGUE • Launch of integrated second level bargaining in 2018. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT • Completion of the Talent development programme (2018). • Further integration between development and organisation procedures to optimise skills and career paths (2018). • Analysis and consolidation of personal development plans (PDP) with a special focus on project groups (2018). • Promotion and consolidation initiatives to develop the effectiveness of on-the-job training (2018). • Training initiatives on data protection, staff and management development and the consolidation of project management and financial skills (2018). • Extension of the e-learning training platform (2017-2019). 34 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Sustainability programme | Sustainability governance CSR AND CSR PLAN • Development, sharing and implementation of a CSR plan with the aim of COMMUNITIES increasing internal culture and company social commitment (2018-19). HUMAN RIGHTS • Formalization of a specific policy on the protection of human rights (2018). PARTNERSHIP FOR RESEARCH • Continue with the commitment of the Shift2Rail European research program in particular on the following projects (2018-20): X2Rail1 flexible and intelligent traffic management system; X2Rail2 signaling innovation (satellite and train integrity technologies) in the supervision and management of the development process; X2Rail3 new adaptable communication system, protection systems and cybersecurity; • SBS fase2 construction of a railway line that uses the satellite communication system; • IN2Smart innovative solution for maintenance railway assets. PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIVERSITIES (2018) • Continue the collaboration with italian major universities in order to share training activities and find smart students that meet Company needs. THE ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY (2018) • Reduce energy intensity performance indicator by 2% [GJ/no.h] HEALTH AND • Increase the percentage of electrical energy obtained from renewable SAFETY sources by 2% . GREENHOUSE GASES (2018) • Reduce the GHG emission intensity indicator by 10% [tCO2e/€million revenues]. WASTE (2018) • Reduce the weight of waste per hour worked by 5% • Increase the percentage of recycled waste at production sites by 10% WORKERS’ SAFETY (2018) • Reduce the injury frequency and severity indicator and / or environmental accidents by 2%. HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (2018) • Complete the update the HSE management systems according to new standard ISO14001:2015, in line with new ISO9001:2015. • Maintain or increase the number (> 25) of sites with HSE management system certified ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. ETHICAL GLOBAL PROCUREMENT PLATFORM (2018) • Implementation of the global Procurement platform with particular MANAGEMENT OF advantages in terms of risk management (procedural, achievement of THE SUPPLY CHAIN objectives, financial and business disruption risks) and environmental sustainability (dematerialisation). ECONOMIC BUSINESS STRATEGY • Tune current organizational structure and deliver model with the future market SUSTAINABILITY trends. • Strengthening capabilities in local markets and project financing models. ANTICORRUPTION (2018) • Formalization of a specific anti-corruption policy. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability governance | Sustainability programme Our 2018/19 Corporate Social Responsibility Plan Ansaldo STS considers the behaviour of an organisation Inspired by these principles, our 2018/19 Corporate Social that contributes to sustainable development, grown out of Responsibility (CSR) plan has identified the following action a shared and concrete commitment to Corporate Social areas for the two-year period: Responsibility (CSR), as a crucial element to improve its 1. develop an external communication strategy that highlights performance, enhance its reputation, increase its ability to the integration between corporate objectives and social attract talent and strengthen its relationships with customers, responsibility initiatives; business partners, suppliers and local communities. 2. provide internal training in order to improve the culture of Ansaldo STS wants to develop a coordinated CSR corporate ethics and sustainability; strategy, with an action plan that aims to: 3. adopt new CSR-specific ISO 26000 guideline; • improve its internal culture; 4. p ropose new and concrete initiatives to the Executive • stimulate proposals and ideas from the bottom up in order Committee, to stimulate a sustainable development to achieve shared business and social objectives; of the business and contribute to achieve the • increase the Company's social participation and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN's commitment so that it stands out as an influencer in its field. 2030 Agenda. 36 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Internal Sustainability Committee | Sustainability governance Internal Sustainability Committee In 2011, Ansaldo STS set up the Internal Sustainability Committee (also referred to as the “Committee”), made up of the managers of the main internal departments. The Committee’s mission is to define the Company’s strategic guidelines for sustainable development and the promotion of social responsibility initiatives and see that they are implemented. The Internal Sustainability Committee reports directly to the Managing Director and General Manager of Ansaldo STS and collaborates and coordinates with the Company’s organisational units. The Committee is responsible for: Involvement of the Board of Directors • the assessment of social and environmental risks that concern the In the current governance of the issues the Managing Director and General Company’s operations and evaluating relating to sustainability, the Board of Manager approve the sustainability the related performance; Directors is involved in approving the programme, i.e. the action plan to • the definition and monitoring of the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement be implemented, the targets to be sustainability programme, made up and the Sustainability Report while achieved and the reporting activities. of financial, social and environmental objectives; • the implementation of the codes of conduct in terms from an ethical, social and environmental point of view, such as the Code of Ethics and the CSR and HSE policies and procedures; • the observance of the reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative and initiatives such as the Global Compact and CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure Project); • the definition and coordination of stakeholder dialogue, discussion and engagement and the sharing of results and the steps to be taken; • definition and implementation of an internal and external sustainability communication plan. In 2017 the Internal Sustainability Committee met on two occasions: on 16 April 2017 to discuss the following topics: • New developments on the subject of sustainability and CSR; Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/16 on non-financial reporting; London Stock Exchange and Borsa Italia ESG Reporting; New Tendering Code and assessment of corporate social responsibility by the Italian Railway Network (Rete Ferroviaria Italiana, RFI); 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of the United Nations. • Confirmation of commitment to and participation in: UN Global Compact, Global Compact Network Italy, Carbon Disclosure Project; • 2017 reporting activities: Project plan; improvement objectives, new materiality analysis. on 19 December 2017 to begin the Metro 5 Milan preparation of the Consolidated NonFinancial Statement (NFS). Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 37 Social Innovation Social Innovation Ansaldo STS has always devoted ongoing attention to research and development, in order to identify and create innovative technical solutions and develop products of the very highest quality, safety and environmental standards. R&S: invested € 41.3 mln Leadership in ERTMS satellite +12.5% technologies directly ascribed to profit & loss TCCSTM – Train Innovations and technologies for energy efficiency and the Conformity Check System the reduction of raw material multi-functional portal for automatic consumption detection of irregular conditions affecting rolling stock in transit Safety and reliability ECO-DESIGN of products, applications and Re-usability and recyclability of systems. Maximum level (SIL4) materials Compliance with REACH for critical applications Life Cycle Assessment Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 39 Social Innovation | The value of innovation Targets achieved in 2017 Social Innovation: Innovation and the Environmental Impact of Products and Solutions SDGs COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016 ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2017 • Renewal of the CMMI (Capability Maturity Model • In April 2017 SCAMPI V1.3 A was successfully Integration) Level 3 Certification for Software passed for the CMMI Maturity Level 3 certification of Development. the Software Development and System Assurance & Control Units. • ISO 9001 certification in compliance with the new • In November 2017 the audit campaign for the 2015 version. certification of the company QMS according to the ISO9001: 2015 standard was successfully completed. • Upgrade of third generation entities in order to meet •C  ertification of 3rd generation bodies has been all market demands. achieved for the entities present in the Turin-Padua line. • Active contribution to the definition of the pilot • Contribution in defining the phases of construction regional line “Pinerolo – Sangone” with RFI, based of the Regional Pinerolo-Sangone Pilot Line with RFI on satellite technology. based on satellite technology. Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved Target postponed The value of innovation Ansaldo STS operates daily with the aim of improving quality of life by designing new transport systems which safely carry millions of people and freight every day while fully respecting the environment, by developing increasingly compact and energy-efficiency hardware integrated in increasingly advanced solutions able to respond to the new frontiers of community needs, by the search for new green technologies and above all by trying to rationalise consumption while avoiding waste. Today the Ansaldo STS team, operating within the Hitachi Data and Internet of Things; it is now possible to develop Group, can further develop its innovative approach by integrated solutions and offer new performance and services tapping into the Group’s references in the fields of Big by combining different technologies. 2017 Nordic Rail 40 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS The value of innovation | Social Innovation Main products conceived and in development7 Over the years, its development of 36.7 million in 2016). In particular, total extend the features offered by the products and solutions (Development research and development expense platform to meet the demands of the and Engineering) has enabled Ansaldo was EUR 43.6 million (EUR 38.6 million global market; STS to seize a leading position in the in 2016), against grants approximating • the RBC functions of the MacroLok Signalling Systems and Railway and EUR 2.3 million (EUR 1.9 million in the platform were also developed, aiming Mass Transit Sectors. previous year). to align the General Application to the • OTP Optimizing Traffic evolving ERTMS and general product PlannerTM an innovative rail traffic The majority of investments regarded standards; management system that enables the the on-board systems product line • the development of the new “Fast” redirection of traffic in real time. aimed at facilitating alignment to the tool suite for the MacroLok platform •A  TC (Automatic Train Control) and ERTMS standards and improving the for system design and configuration; ATP (Automatic Train Protection) performance of CBTC applications; •a  s regards the Interlocking MicroLok Systems automatic train speed furthermore, the new platform for platform, the development of the new control systems in line with ERTMS automation products was launched, CPU (ViPro) continued, which is able (European Rail Traffic Management aimed at promoting the digital to manage PTC traffic without the System) standards. development of technology. In detail: need for additional HW; •C  BTC Communication• CBTC development activities to •a  s regards Onboard systems, Based Train Control two-way, supplement the general functions activities to resolve the problems radio-based train distancing required by recent acquisitions and presented by the obsolete Italian communications system between the safety testing and verification platform (ALA) continued with the wayside and train. activities for ongoing projects design of a new microprocessor •W  ayside platform integrated continued; which adapts the architecture and security, diagnostics and traffic • developments to the ATS Metro components of other developments regulation functions in a single, system are continuing in line with the created by Ansaldo STS as part of centralised platform. CBTC roadmap; the standardisation of HW solutions. •S  atellite signalling a globally • the activities of the new multi-year In terms of SW, the development of significant technological innovation programme “Automazione v2.0” Baseline 3 continued, focused on its which uses satellite geo-positioning began, involving resources in Italy first application in the contract with technology as an alternative to and the United States. The new SNCF and other recently acquired traditional systems, reducing costs development aims to standardise contracts. and environmental impacts. hardware and middleware to increase •T  CCS Train Conformity Check the platform’s efficiency, develop In 2017, new evolutionary System the multi-functional portal new infrastructure able to host developments on the onboard platform for automatic detection of irregular “added value services” in the future DIVA were launched. The activities conditions affecting rolling stock in and support a new User Interface. aim to standardise HW configurations transit. Automazione v2.0 aims to satisfy the mainly for ERTMS applications, as well demand for digitalisation and respond as improving the general performance Research and development expense to new trends; of the platform. ascribed directly to profit or loss for the • the evolutionary development of year ended 31 December 2017, net of the Interlocking MacroLok platform grants, totalled EUR 41.3 million (EUR continued, aiming to improve and 7. Further information on the product segments of Ansaldo STS is available at: http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/business/business-segments Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 41 Social Innovation | The value of innovation Product and solution safety and reliability Ansaldo STS implements RAMS process in line with sector standards. The residual hazard level is assessed (Reliability, Availability, Maintainability It begins with the identification and accepted only if it is below the and Safety) activities to ensure that of hazards based on previous limits established by standards and it develops and delivers products, experience, the assessment of customer requirements. applications and systems that are specifications for the various safe, in compliance with Italian and processes stages and hazard The main safety standards are those international laws applicable to railway workshops during which experts from issued by CENELEC European systems, reliable and in line with its Ansaldo STS and from the customer Committee for Electrotechnical customers’ needs and its internal discuss the various issues. Potential Standardization. Specifically, relevant quality standards. These activities are hazards are then included in a hazard standards are: performed on all Ansaldo STS projects log, which is constantly updated • CEI 50126 on RAMS applicable to in which safety and reliability are over the life cycle of the project. For the railway sector; relevant, which constitute over 90% of each hazard mapped, the log also • CEI 50128 on software security; total business activities. includes the mitigation measures, • CEI 50129 on electronic device activities to check that they were safety; Safety and reliability are achieved effectively implemented and an • CEI 50159 on railway through hazard analysis, a structured assessment of the residual hazard. communications security. Recording and assessment of Reliability of solutions non-conformities and accidents to The reliability of solutions is also due to the use improve safety of redundant platforms that provide fault tolerant configurations, i.e. those that can continue to function even Any non-conformities with safety specifications during the when certain sections present faults. This type of approach development, testing and, obviously, roll-out, are carefully was successfully applied in Italian high-speed railways, analysed and recorded. In general, no conduct of this where specific systems have been developed for the type is tolerated and any instances of the same require diagnostics and control of the electrical substations. These a review and changes to the hardware or software of the tools make it possible to plan “preventive maintenance” element that does not meet the technical specifications on lines, i.e. monitoring all substations and reporting required. In general, Ansaldo STS gathers two types of when one of them is at risk of faults. In this way, greater data to assess the reliability of its products: data on parts environmental sustainability is ensured, with the resulting (fault charts), beginning with the assistance requests sent reduced consumption of spare parts and lower risk of to the Service unit, and data on systems affecting the key service interruptions on the line due to faults. service parameters (frequency of trains, skipped runs, delays, etc.). Data on parts is analysed to identify the most defective parts and alternative solutions are sought to improve performance, while for data on systems, Safer spaces for customers and end users all service interruptions are analysed to determine the causes. Ansaldo STS offers passengers safe and controlled spaces by equipping network vehicles with sensors that constantly monitor railway areas. The sensors operate around the clock. 42 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS The value of innovation | Social Innovation Energy efficiency and respect for the environment Ansaldo STS’s unwavering commitment to providing ANSALDO STS’S MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE SUSTAINABILITY OF ITS its customers and end PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS users (passengers and Satellite constellation TMS provides Traffic freight) with the best Control & Regulation and products and system data needed to perform Fixed Block and Moving Block real time train regulation solutions, the use of the principles are provided. in order to manage train best design methodologies Moving Block allows better line regulation. Moreover exploitation and reduces the provides the strategy and procedures and the need of wayside signaling device to ATO in order to allow best existing construction installation. power consumption Supervision reduction and save energy. methods and processes CTC/SCADA contributes to increasing • Traffic safety and reducing direct • Mainpower Wayside Train and indirect impacts on the Separation Systems • Stations (RBC, ZC) • Maintenance environment. Radio links to wayside Wayside signaling (RBC/ZC) and supervision systems (TMS) Interlocking Energy efficiency On board ATP / LDS / ATO Ansaldo STS’s research Signals Encoders Reference into energy efficiency Station Satellite concentrates on the augmentation following macro-areas: Point • “Assistance with the Machines Track design of turnkey circuit systems”, through holistic hardware-in-the-loop Balises simulators to provide a Sensors transport system that Moving Block and On Board ATC high Grade of uses energy efficiently. Automation (GoA) allow • “Operation – rail & reducing devices along Balises deployment is avoided driverless”, focused on the line (Signal, Track thanks to satellite Location Circuits, Axle Counters). LDS on board provides Virtual Balises searching for the optimum Less components, Determination System (LDS). Less devices, less to ATP. ATP provides safe train control. speed profile, considering less maintenance and ATO provides automatic driving environmental impact. cost, less maintenance and scheduling and driving environmental impact. according to time table constraints. conduct. Moreover it performs driving algorithms and strategies in order to reduce • “Technologies for energy power consumption. savings”, for ground recovery systems, geothermal heat pumps, simulators for the optimal size of supercapacitor accumulation systems. FERroviari: ecosostenibilità e Risparmio Satellite technology. The use of Energetico) research projects. these new control systems will The Company developed these areas replace track equipment, which as part of the MERLIN (Management Two important innovations introduced requires greater energy consumption. of Energy in Railway Systems), OSIRIS by Ansaldo STS in signalling systems These systems will especially be used (Optimal Strategy to Innovate and for train control relate to the use of on low traffic lines in Europe, which Reduce energy consumption in urban public telecommunications networks make up about 50% of the total rail Systems) and SFERE (Sistemi and GPS Global Positioning network length. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 43 Social Innovation | The value of innovation Reducing raw materials consumption The use of powerful technological platforms integrating The methodological approach entails a comparison of several functions in the same subsystem enables processes, materials and products in order to evaluate Ansaldo STS to reduce the size of equipment and their whether choices are ecologically compatible. The connectors, using simple and effective systems for design stage, along with an analysis of costs and quality scheduling, testing and roll-out. In addition, the search for level, makes it possible to identify critical points in the increasingly standardised designs encourages innovation product life cycle. The analysis process is carried out and a reduced use of components. using software and considering the applicable legislative requirements and UNI ISO 14040 standards. Specifically, over the past few years, methods to compact hardware of the central and outlying units of There is also more focus on the choice of materials, the railway control systems produced by Ansaldo STS increasingly based on their ecological compatibility, were introduced and refined. They are based on both starting from the product’s design stage (e.g., resins and mechanical and technological solutions and allow a paints of tropicalised circuit boards). reduction in volumes, size, heat dissipation and waste to be eliminated of roughly 35%-40%. New approaches to hardware testing make the simultaneous testing of thousands of units possible, Other methods to eliminate and simplify hardware whereas previously tests were performed on one “box”, included: or controller, at a time. This solution, called SimWSP, has • the use of software from different subsystems on the already been used for the Pisa system (northbound line). same machine, such as for example, interlocking and radio block centre, usually used on separate hardware; The environmental management requirement for some • the use of environmental sensors already in place as ongoing contracts (e.g., the Copenhagen Cityringen) is to standard features on the CPUs instead of the previously define an environmental policy to be applied during all the used external sensor units; system implementation stages and requires preparation • replacement of very bulky (and energy consuming) of an environment impact plan, an environmental action sophisticated industrial monitors with commercial plan, etc. In particular, with respect to eco-design, equipment that meets the modern Green IT paradigms environmental impact considerations must be included in including with respect to the environmental impact of the project flow in line with the environmental policy. The the materials used (this approach had already been following objectives are set: implemented in the Turin-Padua Northbound Line and •b  ase the environmental management system on the DS/ is of great interest for the revamping of the existing EN ISO 14001 standard; systems); •c  onsider environmental issues when taking decisions • centralised diagnostics (via web) rather than located in and include them in the project characteristics; the outlying sites; •w  ork to high environmental standards and improve • maintenance systems based on commercial handheld performances as much as possible over the project devices replacing the traditional “heavy” equipment (this term; approach had already been implemented for the Roy Hill •u  se raw materials and energy efficiently, optimising project); their re-use and recycling to minimise waste and waste • study and testing of embedded highly efficient products; innovative systems for railway applications (NEMBO • s afeguard environmental values and culture; research project). •p  revent unwanted environmental consequences and reduce the project’s environmental impact; •m  ake a separate, specific and measurable commitment Eco-design to respect nature. Partly in response to certain new contracts (e.g., the Montreal MPM-10 TRAIN CONTROL SYSTEM project), LED technology Ansaldo STS is paying greater attention to studying eco-design aspects, including to meet customers’ For the last few years, Ansaldo STS has produced environmental standards, such as: LED-based traffic lights at the Tito Scalo and Batesburg • Analysis of compliance with REACH – Registration, sites. This innovation has a positive impact on energy Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals regulation consumption, the management of maintenance and the (an integrated registration, evaluation, authorisation and disposal of maintenance material. Suffice it to say that restriction system for chemicals established in the EU); bulbs were normally changed every four months, while • Analysis of the re-usability and recyclability of materials; LED bulbs last at least ten years. • Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). 44 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS The value of innovation | Social Innovation Reliable and efficient traffic timetables The tools that Ansaldo STS has designed and produced traffic caused by train delays, scheduled and nonenable operators to create more efficient timetables for scheduled maintenance, natural disasters and personnel trains running on railway infrastructures, identifying, in shifts. This technology is also used to significantly cut particular, the optimum locations for stops, junctions and down on fuel by increasing the average speed of trains, passing, and determining travel times to minimise waits concurrently reducing the waste of fuel for acceleration and consumption. Therefore, these tools make it possible closely followed by braking due to temporary slowdowns to prevent, and supply pro-active measures to combat, or stop signals. Ansaldo STS Joining Hitachi’s Social Innovation Forums Social Innovation forum in Milan, Italy Social Innovation Forum in Brisbane, Australia The importance of the event, attended by more than one thousand visitors, was linked to the extraordinary nature More than 200 people attended the event, held to improve of products that have opened the door to a future that understanding of Hitachi’s Social Innovation activities in already exists. The members of Hitachi family showcased Australia. The topic of the session concerned Strategic the most advanced products and technologies available on drivers of innovation in Ansaldo STS and Hitachi . the market, or under development, which will quite for sure An Innovation showcase was also featured, which change the lives course for many millions of us across the included demonstrations of ASTS’ innovations in rail world. automation such as satellite-based signalling, along with a simulation of ETCS/ERTMS Level 2 systems. During the event, Ansaldo STS presented a video to explain the complexity of the company: design, operational and economic activities: http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/media/mediagallery/video/corporate-ir#video-2 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 45 Our People Our People Our people are essential to successfully compete in the market. Honesty, loyalty, aptitude, professionalism and technical preparation are aspects in which Ansaldo STS invests and which it requires from its employees so that they can achieve personal and corporate growth objectives. € 334.2 mln 98% of employees 95% of employees Economic value hired with open-ended in the skills assessment distributed to contracts and development plan employees (PDP) People Care: listening, motivation, Global Job multi-cultural environment, growth Knowledge System and development programmes, benefits, Owners the skills management fair remuneration strategic program system for for corporate all employees, know-how sharing integrated with performance assessment (PDP) Internationalisation New Intranet to 93,368 and promote the sharing total hours of training multicultural of experiences approach and skills + 25.7% (average of 22.1 hours per employee) Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 47 Our People | Human resource management policy Targets achieved in 2017 Our people SDGs COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016 ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2017 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT • Improve the performance evaluation system in order • Streamline the calculation system under evaluation to make the process of assignment and evaluation and implement new internal reporting activities (for of the 2017 objectives more efficient. employees) to support the conclusion of the process and the assignment of new objectives. • Upgrade the Talent Management process in order • The Talent Management process was updated in to ensure a better integration of development and line with the 2016 report. Connection to business is organisation processes and their conformity with a key element both in terms of process architecture corporate strategic objectives. and inside the development plan. CORPORATE WELFARE • Implement flexible benefits measures for all • In 2017 the flexible benefits measures envisaged by employees in the period 2017-2019. the national labour agreements were implemented through the signing of an agreement with a specialist provider to offer company employees a broad range of options of how to invest the available funds. • Carry out further corporate welfare initiatives as part • For the renewal of the second level national labour of the renewal of the second level supplementary agreement, in December 2017 the platform was contract. presented by the trade unions and will be discussed with the same in 2018 to assess the possibility of introducing additional welfare elements into the performance bonus. COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT • Implement a worldwide compensation and benefit • Construct and implement benefit management model aimed at middle managers. policies dedicated to key middle managers and technical fellows. Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved Target postponed Human resource management policy Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities beginning with the recruitment process, ensuring equal treatment while considering individual skills and abilities. Over the course of employment, employees are required to cultivate are of immense value to the Company Ansaldo STS undertakes to create and draw on new expertise, abilities and accordingly, no conduct is and maintain the necessary and knowledge, while executives tolerated that, although it may appear conditions to further expand upon and function heads must devote the in the abstract to benefit Ansaldo employees’ abilities and expertise on utmost attention to enhancing and STS, is in violation of the law, current an equal opportunity basis, through developing the professionalism of regulations, the organisational, a policy based on the recognition of their workers. management and control model or merits and equal opportunities and the Code of Ethics. the provision of specific refresher In the pursuit of company objectives, and specialisation courses. As such, workers must be aware that ethics 48 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Human resource management policy | Our People Company workforce At year end, Ansaldo STS’s workforce totals 4,228, as follows: 2016 2017 NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS %W %W BY REGION8 MEN WOMEN Total on total MEN WOMEN Total on total Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1,381 331 1,712 19.3% 1,495 368 1,863 19.8% Western Europe 689 179 868 20.6% 719 194 913 21.2% The Americas 526 186 712 26.1% 556 198 754 26.3% Asia Pacific 505 92 597 15.4% 532 103 635 16.2% China 39 23 62 37.1% 36 27 63 42.9% TOTAL 3,140 811 3,951 20.5% 3,338 890 4,228 21.1% Compared to 2016, the increase in the total number of collaborators totalled 277 units (+198 men and +79 women). This is the result of an increase in employees in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East (+151), Western Europe (+45) and the Americas (+42), and the Asia Pacific (+38) and China (+1) regions. The total percentage of women making up the workforce is 21.1%, showing a growth of 0.6 percentage points. The increase in the number of collaborators concerns all professional categories. With regards to the subdivision by gender, a particular increase was observed in the percentage of women in the Executives category (10.5% of the total). 2016 2017 %W %W PROFESSIONAL CATEGORIES MEN WOMEN Total on total MEN WOMEN Total on total Executives 71 6 77 7.8% 77 9 86 10.5% Middle managers 360 66 426 15.5% 370 64 434 14.7% White collars 2,471 669 3,140 21.3% 2,629 745 3,374 22.1% Blue collars 238 70 308 22.7% 262 72 334 21.6% TOTAL 3,140 811 3,951 20.5% 3,338 890 4,228 21.1% Gender analysis shows that the female workforce, in line with the total workforce, grew in absolute value across almost all age groups. The percentage of the workforce represented by women grew particularly among the under 30s (26.4%, up 4.2 percentage points) and over 50s (19.50%, up 0.6 percentage points). 2016 2017 %W %W AGE MEN WOMEN Total on total MEN WOMEN Total on total < 30 274 78 352 22.2% 292 105 397 26.4% 30-35 597 155 752 20.6% 599 153 752 20.3% 36-40 566 148 714 20.7% 635 167 801 20.8% 41-45 425 125 550 22.7% 481 139 620 22.4% 46-50 337 85 422 20.1% 349 88 437 20.1% >50 941 220 1,161 18.9% 982 238 1,220 19.5% TOTAL 3,140 811 3,951 20.5% 3,338 890 4,228 21.1% 8. The regions are defined as follows: • Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East: Italy and Italian branches (Denmark, Turkey, Greece, Taiwan, Honolulu, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Peru) and Germany • Western Europe: France and branches in South Korea, Morocco, United Kingdom, Spain and Sweden • The Americas: US and Canada • Asia Pacific: Australia, Malaysia and India •C  hina: China Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 49 Our People | Human resource management policy An increase in terms of absolute value and percentage distribution was observed in university graduates with technical degrees (+175 employees) and in high school graduates with technical diplomas (+109 employees). 2016 2017 %W %W DEGREE/DIPLOMA9 MEN WOMEN Total on total MEN WOMEN Total on total Technical High school 807 132 939 14.1% 898 150 1,048 14.3% Other High School 279 192 471 40.8% 273 196 469 41.8% Technical graduated 1,657 284 1,941 14.6% 1,811 305 2,116 14.4% Other graduated 211 165 376 43.9% 270 191 461 41.4% Other education 186 38 224 17.0% 86 48 134 35.8% TOTAL 3,140 811 3,951 20.5% 3,338 890 4,228 21.1% In particular, in absolute terms an increase in the population with a company seniority of 16 to 20 years (+84) was reported, which also increases its weight in the percentage distribution. This trend can be seen in both men and women. 2016 2017 %W %W COMPANY SENIORITY MEN WOMEN Total on total MEN WOMEN Total on total < 5 years 991 263 1,254 21.0% 1,122 323 1,445 22.4% 5-10 years 691 178 869 20.5% 708 177 885 20.0% 11-15 years 639 170 809 21.0% 636 174 810 21.5% 16-20 years 185 49 234 20.9% 252 66 318 20.8% 21-25 years 131 32 163 19.6% 119 31 150 20.7% > 25 years 503 119 622 19.1% 501 119 620 19.2% TOTAL 3,140 811 3,951 20.5% 3,338 890 4,228 21.1% 9. The relevant framework, compared with the Italian framework, is as follows: Technical Graduates – university graduates with technical degrees (mainly engineering); Other Graduates – university graduates with non-technical degrees (humanities, for example); Technical High School – high school graduates with technical diplomas (electrical studies, for example); Other High School – high school graduates with non-technical studies (classical studies, for example); Other education – below high school level (middle school degrees, for example). 50 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Human resource management policy | Our People Contract types The percentage of employees on open-ended contracts increased from 97.3% in 2016 to 98.0% in 2017, demonstrating the importance that Ansaldo STS places on the provision of stable employment. 2017 Central and Eastern Western The Europe and the Middle East Europe Americas Asia Pacific China CONTRACT TYPES M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total Employees with open-ended contracts 1,491 363 710 192 556 198 495 93 25 19 4,142 Employees with fixed-term contracts 4 5 9 2 37 10 11 8 86 TOTAL 1,495 368 719 194 556 198 532 103 36 27 4,228 2016 Central and Eastern Western The Europe and the Middle East Europe Americas Asia Pacific China CONTRACT TYPES M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total Employees with open-ended contracts 1,374 329 680 177 526 186 457 84 21 10 3,844 Employees with fixed-term contracts 7 2 9 2 48 8 18 13 107 TOTAL 1,381 331 689 179 526 186 505 92 39 23 3,951 The number of temporary contracts has fallen, while the percentage of work experience placements grew significantly. 2016 2017 OTHER CONTRACT TYPES MEN WOMEN Total MEN WOMEN Total Temporary staff 34 11 45 24 18 42 Contract workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work experience 14 11 25 40 19 59 Other contract categories 6 7 13 0 0 0 TOTAL 54 29 83 64 37 101 Bangalore, India Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 51 Our People | Recruitment and hiring Recruitment and hiring Several years ago, Ansaldo STS introduced sophisticated IT tools to its global recruitment process so that each recruiter has access to a single database of CVs gathered from a variety of sources. This made it possible to increasingly minimise the use of employment agencies and head hunters. An agreement signed in 2014 with LinkedIn enabled the reached unprecedented numbers. This gives the recruiters Company to improve Talent Acquisition strategies and greater freedom and faster access to candidates. They achieve positive results both in terms of CVs received, can monitor specific user targets, narrowing their selection applications considered and employer branding. criteria. The constant updating of the Company profile and In any case, universities, with which Ansaldo STS has forged publication of news on the Company’s business many partnerships, continue to be a preferential channel development (handled by the External Affairs Office) have for the recruitment and selection of personnel. Thanks kept the participation in social networks alive, partly as a to arrangements with universities, and with engineering result of the new line of editorial content managed by the departments in particular, each year the Company is able LinkedIn Narrative Team, consisting of several HR personnel to interview and meet top students and new graduates, from around the world. exemplary young people at the end of their university career who could become the shining lights of Ansaldo STS in the The success of the Ansaldo STS LinkedIn page can be non-too-distant future. seen from the number of followers which has increased exponentially in recent years, reaching over 70,000 in 2017. Given the international nature of the Company’s activities and business, personnel, including senior management, The direct connection between LinkedIn and the Talent are hired on the basis of the specific skills required for the Management System (TMS), the internal tool used to role, regardless of where they are based. However, when coordinate the selection process at global level which was projects require many years of maintenance after their rollupdated in 2017, enables the Company to automatically out (operation & maintenance), Ansaldo STS prefers to hire publish details about vacancies in real time and access local technicians and staff and may seek to hire an entirely a wide network of candidates and CVs which, in 2017, local team. 52 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Recruitment and hiring | Our People New employee hires and employee turnover In 2017, 565 new resources were hired by Ansaldo STS (428 men and 137 women). In percentage terms, most new hires were in the under 30s category (+39%); in absolute terms, the 30-50 age group received the most new hires (+355 people). In terms of geographic location, Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East recorded the highest number of new hires in absolute terms (+227 people); in percentage terms, Asia Pacific and the Americas were the most significant categories. 2017 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL Employee hires in 2017 M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total < 30 37 14 14 8 26 9 35 11 1 113 42 155 53% 41% 22% 36% 47% 90% 36% 37% 14% 0% 39% 40% 39% 126 31 45 10 39 23 59 16 1 5 270 85 355 30-50 13% 12% 9% 8% 15% 25% 17% 26% 4% 28% 13% 16% 14% 16 3 8 2 16 4 5 1 45 10 55 >50 3% 4% 5% 4% 7% 4% 6% 8% 0% 0% 5% 4% 5% 179 48 67 20 81 36 99 28 2 5 428 137 565 TOTAL 12% 13% 9% 10% 15% 18% 19% 27% 6% 19% 13% 15% 13% 2017 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL Employee turnover in 2017 M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total < 30 6 2 8 0 6 1 7 3 2 27 8 35 9% 6% 13% 0% 11% 10% 7% 10% 0% 22% 9% 8% 9% 39 8 14 4 25 15 50 13 5 0 133 40 173 30-50 4% 3% 3% 3% 10% 16% 14% 21% 21% 0% 6% 7% 7% 20 1 15 1 20 8 15 1 70 11 81 >50 4% 1% 9% 2% 8% 8% 17% 8% 0% 0% 7% 5% 7% 65 11 37 5 51 24 72 17 5 2 230 59 289 TOTAL 4% 3% 5% 3% 9% 12% 14% 17% 14% 7% 7% 7% 7% Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 53 Our People | Recruitment and hiring 2016 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL Employee hires in 2016 M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total < 30 19 11 29 8 14 1 31 9 3 2 96 31 127 33% 50% 38% 50% 26% 11% 39% 38% 50% 29% 35% 40% 36% 140 33 41 10 46 5 44 9 3 2 274 59 333 30-50 16% 14% 9% 9% 19% 6% 13% 16% 11% 13% 14% 12% 14% 0 0 5 0 25 7 7 1 37 8 45 >50 0% 0% 3% 0% 11% 8% 7% 10% 0% 0% 4% 4% 4% 159 44 75 18 85 13 82 19 6 4 407 98 505 TOTAL 12% 13% 11% 10% 16% 7% 16% 21% 15% 17% 13% 12% 13% 2016 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL Employee turnover in 2016 M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. M. W. Total < 30 10 0 5 2 8 0 11 3 4 4 38 9 47 17% 0% 6% 13% 15% 0% 14% 13% 67% 57% 14% 12% 13% 36 4 20 4 19 7 90 13 5 4 170 32 202 30-50 4% 2% 4% 4% 8% 8% 27% 22% 18% 27% 9% 6% 8% 14 2 20 4 33 9 67 15 82 >50 0% 0% 9% 4% 9% 4% 34% 90% 0% 0% 7% 7% 7% 46 4 39 8 47 11 134 25 9 8 275 56 331 TOTAL 3% 1% 6% 4% 9% 6% 27% 27% 23% 35% 9% 7% 8% Honolulu, Hawaii 54 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Training and development | Our People Training and development In the current market scenario, Ansaldo STS is confronting commercial, technological and managerial challenges which require measures that enable the Group to constantly update its key skills and manage the development and training of its workforce worldwide, in line with its business objectives and the Company’s strategic vision. In this context, professional, managerial and specialised Training is developed through projects in four main areas: training is, and will continue to be, an increasingly crucial • regulatory training; lever in the development of human resources and to • language training; ensure that skills remain consistently in line with the market • managerial training; scenario. • technical and specialised training. Ansaldo STS’s approach to the management of the Furthermore, Ansaldo STS offers specific training courses training and development of human resources is based on to many groups of employees who exhibit technical and translating the Company’s strategic goals into development managerial aptitude, providing development paths that paths consistent with the Group’s business model, by will help them to progress in their career or expand defining development paths that are in line with the required upon the skills needed to meet the responsibilities profiles and developing both core skills (needed to supervise of their job. working activities) and managerial skills aimed at supporting employees’ full compliance with the Group’s distinctive In 2017, 93,368 hours of training were provided, up 25.7% values. compared to 2016. HOURS OF TRAINING 2016 2017 74,269 93,368 The average yearly hours of training per employee in 2017 totalled 22.1 (22.9 for men and 19.0 for women), up 17.5% on 2016. Details are provided below, subdivided by category. 2016 2017 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Executives 11.9 2.3 11.6 3.3 Middle managers 19.0 28.2 24.1 25.8 White collars 18.8 19.9 23.3 19.6 Blue collars 17.0 12.4 20.6 9.3 Average hours per year per employee 18.8 22.1 Average hours by region and gender in 2017 are illustrated below: Central and AVERAGE Eastern Europe HOURS OF and the Western The Asia TRAINING Middle East Europe Americas Pacific China TOTAL PER YEAR BY GENDER AND MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN REGION 2016 18.1 17.0 23.3 24.8 15.6 13.3 16.8 34.5 11.9 14.7 18.5 19.8 2017 26.2 19.5 31.7 23.6 13.6 17.2 11.7 13.1 18.0 16.3 22.9 19.0 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 55 Our People | Training and development 2017 “Global Job System” updating project The ongoing maintenance and updating of the Global Job System (GJS) is a key element in the strategic alignment of business targets and distinctive position-based core competencies. In 2017, the process to update the “Shared Services” professional family was completed. All employees were informed about the updating of the model in a series of meetings organised by the professional family, and the new model was published on the Company Intranet and implemented in the IT systems. “Knowledge Owners” Programme The “Knowledge Owners” pilot programme, which has reached its target of enabling the diffusion of the technical skills deemed essential to the Company, has been completed. For a second year, 76 colleagues selected at global level took part in the provision of specialised technical courses, with approximately 60 sessions delivered to 940 trainees and totalling 10,000 hours of training (more than 10% of the global plan) in 2017. Some of the courses delivered in Italy will be repeated next year. From today, these courses will be included in the training catalogue offered by Ansaldo STS. The catalogue of technical courses offered as part of the “Knowledge Owners” Programme and the network of experts further supports the development of technical skills. “TALENT” project The analysis and fine tuning of the people strategy process, which began in 2016, has developed considerably in 2017 and is still ongoing. This initiative has led to the partial review of the Talent Management model, redefining its general structure and development programme with a view to ensuring greater consistency between development processes and organisational procedures and to providing increasingly effective support to the business. This model also seeks to bring coherence and integration to the development paths related to the different model profiles and to define custom plans that are consistent with business needs and with the aspirations and skills of the people involved in the various programmes. In 2017, the “talent selection” project was launched. Supported by an assessment process, the initiative led to the identification of 120 resources at international level. The profiles involved included: Junior, Senior (managerial stream) and Senior (technical stream). The resources who were selected as part of the project were inserted into the new annual development programme which began in November 2017, with a kick-off meeting and initial workshop on knowledge management. Key elements of the programme include knowledge and skills management, using innovation as a competitive advantage, understanding the business and evolving trends concerning the market, technology and the reference industry, networking, the management of partnerships and project groups within a global corporate Group, and proactivity. A project work, the topics for which will be defined with top management, will represent the guiding thread of the initiative and will facilitate the sharing of skills and experience between individuals from different geographic areas and professional backgrounds, at the same time enabling the immediate application and learning of the themes covered by the programme and guaranteeing a strict connection with the business. The programme’s objectives include the strengthening of personal skills and the transfer and sharing of know-how, aiming to ensure that the flow of experience and expertise remains strong and continues within the Company, supporting growth and promoting other new and alternative ways of thinking. 56 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Performance assessment | Our People Performance assessment Performance assessment is a key tool in managing the development of human resources. Ansaldo STS has adopted a global, structured and consistent process at international level called the Performance Development Plan (PDP), which provides for the assignment and assessment of performance and development targets for all Ansaldo STS personnel. The process, which is fully managed online, is structured into three phases: • phase 1 planning: relates to the formalized assignment of targets linked to business and/or individual performance indicators and professional development indicators; • phase 2 coaching: involves the continuous monitoring of performance by the employee’s direct supervisor and mentor; • phase 3 review: the final assessment phase in which all the employee’s assessments are combined (self-assessment, direct supervisor’s assessment and those of other people selected from within the Organisation for a more comprehensive vision of individual performance). The process, which extends to applied as a standalone comparison tools to strengthen a managerial all Group companies, has been element used to analyse performance culture more focused on putting consolidated in terms of management together with the employee’s into practice the soft skills that the and development practices and organisational manager. Company values, such as team spirit, involves more than 95% of the people management skills, change total company workforce. Thanks PDP is also applied to the appraisal management skills and international to the integration of the Global process for Executives. There are cooperation. By including executives Job System, PDP is an even more some 80 company executives in the PDP-based assessment and complete development tool, as the around the world who, in addition to development process, the system is assessment of abilities and skills, having been assigned challenging now consistent throughout all levels performed concurrently with the performance targets in connection of the Organisation. performance assessment, makes it with business priorities for the current possible to define individual targets year, managed through the MBO Over the past two years and in line and development paths that are incentive process, have been set with the empowerment programmes, effectively in line with expectations position-holding targets derived from the PDP has been fine-tuned further for the position. the roles and mandates outlined for so that as well as department each managerial position. managers, Project Managers (PMs) In 2017, an analysis aimed at and Project Engineers (PEs) are also improving the performance In line with its internal strategies to assessed. These employees were assessment process to enhance promote managerial development, given the task of managing their the evaluation mechanism was Ansaldo STS applies a 360° appraisal team’s output by defining, monitoring launched. Employee self-assessment, process to all staff included in an and assessing project objectives. This while remaining a key element in MBO incentive scheme as a tool to strong commitment assigned to the the process to assess performance assess management skills. The use key roles in the project teams (PMs and define development objectives, of this more structured, challenging and PEs) is designed to enhance is not automatically integrated into approach in the assessment of the independence, effectiveness and the overall evaluation but is instead managers is considered one of the leadership of these teams. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 57 Our People | Internationalisation and multiculturalism Internationalisation and multiculturalism In 2017, Ansaldo STS continued its commitment to maintaining a high level of internationalisation and a multicultural approach towards its employees in line with its global dimension and the interests of its stakeholders, customers and staff. As in previous years, this was enabled by consolidating the management process of international mobility of personnel. Quantitative data continues to give a clear indication of the high percentage of “non-local personnel” (foreign employees hired in different countries to their native land) operating in the Company and highlights the importance of international assignments which, although temporary in nature, nonetheless require spending a long period abroad (2-3 years on average). 2016 2017 Local Non-local Workforce Local Non-local Workforce personnel personnel abroad personnel personnel abroad Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1,599 113 70 1,735 128 81 Western Europe 809 59 8 848 65 11 The Americas 652 60 3 700 54 1 Asia Pacific 509 88 2 548 87 3 China 59 3 1 63 0 0 TOTAL 3,628 323 84 3,894 334 96 In this respect, some of the steps taken in recent years experience and remuneration policies, especially with the and continued during the year are reported below: use of performance-based bonuses connected to the • preliminary ad hoc meetings, which not only provide results achieved during the work abroad; basic technical and logistic information for staying • focus on repatriation and retention, which are always abroad, but also strengthen staff engagement; particularly critical aspects of personnel management; • special training, including the new language; • continuation of a network of relationships and • constant monitoring of immigration issues, which are information between HR specialists to support the increasingly common around the world and differ widely internationalisation process with an integrated approach from one country to the other, bearing in mind the and also through a cross-cutting HR International global trend that on the one hand seeks to promote Mobility Team; international mobility, while on the other seeks to protect • ongoing attention to internal communication, using all the local population, for both political and economic of the channels provided by the Company, especially reasons, especially in certain countries; technologically advanced and user-friendly solutions; • training to help encourage greater awareness of multi• continuing integrated activities with Health & Safety and culturalism and assist the overcoming of any cultural/ Security to ensure safe working conditions abroad; conduct barriers, while respecting each person’s values • ongoing cooperation with the Administration department (home and host); with respect to taxes and accounting, in order to comply • supervision of the integration process in the various with all relevant legislation and corporate procedures. countries, beginning with the management of job opportunities on a global scale; Finally, the Company has successfully implemented, • implementation of a system that monitors connections including at procedural level, a global corporate activities between development of personnel and commitment to extend a special welcome to new international experiences; non-local personnel joining the Company, providing • commitment to governing the structured connection information on immigration, tax and social security issues between the performance provided during an international to encourage integration in the new country. 58 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Remuneration systems | Our People Remuneration systems Ansaldo STS manages employment relationships with its employees in accordance with the laws in place in the various countries in which it operates. The employment terms set forth in individual contracts are usually more rather than less favourable to employees than those defined under general labour legislation or collective agreements. The ratio of entry-level remuneration and the minimum legal remuneration for women and men is shown in the following table: RATIO OF ENTRY-LEVEL REMUNERATION AND THE MINIMUM LEGAL REMUNERATION 2016 2017 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1.10 1.10 Western Europe (FRANCE) 1.14 1.01 The Americas 1.71 2.90 Asia Pacific 1.00 1.00 China 1.00 1.00 Furthermore, Ansaldo STS periodically the remuneration is not in line with without distinguishing by country, evaluates organisational positions the market (and, obviously, if the sex, culture, etc., in accordance with (including the lowest levels of the employees have received positive Company’s values which protect Organisation using the results of the performance assessments), their and promote the equal treatment of Global Job System project) through the remuneration is adjusted. people. contribution of specialist companies in the field, and compares its own This has enabled the creation of a The following table illustrates the remuneration policies with those of tool which can be used to globally ratio of women’s gross average the reference market, considering assess the consistency between the remuneration compared to men’s, the weighting of the position. If responsibilities and remuneration, broken down by category and region: Central and Eastern Europe and the Western The Asia Middle East Europe Americas Pacific China YEAR 2017 WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN Executives 81% 89% Middle managers 96% 87% 82% 31% White collars 95% 94% 84% 72% 74% Blue collars 100% 92% 87% Ansaldo STS can establish higher levels of remuneration than general market brackets for positions that are particularly critical and important or to limit the risk of employees leaving the Company, with a resulting loss of expertise. The following table illustrates the ratio of the highest paid employees’ remuneration to the median remuneration of all other employees in the different regions: HIGHEST REMUNERATION AS A RATIO TO MEDIAN REMUNERATION 2016 2017 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 7.1 7.1 Western Europe 3.3 6.0 The Americas 2.1 2.2 Asia Pacific 3.3 3.6 China 2.9 2.8 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 59 Our People | Remuneration systems Performance-based incentive systems10 Performance-based incentive systems are mainly linked to the management by objectives (MBO) process or key performance indicators (KPI) for strategic projects entailing bonuses upon their successful conclusion. Executives, certain middle managers in key positions for the business and strategic project team personnel are included in these programmes. The bonuses, which are calculated as a percentage of gross annual remuneration, vary depending on the responsibilities held. Over the past few years, in keeping with Company strategies, the MBO programme has been integrated within one single system that is increasingly electronic and less paper-based. The following table shows the number of executives included in the incentive system at the end of 2017: Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle Western East Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China YEAR 2017 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN STOCK GRANTS 27 3 3 3 1 4 CASH (long-term) 6 Honolulu, Hawaii 10. More information is available on page 120 of the “Corporate Governance” chapter. 60 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS People care | Our People People care The “People Care” concept has a broad application within Ansaldo STS and applies to employees’ wellbeing as both professionals and individuals. The basic concept is linked to the “Total Reward” strategy, based on tangible and intangible measures to improve staff satisfaction. It is no coincidence that “People” represents one of the Company’s five values in its identity: people are at the very heart of the Organisation, demonstrating the Company’s aim to create a working environment where employees can continuously gain experience, develop skills, forge relationships and find motivation. Ansaldo STS’s focus on people can employees and relationships between Flexible schedules, arrangements with be first seen in the way it guarantees a colleagues. Furthermore, there are entertainment and sports centres, comfortable and motivational working various support services available in benefits such as health insurance, environment by actively supporting, different countries for both part time employee scholarships, corporate through its corporate processes, and full time employees and, in some welfare and celebrations of successful relationships between managers and cases, their families as well. projects are some of the tools used. Employee initiatives Ansaldo STS follows an extensive policy to manage and cultural customs in their respective countries. Below initiatives that support employees. This policy includes is a list and brief description of the main benefits and a series of benefits allocated and used on the basis initiatives supporting employees under the Company’s of an employee’s professional position and the social policy. Corporate Welfare. Ansaldo STS Company health insurance. withheld from their payslips to cover Italy provides a Welfare plan to its Ansaldo STS Italy offers its employees part of the cost, while the Company employees through a dedicated supplementary health insurance cover. bears the residual amount. portal, “Easy Welfare”. In line with These policies cover a wide range the provisions of the national labour of medical needs (e.g. specialist Ansaldo STS France offers a agreement for the industry, offers examinations, hospitalisation, medical supplementary health insurance plan numerous services and possibilities services, etc.) and vary according to which covers employees and their that have enabled beneficiaries to each employee’s professional position families and which has been made access the tax and social security (executives and middle managers, mandatory through a Company benefits provided by current law. white and blue collars have different agreement. The contribution to the welfare plan limits of indemnity). In 2017, in line offered to employees in 2017 with the provisions of the 26/11/2016 Ansaldo STS Australia has was EUR 100 per employee, renewal of the Collective Labour consolidated the agreement with with a phase-in process that will Agreement for the Metal/Mechanics Medibank Private and RT Health (a reach EUR 150 in 2018 and and Systems Installation Industry, fund established in Australia to offer EUR 200 in 2019. all employees (excluding those on specific support to workers in the probation) received supplementary transport industry), providing access health insurance coverage for for employees to an excellent and themselves, any physically dependent comprehensive health plan at very relatives and cohabitants. Employees competitive rates, as well as a may decide whether to take out these range of special membership benefits additional policies. Should they decide such as shorter waiting times and to do so, a monthly contribution is free gifts. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 61 Our People | People care Company accident insurance. International travel insurance Fuel allowance. Ansaldo STS Italy Ansaldo STS Italy offers its (e.g. Europe Ass). In Italy, France, offers executives with company cars employees insurance for work and China, Malaysia, Australia and the a fuel allowance up to an annual limit. non-work related accidents covering US, Ansaldo STS offers an accident The costs are fully covered by the accidents both in the workplace insurance policy covering any Company. and outside the workplace, for all accidents or first aid and medical employees, seven days a week, 24 care (as well as luggage and personal hours a day. The cost of this policy, item coverage) to employees working which covers all employees, is fully abroad (either on a business trip covered by the Company. The same or under secondment). Company Housing. Ansaldo policy is offered in France, Australia The costs of this policy are fully STS offers housing to employees and China to all white-collar workers. covered by the Company. seconded in the medium to longIt is not offered in the US, as this kind Ansaldo STS China has also begun term. The cost of the housing is fully of cover is included in the Company’s offering this policy. covered by the Company. life insurance policy. Salary continuance insurance. Company life insurance. Ansaldo Corporate credit cards. Ansaldo Ansaldo STS Australia offers salary STS provides life insurance to its STS Italy offers employees the continuance insurance to employees employees. The costs of this policy possibility to obtain corporate credit who work more than 15 hours per are fully covered by the Company. cards linked to the employee’s bank week. The policy provides for the This policy is offered to Ansaldo account at special terms agreed assignment of 75% of their income STS executives in Italy and Spain, by Ansaldo STS and the bank. The for a maximum of two years if the and to executives and all full-time credit cards available to Ansaldo STS employee is unable to work due to employees in the US (Company employees are Visa and American illness or injury. life insurance, accidental death & Express. The costs of Visa cards dismemberment & LTD insurance). In are fully covered by the Company, France, in line with local legislation, a whereas employees contribute to a Health checks. Ansaldo STS Italy supplementary health insurance plan small portion of the costs charged offers executives the chance to have is in place which covers employees by American Express. Ansaldo STS an annual medical check-up with the and their families, the conditions of also offers its Italian employees the full cost covered by the Company. In which are specified in the Company possibility to open current accounts China, these check-ups are offered to agreement. under special terms with selected all employees. In Spain, the Company banks. Furthermore, bank branches is contractually obliged to offer periodic and ATMs are located at some of health checks to all employees as the main offices of Ansaldo STS US, Company Car. Ansaldo STS making it easier and more efficient this is an established workers’ right; Italy offers certain categories of for employees to access the main similarly, all employees are required employees’ access to company cars banking services. In Spain and to see a doctor when it becomes on a policy similar to a lease. The Australia, credit cards are linked to necessary to assess the effects of car may also be used for personal the employees’ bank accounts and working conditions, to establish reasons and may be used by only offered to people who travel whether the workers’ health could employees and their family members frequently for work to cover business present a danger to themselves, to or close friends with prior notification expenses. In France, credit cards other workers or to other parties to the Company. Employees pay are also linked to employees’ bank associated with the Company, or when a monthly contribution, while the accounts and are provided to all otherwise provided for by law. Company pays the remaining amount. employees who require one to cover Company cars may be assigned to travel expenses. executives and middle managers with high profiles in Italy and Spain, and to Ansaldo STS executives in the US. They are also offered in France and China. In Australia, company cars are assigned to employees exclusively for business purposes, while key executives receive a car allowance as part of their remuneration package. 62 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS People care | Our People Professional membership Recreation Centres. Ansaldo allowance. Ansaldo STS offers its STS Italy employees have set up employees the possibility of joining recreation centres, referred to as professional associations (e.g. “CRAL”. These are a form of free Register of Engineers). The cost of association of workers and are membership is fully covered by the structured as separate entities Company. This benefit is offered to from the Company. Employees executives of Ansaldo STS Italy and who join the CRALs pay a fee the entire workforce in the US, but is deducted from their payslip. not provided to employees of Ansaldo Membership entails a contribution STS France where the benefits are by the Company. CRAL members granted on a case-by-case basis. In may participate in a number of Ansaldo STS Australia and China, the activities (sports or other) and take Company refunds membership costs advantage of discounts at partnering to engineers and managers if they shops (bookshops, opticians, etc.). have been approved by HR. In Italy, the Company is carrying out a project with the Register of Engineers to organise training courses at its sites so employees can earn the credits needed Taking care of occupational health and well-being for membership. In Australia, the creation of the succeeding in offering employees at Health and Wellbeing Committee the Perth office access to a “silent has led to significant improvements room”, a space designed to be Canteen and break area service. in employees’ work-life balance. The available to all employees at any Ansaldo STS Italy, France and US Committee – a work group formed of time of the working day for use as a provide a canteen service at all main volunteers from various departments relaxation area. This room serves as offices (e.g. Genoa, Pittsburgh, Les and supervised by a local HSE a mixed faith silent space for silent Ulis, Tito, etc.). In France, employees manager and the vice chairman of prayer, meditation and yoga, a place contribute to the canteen costs HR – meets once a month to discuss to rest if feeling unwell and a space to through deductions in payslips, initiatives and measures to improve perform first aid and annual skin and whereas in the other offices services employees’ wellbeing and, with the health checks. Meanwhile, employees are paid for directly. This service is support of the Company (including at the Brisbane office have access to provided under special terms which the provision of a budget), promotes the “square”, a covered outdoor space are regulated by agreements between events and initiatives on health issues just outside the office equipped with Ansaldo STS and the companies that in connection with local traditions. picnic tables at which to eat or read operate the canteens. In Italy, meals Recently, the Health and Wellbeing and a table tennis table for those who are covered by the Company. Committee has reached new horizons, want to relax during their lunch break. Travel Tracker: travel safe. Ansaldo STS’s expansion in markets and its current organisational model require the presence of its personnel in many different countries, which often present challenging safety conditions and weak healthcare and welfare systems. To mitigate critical issues arising from travel and relocation abroad, Ansaldo STS has implemented a system at all sites to ensure adequate protection from outside events11. Boston, USA 11. For more information, see page 102 of the Environment, Health and Safety chapter. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 63 Our People | People care ASTS Australia Main initiatives organized in 2017 by the Health and Wellbeing Committee • R U OK ? (Brisbane / Perth / Karratha). on the reconciliation of life and work •5  minute seated massages Australian Day to raise awareness timelines. (Brisbane / Perth). Employees that on the importance of mental health • White Ribbon Day. Awareness-raising were interested were provided with 5 and to remind the importance of initiative against women-related violence. minute massages in order to improve caring for each other’s wellbeing. The • Social Day (Brisbane/Perth). Day in their wellbeing at the workstation. event in particular was designed to which employees and their families meet • Bike to Work Day (Brisbane / Perth). remind employees how dialogue with to enjoy each other's company away Staff who were interested in fitness, colleagues, friends and family can help from the work place. health and wellbeing took part in Bike to overcome difficulties. • Morning Connections. Meetings to Work Day. • National Harmony Day (Brisbane / every 15 days among staff groups from • Fitness Challenge. Staff were Perth). Celebration of cultural diversity different departments for a morning tea. encouraged to walk, run, swim or as a wealth of Australia. The employees • Red Apple Day (Brisbane). Cancer cycle to reach the 1,000 km goal in joined together to share a series of awareness day. 31 days. traditional foods of the many cultures • Wear Red Day (Brisbane). Fundraising • City to Surf Fun (Perth/Brisbane). which make up the Ansaldo STS day for financing heart disease research. Employees from the two cities joined Australia’s workforce. • Sun Cancer Skin Checks (Brisbane / together to take part in the great • Work Life Balance (Brisbane / Perth Perth). Australia has one of the highest Perth City to Surf Fun Run event. / India / Malesia). Workshop organized rates of skin cancer in the world. • Table Tennis Tournament (Brisbane by the Health and Wellbeing Committee More than 50 employees underwent a / Perth). in collaboration with the ASTS Academy medical check-up. Ansaldo STS India Social Committee Ansaldo STS India Social Committee is an employee station. The objective was to act as faster, safer & without engagement initiative with an objective to plan, organize errors as possible, proposing the best possible solution and implement social events for the company throughout within 36 hours. All eight teams did complete the task the year. The idea was to bring more engagement and with innovative solutions. The team with the best solution enthusiasm to the workplace, ensuring entertainment and was recognized and rewarded. participation in staff events, enriching employee interactions, • “Green Ansaldo Vision”, green event derived from the networking between different office locations in India and idea to reach the maximum benefits from cultivated much more. areas by creating more green areas in Ansaldo STS India office premises, in order to reduce Ansaldo STS The initiatives that have been organized are: India’s carbon. • “Designathon ”, a forum for employees to demonstrate • Other initiatives: “International Women’s Day”; “Secret their designing and verification skills and to recognize Santa Week”; “Office Christmas Party”; ”Annual Day”; the innovators. Eight teams across Bangalore, Noida & “Leap Year Day“; ”ASTS Sports Day”; “Ganesh Mahotsav”; Kolkata participated in a challenge to design and verify a “Swache Ansaldo Green Initiative”; “Diwali Celebration”. Bangalore, India 64 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS People care | Our People Pension plan Ansaldo STS manages pension plans with its employees in accordance with the laws in place in the various countries in which it operates . Changes in defined benefit plans and post-employment benefits are shown below: Postemployment Defined (EUR k) benefits benefit plan Value as at 31 December 2016 18,294 17,754 Cost (of the service and interest) 932 1,170 Contributions paid (666) (960) Other changes (1) (25) Actuarial gains (losses) recognized in equity 938 136 Value as at 31 December 201712 19,497 18,075 The average term of post-employment benefits is 14 years while that of the other defined benefit plans is 18 years. Protected categories The policies for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the In particular, the quota of workers with disabilities required by workforce fall within the framework of a programme defined at law for Ansaldo STS S.p.A. is 7%. European level with respect to social inclusion policies. The Company has reached agreements with labour centres In Italy, Law no. 68/99 introduced the key concept of for the hiring of people in protected worker categories. In “targeted” employment, defined as “a set of technical and 2017, one such person was hired, bringing the total number support tools which make it possible to adequately assess in the workforce to seven. The Company expects to hire the working capacities of persons with disabilities and to more workers with disabilities in 2018. recruit them for the most suitable position by analysing positions, forms of support, positive actions and solutions The table below shows the total number and percentage of the to issues related to environments, tools and interpersonal workforce represented by people with disabilities in Central and relations in the daily place of work and contact”. Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Western Europe. 2016 2017 Central and Eastern Europe Western Central and Eastern Europe Western and the Middle East Europe and the Middle East Europe PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES BY REGION* MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN People with disabilities 55 20 6 9 60 21 5 7 % of total workforce 3.98% 6.04% 0.87% 5.03% 4.01% 5.71% 0.70% 3.61% * This figure is not available for Asia Pacific, and Ansaldo STS has not hired any people with disabilities in China. Information on disabilities cannot be gathered in the US. Furthermore, Ansaldo STS acknowledges the need for its employees to balance family life with their work commitments and offers flexible hours and part-time opportunities to personnel with children under 12 or family members with disabilities. 12. The main actuarial assumptions applied are as follows: post-employment benefits discount rate 1.5%, turnover rate 2.09%-5.69%; defined benefit plan discount rate 1.4%, salary increase rate 2.5%, turnover rate 0.91%-3.26%. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 65 Our People | People care Parental leave Ansaldo STS has implemented the indications of the In 2017, 142 employees took parental leave (79 women Collective Labour Agreement and grants parental leave and 63 men) and 132 returned to work (72 women and on an hourly basis, while still providing the possibility 60 men), compared to the 125 (78 women and 47 men) of taking such leave on a daily or continuous basis in who took parental leave in the previous year. compliance with existing legislation. Central and Eastern Europe and the Western The Asia Middle East Europe Americas Pacific China TOTAL 2017 PARENTAL LEAVE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN No. of employees who have the right to parental leave 1,258 307 719 194 478 170 257 56 36 26 2,748 753 No. of employees who took parental leave 21 53 40 10 0 10 2 5 1 0 64 78 No. of employees who returned to work after their period of parental leave 21 41 37 7 0 8 2 3 1 0 61 59 Central and Eastern Europe and the Western The Asia Middle East Europe Americas Pacific China TOTAL 2016 PARENTAL LEAVE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN No. of employees who have the right to parental leave 1,258 307 719 194 478 170 257 56 36 26 2,748 753 No. of employees who took parental leave 6 42 37 27 0 4 4 5 0 0 47 78 No. of employees who returned to work after their period of parental leave 0 34 36 18 0 4 2 3 0 0 38 59 The return to work rate is showed in the following table. Central and Eastern Europe and the Western The Asia Middle East Europe Americas Pacific China TOTAL Rates MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Return rate* 100% 77% 93% 70% 80% 100% 60% 100% 95% 76% * The rate is calculated as the number of people returning to work in 2017 compared to the number of periods of leave granted in 2017. Parental leave granted in 2016 with a return to work in 2017 was not considered in the calculation, nor was leave granted in 2017 with a return to work in 2018. 66 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Social dialogue | Our People Social dialogue The relaxed relationship between Ansaldo STS and its employees is reflected by an extremely low rate of trade union disputes. This context often leads to the resolution of any issues with employees internally, with scarce recourse to intervention by trade unions, which, in any case, act in an environment of general cooperation. The only strikes declared have been due to general political and trade union issues, which have nothing to do with the Company. At Group level, Ansaldo STS has may not exceed 48) and specific Acts agreement which will be discussed reached formal agreements with the passed by the Government with respect with the Company in 2018. The topics trade unions in the various countries to health and safety. proposed, which will help to improve concerned. In Central Europe and working conditions for employees, Western Europe, the agreements relate In Italy, Ansaldo STS’s system for trade include the possibility of extending flexible to, inter alia, work hours, remuneration unions relationships is based on two working hours and the launch of a smart and health and safety conditions in the levels of participation, given the fact that working trial. workplace. the Company has various operating sites scattered throughout Italy: 1. Each month, in France, staff In Australia, trade union relations Strategic Observation; 2. National representatives may present individual are extremely positive and the next Coordination. or collective issues to their employers, 3-year Company contract is due to be in relation to the application of the law, negotiated soon. The system for trade unions relationships regulations and collective agreements. in Italy makes it possible to act upon the In Malaysia there are no formal requests of the Company's workforce The system of trade union relationships agreements and employees must and improve the wellbeing of workers. at Ansaldo STS in Spain is based on only comply with the Employment Act In this context, in December 2017 trade the following: 1. strategic lines provided of 1955 (which establishes that the unions presented a proposed platform by Parent Company; 2. national number of hours worked per week for the supplementary second level coordination. Collective labour agreements The total number of employees covered by national labour agreements, where this type of trade union negotiation is applicable, is shown below: Central and Eastern Europe Western Asia and the Middle East Europe Pacific 2016 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Executives 56 8 11 0 0 0 Middle managers 298 51 53 10 0 0 White collars 1,103 303 574 163 0 0 Blue collars 38 6 62 20 6 0 TOTAL 1,495 368 700 193 6 0 The percentage of employees covered by national labour agreements in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East is 100%, while in Western Europe it is 97.8%. The percentage is minimal in the Asia Pacific due to Ansaldo STS’s ongoing efforts to invest in a fair work environment with respect to the market. The data are not meaningful for the Americas and China as there are no national labour agreements in these areas. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 67 Our People | In-house communications Prior notice in the event of organisational changes The adjustment of the organisational changes, specific communications organisation. A similar procedure structure, along with the operating initiatives targeting broad categories is provided for in France, requiring procedures that support it, is an of employees are envisaged to a mandatory document to be sent ongoing and continuously evolving explain the reasons for the changes. to the work council explaining process that meets the similarly Furthermore, in Italy the currently the reasons for the organisational ongoing and continuously evolving applicable national labour agreement change, followed by a meeting scenario in markets where Ansaldo provides for a specific meeting to with work council representatives STS operates. In the event of inform the trade unions of decisions no later than 15 days after the particularly significant organisational that have a material impact on labour document is sent. In-house communications The primary objective of Ansaldo STS’s internal communication is to involve all employees in order to connect people, establish departments, set processes in motion and interact with the systems by defining connections that give the Company added value. This involves gaining an understanding of what Ansaldo STS colleagues are doing around the world in order to better define future identity, priorities and goals, as part of a communication process aimed at reinforcing the sense of belonging and participation in order to achieve organisational well-being and the creation of a better work environment within a large network where knowledge and experience can be shared. In-house communications are promoted through various activities: in-house communications campaigns to support the communications requirements of the various internal departments; meetings where colleagues have the opportunity to request additional information on topics of particular interest; the use of screens at office entrances, which are currently available at all Italian offices, where each day the Company publishes internal bulletins (campaigns by various departments to promote events or initiatives) and external notifications (press releases, stocks, weather reports, etc.). In 2018, the Company aims to install screens at its offices outside Italy. Finally, another important in-house communications management tool is the Intranet. The Intranet Use of the Intranet as a strategic internal and organisational communication tool has intensified considerably. Today Ansaldo STS is able to quickly share the most important corporate news throughout the Company. In 2017, around 180 articles on body (certifications, safety training • Top Management: communications corporate initiatives and the main days, etc.). from Top Management. successes of Ansaldo STS around the • Milestones: articles on activations, • HR: articles on initiatives, programmes, world were published, as well as the inaugurations. communications from HR department. Hitachi newsletter and 14 notifications • Business: articles on the status or • Talent: articles on the “Talent” from Top Management. Specially, the progress of projects. programme. articles are associated with a series of • Hitachi: newsletters, general • Daily life: articles on certain tags defined by theme, as shown below: information on the Hitachi Group. celebrations and activities carried • Events: articles about tradeshows, • CSR: articles about Corporate Social out at offices around the world. conferences, internal events. Responsibility initiatives (charity • Other: articles on “extraordinary” • The environment, health and safety: initiatives, focus on the environment, themes (launch of the new website, articles on the activities of the HSE etc.). participation by Ansaldo STS in social projects, etc.). 68 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS In-house communications | Our People In December 2017 wave 2 of the now includes a link to the corporate Like all corporate tools, the Intranet Intranet went online, following a website “ansaldo-sts.com” to provide allows to gain a more in-depth content restyling project and the easier access for internal users. understanding of Company’s addition of new functions. activities, the opportunities created Another new feature of the Intranet within the Company and the new The new interface offers a range is the addition of a new “Regulations ways in which people can participate. of new features which, if properly and Certifications” page in the “Our It is a highly useful and effective used, will facilitate a more dynamic Knowledge” section. This section tool which, when used well, can and effective use of the Intranet. In provides up-to-date information and accelerate the process of searching particular, the new features include enables users to consult or download for and acquiring information. a new email alert system to enable the regulations or certifications issued users to stay constantly up to date to Ansaldo STS companies. with the themes that interest them, a new layout for the IMS page and the The new Ansaldo STS Insight creation of a new “Operational Alerts” section has also been added to section on the homepage which the Intranet, offering information on features announcements focusing on Investor Relations activities in terms certain topics (IT, HR, Intranet, IMS, of financial communications, market Events). Moreover, the homepage research and business analysis. Complaints Ansaldo STS has a limited number of pending disputes that are managed through the courts; this is due to the policy to resolve conflicts on a daily basis, meaning that most complaints are settled without involving the labour courts. 2017 Central and Eastern Western Europe & the Europe & The Asia COMPLAINTS Middle East North Africa Americas Pacific China Total number of formal complaints concerning work practices, of which: 6 5 0 2 0 reported in 2017 4 1 0 1 0 resolved in 2017 0 3 0 1 0 Number of complaints reported before 2017 and resolved in 2017 3 3 0 0 0 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 69 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Ansaldo STS is actively involved in programmes to communicate and interact with the communities in which it operates. It promotes scientific, cultural and social progress by taking part in research projects with national and EU institutions on ICT and the sustainability of transportation systems, and also encourages technological and managerial training through partnerships with universities. Founding Participation in member of European and Italian Regional Transport Shift2Rail European research projects on Rail Line industry satellite signalling, safety, Ansaldo STS public-private infrastructure monitoring Confindustria Genova partnership for and energy efficiency SIIT (Intelligent managing and Integrated Systems coordinating research Technological district in in the rail sector Liguria region) National Research Center Universities SME Member of 67,000 followers Communication: the UNIFE 180 articles Sustainability + 10.7% Committee published on (European Railway 2,340 followers the new Intranet Manufacturers + 27.2% Association) 2,150 followers + 43.5% 88 events: Framework agreements and partnerships with universities in 70 openings, Genoa, Turin, Rome, Milan, 13 trade shows, Dresden and Basilicata 5 conferences Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 71 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Targets achieved in 2017 Targets achieved in 2017 Focus on communities SDGs COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016 ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2017 RESEARCH PROJECTS • Participation in the IN2STEM PO project that aims to • Launch of the project and the participation of define solutions for smart energy management. Ansaldo STS in IN2STEMPO for the definition of intelligent energy management system solutions and future solutions for stations. • Participation in the CONNECTIVE project that will • Launch of the project and the participation of provide a technical framework and a set of tools for Ansaldo STS in CONNECTIVE, which will define a rail sector digital transformation. a new level of interoperability and access to the services and data of transport systems in a multimodal distributed environment. UNIVERSITIES • Continue the collaboration with major Italian • The premises were set for being part of the steering universities in order to share training activities and committee for studies at the Faculty of Electrical find talented students that meet Company needs. Engineering of the University of Genoa. • An investment program has been defined for 2018 that involves recruiting young electrical and mechanical engineers to grow and train on our worldwide projects. TRADE ASSOCIATIONS • Continue to play an active role in trade associations • Ansaldo STS continued to play an active role and, in particular, take initiative as part of the UNIFE in trade associations. It is part of the Steering Sustainability Committee. Committee of IRIS (International Railway Industry Standard) and the Advisory Board which manages the interface between IRIS and the main European railway operators. The IRIS standard is promoted by UNIFE, the Association of European Railway Industries. THE MEDIA AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS • 180 articles have been published on the corporate • Develop initiatives related to CSR and to internal intranet, including many concerning CSR and the corporate culture. Environment, Health and Safety. Ansaldo STS India has also set up the Social Committee to promote many Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. • Participate in Hitachi social Innovation Forum and • Ansaldo STS participated in the Hitachi Social share and present products and objectives on social Innovation forum in Milan (Italy) and Brisbane innovation. (Australia). • Participate in CSR Forum (“Salone della CSR”) as • The company took part in the CSR and innovation external proof of the commitment of Ansaldo STS. Exhibition held in Milan on 3 and 4 October on the topics of web sustainability reporting and sustainable mobility. An article was also published on Ansaldo STS's commitment to the magazine CSR Oggi. • Ansaldo STS founding member of the Global Compact Italia Network Association has signed for the seventh consecutive year the commitments to the Global Compact. Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved Target postponed 72 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Involvement of local communities | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Involvement of local communities Ansaldo STS’s active role varies depending on the type of project and the part played in handling relations with local communities, be they municipal authorities, residents’ associations, metro and rail service users, businesses or local workers. Ansaldo STS is actively involved in programmes to communicate and interact with the communities affected by its works in various ways: • Participation in committees that represent local stakeholders; • Promotion of communication between the local authorities and citizens; • Engagement in direct communication; • Participation in programmes to develop local communities. Honolulu, Hawaii Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 73 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Involvement of local communities Main initiatives HONOLULU METRO Metro Honolulu will be the first fully automated driverless transit system in Issue: Honolulu is one Issue: Lack of local skilled the USA. A line built with the purpose of of the most congested personnel. reducing traffic congestion in the ‘Ewacities in USA. People Action: Contribute to to-Downtown’ corridor by connecting spend up to 4 hours in the creation of the next West Oahu with downtown Honolulu daily commuting. generation of rail transit through a 20-mile elevated rail line. Hitachi professionals in Hawaii. companies Ansaldo STS & Hitachi Rail Italy Action: Provide fast, safe and reliable Support the University of Hawaii system and were assigned the design-build work for transportation for residents and tourists. create 300 + local career jobs. trains and core systems, and 12+ years of Operation & Maintenance. Issue: Tens of Issue: Hawaii has an Social Value thousand of cars and ageing highway and bus Provide a fast, affordable, safe and reliable buses take people to system, with no rail transit. transportation alternative, and reduce by school and work every 50% the daily commuting time for workers day on the island. and students. Hitachi will create local workplaces, Action: Move people with trains. Action: Create the most advanced rail full-time employees in the railway business transit system in the USA. 35 already created, 300+ to be created by 2025. Ansaldo Honolulu has set up Furthermore, since 2015 Ansaldo Environmental Value a website to update the local Honolulu has also participated in many Elimination of 40,000 daily car trips population and stakeholders: job fairs in the State of Hawaii, and from jammed roads and highways, and http://www.ansaldohonolulu.com/ approximately 45% of its 75 staff are reduction of polluting emissions by 3.9 to local. 4.6%. Sustainability and Safety Rail transit will be electrically powered The Ansaldo Honolulu website Communication and involvement and, with Hawaii moving toward the goal contains a section on sustainability, of the community at a national of 100 percent clean energy by 2045, aimed at highlighting the Company’s level trains will be synonyms of ecological focus on occupational health and Every year, a delegation from Ansaldo transportation as the percentage of safety and environmental protection Honolulu meets with members of the renewable energy increases. in accordance with US federal laws, US Congress in Washington DC as part state laws in the State of Hawaii and of the “Hawaii on the Hill” programme Communication and involvement international regulations, in line with organised with the support of the Ansaldo STS’s model. of the local community Chamber of Commerce of the State of Ansaldo Honolulu, the general Hawaii. Ansaldo Honolulu distributes regular The meetings with congress members contractor led by Ansaldo STS S.p.A. information to all of the stakeholders and federal office directors cover of which Hitachi Rail Italy S.p.A. involved (schools, businesses, transport, the employment market and is a partner, developed a special citizens) regarding the potential risks business relationships with Hawaii, the communication plan to keep the local associated with the metro, and also rest of the United States and Asia. community up-to-date with the project. provides periodic training for the police, Moreover, since 2012 it has coordinated fire service and emergency medical the communication activities with the Support for local communities teams. community in collaboration with the affected by flooding and contractor. Development programmes volcanic eruptions for the local community Ansaldo Honolulu recently provided Ansaldo Honolulu is a member of Move Ansaldo Honolulu, the client Honolulu support in the form of financial donations Oahu Forward, a local stakeholder Authority for Rapid Transportation to the communities affected by flooding committee whose mission is to promote (HART) and the University of Hawaii on the island of Kauai and the volcanic initiatives that improve mobility and have worked together since 2011 to eruption on the island of Hawaii, once the quality of life, to contribute to provide training and enable the hiring of again proving itself to be a “good developing the economy and future 300 employees to carry out operations corporate citizen”. growth, safeguarding the island’s unique ambience and lifestyle. This committee and maintenance activities for the believes that the Honolulu metro project metro. is a step in this direction. 74 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Involvement of local communities | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities LIMA METRO Lines 2 and 4 of the Lima metro is a construction and management • s ocial risk surveillance and prevention, project worth USD 5.658 billion and companies. Ansaldo STS is part of this crisis management and immediate reply. is one of the most ambitious works in group and contributed its experience in Peru’s in terms of both high engineering railway technology and equipment. Development programmes for and required technology. the local community Communication and citizen During the entire construction phase, the The works cover 35 km of underground participation project will create around 300 direct jobs tunnel (27 km for line 2 and 8 km for The Line 2 Lima Metro Consortium, of and 8,000 indirect jobs. In the Ansaldo line 4), for a total of 35 stations and 2 which Ansaldo STS is a member, hired a STS offices alone, more than 20 young depots for the maintenance and parking local company to implement a social and engineers have been hired. Furthermore, of trains. Total journey time between the communication management programme over 2 million people in the directly two terminals of line 2 is 45 minutes, a which includes: affected areas will be able to benefit from: saving of approximately 90 minutes. • management of relationships with the • more jobs opportunities during community directly affected by the construction and operations Lima will benefit from efficient and construction (project’s area of influence); • travel safety sustainable transport which will • full communication: in the area • shorter travelling time contribute to stimulating economic and directly affected, with the public, • greater productivity social development and resolving traffic the authorities and the social • more family time congestion. networks. As part of this project, a • more customers for companies when website was created which provides the metro becomes operational The new line features a sophisticated updates on the construction of • more safety driverless train system and will serve line 2 https://www.facebook.com/ • more value for the whole local area. over 600,000 passengers per day. linea2metrolima?fref=ts; • social indicator monitoring; Its construction saw the participation • managing relations with the press and of leading international design, the media; Honolulu Lima Copenhagen Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 75 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Involvement of local communities COPENHAGEN METRO AND CITYRINGEN Ansaldo STS is carrying out two the head of the local police and the by an independent entity. However, relevant turn-key projects in Danish emergency management only after the M1 and M2 lines were Copenhagen: Metro Copenhagen and agency (Beredskabstyrelsen). The completed were customer satisfaction Cityringen. committee is in charge of all issues results included in the contractual related to evacuations, first aid and agreements. Metroselskabet and The first project started more than other emergency management Ansaldo STS continue to analyse and 20 years ago. In 1996 Ansaldo STS problems both with respect to the report on the survey results, which are was awarded with a main contract metro’s operation and construction published quarterly. for the transportation system of of the Cityringen. Its members the Metro Copenhagen lines M1 discuss and agree on principles Surveys were performed on a sample and M2. The first section of Metro and procedures to ensure very high of approximately 5,000 users and Copenhagen was completed in 2002. safety levels based on documented their satisfaction is regularly monitored The whole infrastructure has been descriptions. in accordance with the following operative since 2007. Ansaldo STS aspects: Satisfaction with the journey, has always managed the Operation Development programmes for Cleanliness of the stations, Cleanliness and Maintenance and in the last 8 year of the trains, Timeliness, Service quality, the local community Updating of information and Safety. contract (2010-2018) many renewal A “gentlemen’s agreement” provides for projects have been carried out, as well. Each of these performance factors is the hiring of local labour (more than 200 directly assessed by passengers and employees) with incentives for additional then compared with specific, predefined In 2011 Ansaldo STS was awarded with hires. a main contract for the transportation targets. system of the new metro of Copenhagen, called Cityringen. It shall Customer satisfaction A royal smiley Ansaldo STS was awarded the In 2015, the Danish authority for the be a fully automated driverless metro contract to operate and maintain the working environment awarded the ring line under the central part of the Copenhagen Metro until the end of Ansaldo STS team the highest score city. The line shall consist of two single 2018. This contract was agreed in in the assessment of health and safety track tunnels each approximately January 2010 following a European compliance: a royal smiley. 24 km in length and 24 stations, 23 tender. The contract remuneration is of them underground. The first phase linked to service availability, punctuality The authority uses smileys to assess of the project will be completed and and the results of customer satisfaction companies’ compliance with applicable released to revenue service in 2019. surveys. Customer satisfaction is provisions. The assessments are posted indeed of vital importance to the Metro, on the website to enable the public The customer, Metroselskabet, both in terms of maintaining existing to monitor a company’s performance. analysed the socio-economic, customers and attracting new ones. There are four health and safety environmental and health and safety Accordingly, the Danish customer, assessment levels: red, yellow, green impacts before defining the metro’s Metroselskabet, and Ansaldo STS and royal smileys. The latter reflects the specific characteristics. Ansaldo devote considerable attention to top level awarded to companies that STS was able to satisfy its requests customer feedback. have obtained an officially-recognised thanks to its design and technological expertise and its capacity to reduce health and safety certificate, confirming Various tools are used to understand the extraordinary efforts made and the environmental impact and guarantee Danish metro passengers’ needs and results achieved to ensure a high level safety. expectations. They include quarterly of compliance. customer satisfaction surveys. Involvement of the local The target was achieved thanks to the community In 2012, for the third year in a row, involvement and the support of the Local community involvement the Copenhagen Metro was named entire project team from the beginning is promoted by the customer the world’s best automated metro. of the project in 2012. During this Metroselskabet. Ansaldo STS This award was given at the Metrorail period of time, Ansaldo STS’s HSE participates in the following initiatives: conference of leading experts in management department worked • monthly meetings with a work group metro systems around the world. A hard to meet all requirements and comprised of the customer, other key element in the selection of the confirm compliance with the highest contractors (CMT, Salini), employers awardees was the high level of control environmental, health and safety and trade unions. The group’s key and customer satisfaction. standards of the Cityringen project. objective is to prevent and monitor all complaints or disputes about labour Since the metro was rolled out in conditions; 2002, customer satisfaction with • the MSURR committee, a group Metroselskabet has been carefully consisting of first aid personnel, monitored through surveys conducted 76 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Protection of human rights | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Protection of human rights The protection of human rights is considered a very relevant issue by the Company and its stakeholders, as highlighted by the materiality analysis. Ansaldo STS, despite not having The main instrument through enter into contractual relationships formalised its commitment in a which Ansaldo STS guarantees its which require the observance of specific policy, applies policies commitment to respecting human certain obligations specified by the in order to uphold and promote rights is the Code of Ethics, to Company. human rights in every context in which members of the governing which it operates, by creating equal and controlling bodies, executives In 2017 specific training on human opportunities for its people and and employees including those of rights was provided, involving 32 fair treatment for all regardless the companies directly or indirectly people for a total of 224 hours of of race, nationality, political creed, controlled by the Group – comply. training. No training courses of this religion, gender, age, minority This also extends to all those who kind were provided in 2016. status, disability, sexual orientation, personal or social condition – and always respecting the dignity of each individual and each employee. Ansaldo STS does not allow nor tolerate the establishment of employment relationships, even by external collaborators, suppliers or business partners, violating the existing legislation on child, woman and immigrant labour, and carefully controls the risks associated with the employment of forced workers. The Company, besides, requires its contractors and subcontractors to ensure the same attention in order to contribute to the elimination of such illegal behaviours. As regards the respect of human rights in the working relationship, Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities, ensuring fair treatment on the basis of individual expertise and abilities and hiring people under legal employment contracts, mainly on an open-ended basis, in accordance with laws, national labour agreements, company agreements and current regulations. Ansaldo STS guarantees that its workers are free to join trade unions, and sees that its relationships with the unions are cooperative and friendly, providing mechanisms which enables workers to report their opinions to Human Resources directly or via staff representatives. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 77 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Research partnerships Research partnerships Ansaldo STS participates in research projects funded by the European Commission, the European Space Agency and the Ministry for Higher Education and Research. European research projects The projects funded by the European Commission (public-private party that disburses European include: Commission funds for innovating embedded systems) • NGTC (Next Generation Train Control), to develop and by the Ministry of Research, whose goal is to future railway and metro traffic control systems, in increase knowledge of the decision-making process for which Ansaldo STS played a leading role in the satellite the railway system maintenance; positioning work package and actively participated in • IN2RAIL, in connection with the Shift2Rail initiative; the the definition of the “IP Communication”; the project project goal is to optimise the railway infrastructure by was concluded in the third quarter of the year; cutting its construction and maintenance costs and • MANTIS, funded by the ECSEL Joint Undertaking increasing its capacity. THE SHIFT2RAIL PROJECT With regard to European research, the aims to provide an innovative • IN2STEMPO – Innovative Solutions Shift2Rail project began in the latter holistic solution for railway asset in Future Stations, Energy Metering part of 2016. The initiative’s main goals maintenance; and Power Supply – aiming to define are: • ATTRACkTIVE – Advanced Travel solutions for the management of • to double the capacity of the Companion & Tracking Services – smart energy systems and future European rail network; whose purpose is to improve the solutions for stations; • to improve reliability and quality of travel experience of passengers who • CONNECTIVE – Connecting and service by 50%; use railway transportation systems by Analysing the Digital Transport • to halve the costs over the entire life developing an integrated solution; Ecosystem – which will define a new cycle. • FR8RAIL – Development of functional level of interoperability and access to requirements for sustainable and services and transport data systems A challenge for “smart, green & attractive European rail freight in a multi-modal environment; integrated” transport. – intended to take on the major • FR8HUB – Real-time information challenges for developing sustainable applications and energy efficient Ansaldo STS is a founding member and attractive rail freight traffic in solutions for rail freight – which of this “joint undertaking”, involving Europe; aims to increase the quota of freight another 7 founding members, 19 • PLASA – Smart Planning and Safety stock on rolling stock thanks to the associates and 32 member states for a safer and more robust European increased efficiency of the transport of the European Union for a total railway sector – whose objective is systems, with particular reference to investment of approximately EUR 450 to enhance the customer experience terminals and hubs; million. and the robustness of the system • IMPACT-2 – Indicator Monitoring in the European railway sector. On for a new railway PAradigm in As part of this research programme, the the one hand, the objectives regard seamlessly integrated Cross modal following projects are currently being the improvement of the planning Transport chains: Phase 2 – aiming carried out with the participation of activities of the various railway system to assess and increase the effects Ansaldo STS: operators through railway simulation on mobility and the environment of • CONNECTA – CONtributing to and, on the other, the provision the technological solutions and the Shift2Rail's NExt generation of high of a methodology for managing developments made in the context of Capable and safe TCMS and brAkes railway system safety based on risk the Shift2Rail project; – which aims to contribute to the next assessment; • X2RAIL-2 – Enhancing railway generation of TCMS architecture and • IMPACT-1 – Indicator Monitoring for a signalling systems based on train components with wireless capabilities, new railway PAradigm in seamlessly satellite positioning; on-board safe as well as to the upcoming generation integrated Cross modal Transport train Integrity; formal methods of electronic braking systems; chains: Phase 1 – the creation of approach and standard interfaces, • X2RAIL1 – Start-up activities for an integrated subsystem which enhancing Traffic Management Advanced Signalling and Automation represents all Shift2Rail innovations; System functions – which aims to System – whose goal is to meet the • ARCC – Automated Rail Cargo promote innovation in the signalling long-term requirements of a future, Consortium – in relation to freight field (introduction of satellite flexible and smart traffic management traffic. technology and train integrity), system; supervision (Traffic Management • IN2SMART – Intelligent Innovative In early September the programme evolution) and the management of Smart Maintenance of Assets by was extended to include the following development processes (Introduction integRated Technologies – which projects: of Formal Methods). 78 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Research partnerships | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Other european projects Other initiatives funded by the European Commission environmental conditions. The evolution of the EGNSS include the satellite technology projects. First and service was also defined in order to meet the performance foremost there is ERSAT EAV, of which Ansaldo STS and safety requirements of the railway sector and to identify is project coordinator. Its objective is to adopt and any impacts on the ERTMS / ETCS systems. characterise satellite technologies for railway signalling applications, with particular reference to checking In terms of the RHINOS project, the definition of a the suitability of EGNSS/EGNOS technology and the functional ERTMS system architecture based on future new Galileo services to be used in ERTMS signalling. satellite technology was completed. This technology Furthermore, audits have been carried out to assess the meets the most stringent performance requirements such Open and Modular Architecture of the Augmentation as platform discrimination, high availability and integrity. System defined by Ansaldo. Demonstrations of the The results of the activities were shared as part of an successful operation of the trial site in Sardinia were international workshop held in 2017 at Stanford University. subsequently presented at national workshops. ERSAT EAV was concluded at the end of April. The following satellite technology projects funded by the European Space Agency were also launched in the final Still in terms of satellite technology, the activities of the quarter of 2017: STARS project are still ongoing while the RHINOS project • DB4RAIL (Digital Beamforming for RAIL), which will was brought to a close in October. Both projects are develop a digital beamforming platform in the ERTMS part of the Horizon 2020 Research Programme of the context and implement an advanced GNSS antenna and European GSA Agency. signal processing method to increase system immunity to intentional electromagnetic interference (EMI); In particular, with regard to the STARS project important • SAT4TRAIN, which aims to develop an economically research activities were carried out concerning the efficient Multi Link Communication Platform (MLCP) to definition of the methodology and tools required to replace the GSM-R system which will soon become calculate the Ground Truth (temporal and spatial reference), obsolete; which will be used as a reference to measure performance. • SIM4RAIL, whose purpose is to specify and develop Meanwhile, measurement activities were continued at the highly configurable laboratory tools to test and support trial sites in Sardinia and Pontremolese with the aim of the development of PNT technology for rail signalling acquiring Signal In Space (RF signal) and Observation data applications, including the GNSS-based virtual balise regarding GPS, EGNOS and Galileo in different railway detection system of the ERTMS platform. Italian research projects As regards projects funded by the fleets of vehicles in order to raise technologies and their integration Ministry of Research in Italy, the their availability, efficiency and safety with existing technologies; the following initiatives are noted: levels; the project was concluded at project was concluded at the end of • Tesys Rail, whose goal is to define the end of June; June; expedient strategies for railway traffic the OPTOFER project, which covers the NEMBO project, which studies energy optimisation; the application of the innovative and tests highly efficient and • PON3 through the DATTILO (Highoptical-electronic technologies for innovative embedded systems for Tech Transport and Logistics railway infrastructure monitoring railway applications; this project District) in Campania and the TOP and diagnostics; the project was ended at the end of the third IN laboratory (Innovative Opticalbrought to a close at the end of quarter. electronic Technologies) in Campania: March; the MODISTA project, which the FERSAT project, which studies deals with innovative solutions for a railway signalling system suitable remote monitoring and preventive for urban environments, based diagnostics of infrastructures and on the innovative use of satellite Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 79 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Partnerships with universities: Technological and Managerial Training Partnerships with universities: Technological and Managerial Training In 2017, Ansaldo STS continued to maintain its relationship with Italian and foreign universities and training schools in order to contribute to the students’ theoretical and practical knowledge and to offer traineeships, scholarships and other opportunities for young, motivated and enterprising people. After completing their internship, the young people are assessed entrepreneurialism and desire to achieve, helping and by internal tutors who followed them during their training in the guiding them in their future university carrier. Company. If the results reach the high expectations set, they are placed at Ansaldo STS, either in Italy or abroad. Moreover, Ansaldo STS has laid the foundations for a partnership with the D’Oria college in 2018, extending the In 2017, Ansaldo STS participated in a school-work opportunity to humanities students. placement initiative thanks to an agreement signed with the Cassini college, the leading college for science The engineering faculty of the University of Genoa in the Genoa region. Through this partnership, the supports the young people during this stage with Company has welcomed various alumni selected for their explanations and guidance in making decisions. Framework agreements and partnerships Ansaldo STS has framework developing partnerships with the The Company is constantly committed agreements in place with the Italian Universities of Rome and Milan. to developing a scholarship initiative Universities of Genoa, Turin, Rome which aims to promote continuous and Basilicata, relating to a number In 2017, the Company continued to study and discourage young people of three-year PhD partnership work closely with the University of from abandoning their studies after the programmes, annual or two-year Genoa. first few years. research contracts as well as numerous theses and internships. In particular, during the year Ansaldo Thanks to these contacts, Ansaldo The Company also has a framework STS consolidated its relations with STS is able to share a targeted training agreement with the German the electrical engineering department programme with universities in order University of Dresden, specialised by joining the Career Guidance to find interested potential candidates in railway signalling, and is also Committee. who meet the business’ requirements. 80 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Promotion of safe and sustainable mobility | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Promotion of safe and sustainable mobility G7 Transport Meeting in Cagliari Ansaldo STS was a key participant Graziano Delrio) as well as by leading was selected as one of the top six in the international transport summit transport companies. The presence “best practices” which were the main held in Cagliari in June 2017. The of Ansaldo STS was characterised focus of the “Nice to meet you G7” meeting was attended by institutional by the presentation of the “Catenarymeeting held in the buildings of the delegates from Canada, France, Free Electric Rail and Tram Transport” former Tobacco Factory in Cagliari. Germany, Japan, UK, US and Italy project. The initiative, developed in (including the Transport Minister cooperation with Hitachi Rail Italy, SicurInsieme project In Genoa, Ansaldo STS sponsored concrete bollards aimed at improving thanks of the Mayor Marco Bucci in a the SicurInsieme project, contributing security and preventing terrorist public ceremony at Palazzo Tursi. to the purchase of various granite and attacks. This project received the Science Festival 2017 As one of the most significant reprising its role of sponsor and in Copenhagen, Rome, Honolulu scientific events at an international presenting a stand dedicated to and Riyadh, while seeing the route level and closely linked to the city Virtual Reality. This provided visitors and admiring the different towns and of Genoa and the Liguria region, with the opportunity to experience natural beauty that surrounds these Ansaldo STS once again took travelling on the driverless metro places as though experiencing it firstpart in the Science Festival 2017, systems developed by Ansaldo STS hand. Science Festival 2017, Genoa Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 81 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Digital communities and the media Digital communities and the media The Group website In mid-September, after a lengthy New features, interactive areas and (Italian and English). In addition, the comparison and market research animations enhance the browsing user can further refine the search project, the new Group website experience to promote the discovery of results by filtering by content category. was launched. The new site aims to Company’s business. reflect our business, the needs of our The site’s mantra is “interactivity”, this stakeholders and our brand identity to The site, which develops over 500 means not only improving the browsing offer the outside world a portal which is webpages and hosts over 5,000 experience thanks to engaging and institutive, attractive and functional. documents, is flexible and supports effective graphics but also enabling future expansions, providing a users to interact more easily with the When creating the site, the decision platform on which to share new ideas, site and, therefore, with Ansaldo STS. was taken to aim for a high-impact communications and future successes. The creation of the website is the result design that expresses the spirit of of the effort and dedication of the Ansaldo STS, its way of doing business Ansaldo STS communicates through Institutional Affairs, External Relations and its objectives, while being easy to the site via the new NewsHub and its and Communication team. navigate: immediate, accessible and social media channels, while details of up-to-date communications. its products and solutions are provided Customer communications take many on the Global Product Support section. shapes and develop across many The homepage includes direct links to channels. The External Communications the business pages and content which This vast universe of information can department at Ansaldo STS always faithfully represents the commitment be easily navigated thanks to the follows the principle of timeliness and and performance of Ansaldo STS, menu and the website's improved expediency: to arrive on time and in the enabling the user to quickly access the usability, as well as a search engine right way, when and where the strategy information they are looking for. New which also extends to document files, requires, to meet the target customer’s content and a new graphic interface with an in-built spellchecker and smart informational needs, in addition to those contribute further to providing a clear suggestions triggered by keywords of other potential stakeholders such as understanding of the Company. offered in the two languages used investors, partners or suppliers. 82 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Comunità digitale e media | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Social Media Communications In 2017, Ansaldo STS consolidated its communications on social media. During the year, new initiatives were kicked off to develop existing digital communication channels, improve their content and format and communication functions, and above all, to facilitate dialogue outside the Company. The channels available to stakeholders are updated with the most important information in real time. On its social media channels, Ansaldo STS aims to give visibility not only to its commercial successes but above all to important moments in the Company’s life: exhibitions are regularly reported and, as analytics have shown, are followed with great interest by the public. The success garnered by the investments in communications and content can be seen by the development of the LinkedIn platform, where the Company’s followers have grown from roughly 60,500 in 2016 to 67,000 at the end of 2017; meanwhile, followers on Twitter and Facebook increased from 1,840 to 2,340 and 1,500 to 2,150 respectively. In 2017 the Company posted over 200 tweets and almost 80 LinkedIn posts, and enhanced its communication via Facebook to reach over 70 posts; this is the result of a media plan aimed at around 4 tweets per week and approximately 6 posts per month on LinkedIn and Facebook. Of all the social media channels, LinkedIn represents the main showcase of the Company’s activities and professional communications, information which increasing numbers of industry users want to access. Interestingly, nearly 90% of employees follow the Company on LinkedIn, fully reflecting the positive results of Ansaldo STS’s efforts to improve values in general and, above all, team spirit. Following a positive result, this year the Company has launched the “Rio Tinto” campaign, concerning the first fully autonomous freight line in Australia. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 83 Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities | Social Media Communications The Media The foundations have been of the LinkedIn page: not only will the quality of information, which laid to develop a more visible Ansaldo STS's profile be made more must always meet requirements communications strategy and the captivating, but more visibility will be of transparency, timeliness, goal for 2018 is to generate more given to all of the HR programmes truthfulness, complete ease of use multimedia content: in 2017, seven within the Company, while navigation and widespread distribution. These new videos were posted on YouTube will be made simpler by a search characteristics enable Ansaldo STS and the Company plans to grow this function by geographic area. to base its communications on the presence further. constant symmetry of information to Ansaldo STS develops its all media outlets, also considering Another important development in relationships with the media by the fact that the Company is listed on 2018 is the complete revamping focusing utmost attention on the stock market. Relationships with journalists are managed at several levels: from the highest, with directors and deputy directors of publications, to middle range, with head editors and senior editors, to writers. Indeed, relationships must be forged across the board for constant support with respect to issues relating to Ansaldo STS’s business. In its communication activities, Ansaldo STS mainly targets sector leaders: • national press agencies, including generalist organisations (e.g. ANSA, ADN-Kronos, AGI) and financial agencies covering national (e.g. Radiocor, Mf Dow Jones, Reuters) and international (Reuters International, Dow Jones, Bloomberg) issues; • daily newspapers (e.g. Il Sole 24 Ore, MF, Italia Oggi, Repubblica, Secolo XIX, Messaggero, Il Mattino and others); • periodicals (e.g. Milano Finanza, Corriere Economia, Repubblica Affari&Finanza, Il Mondo, The Economist); • radio (Radio 24); • television (Class CNBC); • online media; • blogs, such as “Lettera all’investitore” and similar posts. The Company enjoys ongoing and fruitful relationships with local business and general media outlets in which it has sites (particularly Genoa and Naples) or where it carries out projects, such as Rome, Milan and Brescia. 84 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Donations and sponsorships | Corporate Social Responsibility and Communities Donations and sponsorships Each year, Ansaldo STS commits to various charitable events, investments in the community and sponsorships. In 2017, total donations and sponsorships amounted to roughly EUR 864 thousand (up 17% on 2016), as shown below by geographical area: 4.4% Donations alone totalled EUR 110,756 (up 75.0% compared to 2016) and related to education and young people’s development, 8.8% Sweeden 0.6 Malaysia % health and social welfare, art and culture. France Sponsorships and donations procedure 11.9% Ansaldo STS has a procedure for sponsorships, advertising initiatives and contributions to associations and bodies that USA sets out the general principles, scope of application, roles and responsibilities for making decisions and the costs incurred for sponsorships and donations. It checks the party that receives the sponsorship or advertising fee or is given the grant to ensure that 74.3% they will be able to carry out the related project, that there are no conflicts of interest or convictions for crimes, and that the party Italy does not reside in a tax haven. World Rowing Tour 2017, Genoa Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 85 The environment, health and safety The environment, health and safety In the management of its activities, Ansaldo STS abides by principles of environmental ethics and attention to the physical security and health of its workers; these are strategic aspects and are the focus of the Company’s commitment to pursuing continuous improvement objectives. The Company’s choices are therefore not limited to complying with the law but instead aim towards the achievement of high standards of prevention and control through the adoption of specific policies and the promotion of virtuous behaviour by its collaborators and stakeholders. 25.7 electricity from % renewable sources CO2 – 6.7 % Greenhouse gas emissions tons per million of revenues Integrated Management System quality, safety – 3.5% and environment Total energy consumption (2015-2017) –11.9% Total Methane consumption Polluting emissions – 13.6% SOx -19.3% Total energy consumption per hour worked (2015-2017) NOx -10.0% – 9.7% CO -11.6% Electricity consumption per hour worked (2015-2017) PM10 -13.6% Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 87 The environment, health and safety | Targets achieved in 2017 Targets achieved in 2017 The environment, health and safety SDGs COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016 ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2017 ENERGY • Reduce energy consumption performance indicator • The energy consumption index for Company offices of buildings /offices by 5% [GJ/m2]. has fallen to 11.7% due to the reduced consumption of EE, methane and district heating. • Reduce the energy consumption performance • The energy consumption index for production sites indicator of buildings /production sites by 1% has risen by 13.6% due in particular to the increase [GJ/m2]. in consumption of EE. • Increase the percentage of electrical energy • The objective has not been achieved due to the obtained from renewable sources by 5%. lower weight of Italian energy consumption certified by renewable sources at global level. GREENHOUSE GASES • Reduce the GHG emission intensity indicator by • The objective was partially achieved. The GHG 10% [tCO2e/EUR million revenues]. emission intensity indicator was reduced by 6.7%. WASTE • Reduce the weight of waste per hour worked at • The Kg data per hour worked is not available by production sites by 5%. offices and production sites. Overall, there was a • Reduce the weight of waste per hour worked at 48% reduction in kg of waste per hour worked due offices by 5%. to the significant decrease in non-hazardous waste and the increase in hours worked. • Increase the percentage of recycled waste at • At the production sites there was a 71.7% increase production sites by 10%. in the percentage of waste recovered. • Increase the percentage of recycled waste at offices • In the offices there was an increase of 11.4% in the by 10%. percentage of recovered waste. WORKERS’ SAFETY • Reduce the injury frequency and severity indicators • With the use of the new Intelex software Health at production sites by 10%. and Safety and the Integrated Management System • Reduce the injury frequency and severity indicators data on the frequency and severity of injuries will at offices by 10%. no longer be divided between production sites and offices. The overall objective was not achieved because the low starting values of the frequency and severity indices of the injuries of Ansaldo STS make them particularly sensitive to slight variations in the number of accidents. HSE BEST PRACTICE • Increase the sharing of HSE operating control best • Publication of best practices on the company practices. intranet. • Pilot projects on best operational practices (eg emergency simulation with VVFF intervention) participation in meetings, conferences and prizes. HSE TOOL • Implement a tool for managing and monitoring • The Intelex (Health and Safety an Integrated HSE activities. Management System) software was implemented. The software makes it easy to manage, track and report on HS data. HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM • Update the HSE management systems according • The transition of HSE management systems to new standard ISO14001:2015, in line with new according to the ISO 14001: 2015 standard has ISO9001:2015. almost come to an end; by August 2018 the transition phase will be completed. Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved Target postponed 88 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental sustainability | The environment, health and safety Environmental sustainability Protecting the environment is part of Ansaldo STS’s corporate responsibility and is a key element in its business strategy, which aims to promote the long-term growth of the Company’s value. As part of its commitment towards sustainable development, Ansaldo STS focuses on guaranteeing quality of life and carrying out its production activities in the most secure way possible, reducing its use of natural resources and protecting and safeguarding the environment, involving employees, customers, suppliers, institutions and local communities to achieve these goals. The commitment of Ansaldo STS: the four strategic objectives 1. Application of Environmental Management Systems recognised at the international level to 2. Reporting to citizens, institutions and other the entire Organisation, inspired by the principle stakeholders on the management and environmental of continuous improvement and the definition performance of the Company. of environmental indicators to measure the •P ublication of the Sustainability Report and open environmental performance of the Organisation. access given to the key environmental parameters. • Annual preservation of the ISO 14001 certifications. •C ommunication with analysts and participation in • Rationalisation and simplification of the various Sustainability indices. certifications in the various organisational areas. 3. Promotion of sustainable environmental 4. Observance of the legal obligations of compliance practices with suppliers, contractors and customers. and voluntary commitments • Use of environmental performance-based supplier •E nsure that the activities are carried out qualification criteria. in compliance with said obligations and • Informative/training meetings on the important commitments. environmental aspects at the commencement of •A ssess observance of the subscribed obligations works through the diffusion of the Environmental and commitments. Policy and exploring the ways in the impacts •C orrect any non-conformities on observance generated by the activities carried out (waste, of subscribed obligations and voluntary emissions, discharges, etc.) are to be managed. commitments. • Assessment of the suppliers based on the environmental performance of the activities carried out on Ansaldo STS’s behalf. To this end, Ansaldo STS has adopted an environmental policy based on the application of UNI EN ISO 14001:2015 requirements, other relevant international standards and compliance with applicable domestic and international legislation, developing a programme focused on the continuous improvement of environmental standards. This policy is shared with all Ansaldo STS personnel and all concerned parties online and via the Company Intranet13. 13. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/csr/environment/environmental-policy Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 89 The environment, health and safety | Environmental sustainability Integrated management system Ansaldo STS has considered it strategic to include its Quality, Safety, and Environment System (IMS Integrated Management System) within its Governance framework and, in particular, to develop strategic synergies with the Internal Auditing and Risk Management system: the Quality, Safety, and Environment Integrated Management System is thus considered a reference architecture to integrate systems and to implement principles and values within the organisation. In this context, the assessment of business risks and their proper management requires the correct identification of the processes and their interpretation from a systemic perspective. The Integrated Management System has been established at corporate level, implementing global policies and procedures in order to guarantee a controlled management of processes. Subsequently, each company has established local environmental and safety policies, on the basis of legislative requirements and corporate policies and procedures. The main advantages arising from the Integrated Management System are: • Uniform management: the creation of a single corporate management system ensures the same methods are used for the organisation of all Health, Safety and Environment activities. • Optimisation of resources: the uniform management of the Health, Safety and Environment areas makes exploitation of potential synergies in the Organisation possible (audit and training). • Standardisation of improvement objectives: integration allows univocal decision-taking criteria to be identified for the selection of Company objectives and the definition of programmes to implement them. • Involvement of personnel at all levels: rationalisation in the use of human resources and the assignment of responsibilities in order to engage personnel and raise their awareness. • Single document and data • Identification of new strategic Enhanced usability of documents management system: even at the approaches: by analysing processes has been achieved by implementing documentational and administrative not only from the quality viewpoint the new Company Intranet, which level, integration prevents the but also in terms of environmental allows all employees to more easily duplication of records common to impact and reduction of risks for consult the corporate and local IMS the various areas, while sharing workers, we are able to single out documentation. information simplifies in-house new requirements, design alternatives communication. and opportunities to save. 90 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental sustainability | The environment, health and safety All the production sites and offices listed in the tables below have been certified for quality (ISO 9001), health and safety (OHSAS 18001 and AS/ZNS 4801:01 for Australia) and environmental management (ISO 14001). The Tito Scalo production site also has EMAS Registration (Eco Management and Audit Scheme). COUNTRY PRODUCTION SITE ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 US Batesburg • • • FRANCE Riom • • • • ITALY Tito Scalo • • EMAS COUNTRY OFFICES (NON-PRODUCTION SITE) ISO 9001 SO 14001 OHSAS 18001 UNITED KINGDOM London • • • FRANCE Les Ulis • • • Madrid • • • SPAIN Zaragoza • • • EUROPE SWEDEN Stockholm • • • DENMARK Copenhagen • • • Genoa • • • ITALY Naples • • • Piossasco • • • SAUDI Riyadh • • • ARABIA PERÙ Lima • • • TAIWAN Taipei • • • MALAYSIA Kuala Lumpur • • • USA Pittsburgh • • • • Brisbane • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Newcastle • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • AUSTRALIA Perth • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Sydney • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Karratha • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 Kolkata • • • INDIA Noida • • • Bangalore • • • CANADA Toronto • • • The production sites of Tito Scalo, Riom and Batesburg and the offices of Genoa, Les Ulis, Pittsburgh and Beijing have obtained the IRIS (International Railway Industry Standard) certification. The IRIS standard is promoted by UNIFE, the Association of European Railway Industries, which guarantees its supervision and control. The IRIS standard was developed starting from the ISO 9001 standard, integrating it with specific railway sector requirements. Ansaldo STS is also part of the IRIS Steering Committee that rules the IRIS activities and of the Advisory Board which manages the interface between IRIS and the main European railway operators. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 91 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Training activities Ansaldo STS’s training path has been creation of a network to reduce • t he potential consequences of implemented with the cooperation of geographical distances. In 2017, not complying with the specified Training Needs Managers (TNM). This Ansaldo STS carried out training operating procedures. initiative aims to identify personnel and information sessions to draw who can serve as contacts for attention to: The training sessions were held by Human Resources in the definition • the procedures and requirements personnel competent in the relevant of specific training and development of the Integrated Management field. The specialised technical focus plans for operational structures, in System; of the training demonstrates Ansaldo order to facilitate understanding of • the roles and responsibilities STS’s aim of targeting operating the specific needs of each operational needed to achieve compliance with positions involved in duties and unit and make it possible to define the environmental policy and the activities that are potentially critical projects that more accurately target procedures and requirements of the in terms of environment, health and their actual needs. Training Needs Integrated Management System, safety. Management is distinguished by including preparing for emergency the concept of “Community”, which situations and developing response translates into encouraging the capacity; HSE AND QUALITY TRAINING 2015 2016 2017 Total hours of HSE and Quality training 14,523 8,628 4,707 Total hours of training 78,222 74,269 93,369 Health and safety training as % of the total 18.6% 11.6% 5.0% Environmental performance The Reporting Scope considered to process health, safety and environmental performance comprises the 18 sites and offices of Group companies (Pittsburgh, Genoa, Brisbane, Les Ulis, Bangalore, Solna, Batesburg, Naples, Karratha, Riom, Kolkata, Kuala Lumpur, Piossasco, Noida, Tito Scalo, Perth, Madrid and Zaragoza), which represent the most significant sites and employ 91% of the Group workforce. Production sites The Group's production sites are the apparatus for rail security, control applying glue and resins. Activities Tito Scalo site in Italy, the Riom and supervision systems. Site important from an environmental site in France and the Batesburg activities mainly consist of mechanical viewpoint are mainly painting, site in the United States. These processing, the treatment of metallic welding, moulding and cleaning sites produce electro-mechanical and non-metallic materials, thermal circuit boards using solvent. components and electronic treatments, superficial treatments and Plants, storage Dirt car parks Runways Total area and warehouses and roads Green areas of airfields Employees mq mq % mq % mq % mq % n. TITO SCALO 40,000 8,400 21% 7,600 19% 24,000 60% 0 125 RIOM 17,000 5,610 33% 510 3% 10,880 64% 1,700 10% 148 BATESBURG 146,330 19,023 13% 45,362 31% 81,945 56% 0 219 Total 203,330 32,523 16% 53,472 27% 115,635 57% 1,700 0% 492 The three production sites cover a total surface area of 203,330 square metres. The total number of employees is 492 (up 5.1% on 2016). The Batesburg and Tito sites are located in areas that are included in the list of contaminated sites of national interest. 92 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental performance | The environment, health and safety Office sites Activities performed at the 15 • t hree in Italy: Genoa, Piossasco The non-production sites considered administrative sites mainly consist (Turin) and Naples; within the reporting scope cover a of signalling systems design, the • four in Europe: Les Ulis (France), total surface area of 149,137 m2 analysis of safety, reliability and Solna Stockholm (Sweden), and employ 3,350 workers (up 4.3% availability, laboratory testing, Madrid and Zaragoza (Spain); compared to 2016). contract management and control, •o  ne in the US: Pittsburg; research and development, • s even in the Asia Pacific: Brisbane, None of the 18 Ansaldo STS sites procurement, and prevention and Perth and Karratha (Australia); Kuala are subject to the IPPC (Integrated protection. In geographical terms, Lumpur (Malaysia); Bangalore, Pollution Prevention and Control) the locations of office sites are: Noida and Kolkata (India). directive. Fight against climate change Ansaldo STS sees climate change as an opportunity. As • r easonable and feasible long-term objectives: the part of this approach, it analyses the potential impact establishment of a clear and realistic vision of the steps of its strategic decisions regarding greenhouse gas to be taken; emissions in the short, medium and long-term, aiming to • support for the development of technologies: the find opportunities to develop the business and improve development of advanced technological solutions. efficiency in all aspects of its operation. This strategy focuses mainly on three spheres of influence: Actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are part • in-house activities and direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions); of the environmental management system that Ansaldo • energy suppliers and their indirect operating emissions STS has established at a global level, defining a carbon related to the Company’s activities (Scope 2 emissions); management strategy based on the following principles: • Ansaldo STS’s supply chain and the emissions resulting • global approach: the development of mechanisms to from personnel transfers and the production and increase commitment in all offices and production sites; delivery of goods and services (Scope 3 emissions). Metro 5 Milan Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 93 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Carbon Management System In 2011 Ansaldo STS adopted a Carbon This system enables the Company to • the measurement of the effectiveness Management System (CMS) which perform: of emission reduction projects; enables the planning, implementation •a  nalyses of actual emissions • communication on Ansaldo STS’s and measurement of targets for the produced; emission reduction performance reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. •m  onitoring and reporting activities on to stakeholders, the media, emissions; investors, rating agencies and other An efficient carbon management policy •c  omparisons between historical data organisations. enables the Company to decrease and forward-looking analyses; consumption and reduce energy costs, •a  n assessment of the impact of Within its organisation, Ansaldo STS thereby improving its bottom line and products, in terms of emissions over has appointed a Carbon Manager, offering the possibility of investing the their entire life cycle; an Energy Manager responsible for savings. •e  conomic/environmental analyses providing guidance and carrying out in relation to current regulations on activities and projects with respect to The CMS has been developed in line emission reduction to determine energy savings at all of the Company's with the relevant international standards. assets’ potential value-at-risk; operating sites. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The adhesion to the CDP Climate A Change questionnaire for the seventh Leadership Aconsecutive year confirms that climate change represents one of B the issues relevant to Ansaldo STS. Management BThe consolidation of the Carbon C Management strategy involves Awareness Cthe definition of an overall emission reduction target. The CDP Italy 100 D Climate Change Report 2017, Disclosure Dissued by First Carbon Solutions, F: Failure to provide sufficient information to CDP to be evaluated for this purpose. analyzes in detail the responses of the largest Italian companies, by market In 2017, Ansaldo STS achieved a score of C on an A scale in the Industrial sector, capitalization listed on the Italian Stock corresponding to the Awareness evaluation, that states the following considers Exchange, evaluating them on the the extent to which the company has assessed environmental issues, risks and basis of the following scale: impacts in relation to its business . Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Between 2016 and 2017, total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases decreased from 11,082 tCO2e to 10,599 tCO2e, with a reduction of 483 tCO2e (-4.4%). This is due in particular to a reduction in the consumption of methane for the production of heat and a reduction of indirect emissions relating to electricity consumption. GREENHOUSE GASES UoM 2016 2017 Emissions due to energy production (methane and diesel) tCO2e 1,420 1,249 Emissions due to transport (cars, lorries and forklifts) tCO2e 578 598 Total Scope 1 (direct emissions) tCO2e 1,998 1,846 Emissions due to electricity consumption tCO2e 9,084 8,753 Total Scope 2 (indirect emissions) tCO2e 9,084 8,753 Total direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1+2) tCO2e 11,082 10,599 GHG emission intensity (Scope 1) tCO2e/EUR mln of revenue 1.51 1.36 GHG emission intensity (Scope 2) tCO2/EUR mln of revenue 6.84 6.43 Total GHG emission intensity (Scope 1+2) tCO2e/EUR mln of revenue 8.35 7.79 94 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental performance | The environment, health and safety The Scope 2 emissions reported in TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION INTENSITY the table refer to the location-based SCOPE (1+2) approach. According to the market(tCO2e/mln EUR Revenues) based approach, the Group's Scope 2 emissions amounted to 6,693 9 tCO2e in 2016 and 5,486 tCO2e 8.35 8 in 2017, considering the certified 7.79 electricity supply from renewable 7 6.84 6.43 sources in Sweden and Italy. 6 The Total GHG emission intensity, 5 which measures tonnes of CO2e per 4 EUR million of revenue, has fallen 3 (-6.7%). This result is the effect of the reduction of emissions in absolute 2 value and of the increase in revenue 1.51 1.36 1 (+2.5%). 0 2016 2017 Total GHG Emission Intensity Scope I-GHG Emission Intensity Scope II-GHG Emission Intensity Energy consumption The majority of the energy used by •L  ED lighting systems; In 2017, in order to further reduce Ansaldo STS is electricity, which is • building envelopes and thermal electricity consumption at the Genoa used for lighting, the operation of insulation for windows and doors; and Tito Scalo sites, we installed plants and temperature control in • direct-expansion heating/cooling a new smart lighting system, with Company buildings. systems (heat pumps); state-of-the-art Wireless and • presence detectors or clocks/timers DALI technology that adjusts the Ansaldo STS uses fossil fuels, mainly to control the on and off switching brightness of the lamps on the basis methane, and district heating to heat of the systems; of the actual intensity of natural light the workplaces. • improvement in the data centre’s measured by sensors installed in energy efficiency; each room. In order to reduce electricity • affixing of signs to remind personnel consumption, the Company conducts about energy saving initiatives, The estimated annual energy constant maintenance works on its such as turning off lights, laptop saving is about 510 MWh for the real estate assets to increase their computers and devices that Genoa office and 258 MWh for Tito environmental efficiency. Energyconsume energy; Scalo, representing a reduction in saving lighting and heating/cooling • reduction in the number of vehicles consumption of over 70%. technologies are used as much as used by the Company. possible, such as: Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 95 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Energy consumption trend In 2017, total energy consumption electricity, methane, Total energy consumption (GJ) diesel, LPG and district heating amounted to 119,971 Electrical Energy Natural Gas Diesel District heating Petrol and LPG GJ, down 1.6% compared to 2016 despite an overall 4.7% 2,653 increase in hours worked. In the three-year period 20152,418 2,428 3,364 2,747 7,197 2,772 2017, overall consumption fell by 3.5%. 6,390 6,430 26,849 25,080 Total energy consumption (GJ) 22,103 125,000 124,259.0 124,000 123,000 121,929.5 122,000 85,141 84,666 85,920 121,000 119,971.2 120,000 119,000 118,000 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 In absolute terms there has been an increase of 1.5% of The energy consumption trend of the three-year period total electricity consumption against a reduction of 11.9% of 2015-17 at the production and office sites is illustrated in methane compared to 2016. the following table. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Electrical energy (GJ) 28,834.3 27,102.2 31,165.6 56,307.0 57,564.3 54,754.0 Methane (GJ) 3,711.2 3,888.9 4,102.8 23,138.2 21,191.3 17,999.8 Diesel (GJ) 42.9 231.5 295.9 7,154.5 6,158.9 6,134.2 District heating (GJ) 2,417.6 3,363.9 2,772.0 Petrol and LPG (GJ) 389.7 342.3 199.2 2,263.7 2,086.2 2,547.8 TOTAL [GJ] 32,978.11 31,564.8 35,763.5 91,281.0 90,364.6 84,207.7 In absolute terms, about 70% of total energy consumption Performance in 2015-2017 confirms the general downwards is due to the 15 office sites, while the remaining 30% trend of the indicator: -13.6% due to the combined effect relates the three production sites. of the reduction in consumption (-3.5%) and the increase in hours worked (+11.8%). The Energy intensity performance indicator showed a reduction of 5.8% in the 2016-2017 period due to the Considering electricity consumption only, the performance combined effect of the increase in hours worked (+4.7%) indicator Electricity consumption per hour worked and the decrease in consumption (-1.6%). showed reductions of 3.0% compared to 2016 and 9.7% compared to 2015. ENERGY INTENSITY Total Energy Consumption per hour worked KPI Electricity Consumption (GJ/no. of hours) per hour worked 0.0210 0.0206 (kWh/no. of hours) 4.00 3.92 0.0200 0.0189 3.90 0.0190 0.0178 3.80 0.0180 3.65 3.70 0.0170 3.60 3.54 0.0160 3.50 2015 2016 2017 3.40 2015 2016 2017 96 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental performance | The environment, health and safety The Energy intensity indicator for buildings, calculated on the consumption of electricity, methane and gas for heating and district heating by square metre, demonstrated an increase at production sites (+13.6%) due mainly to the increased consumption of electricity, while a considerable reduction was observed at offices (-11.7%) due to the reduced consumption of all energy components. KPI Energy intensity for buildings (Gj/m2) 1.10 1.07 1.05 1.00 0.99 Production 0.95 Sites 0.95 0.94 0.90 0.89 Office Sites 0.85 0.84 0.80 2015 2016 2017 Renewable energies Once again, in 2017 Ansaldo STS requested the cancellation of its GO certificates (Guarantee of Origin), an electronic certification attesting the renewable origin of the sources used, for the Italian sites and offices. By acquiring and subsequently cancelling the certificates (the latter entails the withdrawal of the certificate from the market), Ansaldo STS demonstrates its commitment to environmental sustainability through its willingness to pay the positive difference with the price of electricity from conventional sources. In addition, the Solna site uses a mix of totally renewable energy (wind, water and biomass). ELECTRICAL ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES (KWh) 2015 2016 2017 Energy from renewable sources 6,399,993 6,513,346 6,133,428 % renewable sources of total 27.1% 27.7% 25.7% The slight reduction in the percentage of renewable energy relates to the reduction in electricity consumption at Italian sites and offices. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 97 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Consumption of raw materials and other resources Ansaldo STS is aware of the parts (electric cables, screws, bolts) However, Ansaldo STS’s search for contribution that each company and accessories (boards, increasingly standardised designs can give to safeguarding the world’s monitors, inductive connections, and innovation will increasingly resources by adopting policies to light signals, cabinets) are needed for lead to an overall reduction in the reduce the intensive use of raw production. consumption of raw materials directly materials, an objective promoted and indirectly through a reduced use by the OECD Council and in the Moreover, the making of the product of components. The use of powerful sustainability strategies of many can follow different paths: complete technological platforms integrating nations. production inside the plants from several functions in the same the printed circuit to the finished subsystem enable Ansaldo STS to It is however difficult to make circuit board, or from the shell to the reduce the size of equipment and their a reliable estimate of the raw inductive connection, or assembly of connectors, using simple and effective materials used by the Company products purchased “semi-finished” systems for scheduling, testing and and contained in the electronic and (circuit boards, monitors, computers) roll-out. electromechanical components for in the case of more complex systems making signalling equipment. This is such as complete cabinets or, as an The consumption of paper and due to the fact that considerable and alternative, processed by outside packaging materials used for shipping substantially diversified types of small suppliers. is shown below. PAPER AND PACKAGING MATERIALS 201614 2017 Paper [t] 81.89 89.03 Cardboard packaging [t] 316.7 59.2 Wood packaging [t] 359.0 355.5 Plastic packaging [t] 1.7 4.4 Mixed material packaging [t] 2.5 2.5 Polluting emissions For Ansaldo STS, polluting emissions relate to the consumption of non-renewable resources used to run thermal plants (methane and diesel) and to the production processes that emit volatile organic and inorganic compounds, and heavy metals. ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS15 2016 2017 SOx (Kg) 54.9 44.3 NOx (Kg) 1,519.1 1,367.9 CO (Kg) 4,216.2 3,727.7 PM 10 (Kg) 76.6 66.2 Volatile organic compounds (Kg) 429.0 1,012.4 Volatile inorganic compounds (Kg) 3.6 11.8 CO2 14. The 2016 data have been recalculated applying a more precise estimation methodology. 15. Emissions are calculated using the coefficients issued by the European Environmental Agency (Air Pollutant Inventory Guidebook 2016). Emissions in 2016 were calculated according to these coefficients. 98 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental performance | The environment, health and safety Water management The sustainable management of site To reduce water consumption, Ansaldo Tito Scalo (Italy), Riom (France) and water during withdrawal and use STS has installed devices that mix water Batesburg (US) sites is very low. From encourages the maintenance and and air or, alternatively, photocells or 2016 to 2017, these sites reduced improvement of water use efficiency, timed controls that effectively control their water withdrawals (-6.5%), also ensuring less waste of the resource the water flow, in order to minimise the considering that the Tito Scalo plant and reduced environmental impact. waste of the resource. cut the amount of industrial water The water is mainly used for sanitary it used for fire drills and irrigation of purposes and for the operation Rainwater recovery projects at green areas, while the amount of and cooling of air conditioning the Riom plant in France and the water used for production decreased systems; in certain locations it is also replacement of cooling towers with because electrical circuit boards are used for watering the green areas. dry systems also contribute to no longer rinsed. Compared with Ansaldo STS’s water procurement sustainable water management. 2016, withdrawal also fell at the office sources include aqueducts and water sites (-30.0%); particularly affecting tables where water is drawn through The use of water is mainly for civil this result was the decrease recorded wells. purposes. Water consumption at the at the Naples site. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES TOTAL WITHDRAWAL OF WATER 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Water drawn from aqueducts (m3/year) 14,726 12,329 11,529 160,942 143,153 98,468 175,668 155,482 109,997 Water drawn from wells (m3/year) 41,906 10,616 9,128 41,906 10,616 9,128 Other sources (m3/year) 132 132 TOTAL 14,726 12,329 11,529 202,980 53,769 107,596 217,706 166,098 119,125 The water consumption per employee indicator16 shows a reduction of 31.4% compared to 2016, due to the combined effect of reduced consumption and increase in the number of employees. KPI Water withdrawal per employee (m3) 60 56.66 50 45.17 40 31.00 30 20 2015 2016 2017 16. The number of employees considered by the calculation does not represent the entire Group workforce but rather the scope of the environmental data (see Reporting Scope in the Note on Methodology). Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 99 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Management of waste and effluents The production of waste is an environmental aspect that is waste collection areas based on the type of waste assessed and measured at all Ansaldo STS sites and offices and site layout. External specialist companies collect when the environmental aspects of work sites and the and process the hazardous and non-hazardous waste. construction of civil and technological works are analysed. The most prominent waste in production sites relates to Ansaldo STS’s policy is to reinforce prevention and the paper, cardboard and wood packaging, metal and out-ofre-use, recycling and recovery of waste. All its sites have order equipment. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES WASTE PRODUCTION 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous (t) 14.50 13.03 14.86 14.72 15.19 6.53 % recovered 29% 6% 82% 28% 66% 85% % disposed of 71% 94% 18% 72% 34% 15% Non-hazardous (t) 296.12 77.44 62.74 306.43 1,549.17 816.17 % recovered 33% 60% 93% 55% 44% 49% % disposed of 67% 40% 7% 45% 56% 51% TOTAL WASTE (t) 310.62 90.47 77.60 321.16 1,564.36 822.70 % recovered 33% 53% 91% 54% 44% 49% % disposed of 67% 47% 9% 46% 56% 51% PRODUCTION SITES OFFICES Total waste Total waste (t) (t) 1,564.4 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 822.7 800 800 600 600 400 310.6 400 321.2 200 90.5 200 77.6 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 Production sites – In 2017, overall production of waste fell KPI Kg. of waste produced per hour worked due to the reduction in non-hazardous waste. Furthermore, the proportion of recovered waste increased compared to 0.300 disposed waste. 0.257 0.250 Offices – In 2017 the total quantity of waste produced fell 0.200 considerably, particularly in terms of non-hazardous waste 0.133 0.150 which in 2016 was concentrated in the Australian sites in 0.105 Brisbane and Perth. Furthermore, the proportion of recovered 0.100 waste increased compared to disposed waste. 0.50 0.000 The trends described above are also reflected by the index 2015 2016 2017 of kilograms of waste produced per hour worked, which fell by 48.0% compared to 2016 due to the effect of the constant reduction in non-hazardous waste at sites and the increase in hours worked. 100 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Environmental performance | The environment, health and safety Packaging: waste and recycling Waste water In terms of packaging, Ansaldo STS uses mixed material The waste water produced at the sites can be classified packaging, plastic, cardboard and wood (crates). As a result of on the basis of its use upstream from disposal, as domestic a specific policy introduced by Ansaldo STS, part of the wood (or similar) and industrial. and plastic packaging is reused to package similar products, especially at the central warehouses at the Piossasco and Tito All Ansaldo STS sites produce waste water that can be Scalo sites. exclusively classified as domestic or similar, except for the Tito site. All the domestic or similar waste water is discharged into the sewers. The Naples site uses an organic Packaging waste sent for recovery 2016 2017 wastewater treatment system. Cardboard packaging [t] 69.63 71.91 The sites use authorised disposal points. The Batesburg and Wood packaging [t] 28.20 39.78 the Tito Scalo sites’ disposal points are monitored. Plastic packaging [t] Mixed material packaging [t] 9.50 9.44 Biodiversity There are two Ansaldo STS sites in proximity of protected areas: International Environment Day • Les Ulis (France) – total area 20,000 m2 (40% offices, Ansaldo STS participates to the International 30% streets and parking lots, 30% green areas) where Environment Day, established in 1972 by administrative and sales activities, as well as tests on the United Nations General Assembly, to electronic systems are carried out. The site is certified promote positive global actions to preserve accorded to ISO 14001 and is close to the Bois del Gellesche the environment. The initiative aims to raise which extends for 16 hectares. awareness of the concept of green economy • Tito Scalo (Pz) – total area 40,000 m2 (21% plants, and represents one of the opportunities to warehouses and offices, 19% streets and parking lots, 60% invite everyone to actively contribute to the green areas) where activities of manual and automated environment protection and to the sustainable welding, as well as painting of circuit boards, are carried out. use of natural resources. The site is certified according to ISO 14001 and is EMAS registered. It is less than 3 km from the lake of Pantano, Regional Natural Reserve and Oasis of WWF. Pantano di Pignola is located in a Site of Community Importance and in a Special Protection Area (SIC-ZPS IT9210142), in the municipality of Pignola (Pz). It is also RAMSAR Area (Convention on Wetlands of International Importance). Due to the insignificant activity of the site with respect to biodiversity, the only biodiversity indicator considered by the EMAS is the number of employees compared to surface area. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 101 The environment, health and safety | Health and safety Health and safety Ansaldo STS is very mindful of the health and safety of all its employees and of their safety while travelling for work purposes. It has therefore implemented a specific policy for business travels. The Travel Security policy was implemented to minimise plan focused on continuously improving health and safety the exposure of its international business travellers and standards. assignees to medical and security risks. Its objectives are: • to identify, manage and reduce all current and emerging In terms of health and safety, Ansaldo STS undertakes to: risks related to working abroad, in accordance with the • ensure and maintain a safe and healthy working provisions of the Consolidated Safety Act and Italian environment and prevent injuries, illnesses or damage to Legislative Decree 231 of 2001; the health of employees, suppliers, customers and visitors; • to inform and train workers about potential risks in carrying • extend the OHSAS 18001 certification to all Ansaldo STS out work abroad; sites, continuously improving the effectiveness of the • to develop appropriate countermeasures to continuously health and safety in the workplace management system; monitor and manage accepted risks; • continuously improve the aforementioned management • to require each employee to comply with the risk mitigation systems’ performance, not only with respect to the measures set by Ansaldo STS; prevention of injuries and work-related illnesses, but also in • to ensure access to adequate assistance in the event terms of more general employee wellbeing; of medical and safety emergencies for all international • adopt risk assessment criteria for all dangers relating to business travellers and assignees of Ansaldo STS; work activities which, in compliance with national and • to maintain awareness of the risk levels for travel health international legislation, also consider best practices; and safety in the countries where Ansaldo STS sends its • increase the training and updating of all employees in travellers. order to make them more aware of the risks related to their activities; The Company Health and Safety in the Workplace • continue developing activities to promote a culture of policy is based on the application of the requirements of safety among all suppliers and concerned parties. relevant standards, namely OHSAS 18001:2007, and other international standards, regarding compliance with national This policy is shared with all Ansaldo STS personnel and all and international regulations. Ansaldo STS develops a concerned parties online and via the company Intranet. 102 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Health and safety | The environment, health and safety Health and safety performance Health and safety performance indicators are monitored and analysed over time, and used to set objectives by breaking them down by risk factor and location. Safety is therefore a strategic must for Ansaldo STS with all workers contributing every day to ensure safety for end users. INJURIES – FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY INDEX 2016 2017 No. of injuries to Group employees (>1 day of absence, excluding injuries in transit) 14 21 Injury frequency rate (n. injuries / total hours worked x 200,000) 0.44 0.62 Injury severity rate ( n. lost days due to injuries / total hours worked x 200,000) 3.73 21.91 The low values recorded by the injury frequency and severity rates at Ansaldo STS over the years make them particularly sensitive to slight variations in the number of accidents and related lost days. This explains the extent of growth to these rates recorded in 2017. In order to acquire the information needed to improve injury frequency and severity rates, in accordance with the Health and Safety Policy, Ansaldo STS also tracks near misses (accidents without consequences that arise out of undesired or unexpected situations that could have put people at risk), in order to gather and analyse data and information and identify potential solutions in advance. The main initiatives concerned: • the implementation of the procedure to manage accidents and near misses at global level: Ansaldo STS has created a procedure to provide information on how to correctly manage events entailing injuries, accidents and near misses. This procedure is a valid prevention and information management tool for statistical purposes, to identify the causes of an accident and meet legal requirements relating to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace; • the implementation of quarterly HSE reporting to monitor and gather main information on the performance of activities carried out in relation to the application of SGS/SGA. These reports are prepared by all HSE officers of work sites; • safety meetings for all main work sites. Health and Safety Committee Health and Safety and Diversity Management Ansaldo STS also holds Ansaldo STS adopts solutions in management meetings pursuant and design related to the application of Diversity to Article 35 of Italian Management for Health and Safety. Legislative Decree no. 81/08, which are attended Regarding the design solutions, the Engineering by the employer (or Department considered design requirements a representative), the deriving from cultural and religious differences; for prevention and protection the subway of Princess Noura University in Riyadh service manager, the a particular ergonomics of the Operative Central doctor, the safety officer Station has been studied according to the female and the workers’ safety operator personnel, as well as the requirements representative. These and the design constraints of the vehicles (glass, meetings are called at least lighting, set-up) for the privacy of the female once a year and represent passengers. 100% of employees of the Italian Group companies to which Italian Legislative To respect the different cultures, religions and Decree no. 81/08 applies. customs of colleagues, customers or external interlocutors, Ansaldo STS is very attentive to how it communicates; an example of this is the use of simple neutral greeting messages such as Seasonal Greetings . Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 103 Ethical management of the Supply Chain Ethical management of the Supply Chain In view of the increasing importance of the supply chain’s social and environmental aspects, Ansaldo STS has drawn up new criteria to assess and monitor its suppliers and to define a new action plan to assist them in improving their sustainability. 3,321 active suppliers € 1,235 orders in 2017 mln € 766estimated mln in 2017 remuneration for supply chain labour 150 audits + 151% + 7.9% 311 on strategic suppliers new qualified suppliers Qualification questionnaire Interdisciplinary qualification process Commencement integrated with HSE of work to develop aspects: adoption of coordinated by the ISO 14001 and OHSAS Supplier Qualification & the digital platform 18001 management Monitoring, which involves systems; application the technical office, of REACH/ROHS/ Procurement, Quality RAEE regulations, and the Health, Safety and data on accidents, non Environmental department conformities, training and emergencies Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 105 Ethical management of the Supply Chain | Types of supplies and suppliers Targets achieved in 2017 Ethical management of the supply chain SDGs COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016 ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN 2017 • Implement a digital procurement platform with •S cout and select partners for the implementation advantages in terms of environmental sustainability of the platform. In recent months, a questionnaire and risk management. was distributed to the global procurement community (Proof of Concept) to assess this decision and its general implementation. Target achieved Target partially achieved Target not achieved Target postponed Types of supplies and suppliers Ansaldo STS considers the supply chain management process a critical factor for the success of its business. Strategic procurement management requires a broad vision of the process along the entire value chain, from the definition of product specifications and service to delivery. Ansaldo STS has adopted an interdepartmental management approach which provides for the involvement and approval of all bodies concerned by the overall logistics. Given that it designs, builds and operates transportation • Business services – engineering and development and signalling systems for railways and urban rail transport, services and RAMS activities (reliability, maintenance, Ansaldo STS’s supplies include: availability and security). • Materials – purchase of circuit boards, mechanical and • Turnkey projects and subcontracts – the award of a plastic parts, wayside equipment, cables, racks, cabins, turnkey contact relates to systems that interact with the industrial PCs, on-board equipment and electromechanical rest of the technologies for the specific contract, such as components. installation systems, telecommunications systems, auxiliary • Services – facility management and HSE, payroll braking systems, power supply and systems, supervision services, professional and ICT services, logistics and control systems, depots for equipment, signalling services and travel. systems, rails and civil works. 106 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Types of supplies and suppliers | Ethical management of the Supply Chain Orders in 2017 by suppliers’ geographic location were as follows: 2017 ORDERS17 BY GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION OF SUPPLIER (EUR) Italy/EU18 The Americas19 Asia Pacific20 Other TOTAL Materials 107,547,799 65,307,057 64,903,337 3,698,580 241,456,773 Services 313,220,596 17,910,019 15,733,693 2,667,574 349,531,882 Business services 76,669,180 13,060,421 4,314,506 1,224,956 95,269,064 Turnkey projects and subcontracts 231,364,305 139,354,464 147,916,155 29,980,501 548,615,425 TOTAL 728,801,880 235,631,961 232,867,691 37,571,611 1,234,873,143 The number of active suppliers in 2017 increased from 3,250 to 3,321, as shown by geographical area below: • 58% are European suppliers; • 21% are suppliers in North/South America; • 19% are suppliers in Asia Pacific; • 2% are suppliers based in other areas. The economic benefit of working with Ansaldo STS can be measured by considering the intensity of its suppliers’ workforces. Accordingly, the following should be considered: • 36% of Ansaldo STS’s orders are for labour-intensive services (100%); • 44% of its orders are for turnkey projects and subcontracts which have an average labour intensity factor of 50%; • 20% refers to supplies of materials with a medium labour intensity factor of 20%. Therefore, the labour intensity factor of Ansaldo STS’s orders is roughly 62%: approximately EUR 766 million is paid to suppliers to cover their labour costs. 17. Intragroup orders were excluded. 18. Mainly Italy and France, followed by Spain, Sweden, Germany, UK, Belgium, Switzerland and Denmark. 19. Mainly US, followed by Canada and Brazil. 20. Mainly Australia and India, followed by Malaysia and China. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 107 Ethical management of the Supply Chain | Selection and qualification criteria Selection and qualification criteria Supplier vetting and the process for the purchase of assets, goods and services are carried out in accordance with the principles of the Code of Ethics and internal quality procedures, as well as current health, safety and environmental regulations. In the management of relationships with suppliers and subcontractors, as for all business and financial dealings of any kind, Ansaldo STS requires its counterparties to conduct themselves in accordance with the principles of loyalty, fairness, transparency, efficiency and legal compliance. To this end, suppliers and is interdisciplinary and based on the • introduction of a safety management subcontractors are vetted on the opinions of several units involved system compliant with the BS basis of objective, transparent and therein. This includes the technical, OHSAS 18001 standard; documentable evaluation criteria, in procurement, quality and HSE • introduction of an environmental accordance with the principles of the departments. management system compliant with Code of Ethics and all procedures the UNI EN ISO 14001:2007 standard; provided for by specific protocols, Ansaldo STS has revised its supplier • introduction of sustainability in writing and in line with the current questionnaire, introducing specific procedures/programmes; hierarchical structure. questions about the environment and • application of the legislative safety, directly involving the HSE unit requirements to comply with the Supplier qualification is coordinated in supplier qualification and defining REACH/ROHS/RAEE regulations; by the Supplier Qualification and a list of “sensitive” goods, where the •c ollection of data about accidents, nonMonitoring Board which operates within latter unit’s involvement is mandatory. compliance, training and emergencies. the Quality Assurance department. Furthermore, Ansaldo STS has The questionnaire update covered the The questionnaire is sent to all new specified that the qualification process following HSE aspects: suppliers during the qualification phase. Supplier mapping according to HSE criteria Ansaldo STS has conducted an initial mapping of its supply chain with respect to compliance with Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria. Indeed, the standard purchase order model includes general supply conditions and compliance with the Code of Ethics; furthermore, when vetting new suppliers, Ansaldo STS gathers information on their compliance with quality, hygiene, health and safety in the workplace standards and their environmental policies and requires certification according to standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. These characteristics are preferential requisites and are considered in the eligibility score awarded to each supplier. The results of the mapping were as follows: SUPPLIER MAPPING 2017 2016 2015 Number of suppliers in the register by direct and indirect product types 16,146 15,025 17,059 Total active suppliers (with orders issued in 2017) 3,321 3,250 2,983 Number of suppliers covering 80% of the value of orders in 2017 136 190 192 Qualified suppliers in 2017 (Classes A and B) 311 124 167 of which21: ISO 14001 certified suppliers 42 17 15 OHSAS 18001 certified suppliers 37 15 8 21. The figures for 2017 have been estimated in proportion to the 2016 data. 108 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Selection and qualification criteria | Ethical management of the Supply Chain As Ansaldo STS continues to increase its operations in emerging countries, when vetting and qualifying suppliers the Company has established a preference for large companies that, ideally, hold quality, environmental and safety certificates. For this reason, in 2017 there was an increase in the number of qualified Class A and B22 companies and an increase in those in possession of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. Mapping is the first step in the definition of the specific sustainability policy for the supply chain. The main guidelines of this policy will be: • audit activities on site suppliers, including a review of sustainability performance, with technical controls on products for suppliers of materials; • collaboration between Ansaldo STS and suppliers in product design; • activities to inform suppliers about sustainability issues; • the extension of annual monitoring activities to A Class suppliers. The selection process The supplier vetting and assessment process entails the following stages, in accordance with the procedures established for the management of this process. Market search Direct/Indirect Traditional/ Ansaldo STS Direct/Indirect Vendor rating and analysis qualification on-line negotiations purchase order requalification Identification Qualification Selection Activation Monitoring Requalification Qualified Selected Ansaldo STS Confirmation/ Benchmark Corrective Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Warning attribution/ and short list actions Register Register Register Cancellation Ansaldo STS’s Procurement department with purchase orders. Depending on • the Quality department, when vets potential suppliers of materials, the importance of the product types, the assessment of the supplier’s service providers and, in particular, the assessment methods used range organisational system, quality suppliers of packages/subcontractors, from a simple analysis of the documents management system or overall with the support of other company requested and received from the supplier capabilities is not sufficient departments (Engineering, Administration to the preparation of assessment reports considering the type and importance and Finance, Legal Affairs, Quality, HSE following an inspection of the supplier’s of the supply. The assessment team and Construction). Throughout the entire site. The following departments may examines the various business areas assessment process, Ansaldo STS request the inspection: depending on the type of purchase verifies that suppliers meet requirements • the Procurement department, for a (materials, services, packages, in order to approve them and include more reliable assessment of strategic etc.), on the basis of the required them in the list of eligible suppliers for suppliers; processes (design, supply, assembly, specific goods categories; suppliers • other departments, when they do not etc.) and, finally, on the basis of their registered to the list may then be issued have enough information; importance. 22. Class A = suppliers with higher business impact; suppliers with medium business impact. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 109 Ethical management of the Supply Chain | Selection and qualification criteria Eligibility criteria Drawing on the technical and specialised expertise of the company bodies concerned, the Supplier Qualification and In the United States, it is common practice for Monitoring department assembles the assessments of customers to require the mandatory allocation potential suppliers prepared by the departments involved of a percentage of the contract to DBEs in the qualification process according to highly detailed (Disadvantaged Business Enterprises), which requirements that fall under the following categories: are regulated by federal and state departments. • financial position and results; Each DBE must be certified by the relevant Transit • management, sales and logistics organisation; Authority. • production potential and technical expertise; • whether it has quality management systems certified by To meet its contractual obligations in the US, accredited bodies, giving priority to companies with the Ansaldo STS has identified and vetted various International Railway Industry Standard (IRIS) certification; DBEs with which it may now operate in order to • whether it has environmental management systems meet the quota required by the contractual targets. and health and safety management systems certified by accredited bodies; In general, this includes training employees of • its willingness to be inspected; DBEs to carry out the work usually performed • whether it has been endorsed by the Italian Railway by Ansaldo STS employees in line with labour Network or other bodies; standards. • the identification and traceability of production lots. Since 2012, the part of the eligibility process entailing the gathering of the above subset of information has been extended to the bidding procedure as well, with the subsequent advantage of reducing the time needed to complete the process once the supplier has been selected. With a view to continuous improvement, organisational changes have been implemented and the process has been fine-tuned. 150 audits were performed in 2017 on the most important qualified suppliers and 1,300 new suppliers were qualified. Contractual tools Ansaldo STS uses various supporting contracts, and the protection of personal data – and a notice of depending on the goods and services purchased from a compliance with the Code of Ethics. given supplier. The order includes a description of the characteristics For the product categories relating to basic services, and requirements, quantities and delivery times for the such as ICT (Information & Communication Technology), materials and services, and may also refer to specific the supply of energy, global services and logistics documents clarifying the technical specifications for more (outsourcing of warehouses and transport contracts), complex devices. Ansaldo STS uses framework agreements. For turnkey packages and contracts, Ansaldo STS agrees For standard materials and services, all initiatives ad hoc contracts whereby the contractors undertake, favouring long-term arrangements are preferred through their organisation, using the necessary means (framework agreements, partnerships, memoranda of and with management at their own risk, the operation or understanding, etc.) with vetted suppliers, and periodic provision of the relevant plant or service. controls on the suppliers’ processes are performed, in addition to scrupulous checks of supplies to monitor Furthermore, all contractual documentation is attached suppliers’ ethical conduct, adequacy, reliability and to the contract. This documentation normally consists of timeliness. the main contract (the contract agreed by Ansaldo STS with the customer), the technical documents defining the For project-specific materials and services, Ansaldo STS scope of the work in detail, detailed project plans, Ansaldo uses purchase orders. The standard order includes a STS’s Code of Ethics and legally-required documents summary of the general supply terms, legal requirements (safety and coordination plan and facsimile of workers’ – with specific reference to the protection of workers protection statements), etc. 110 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Selection and qualification criteria | Ethical management of the Supply Chain Monitoring activities Suppliers are constantly monitored through meetings or communications between them and the Ansaldo STS departments with which they operate (Procurement, PM, Engineering, Quality and Supply Chain Quality, Logistics and Construction). At least once a year, personnel working with suppliers participate in a vendor rating process that takes into account the suppliers’ conduct and performance vis-à-vis the supplies ordered, in order to update the suppliers’ assessment and establish whether they will remain in the list of Ansaldo STS suppliers. Scores are given in four main areas: Quality, ACE PROJECT Timeliness, Flexibility and Charges. This monitoring In 2017, Ansaldo STS continued to strive for system is applied on a continuous basis only to suppliers the technical and commercial optimisation of strategic materials, and the results are assessed each of external costs, carrying forward the interquarter. The parameters considered are: departmental ACE project (formerly the V2A-New • Price (calculated as the variation in the cost of the Road project launched in 2014). A few macro product); categories of costs were considered strategic • Quality (calculated as the percentage of faults); as part of this project. For each macro category, • On-time delivery. international and inter-departmental teams were identified to evaluate and implement specific ways The global performance of suppliers remained high, with only of increasing efficiency in the medium and long10 suppliers receiving unsatisfactory ratings. term. The performance level achieved is in line with the targets. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 111 Economic sustainability Economic sustainability Ansaldo STS’s economic sustainability is its strategic response to the macroeconomic context and transportation market trends, based on a business model that develops distinctive abilities and the necessary skills to boost the Company’s competitiveness on markets. + 9.7% + 2.5% + 2.2% Orders Value acquired Revenues distributed to from € 1,476 from € 1,327 stakeholders to € 1,501 mln to € 1,361 mln € 1,326 mln 1,700 Km 70 projects 285 stations of lines activated delivered activated Order portfolio of Customer € 6,457.5 mln Satisfaction: Project Lifecycle a system of Management customer monitoring, processes to control control, reporting operating risks and discussion tools Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 113 Economic sustainability | Our Business model Our Business model Economic sustainability is increasingly tied to social and environmental aspects, both at company level and in terms of market scenarios. Ansaldo STS has evaluated the repercussions that macrotrends involving variables related to the environment, health and safety, demographic growth and economic development in emerging countries will have on the transportation system. According to the analysis, such trends will result in the ever-increasing shift of the global transportation market towards rail transport that is safe, efficient and capable of meeting growing environmental concerns. Ansaldo STS’s abilities and organisation fully meet the need to innovate in order to boost transportation efficiency and safety and reduce the environmental impact. Indeed, Ansaldo STS is a company that operates in the context of a global market. It boasts great flexibility in meeting international demand and is open to new markets. It carries out research and development for transportation solutions that focus in particular on the environment and safety, facilitating the standardisation of solutions while also developing the ability to create customised products to meet different customer needs. It has the necessary financial stability to meet future challenges, lead innovation and seize growth opportunities by promoting new projects. With the change in focus on new technologies and capabilities, the Company will develop additional specific competences and adapt its future way of doing business to the evolving transportation and mobility trends. Ansaldo STS’s business model is customer-based, enabling it to forge fruitful, long-lasting relationships at global level. • TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP FOR SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Ansaldo STS offers integrated solutions based on technological leadership in terms of safety and the Prime environment, and boasted pronounced technical Contractor leadership in certain market segments (ERTMS, driverless, mass transport, high speed). Technological Integrator • PREFERENTIAL PARTNERSHIPS WITH ROLLING STOCK SUPPLIES s Ansaldo STS has a consolidated partnership with il W er s ork Vehicle Signall Hitachi Rail Italy. However, the Company is also capable of adapting to any rolling stock supplier Othystem s Civ bs and is flexible in the design and construction of the Su chosen solution. ing • SOLID ROOTS AND GROWTH WHEREVER THE DEMAND IS Operation and Ansaldo STS is a technological leader in the Maintenance west, as well as wielding a presence on emerging markets. It carries out investments in research and development and continually monitors timescales and costs. • A PARTNER THROUGHOUT THE CUSTOMER’S ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN Ansaldo STS is a leader in the supply of cutting-edge integrated transportation solutions, combining traditional and nontraditional technologies and operation and maintenance services. • SERVING THE CUSTOMER’S FUTURE NEEDS Ansaldo STS can meet new market requirements, such as driverless transportation and the introduction and integration of extremely secure digital technology. • GLOBAL ORGANISATION The Company is supported by around 4,200 professionals who offer global research, expertise, experience, know-how and best practices wherever the market needs them. 114 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Our Business model | Economic sustainability Strategy Ansaldo STS is committed to 2. NON-ORGANIC GROWTH: to 4. EFFICIENCY AND EFFICACY: maintaining and developing a series define strategic partnerships and to optimise the product platforms of distinctive abilities and expertise evaluate investments that are in line with future technologies, and that create value and guarantee longinstrumental to the Company's continue to work on the continuous lasting company growth over time. growth in specific areas and/or improvement process in order to This commitment can be seen in the business sectors. strengthen its competitive position and Company’s four strategic directions: 3. ORGANISATIONAL ensure excellence in the execution of 1. ORGANIC GROWTH: to leverage STANDARDISATION: to adapt its activities. its strong position in growing the operating model in accordance geographical areas and business with business requirements and its lines to achieve better results than future developments. the reference market. Economic value generated and distributed Ansaldo STS recognises the importance of balancing By analysing distributed economic value, Ansaldo STS the distribution of value generated by its activities to studies the flow of resources directed towards its employees, stakeholders who have directly or indirectly contributed to suppliers, service providers, lenders, public authorities and the its creation. communities in which it operates. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (figures in EUR/000) 2017 2016 Economic value generated 1,414,318 1,362,831 Revenue 1,360,967 1,327,386 Other revenue 24,567 18,659 Financial income 28,784 16,786 Economic value distributed 1,325,922 1,297,730 Operating costs (procurement, services and investments) 913,115 849,608 Employee remuneration 334,220 332,338 Shareholder remuneration 0 36,000 Lender remuneration 40,315 37,466 Public administration remuneration 37,408 41,579 Donations and sponsorships 864 739 Economic value invested into the business 88,396 65,101 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and adjustments 23,528 23,198 Self-financing 64,868 41,903 The value generated by the Group in 2017 amounts to approximately EUR 1.41 billion (+3.8% compared to 2016), while the value invested by the Company mainly consisting of self-financing, amortisation, depreciation, impairment losses and accruals to provisions for risks is EUR 88.4 million (+35.8%). Almost EUR 1.33 billion (+2.2% compared to 2016) was distributed and divided among the following stakeholders as shown below: • the largest amount, EUR 913.1 million, relates to costs incurred to purchase materials (suppliers), services (contractors and subcontractors) and other goods; • approximately EUR 334.2 million was distributed to employees, mainly for wages, salaries, social security and pension contributions and defined contribution plans; • approximately EUR 40.3 million relates to lenders for interest and commissions, financial expense and operating exchange rate differences; • EUR 37.4 million was paid to the tax authorities and other local bodies for direct and indirect taxes; • EUR 0.86 million went to the community in the form of gifts, donations and sponsorships (with or without publicity). Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 115 Economic sustainability | Corporate governance Corporate governance Ansaldo STS adopts a Corporate Governance System that is based on the highest standards of transparent business management and fair practice. The system complies with the provisions of law and with the regulatory provisions of CONSOB and Borsa Italiana. It is also in line with the contents of the Corporate Governance Code for listed companies adopted by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. which Ansaldo STS has implemented, and international best practices. The Corporate Governance System is aimed at maximising value for shareholders, monitoring business risks, transparency with the market and reconciling the interests of all shareholders, with particular attention to minority shareholders. Ansaldo STS’s Corporate Governance System is based on a traditional model and is composed as follows: Shareholders’ meetings Board of Board of Independent Statutory Directors Auditors Auditors Appointments Risk and Control Executive and Committee Committee Remuneration Committee The company’s main corporate governance tools today are listed below: • By-laws; • Board of directors’ • Related party transactions • Procedure for the regulations; procedure adopted management and • Code of ethics; pursuant to article communication STRUMENTI • Risk and control committee 4 of Consob regulation of privileged and • Organizational, regulations; no. 17221 of 12 March confidential information; management and control 2010; model pursuant to • Appointments and • Internal dealing code Legislative decree no. remuneration committee • Procedure for keeping and of conduct. 231/01; regulations; updating the list of persons with access to privileged • Shareholders’ meeting • Executive committee information; regulations; regulations; 116 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Corporate governance | Economic sustainability Management bodies Board of Directors Ansaldo STS’s Board of Directors has the broadest powers for the management of the Company, with the power to take any and all suitable action to achieve the Company's mission. Directors are appointed for up to three years and can be reelected. The current Board of Directors, appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 13 May 2016, is composed of nine Board Members. Control and Appointments and Risks Remuneration Executive BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN OFFICE Committee Committee Committee IndepenList Non No. In office Exedent from Office Members In office since (M/m) exeOther ** * ** * ** * ** until cutive Code and * cutive appointments TUF 2 November Shareholders’ Meeting to approve ChairChairman AlistairDormer 2015 the 2018 Financial Statements M x 1 11/13 man 8/10 Deputy Shareholders’ Meeting to approve ChairChairman Alberto De Banedictis 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements M x x 13/13 man 9/9 x 9/9 Managing Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Andrew Thomas Barr 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements M x 13/13 x 10/10 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Rosa Ciprotti 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements m x x 3 12/13 Michele Alberto 19 January Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Fabiano Crisostomo23 2017 the 2018 Financial Statements m x x 13/13 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Mario Garraffo 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements M x x 2 9/13 x 8/9 x 7/9 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Fabio Labruna 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements m x x 1 12/13 Katherine Jane Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Director Mingay 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements M x 13/13 x 10/10 Katharine Rosalind Shareholders’ Meeting to approve ChairDirector Painter 13 May 2016 the 2018 Financial Statements M x x 13/13 x 9/9 man 9/9 * Elected from the list by majority (M) or minority (m) vote. ** Participation in Board and Committee meetings respectively during the period considered (no. of meetings attended/no. of meetings held during the term of office). Activities of the Board of Directors and assessment of its performance In 2017, the Board held 13 meetings. The average length of the Board meetings in 2017 was approximately three hours and twenty minutes. At the meeting of 28 July 2017, the Board of Directors considered the appointment of an external consultancy firm to carry out a “Board performance evaluation” in order to jointly share the approach to be adopted; the consultancy firm was subsequently instructed to carry out the evaluation. Executive and non-executive authority The Board is mainly composed of non-executive directors who exercise, due to their number and authority, a significant weight in the assumption of Board decisions. At present the remaining 7 members, not including the Managing Director and Chairman, are non-executive directors. Although not holding an executive position within the Company, the Chairman is considered as an executive member due to the position held within the Hitachi Group24. 23. It is noted that the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of 19 January 2017 resolved to initiate a corporate liability action pursuant to Article 2393 of the Italian Civil Code against Mr. Bivona a Director appointed by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of 13 May 2016 whose appointment was subsequently revoked. The Meeting proceeded to appoint Mr. Michele Alberto Fabiano Crisostomo as a Director of the Company to replace Mr. Bivona, the former having declared possession of the requirements of independence provided for by the Code. 24. Pursuant to the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 117 Economic sustainability | Corporate governance Independence The Board of Directors verifies that these requirements are Based on the statements of the above parties or on the met by each of its members. information at the Company’s disposal, the Board of Directors evaluates whether the independent directors are Induction programme party to relationships that could jeopardise their independent On 26 October 2016, a specific “induction” session aimed judgement. at Company Directors and Auditors was held, aimed at providing an appropriate understanding of the sector in Furthermore, the Board of Statutory Auditors confirms that which Ansaldo STS operates, the Company dynamics and the evaluation criteria and procedures have been correctly their evolution, the principles of correct risk management implemented. and the relative legislative and corporate governance framework. In 2017, a session was also held to explore The current Board of Directors is composed of six legal issues relating to the Company’s specific business, Independent Directors. In 2017, no meetings between these aimed at the new Board of Statutory Auditors appointed Directors were deemed necessary or convened. at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of 11 May 2017. Requirements and skills In 2018, general induction courses on business topics are Pursuant to the Articles of Association, in order to take being considered, as well as other specific sessions on office as Director, one must not only meet the requirements certain themes of interest to the Company. of honourableness provided for by current legislative and regulatory provisions but must also meet the specific Other positions held by Directors requirements of professionalism. In particular, candidates may The Board of Directors has adopted an internal regulation not be appointed as Directors of the Company if they do not regarding the “Guidelines for the maximum number of have at least three years of overall experience in the following: positions which may be held by Directors of Ansaldo STS • administration or supervision activities or managerial duties S.p.A.”, aimed at regulating the maximum cumulative with companies with a share capital of at least EUR 2 million; limit of Director or Auditor positions that Ansaldo STS • professional activities or university teaching as a full professor Directors may fulfil. of legal, economic, financial or technical/scientific subjects closely related to the Company’s business activity; or As at 27 February 2018, the composition of the Board • senior management functions with public bodies or of Directors is in line with the above general criteria, as administrations active in the credit, financial and insurance demonstrated by the self-assessment process. sectors or, in any case, in industries which are closely related to the Company’s business activity. Control room, Aarhus 118 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Corporate governance | Economic sustainability Diversity policies The current composition of the Board of Directors and the The diversity policies adopted by the Company regard Board of Statutory Auditors demonstrates suitable diversity the gender balance of members of the Board of Directors in terms of age, professional and educational background, and the Board of Statutory Auditors. Pursuant to the independence and representation of minority groups, as can Articles of Association, at least one third of members of be inferred in the Report of the Board of Directors on the the Governance and Control bodies must be composed of Corporate Governance System and in the curricula of the members of the least represented gender25. relative members26. 2016 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY AGE AND GENDER MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN < 40 40-50 2 1 2 1 51-60 2 2 2 2 > 60 2 2 TOTAL 6 3 6 3 2016 2017 BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS BY AGE AND GENDER MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN < 40 40-50 2 1 51-60 1 1 > 60 1 TOTAL 2 1 2 1 Appointment of Directors genders, so that the new Board of submission of one list only, that each The Directors are appointed at the Directors includes members of the candidate can be presented in one Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting least represented gender. list only or will be considered ineligible according to a list voting system. and that each eligible voter can vote Each list must include two candidates In order to ensure the effective for one list only. who meet the independence participation of non-controlling requirements provided for by law, owners in corporate management For additional information on the indicating them separately and and the transparency of the selection appointment of the Board of Directors placing one at the top of the list. and appointment process for during the Ordinary Shareholders’ directors, the Articles of Association Meeting of 13 May 2016, reference Lists with three or more candidates explicitly enable each shareholder should be made to the Company’s must include candidates of different to submit or participate in the website27. 25. In line with the provisions of Article 147-ter, paragraph 1-ter of the Consolidated Law on Finance [TUF] and current law on gender equality. 26. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/board-directors 27. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/board-directors/appointment Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 119 Economic sustainability | Corporate governance Directors’ remuneration • a fixed component, represented by: Responsibilities, in line with the The Company remuneration policy for the Managing Director and provisions of the applicable aims to attract, retain and motivate General Manager: the amount Collective Labour Agreement. a management team characterised resolved at the Meeting at • a variable component, comprising, by highly professional qualities which the time of appointment; the for the Managing Director, General is able to successfully manage the amount resolved by the Board of Manager and Managers with Company. Directors upon the proposal of the Strategic Responsibilities: Appointments and Remuneration a variable short-term bonus scheme On 24 March 2017, the Company’s Committee (for the Managing based on the achievement of preBoard of Directors, following prior Director, the opinion of the Board determined performance objectives approval by the Appointments and of Statutory Auditors is also set on an annual basis (Management Remuneration Committee, approved considered); by Objectives or “MBO”); the Company’s remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors: the a cash-based Long Term Incentive for 2017 and the remuneration report, amount resolved at the Meeting at Plan, structured on the basis of which are published on the Company’s the time of appointment; rolling three-year periods and website28. for Managers with Strategic subject to the achievement of Responsibilities: the gross annual economic and financial targets; In line with the recommendations of fixed salary envisaged by the a variable medium/long-term Stock the Corporate Governance Code, the individual contract signed with Grant Plan, structured over a remuneration policy envisages: the Managers with Strategic number of years29. Committees In order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of by the Board of Directors, which evaluated and confirmed the work of the Board of Directors, the Risk and Control that at least one member possesses appropriate Committee, the Appointments and Remuneration Committee knowledge and experience of financial matters or and the Executive Committee have been established remuneration policies. The Committee's activities are within the Board and in accordance with the criteria of the governed by an internal regulation which is available on Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Company. the Company website31. Risk and Control Committee Executive Committee The Committee is composed of three Non-Executive and The Executive Committee was formed upon the Independent Directors. The Committee was appointed on resolution of the Board of Directors. It is composed 16 May 2016 by the Board of Directors, which examined of three Board Members, including the Chairman the accounting and financial experience of its members. The and the Managing Director, and is responsible for the Committee meetings are governed by an internal regulation assessment and approval of tenders aimed at securing, which is available on the Company website30. for public and private clients, contracts worth between EUR 150 million and EUR 350 million per individual Appointments and Remuneration Committee operation. The Committee's activities are governed by The Committee is composed of three Non-Executive and an internal regulation which is available on the Company Independent Directors. It was appointed on 16 May 2016 website32. 28. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/documents/report-remuneration-2 29. For more information, refer to the Stock Allocation Plan Document available on the Company website http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/documents/ informative-document 30. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/control-and-risk-committee 31. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/nomination-and-remuneration-committee 32. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/bid-committee 120 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Corporate governance | Economic sustainability Management of conflicts of interest Internal dealing Related Party Transactions As regards the internal procedures for the management CONSOB Regulation no. 17221 of 12 March 2010 and disclosure of Company information, on 24 March contains a set of rules for transactions by publicly traded 2006 the Board of Directors resolved to adopt a Code of companies or regarding shares held by the public with Conduct for Internal Dealing; this Code was subsequently related parties, aimed at improving the transparency and updated on 28 July 201733. The Code aims to regulate the effective and procedural fairness of such transactions data streams regarding operations on the shares issued carried out by the companies, both directly or through by the Company or other associated financial instruments, subsidiaries. The primary aim of these guidelines is to by parties, including by way of third parties, who hold reinforce the protection of minority shareholders and administrative, management or control positions within other stakeholders, combating any abuse that may arise the Company or who are otherwise closely related to from the transactions made with related parties and them34. Furthermore, these include transactions carried pursuing the effective and procedural correctness of the out by “relevant parties”, or rather parties holding a stake operations. of at least 10% of the share capital of the Issuer or with a controlling interest in the Company, as well as parties In order to implement the provisions of the Regulation, closely related to them35. on 26 November 2010, the Board of Directors of Ansaldo STS S.p.A., upon prior approval of the Procedures Furthermore, the Code of Conduct on Internal Dealing Committee, approved the Procedure for Related Party envisages36 a so-called “Blocking period” i.e. a closure Transactions38; on the same date, the Board of Statutory period of 30 calendar days before the announcement of Auditors of the Company certified the consistency of the approval of a financial report, during which parties who the same with the principles indicated in the Regulation. exercise administrative, control or management powers are On 4 November 2013, having consulted with the expressly prohibited from performing operations on their Procedures Committee, the Board of Directors confirmed own behalf or on that of third parties, directly or indirectly, in the adequacy of the procedure and did not make any relation to Company shares and credit securities, or other substantial amendments. associated derivatives or financial instruments. Disclosures on internal dealing are published on the Company website37. Metro Naples 33. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts/files/downloadspage/asts_internal_dealing_code.pdf 34. As defined by Article 19 of EU Regulation no. 596/2014. 35. According to the provisions of Article 152-sexies of CONSOB Regulation no. 11971/1999 36. In compliance with the provisions of Article 19 of EU Regulation no. 596/2014. 37. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/internal-dealing-communications 38. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts/files/downloadspage/procedure_related_parties_transactions.pdf Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 121 Economic sustainability | Corporate governance Internal control and risk management system Ansaldo STS’s internal control and risk management system In order to ensure that the conduct of all those operating on provides for the involvement of the following officers: the Company’s behalf or in its interests is always consistent • Board of Directors and Risk and Control Committee with the principles of correctness and transparency in all • Director responsible for the internal control and risk business dealings and Company activities, Ansaldo STS management system. has adopted an Organisational, Management and Control • Internal Audit department and Manager. Model (the “Model”) in line with the requirements of Italian • Executive responsible for preparing the Company's Legislative Decree no. 231/01 and the guidelines issued by financial reports. Confindustria. The Code of Ethics is an integral part of this • Board of Statutory Auditors. Model. Furthermore, the Company has set up a Supervisory • Supervisory Body pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. Body to monitor application of the Model. 231/2001. • Employees. The Model was most recently updated with the Board of Directors’ resolution of 28 July 2017 and is available on the With the assistance of the Risk and Control Committee and Company website39. on the basis of the activities of the Director responsible for the internal control and risk management system, the Board All employees, to the extent of their role and within the limits of Directors defines guidelines for this system, in order that of the duties entrusted to them and their respective skills the main risks to which the Company and its subsidiaries are and responsibilities, contribute to the effective operation of exposed are correctly identified, measured, managed and the Internal Control and Risk Management System, reporting monitored, in line with the Company’s strategic objectives. to their manager any anomalies that may come to their attention. The methodological approach taken to evaluate and manage the internal control and risk management system refers to Any conduct contrasting with the ethical principles provided the internationally recognised Enterprise Risk Management by the Code of Ethics or the indications of the Model can framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of be anonymously reported to the Supervisory Body, which the Treadway Commission (COSO report). evaluates the reports in accordance with the relevant company procedure currently in place. The Internal Audit department prepares the audit programme which is then approved by the Board of Directors, while No reports of non-compliance to the Code of Ethics the department manager reports regularly to the Risk and and/or the Model adopted by the Company were received Control Committee. in 2017. 39. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/governance/internal-control-and-risk-management-system/organizational-model 122 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Corporate governance | Economic sustainability Board of statutory auditors The Board of Statutory Auditors carries out inspections and audits in order to oversee compliance with the law, the Articles of Association and the principles of correct management. It is also charged with supervising the statutory audit of the annual separate and consolidated accounts and certifying the independence of the Independent Auditors, including with regard to services not related to the Company audit40. The current Board of Statutory Auditors was appointed by the Ordinary Shareholder’ Meeting held on 11 May 2017. The Board is composed of three Standing Auditors and three Alternate Auditors. The Board met 18 times in 2017; the average duration of the meetings was around three hours. The members of the Board, their characteristics and their participation at meetings are shown in the tables below. Board of Statutory Auditors in office as of 11 May 2017 Participation Participation Indepenat Board of at List No. In office dent statutory Board of Office Members In office since (M/m) other until (from the auditors Directors’ * positions Code) meetings Meetings ** ** Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Chairman Antonio Zecca 11 May 2017 the 2019 Financial Statements m x 8/8 8/8 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Standing auditor Giovanni Naccarato 11 May 2017 the 2019 Financial Statements M x 1 8/8 8/8 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Standing auditor Alessandra Stablini 11 May 2017 the 2019 Financial Statements M x 5 8/8 6/8 Board of Statutory Auditors in office from 1 January to 11 May 2017 Participation Participation Indepenat Board of at List No. In office dent statutory Board of Office Members In office since (M/m) other until (from the auditors Directors’ * positions Code) meetings Meetings ** ** Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Chairman Giacinto Sarubbi 15 April 2014 the 2016 Financial Statements m x 9 10/10 5/5 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Standing auditor Renato Rigetti 15 April 2014 the 2016 Financial Statements M x 10/10 5/5 Shareholders’ Meeting to approve Standing auditor Maria Enrica Spianrdi 15 April 2014 the 2016 Financial Statements M x 9/10 4/5 * List from which each auditor was appointed (majority [M] or minority [m]). ** Participation at Board meetings (no. of meetings attended/no. of meetings held). 40. For more details on the activities of the Board of Statutory Auditors, reference should be made to the “Directors’ Report on the Corporate Governance System and the Implementation of the Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies for 2017” http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts/files/ downloadspage/corporate_governance_report_ex_art._123_-_bis_of_the_consolidation_act_on_finance_tuf_0.pdf Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 123 Economic sustainability | Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Ansaldo STS promotes the fight against corruption in all its different forms at all levels and within the scope of its business, whether active or passive, direct or indirect, involving subjects related to the public or private sector. In this context, Ansaldo STS has adopted a zero tolerance are made to the Model. In addition, a new e-learning training approach, which entails that the Company does not tolerate programme was recently offered to nearly all employees of any kind of corruption, in any form, manner or jurisdiction in Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Employees working in at-risk areas, which it may occur, including therein any conduct that may as well as executives and middle managers, sign periodic be permitted, tolerated or not prosecuted in the countries in statements to certify the respect of the Model and, when which the Group operates. needed, to describe the most significant relationships with customers and representatives of the public authorities. Ansaldo STS, despite not having a specific formalised policy that the company aims to adopt during the year 2018 has The prevention and fight against corruption-related conduct implemented a corruption risk management system based are also supported by a well-structured and comprehensive on several control tools to combat and prevent corruptionbody of corporate procedures, applicable where possible related behaviour that together constitute the system to all Group companies. These procedures govern the of policies adopted by Ansaldo STS in the fight against conduct of company transactions and operations so as to corruption. Among these tools, Ansaldo STS S.p.A. ensure the identification of the persons responsible for the considers particularly important its adoption of the decision-making and authorisation process and provide Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant traceability, enabling the identification, inter alia, of the to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, the body of reasons for the decisions made and the persons to be held corporate procedures and also the due diligence activities accountable for them. The corporate body of procedures carried out on the third parties with which Ansaldo STS specifically governs and defines those which, due to their deals. very nature or to the type of parties involved, including external parties, are potentially vulnerable to the risk of The main risk areas, including direct risks and the areas corruption. that could potentially facilitate acts of corruption, subject to the requirements of the Model, are mainly sales, contract In order to mitigate, inter alia, the risk of corruption, management, procurement, sites, administration, finance Ansaldo STS has defined, as a tool to combat this problem, and control, HR and soft loans. a process to assess the various types of third parties with whom it deals, both within the scope of business activities The Group's Code of Ethics serves as a tool to control and and for ordinary corporate operations. This process includes, mitigate corruption risk. Compliance with the principles and in view of the multiple risk profiles that can be associated rules of conduct contained therein enable Ansaldo STS and with the third parties involved, a range of assessment tools the Group companies to prevent certain illegal conduct or aimed at verifying, inter alia, the existence of potential offences including those that are corruption-related and as indicators of a high risk of corruption. required by the regulations of the various countries in which the Ansaldo STS Group operates from being committed In order to further equip itself with effective prevention by corporate representatives. In particular, through the Code tools against the occurrence of potential corruption-related of Ethics, the Company promotes and applies a corporate events, Ansaldo STS has launched a process at Group level culture inspired by responsibility, correctness and integrity in aimed at analysing its own corruption risk management the conduct of daily activities, paying maximum attention to system and to identify possible areas for improvement. This the professional conduct of its recipients. activity was carried out in compliance with the Company's international vocation and took into consideration the Best The above-mentioned Code of Ethics is complemented by Practices in this area and the main international Guidelines the Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant and Conventions concerning the prevention and fight against to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 approved by the corruption. To ensure the uniformity and completeness of Board of Directors of Ansaldo STS, which contains specific the risk management systems adopted by the Company, principles of conduct and control aimed at preventing and the activity was carried out in a fully integrated manner and mitigating the risk of committing corruption-related offences in full coordination with the risk management tools defined as set out by Italian Legislation and specifically referred to in pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. Articles 25 and 25-ter of Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The improvement initiatives identified at the end of the In order to ensure the comprehensive acknowledgement aforesaid analysis will refine the current corporate corruption of the Organisational, Management and Control Model risk management system, with a view to increasing the pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 by all effectiveness of the mitigation instruments that concern personnel, all employees receive a report whenever updates combating and preventing corruptive phenomena, including 124 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Customer satisfaction | Economic sustainability those at an international level. In this regard, Ansaldo STS • strengthening the existing monitoring tools and control has drawn on industry's best practices to support the mechanisms designed to control the corruption risk, and analysis described above. to define additional tools; • strengthening the tools for disseminating the elements of As a result of this analysis, Ansaldo STS is in the process, its corruption risk management system to its staff, and inter alia, of: improving its awareness and training. • refining its Corporate Governance system, by means of an extensive allocation of further specific roles and Finally, it should be noted that no cases of corruption responsibilities within the corruption risk management involving the Company and/or its employees were observed system, also from a Group perspective; during the year. Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is central to Ansaldo STS’s strategy: the ability to understand customers’ needs and expectations and meet them is the most important value upon which it bases its company culture. In general, each customer is assigned a specific contact at Ansaldo STS, generally the Project Manager overseeing its contract. The Project Manager is responsible To this end, the objective of project in recent years has entailed the for ensuring the customer is management is to protect the interests progressive shift from the provision satisfied, responding to any issues of Ansaldo STS’s stakeholders, of products and technologies to that might arise over the course of including shareholders, who are the increased customer demand for the contract. mainly focused on the results of the turn-key transportation solutions business, and its customers, who that efficiently meet the needs of The organisation of proposal and want to receive top quality responses local and national institutions. This project management activities is according to established schedules in new type of offer requires the ability fundamental to carrying out a project line with the transportation needs of a to support our customers, who that meets the quality requirements city or the community at large. are increasingly considered less as of the products and services offered buyers and more as partners, in the and ensures their provision according In this area, the most significant management of a project throughout to deadline and budget restrictions. development in market dynamics its entire life cycle. Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 125 Economic sustainability | Customer satisfaction Management of customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction (“CS”) activities are handled by all information and, twice a year, prepares a global a dedicated team made of the managers of the various analysis. This analysis is used as the basis to calculate departments: System Assurance & Control, Railways the “customer complaint” KPI. & Mass Transit Business Unit, Freight Business Unit, • Customer Satisfaction of Project Teams: customer Operations and HSE, Facility Management & Physical satisfaction is evaluated for each key project considering Security. the following main aspects: costs, planning, service quality and product quality. The Regional BU managers Customer Satisfaction activities take place at various stages gather the results of these surveys from the Project and are carried out using different tools to accurately monitor Managers. Finally, the CS Team checks the global the level of customer satisfaction and project status until the results and their consistency with expectations. completion of the project. These tools include: • Customer Satisfaction Reports: reports prepared • Customer Satisfaction Monthly Meeting: monthly twice a year by the Customer Satisfaction Process meetings via video-conferencing to discuss CS activities Owner. These reports summarise CS activities in the and reach decisions on the steps to be taken. period (CS of the Project Teams, complaints analysis • Customer Satisfaction Quarterly Reports: quarterly and focus on various projects) and are sent to the reports prepared with the support of the business unit Company’s top management. Such reports are included managers on projects where Customer Satisfaction is in the Management Review. critical. The Project Manager is responsible for reporting on critical points (in terms of planning, quality and costs) and the related mitigation action. A statistical analysis on Control of operational risks and opportunities the development of these critical points is attached to the related to projects report. Actions to mitigate risks and increase opportunities linked • Customer Satisfaction Survey: a series of one-onto the quality, timing and costs of projects include: one interviews with top representatives of a sample of • t he adoption of Project Risk Management processes, customers. The survey is carried out using a specific both during the bidding and project performance questionnaire. stages, to minimise the consequences of negative events and maximise the impact of positive events, CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY 2016 2017 through constant monitoring of risks, mitigation Number of customer satisfaction possibilities and opportunities; surveys received 8 7 • t he clear assignment of responsibilities to the Project Manager, project controller and project team; • t he periodic review of the project and the estimates •C  omplaints Management: the Project Managers are during the tendering phase; responsible for recording customers’ complaints, which • t he periodic monitoring and reporting of projects by the are sent each quarter to the Customer Satisfaction Risk Management department; Coordinator, until the complaint is resolved. The • t he independent review of key projects by the Risk Customer Satisfaction Team checks and records Management department. Customer communications Ansaldo STS communicates with its the operating units of customers service, staff training and workers’ customers and the market in general assigned to the performance safety at the sites. in order to contribute to the creation of contracts, the technical and of value, improving the way in which contractual supervisory bodies It pursues these objectives by the brand is perceived by the many appointed by customers or required creating a work community that can professionals who participate the by local legislation, professional adjust its response to the market decision-making process regarding industry associations and opinion in terms of timing and procedures investments and the main operating makers. by participating in trade fairs, activities. appearing in specialised publications The objective of technical and business with institutional and product Institutional communications target communication is to inform the various advertisements, along with articles the top management of major professionals who are most active detailing certain aspects, company national railway companies and the in areas such as qualification with publicity on the website, publishing public authorities of urban areas customers, design, implementation, leaflets and broadcasting of videos interested in transportation solutions, commissioning, approval, after-sales for sales and marketing. 126 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Customer satisfaction | Economic sustainability A year of events: tradeshows and advertising campaigns MONTH EVENT LOCATION March 2-4 EurasiaRail Istanbul 5-6 Smart Rail Europe Amsterdam April 25-26 MetroRail London 25-27 MetroLatam Lima 9-11 RailTex Birmingham May 15-17 UITP Montreal 16-19 RailExpo Teheran September 17-19 RSSI Indianapolis 3-5 Expoferroviaria Milan October 8-11 APTA Atlanta 10-12 Elmia Nordic Rail Jonkoping 6-8 CBTC World Congress Paris November 21-23 AusRail Brisbane For Ansaldo STS, the trade fair is without a doubt one of the most important sales and marketing tools, where privileged contact is made between the exhibitor company and the stakeholder. It is a strategic tool for being in the front line and for building customer relations. The following trade fairs are of particular note: APTA EXPO, Atlanta (Georgia) Expoferroviaria, Milan (Italy) For the first time, Ansaldo STS, Hitachi Rail Italy and Ansaldo STS attended the most important Italian trade Hitachi Vantara participated in the most important Mass fair in the Rail sector with a high-impact stand shared with Transit trade fair in the United States. colleagues from Hitachi Rail Italy. The event is attended by more than 12,000 leaders in Visitors and experts had access to special areas dedicated to over 75 countries, with over 800 exhibitors united in an meetings as well as an advanced virtual reality device made exhibition space extending for around 27 thousand square available by the Company, which enables users to explore metres. driverless Ansaldo STS stations throughout the world. During this event, Ansaldo STS was able to introduce ExpoFerroviaria was also the ideal occasion to present North American customers to products such as: CBTC, the Company’sproducts, technological innovations an Full System Capabilities, High Speed Rail, Switch business results achieved in the course of the last year to Machine, Central Office Solutions, MicroLok-Vipro and the audience of sector operators and experts attending the MTA Project. event. APTA EXPO, Atlanta Expoferroviaria, Milan Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 127 Economic sustainability | Customer satisfaction Advertising campaign 2017 Ansaldo STS recognises the close synergy between trade UNA-UK and FUTURE RAIL, while still retaining a shows and advertising, concentrating its advertisement presence in paper publications such as UIP MAGAZINE, spots in the periods immediately prior to the trade fairs The Official Journal of the UITP Summit, DOVE e CHI, and which, in turn, have been carefully studied and identified LIGURIA ECONOMY. according to a defined marketing plan. The advertising campaign implemented by Ansaldo STS In the context of an increasingly digital and dynamic aims to define the Company’s identity, constructing an world, Ansaldo STS has naturally adapted to and focused increasingly consolidated and instantly recognisable brand on online publications such as IRJ, RAILWAYGAZETTE, identity and aiming to promote the brand’s values through INGEGNERIA FERROVIARIA, CLIMATE 20 Witan Media a slogan. 128 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Relations with shareholders and members | Economic sustainability Relations with shareholders and members Ansaldo STS is listed on both the FTSE Mid Cap and STAR indexes, which include topranking companies that meet specific, binding requirements: high levels of transparency and disclosure, excellent liquidity and corporate governance in line with international standards. Ansaldo STS’s Corporate Governance System is designed to maximise value for its shareholders, monitor business risks and achieve transparency with the market, balancing the interests of all its shareholders and focusing particular attention on minor ones. Share capital As at year-end 2017, Ansaldo STS’s INVESTOR No. of shares % held subscribed and paid-in share capital HITACHI RAIL ITALY INVESTMENTS 101,544,702 50.772% amounted to EUR 100,000,000. The share capital is composed of PAUL E. SINGER 200,000,000 ordinary shares with (as a direct and indirect general partner in the a unit value of EUR 0.50. No other limited partnership Elliott International LP and the Liverpool Limited Partnership) 51,330,030 25.665% categories of shares or financial instruments convertible into or UBS 10,068,228 5.034% exchangeable with shares were issued. OVERALL LONG POSITIONS PAUL E.SINGER 63,588,837 31.794% In addition to relevant legal requirements, in each announcement UBS 10,085,623 5.043% Ansaldo STS has given great emphasis to the methods of the share capital increase, also providing explanations to shareholders and investors and verifying that the media and other entities have correctly presented the type of transaction. Investor relations Ansaldo STS’s main objective is to main point of contact with the financial On a quarterly basis, before the maintain ongoing dialogue with the community. financial results are released, the Italian and international financial Investor Relations department community, providing sensitive Total actual coverage generally requests that brokers who carry out information to the market in a timely remained unchanged compared to the security hedging activities provide their and transparent manner and ensuring previous year across 10 investment latest forecasts on the Company’s the correct valuation of the Company, banks; in particular, only five of them key performance indicators, and in line with its business model, kept up active involvement after the then calculates the averages. This strategies and targets. conclusion of Hitachi’s take-over bid represents an accurate update of on Ansaldo STS’s capital and the the sell-side analysts’ perception, This is why the Investor Relations entrance of the US fund Elliot in the which is discussed and considered department, which reports directly to shareholding structure, while the other by Company management. This the Chief Financial Officer, constantly five although they did not officially underscores the attention that Ansaldo meets with the financial community reject the coverage maintained a STS devotes to considering financial to gain an understanding of its more detached attitude while awaiting communications as a two-way information needs and to support future developments. street, recognising the importance of top management in communication gathering data on markets perception decisions. Some investment banks provide and suggestions, as well as disclosing periodic sector research and information. Various surveys with counterparties competitor analyses, which the Investor confirmed the overall positive opinion Relations department gathers, studies With regard to communication of the Investor Relations team’s work, and distributes internally, together with activities, the annual communication acknowledged as the Company’s the official market disclosures. plan is used to schedule and develop Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 129 Economic sustainability | Relations with shareholders and members Investor Relations activities, aimed In addition to the usual daily focus on gathered material and the related at promoting and communicating the “rumours”, major market news and analyses. Company’s market analyses, policies weekly news reports (IR NEWS), the and strategies. department periodically distributes The website, which features a specific in-depth analyses and updates on the area dedicated to all Investor Relations During the year, the Investor Relations performance of competitors, markets matters, continues to represent the department continued to support and main business sector analyses. main tool for the collection of financial Company Management by monitoring In 2017, an area was created on information and its distribution to and analysing the market and the the Intranet dedicated to the stakeholders. competitive scenario. internal sharing and distribution of Shareholders' Meeting Transparency and accuracy of Price sensitive communications to the information market The Investor Relations department also pursues its All Ansaldo STS information that can be defined as price mission by ensuring total transparency of communications sensitive (i.e. that could materially affect the share’s price and offering the market all the necessary information on the stock market and disclosed via Borsa Italiana’s to enable investors to base their decisions on NIS Network Information System) is subject to a standard complete, correct and timely information. Accordingly, procedure, revised again in 2016, that requires the all of the Company’s communications entail absolute Company’s External Communication department, which compliance with legislative and regulatory provisions, are is in charge of press releases, to work closely with the comprehensible, thorough, timely and offer consistent Investor Relations, Legal and In-House Communications disclosure to all investors. The external communication departments. of information regarding Ansaldo STS is performed exclusively by departments appointed for this purpose The Company issued 53 press releases in 2017. Ultimate and in accordance with the Company procedures aimed authorisation for the issue of press releases always lies with at ensuring the truthfulness and correct disclosure of such the Managing Director and CFO. information. 130 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Relazioni con soci e azionisti | Economic sustainability Share performance and analysts’ rating From 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017, the share On average, 112,750 shares were traded daily in the period price rose from EUR 11.84 to EUR 12.00, gaining a slight compared to 201,762 shares traded in 2016. This reduction increase of 1.4%. is a direct result of the reduction in free float. The share’s peak for the period and overall Company record In the period considered, the FTSE Italy All Share index of EUR 12.50 was recorded on 5 April 2017, while its low of and the FTSE Italy STAR index gained 15.5% and 34.7% EUR 10.78 was recorded on 4 September 2017. respectively. Share performance compared to the main indices (base 100) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. FTSE Italia All-Share FTSE Italia Star Price (indexed to 100) 150 140 +34.7% 130 120 +15.5% 110 +1.4% 100 90 80 70 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Shareholders' Meeting Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 131 Economic sustainability | Relations with banks and insurance institutions Relations with banks and insurance institutions Ansaldo STS aims to create true partnerships with leading banks in order to optimise the support it receives in its business activities, which are developing in ever more far flung countries and which thus pose difficulties and unique aspects in relation to finance and banking. As a result, the Company needs reliable banks, preferably with a local branch abroad, in order to support the various stages With a view to obtaining the utmost effectiveness of the operating process, from assessing tenders to setting up from the partnership relationship, Ansaldo STS local branches to finalise projects acquired. is aiming to standardise the consultation and discussion stage with all credit institutions as much Ansaldo STS’s strategy is therefore rooted in stable, wellas possible, both in terms of presenting projects established relations with banks, using a multi-product and in terms of negotiating pricing and special approach in order to avoid amassing specific businesses at terms and conditions for the financial instruments one bank while simultaneously achieving cost efficiency. required. Ansaldo STS has relationships with leading global banks, Ansaldo STS is increasingly focused on obtaining including: Intesa Sanpaolo, UniCredit, CitiGroup, ING, structured and definitive technical feedback from Credit Agricole, BNP Paribas, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, its credit institutions, along with an indicative Nordea, Saudi British bank, Riyad bank, Sumitomo, Bank economic offer that makes it possible to compare of Tokyo, Mizuho Bank and Deutsche Bank. Its “primary” the various solutions proposed. bank transactions relate to bank guarantees, bonds, project financing, documentary credits, treasury transactions, treasury management (liquidity, payment and collection management) and financial consultancy. Securities and bonds types and amounts Having recognised that the inability to obtain guarantees and insurance companies in favour of the beneficiary. could prevent contracts from being clinched with customers, Advance payment bonds are an extremely useful and Ansaldo STS has negotiated a set amount of credit lines in widespread guarantee instrument; these enable the order to support its bond and guarantee requirements and customer to recover payments made in advance or on promote business growth. account should the supplier breach the terms of the contract. In 2017 alone, the Company negotiated and obtained new credit lines for a total of EUR 863 million, which include the As at 31 December 2017, guarantees amounted to increase of existing lines with leading insurance companies in approximately EUR 3.406 billion. The main issuers were: the US (Zurich and Chubb) for a total of around EUR 520 million. • 25 banks (about 36% of the guarantee amounts were used); In terms of percentage, over 50% of guarantees issued for • 14 insurance companies (approximately 25% of the Group companies are indirect, i.e. issued through banks guarantee amounts were used). 132 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Methodological note Methodological note Ansaldo STS’ Sustainability Report at 31st December a clear definition of how the company interprets the 2017, in its 9th edition, has been prepared in accordance sustainability as related to the business sector to which with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards“ of the it belongs. Further, without losing an overall view, we Global Reporting Initiative, using the “in accordance – core” have tried to describe local initiatives, reporting the reporting option. features of the different markets (see “Our people” chapter and “Corporate Social Responsibility And In order to ensure the quality of the report, Ansaldo STS Communities” section). follows the reporting principles for defining report content •M  ateriality – To define the sustainability issues considered and quality in accordance with the GRI Standards, which relevant, Ansaldo STS carried out a new materiality provide a set of criteria to select the information to be analysis. The internal analysis, carried out by the included in the report and the related representation Sustainability Committee, assessed the different issues in methods. relation to the Company's performance, the possibility of increasing its reputation and competitive advantage and taking into consideration associated risks. The external Principles for defining report content analysis was characterized by a broad involvement of the stakeholders (82) belonging to the most significant • Stakeholder Inclusiveness – Various activities of categories for the Company. To facilitate a comparison stakeholder engagement were carried out, as described in between the Aspects defined by the GRI Standards and the Sustainability Topics chapter. the material Topics identified by Ansaldo STS, the following • Sustainability Context – In the paragraph table cross-references them, providing information about Sustainability at Ansaldo STS , we have tried to give any limitations regarding the aspect boundary too. LIMITATION REGARDING THE MATERIAL TOPIC IDENTIFIED BY MATERIAL ASPECTS ASPECT BOUNDARY ASPECT BOUNDARY ANSALDO STS GRI STANDARDS INSIDE OUTSIDE INSIDE OUTSIDE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Stakeholder engagement Group ANTICORRUPTION Anti-corruption Group SOCIAL INNOVATION Customer health and safety; Marketing and labeling Group Reporting scope partially HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational health and safety Group Suppliers extended to suppliers PEOPLE CARE Employment; Non discrimination Group CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC Economic performance; Market presence; Indirect Group VALUE economic impacts PEOPLE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Training and education Group ETHICAL MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY Procurement practices; Supplier environmental Reporting scope partially Group Suppliers CHAIN assessment; Supplier social assessment extended to suppliers DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Diversity and equal opportunities Group STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Reporting practices; Stakeholder engagement Group SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Governance Group INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR Environmental compliance; Customer health and Group ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND QUALITY safety Stakeholder engagement; Labour management SOCIAL DIALOGUE relations; Freedom of association and collective Group bargaining Human rights assessment; Child labor; Forced or Reporting scope partially PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS Group Suppliers compulsory labor; Rights of indigenous peoples extended to suppliers Reporting scope not ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy Group Suppliers extended to suppliers LOCAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT Local Communities Group PROGRAMS RAW MATERIAL CONSUMPTION AND Materials Group RECYCLING Reporting scope not MANAGEMENT OF EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Effluents and waste Group Suppliers extended to suppliers Reporting scope partially GHG EMISSIONS Emissions Group Suppliers extended to suppliers POLLUTING EMISSIONS Emissions Group WATER CONSUMPTION Water Group Napoli, Les Ulis BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION Biodiversity and Beatesburg sites Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 133 Methodological note • Completeness The report has been issued in order period 2016-2017. Where significant the comparison to give stakeholders a complete picture of Ansaldo STS’ covered the three-year period 20152017. Income activities. The scope of the report refers to the Group, as statement figures, expressed in Euros, have been indicated in the Annual Report at 31/12/2017. The issues translated at the exchange rates indicate in the 2017 relating to the environment, health and safety refer to consolidated financial statements. The scope of the subsidiaries’ sites that are considered as more significant, data is always indicated (in the text or within specific therefore representing 91% of employees of the entire notes), along with changes compared to previous years. Group, as specified in the “Environmental Performance” The report structure has undergone some changes to chapter. make it easier to read. • Accuracy Qualitative and quantitative financial information refer directly to the 2017 Consolidated Principles for defining report quality Financial Statements, while the accuracy of Environmental, health and safety data and information • Balance In describing the outcomes of Ansaldo STS’ come from certified management systems (ISO 14001 activities, we have sought to reflect both the positive and and OHSAS 18001). Social data have been mainly negative aspects (e.g. when reporting partially achieved extracted from Ansaldo STS’ operating systems. goals in 2017 compared with commitments undertaken) to Estimated data, as well as the formulas used are give a balanced view of the overall performance. explicitly indicated. The conversion rates used for the • Comparability To enable stakeholders to analyze calculation of direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) are those changes in the Group’s performance, the Sustainability defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Tool 2014 Report includes comparative data of the two-year and for indirect emissions (Scope 2) by the Greenhouse 134 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS Methodological note Gas Protocol Tool 2012 and 2014. The values relating Report of the independent auditors. The level of detail of to the calorific powers refer to the Table of standard information has been defined in order to make the report parameters used in the UNFCCC national inventory of comprehensible, accessible and usable by the various CO2 emissions (average values of the years 2014-2016) stakeholders. The document refers to the Group’s for the calculation of emissions from 1 January 2017 to website for certain matters, indicating the relevant 31 December 2017. web page address. The Sustainability Report will be • Timeliness The Sustainability Report is prepared distributed in a dedicated refurbished section within the annually. To better meet the informational needs of Group’s website. stakeholders, where material, events that occurred after •R eliability The 2017 Sustainability Report has been the reporting year end were also reported. approved by the Board of Directors and subjected • Clarity The report has been structured to make to limited assurance by an independent body (EY) in the information easily identifiable by stakeholders accordance with the criteria included in the principle (using icons for different sections and a navigation “International Standard on Assurance Engagements system). The 2017 Sustainability Report opens with 3000 – Assurance Engagement other than Audits or the sustainability pillars and the letter from the CEO Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (ISAE 3000 and General Manager, and includes seven sections: Revised), defined by the International Auditing and Company profile; Sustainability governance; Social Assurance Standard Board (IAASB). EY was involved Innovation; Our people; Corporate Social Responsibility in the various stages of the reporting process in order and Communities; The Environment, health and safety; to facilitate its review, in a constructive climate of Economic Performance. This document ends with collaboration. the Methodological Note, the Content Index and the Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 135 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General information Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services pp.8-9; 11-12; 41 102-3 Location of headquarters p.10 102-4 Location of operations pp.10; 16; 49; 92-93 102-5 Ownership and legal form p.129 102-6 Markets served pp.10; 16 102-7 Scale of the organization pp.7; 11; 16;49; 87; 105; 113 102-8 Information on employees and other workers pp.49-51 102-9 Supply chain pp. 105-111 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply p. 13-16 chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach pp.25-27; 37; 122 102-12 External initiatives p.31; 36 102-13 Membership of associations p.31 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp.2-3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities pp.24-27 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior pp.28-30 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pp. 30; 37; 122; 124-125 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure pp.116123 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, p.37 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and p.24-25; 32-33 social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its pp.117-118; 120 committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body p.117 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body p.119 102-25 Conflicts of interest p.121 136 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes pp.25-27; 122 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting p.37 102-35 Remuneration policies pp.59-60; 120 102-36 Process for determining remuneration p.59-60; 120 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio p.59 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p.32 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p.67 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pp.32-33; 73-76 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp.24; 33 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp.24-25; 126 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements p.10; 133-134 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p.24-25; 92-93; 133-134 102-47 List of material topics p.24-25 102-48 Restatements of information p.98 102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes with respect to the previous periods 102-50 Reporting period p.133 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 Sustainability Report has been published on August 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle p.135 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p.148 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards p.133 102-55 GRI content index pp.134-144 102-56 External assurance pp.145 147 Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 137 GRI Content Index Specific disclosures Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation Economic ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.114-115 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.35; 114-115; 122 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p.115 MARKET PRESENCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components p.59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.59 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared p.59 to local minimum wage INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.20; 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.73-76 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported pp.73-76 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components Ansaldo STS tends to procure materials, services and labour mostly on local markets, also with the aim to contribute to the development of local economies (e.g.: Honolulu Metro or Copenhagen Metro). 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 35; p.111 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers pp.52;107 When the project provides for several years of O&M, nearly 100% of personnel is local ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.124-125 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.124-125 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p.125 138 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation Environment MATERIALS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components p.44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91; 98. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p.98 No detailed information about raw materials other than packaging materials and chemicals is currently available. Furthermore, distinction between nonrenewable and renewable materials is not indicated. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.27; 43; 95-97 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.26-27; 90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p.96 302-3 Energy intensity p.96-97 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p.96 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and p.43 Calculation of the energy services consumption reductions is not currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components p.27; 99 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p.99 303-3 Water recycled and reused In general, Ansaldo STS does not have processes or production cycles that reuse water Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 139 GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation BIODIVERSITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components p.101 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent p.101 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.27; 93-95 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p.94 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p.94 Consumptions related to district heating have not yet been included in the calculation of Scope 2 emissions. Ansaldo STS undertakes to integrate the consumptions in the calculation form the next reporting cycle. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p.95 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p.95 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other p.98 significant air emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.27; 100-101 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp.100-101. Hazardous No detailed information waste is treated by external about disposal methods is specialised agencies that currently available. Ansaldo pick it up directly from the STS undertakes to collect company data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future 140 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.89-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.90-91. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations During 2017 there were no fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.21; 108-111 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.111 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental pp.108-110 criteria Social EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.19; 48; 52; 61;65 ; 66 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 25-26; 34; 48; 52; 61; 66 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover pp.53-54 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not pp.61-64 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave pp.66 It was not possible to take into account the leave granted in 2016 with return in 2017 or the leaves granted in 2017 with return in 2018. Ansaldo STS will in future undertake to collect the data necessary for the full coverage of the indicator LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components p.67-68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.34; 67-68 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes p.68 No detailed information about minimum number of weeks’ notice in the various Countries where the Company operates is currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 141 GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.102-103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.25-26; 35. Regarding the management system the management approach assessment is carried out yearly during the management review 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– p.103 Calculation of the percentage worker health and safety committees required by the indicator is not currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, p.103 No detailed information about lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related breakdown of injury rates fatalities by gender and geographical region occupational disease rate absentee rate is currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements p.67.In most countries in with trade unions which Ansaldo STS operates, national labour agreements govern workers’ health and safety. In Italy, these aspects are included in the national labour agreement. The aspects covered by such agreements relate, inter alia, to the following: •o ccupational health and safety risk assessment; •p revention and management of emergencies; •e nvironmental protection; •m onitoring of anti-injury data; •p roposing new initiatives to update workers on any specific risks and/ or issues relating to site environmental impacts 142 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.55-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp.25-26; 34; 57 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p.55 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition pp.55-56 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance p.57 and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITYNON-DISCRIMINATION – FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING – CHILD LABOR – FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR – RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT – LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 19-20; 26; 28-31; 35-36; 73-76; 77; 119. Ethical Code 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ethical Code p.14 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pp.49-54; 58-59; 65; 119 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p.59 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No discrimination was noted 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Ansaldo STS does not have association and collective bargaining may be at risk suppliers or activities believed to present risk of limitations to freedom of association 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Ansaldo STS does not have child labor suppliers or activities believed to present risk of child labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Ansaldo STS does not have forced or compulsory labor suppliers or activities believed to present risk of forced labour 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous During 2017 there were no peoples violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures p.77 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact p.73-76; p.85 Calculation of the percentage assessments, and development programs required by the indicator is not currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future Ansaldo STS | 2017 Sustainability Report 143 GRI Content Index Cross-reference/ Omission/Reason/ Direct answer Explanation SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.21; 108-111 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.111 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria pp.108-110 Calculation of the percentage required by the indicator is not currently available. Ansaldo STS undertakes to collect data needed to fully cover the indicator requirements in the future CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary pp.24-25; 133 103-2 The management approach and its components pp.19; 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.42 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product p.42 and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and There were no cases of nonsafety impacts of products and services compliance related to service and products health and safety impacts. 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and p.42 There is a methodology Calculation of the percentage labeling in place to control safety required by the indicator risks, and it is in line with is not currently available. regulations and standards Ansaldo STS undertakes (which are “labelled” on the to collect data needed to product) applicable to all fully cover the indicator products and systems requirements in the future 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There were no case of nonservice information and labeling compliance due to product and service labelling. 144 2017 Sustainability Report | Ansaldo STS For information on the Sustainability Report, please contact: Registered Office: Via Paolo Mantovani, 5 16151 Genoa Italy E-mail: andrea.razeto@ansaldo-sts.com External Communications Department: Tel. no. +39 010 655 2068 Fax no. +39 010 655 2055 This Sustainability Report has been prepared with the contribution and coordination of Andrea Razeto Vice President Institutional Affairs, External Relations and Communication Ansaldo STS External Communications Dept. and Ulderigo Zona Sr Vice President HSE & Facility Management, Supply Planning, Construction & Maintenance Alfredo Tommasone HSE Coordinator Major Entity Italy HSE Manager Ansaldo STS HSE & Facility Management Dept. The 2017 Sustainability Report is available online at: www.ansaldo-sts.com Advisors on procedures and reporting: Studio Badalotti per il Bilancio Sociale S.r.l. Strategic concept, Graphic design and Realisation: www.mercuriogp.eu Respecting the environment, Ansaldo STS has printed this Sustainability Report on paper produced from responsibly managed forests, according to FSC® criteria (Forest Stewardship Council®) Printed in July 2018 ANSALDO STS S.p.A. Registered Office: 16151 Genoa Via Paolo Mantovani, 3 5 Paid-in Share Capital Euro 100,000,000 R.E.A. n. 421689 Register of Enterprises of Genoa Tax Code 01371160662 www.ansaldo-sts.com A Hitachi Group Company
