COPCSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 ID® IDENTITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT CSR is about taking responsibility for We focus on well-designed products the impacts of an enterprise on people produced in materials ensuring a long and the environment. Therefore, lifespan to reduce environmental it is essential for ID® Identity as a impacts. The choice of environmentally company to take care of the social and friendly materials and manufacturing environmental challenges by actively processes is integrated into design and taking the necessary responsible choices development processes. The cooperation to contribute with goods that are ethically with our suppliers is based on mutual and responsibly produced. respect for the fundamental human rights and working conditions. We seek to ID® Identity has always practiced CSR influence our manufacturers to live and and, from the outset, emphasized to be integrate these throughout their supply a supplier that does things properly and chain. thus responsibly wherever in the world the goods are produced. This is our first annual statement describing the actions and achievements 2017 was the year in which ID® Identity we are working with to integrate Global decided to join the membership of Compact and the Ten Principles into our Thomas Husted, CEO UN Global Compact to recognize and business strategy. We will continue our comply with the Ten Principles. Today work with CSR to ensure a continued the principles are an integrated part of progress. the CSR strategy and we can therefore confirm that our activities are based on This statement will be available to our the Ten Principles in the areas: Human stakeholders and other interested. rights, Labour rights, Environment and Corruption. COP PRODUCTS At ID® Identity we offer more than fabrics and accessories, which we know sustainable production and not causing products to our customers. We offer will provide the product with the needed pollution or damage. solutions to cover the need of our strength to meet our demands for longcustomers best possible and more. lasting features. We choose forwarders, who support our Our solutions cover from products requirements and who have a clear social and marketing to warehousing and When working with selections of fabric cooperate responsibility strategy. transportation. and accessories, we also take great care We have great respect for the to ensure that our products are produced When signing our Quality Manual our requirements from our customers, and in an environmental and sustainable suppliers confirm to comply with REACH we take great pride in honoring the manner and not least produced with regulation not using forbidden or harmful requirements. respect for the human and labour rights substances or leaving any residue in the and without use of harmful chemicals or final garments. As a textile company we have an substances. important obligation to develop products with respect for the environment and for We use international standards to test the human rights and the labour rights and evaluate all our products to make in the countries, where the products are sure thee meet not only our expectations being manufactured. We follow the ILO and requirements but also those of our Core Conventions and support the Ten customers. Principles of the UN Global compact. We always conduct wash and wear tests for all new products besides testing all ACTIONS the properties of the products with the When designing our products, the main Bureau Veritas. ACHIEVEMENTS GOALS FOR goal is to create products with a longIN 2017/2018: 2018/2019: lasting usability to minimize the need Furthermore, we also set a standard 1 4 1 for new products and hence reduce the for packaging and transportation of the waste of products being thrown out after products. Our aim is using materials end-use. Therefore, we carefully select supporting an environmental and Oeko-Tex certificates on 95 % of our Recycled polyester from PET bottles and We will continue to work ensuring a core basic products. 3 out of our 5 subsimilar waste reduces the need of virgin sustainable production of our products product categories are 100% Oeko-Tex oil and reduces the CO2 emission to and be environmentally responsible. 100 certified. protect our environment. 2 5 2 Obtained EU Ecolabel certificate using BCI The tests are a tool to maintain our We are in a development process with a cotton and recycled polyester. Purpose of quality level and to ensure our products range of Ecolabel certified products. EU Ecolabel is to reduce environmental meet our aim for long product lifetime. impact during production and use, to limit use of hazardous substances and to promote high quality and user properties. 6 3 Creating sustainable products. Test of products We will keep on ensuring our core basic Our basic products from Bangladesh are products are Oeko-Tex certified. 3 tested in Bureau Veritas once every year towards our products requirements. The Better Cotton initiative to make 4 a global cotton production better for We will create overview for certificates the people who produce it and better obtained by our supply chain; related to for the environment where the cotton environmentally and socially responsible COP grows. Farmers are trained to use water certificates. efficiently and to take care about the soil, to reduce the use of harmful chemicals like pesticides and to apply decent work. PROCUREMENT Acknowledge the responsibility we have as an actor in the textile industry known both partners the possibility of growth, improvements and security in all aspects We take pride in contributing to the improvements made since the ACCORD ACHIEVEMENTS GOALS FOR to represent risks towards human and of the business relationship. was started. IN 2017/2018: 2018/2019: labour right and the environment in the production of our products. We need as a ACTIONS Most of our products are manufactured company to identify and address the risks in all aspects of our business. Based on our commitments we have set up Code of Conduct in our Quality in countries, where risks are possible. Here our cooperation with amfori BSCI 1 1 4 Manual. All our suppliers are obligated is a great help for both us and our All suppliers have signed our Quality We update our Quality Manual yearly We will work to develop due diligence Our ambition is doing business with to read, sign and implement our Quality suppliers auditing the place of production Manual and Code of Conduct. according to change in regulations and processes more clearly than today in suppliers who have equal commitments Manual and Code of Conduct before according to the amfori BSCI Code of to inform our continuous work with order to identify, prevent, mitigate and as ID® Identity towards social, production can proceed. If required we Conduct. Regular visits in the different sustainability. remedy potential or adverse impacts in environmental and ethical sustainability. help our suppliers understand, improve places of production and direct talks with our supply chain. and comply with the requirements. management promote the understanding The frame work of ID® Identity is based on the ILO conventions and the Ten ID® Identity has been member of amfori BSCI for several years and expect our for the requirements and hence needed improvements and creating a mutual 2 2 5 Principles of UN Global Compact. It’s suppliers to work with the certification understanding for the development of our goal to influence our employees system or other similar certification substantiality and general growth. We will keep on working with We will introduce a self-assessment and business partners to respect the systems such as SEDEX or SA8000. our suppliers to comply with our document for suppliers who are new Universal Declaration on Human and requirements and to encourage them to potential suppliers and not engaged with Labour Rights and the environmental We have also signed the Bangladesh do improvements. For suppliers who not BSCI or hold other valid certificates. The protection. ACCORD on fire and building safety. yet has joined the BSCI platform, we will document will be confirmed during visit With this we are committed to source have dialogue about the possibility for by our purchase department. We trust in long-term partnerships with in Bangladesh and to support the them to join and to create a long-lasting our suppliers. A partnership providing implementation of requirements. cooperation. 3 6 We will work with our suppliers who All suppliers representing 2 % or more are in the not acceptable level about of BV must join the amfori BSCI platform 90 % of BV (buying volume) are with remediation plans to increase the needed (or similar). Suppliers below 2 % of BV are suppliers in an acceptable level in BSCI improvements to achieve acceptable encouraged to join the platform within work, but still we have 8 % of the BV level. 2 years if BV is raising. Until that point placed with suppliers without BSCI they need to fulfill the self-assessment audit. We know the 8 % is not our core document in order to be a possible products. 2 % of our BV are not in an supplier. acceptable level. . COP PEOPLE People are one of the most important resources for ID® Identity, both internally and and a health insurance and the possibility of including their family. Every morning ID® these. The amfori BSCI is the other tool we use to be sure that our suppliers respect ACHIEVEMENTS through out our supply chain. We take our Identity provides bread and fruit and all and comply with the principal rights of IN 2017/2018: responsibility seriously and has incorporated through the day free coffee, tea and water. their workers. The ACCORD in Bangladesh 1 4 the responsibility in our daily processes also helps to secure remediation and and actions. We want our customers and their customers to feel confident when Every 3rd. year a written APV (Workplace evaluation) is conducted, running APVs are support worker participation and training programmes. 2 doing business with us, knowing that the also held to secure updates for workplace and We continuously work on improvements Our employees are informed about the All our suppliers have signed Code of fundamental human and labour rights always the environment. All employees have the right Most of our suppliers are long-term suppliers concerning the health and security of our strategy of the company by management Conduct. are of highest concern for ID® Identity. to a yearly talk about wages and a personal with whom we meet regularly and visit the employees. We want our employees to currently and financial figures are interview. A safety committee mannered by actual place of production, this way we also do their best every day and what better published every month to keep an open 5 ID® Identity supports the fundamental human employee and management takes care about see for ourselves how the conditions appear. way to achieve this than providing good and clear information level rights and we distance ourselves from any the safety and environmental issues in the Though the BSCI audits we get insight and the and secure employment. form of discrimination due to race, religion, gender, age or handicaps. company and conducts regular meeting. possibility to help our suppliers to improve if needed. It’s our aim to conduct business in 3 In Bangladesh we support a local school Externally; As we don’t have any factories of a way which gives benefit for our customer We have Oeko-Tex certificate for 95 % of and secure the schooling for 24 pupils. Diversity in our workforce is considered a our own, the Code of Conduct and our quality and suppliers and with secure growth for all our core products. strength, therefore there are equal terms manual are tools to inform our suppliers parties involved. regardless of country of origin, gender or about the human and labour rights, all other special conditions. suppliers must read, sign and comply with We strive to make sure that neither we or any GOALS FOR of our business partners are prohibiting the right to association and collective bargaining 2018/2019: or complicit with forced labour, child labour and human trafficking. 1 3 5 We will keep on working with our Further work with the due diligence We will monitor sickness and absences in ACTIONS suppliers and encourage them to do processes to identify, prevent, mitigate our workforce as part of our improving Internally; All new employees receive the improvements. For suppliers who not yet and remedy. actions. Employee Handbook, the handbook specifies has joined the BSCI platform, we will have how employees should act towards customers, dialogue about the possibility for them suppliers and colleagues to maintain the human rights but also to secure good and to join. 4 6 ethical ways for talking, writing and acting. All employees are offered a pension scheme 2 We will keep on the continuous work to improve working conditions for our We will continue to support the local school in Bangladesh. Suppliers who don’t have worked out employees. sufficient remediation plans will have more follow up and further dialogue to improve. COP ENVIRONMENT The aim of ID® Identity is to conduct a responsible environmental business, sorting of waste, printing habits and always looking for new ways of being We participate in networking meetings with teaching of chemical restrictions ACHIEVEMENTS we support environmentally friendly environmentally friendly. and environmental issues to improve our IN 2017/2018: technologies and products and raw knowledge and provide the important materials. An environmental approach in the textile industry is needed as the In 2013 ID® Identity moved to a new headquarter in Holstebro. The new knowledge to our supply chain in order to avoid the use of harmful substances. 1 4 6 industry is known for the possibility headquarter is aimed to be a sustainable of negative impacts during the construction, where the light and Transportation is another key area, here We sort all our cartons, paper and plastic We work continuously to update our We buy recycling paper for office use. manufacturing of raw materials and final heating is controlled automatically and we always try to consolidate our shipping for recycling. knowledge on environmental issues and products and the transportation. controlled in relation to the weather. ID volumes and avoid too much goods add those to our Quality Manual and Our company policy is based on common has converted 100 % of our electricity purchase to renewable and CO2 neutral needed to be shipped by air. We choose to work with forwarders, who also have 2 implement the needed information and actions into our supply chain. 7 sense, our producers are to understand and see the effect of continuous energy produced by Danish wind power. an environmentally friendly approach to their business. We use FSC carton for sending goods to 5 Air shipments have been reduced improvements of the environmental ACTIONS our customers and reuse cartons when compared to previous year. conditions in the supply chain. We sort all our waste and have In our daily work we also take care for possible. We have minimized the different kind of procedures for the waste sorting. We office supplies to be from recyclable packing material when sending to our We emphasize in our Code of Conduct mainly work with products which are sources when possible. 3 customers. that we aim to work with producers, who covered by Oeko-Tex 100 certificate or focuse and strive to minimize the burden where the raw materials are covered by During the process of developing new We have Oeko-Tex certificate for 95 % of on the environment. This balanced the certificate. products, a number of samples are our core products. to their financial, geographical and always produced, which can’t be sold as innovative possibilities. The suppliers are All suppliers have signed our Quality actual ID products to our customers, so also assets by amfori BSCi for their work Manual and hereby confirming their we donate these to different kinds of with environmental sustainability. compliance with our Requirements for charity. All employees are introduced to our chemical restrictions and compliance environmental policy among other things with REACH restrictions. GOALS FOR 2018/2019: 1 2 5 We will keep on sorting our cartons, We have also removed our logo print We will consider the possibility of paper and plastic for recycling. Due to from polybags in order to reach the 98/2 recycling further subjects e.g. damaged new regulations with our waste disposal purity of plastic for recycling. clothes and IT equipment. We have 3 company, we don’t expect we will be able received several suggestions, but until to gather the same amount of plastic now not found solutions, which are truly as in 2017. But we have already taken environmentally friendly. measures to change our plastic type, We will ask our supplier to use FSC so it will be recyclable in the course of cartons when shipping goods to us. 6 2018/2019. 4 We will keep on participating in arrangements, which can help us to We expect to have an Ecolabelling obtain further environmentally friendly collection ready during 2019. knowledge. COP GOALS FOR ACHIEVEMENTS 2018/2019: IN 2017/2018: 1 1 Risk assessment for possible areas of All suppliers have signed Code of Conduct corruption or bribery. and hereby confirmed not to accept any kind of corruption or bribery. 2 2 Policy for anticorruption to be a part of No signs of corruption or bribery have employee handbook. been noticed. ANTI CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are known as ID Identity counteract all forms and we barriers to sustainable development and will affect our business partners to follow the free trade. the same conviction. ID® Identity has a zero-tolerance for ACTIONS corruption, bribery and extortion, all ID® Identity doesn’t offer, promise or business needs to be conducted in an ask for bribery or other unethically open, honest and ethical manner; no advantages to obtain or keep business matter where in the world the business is possibilities or advantages. taking place. Employees are not allowed to receive or No employee may offer, promise, give improper gifts in connection with authorize or receive any bribe, kickban or their work. Neither do we pay any kind other illicit payment. of protection money to obtain favorable terms. COP Actions Achievements 2017/2018 Goals 2018/2019 ENVIRONMENT Waste management Total per employee Total Per employee PRODUCTS Development of 95% of core basic product have 95% of our core products have OekoCarton for recycling 2.113 kg Carton for recycling 2155 kg. environmental friendly Oeko-Tex 100 certificate. Tex 100 certificate. Paper for recycling 124 kg Paper for recycling 126 kg. products. Plastic for recycling 114 kg Plastic for recycling 60 kg. Obtained Ecolabelling certificate. Collection of Ecolabels products We send 95% of our waste for A drop in 2018/2019 is expected due to Long usability and lifespan completed. recycling. new way of sorting plastic. PROCUREMENT Code of Conduct (CoC) All suppliers have signed CoC All suppliers to signed CoC Energy consumptions Total per employee Total per employee -Wind energy reduced by 6,40% -Wind energy – 2 % reduction Quality Manual (QM) All suppliers have signed QM All suppliers to signed QM -Water reduced by 22,50% -Water 1% reduction. Heat increased by 0,25% Heat 0,50% reduction. Amfori BSCI 92% of our suppliers audited by 93% of our suppliers to be audited by BSCI. BSCI Oeko-Tex 100 certificate 95% of core basic product have 95% of core basic product have OekoOeko-Tex certificate. Tex certificate. 8% are not member of BSCI 7% not member of BSCI Ecolabel collection 2% of the audited suppliers are not Reduce suppliers at not acceptable Started development of collection Completed the collection in acceptable level level to 1% Transfers 10-15% of the transfers purchased Purchase of waterbased transfers will ACCORD (Bangladesh) All suppliers have signed the All suppliers must have signed the is waterbased. raise by 2% ACCORD ACCORD IT equipment All sales coordinators have 2 From 2018 printers and the Selfaassessment Selfassessment scheme to be screens to reduce need of printing consumption will be monitored. developed. Air shipments Air shipment have generally been PEOPLE Diversity of workforce 45% of employees were women. Equal level of employed women, white approved since the year before and As we already have had great focus White collar employees: and blue collar are expected. is this year below 2% of the total at the air freight, the expectations 13% men and 5% women. freight for further reduction is limited, so we Blue collar employees: hope we can reduce to below 1,5% of 42% men and 41% women. the total freigt 2 senior citizens employed in special Continuous employment of 2 senior Investigate new possibility for further senior citizen scheme. citizens. recycling processes. APV results APV audit 2017 showed 7 APV report finalized, evaluation and suggestions for improvements for improvements will be conducted. ANTICORRUPTION Code of Conduct (CoC) All suppliers have signed CoC All suppliers to sign CoC working conditions and a positive statement from new employee. No detected signs of corruption or Policy for anticorruption to be a part of Workplace evaluation is conducted bribery employee’s handbook. Health and security 2 risks identified, action plans for running and minimum with APV. both cases developed All have health insurance after Health insurance All have health insurance after 9-month employment. 9-month employment. All suppliers to signed CoC Code of conduct All suppliers have signed CoC COP ID® | LÆGÅRDVEJ | 138 7500 HOLSTEBRO | +45 9749 2144 | ORDER@ID.DK VISIT US AT WWW.ID.DK ID, THE ID IDENTITY LOGO, ID TECH ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE COMPANY REXHOLM A/S © 2018 REXHOLM ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
