Annual Report 2017/18 Focus where it matters. ELEKTA 2017/18: STRONG ORDER GROWTH AND NET SALES DEVELOPMENT 2017/18 was a strong year for Elekta. Sustainable business processes were established as well as a solid platform for future profitable growth. Order intake increased by 5 percent based on constant exchange rates. The adjusted EBITA margin im­proved to 19 percent, while maintaining a low level of working capital and strengthening cash flow significantly. Note that growth numbers until page 13 is generally based on constant exchange rates. All regions reported growth in order We continue to have a positive view intake for the year. Strong focus on exeof the market moving forward in all cution as well as ongoing improvement regions. activities ensured a growth of 9 percent Elekta Unity continued its positive in North and South America. Also, Europe trend with eight new orders booked saw good development with 4 percent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year growth, supported by Elekta Unity and 28 systems are booked in total. orders. In Asia Pacific, Elekta achieved The project reached an important milegrowth of 2 percent in order intake. stone with CE-marking in June 2018. +5% growth in gross order intake +8% growth in net sales 19% EBITA margin 2017/18 +6% growth in installed base of treatment solutions CASH FLOW NET SALES ADJUSTED EBITA from operating activities rolling 12 months rolling 12 months1) rolling 12 months SEK M SEK M SEK M 12 000 12,000 2 400 2,400 2 400 2,400 11 000 11,000 1 800 1,800 1 800 1,800 10,000 10 000 1,200 1 200 1,200 1 200 9,000 9 000 600 600 8,000 8 000 0 0 15/16 16/17 17/18 15/16 16/17 17/18 15/16 16/17 17/18 1) Before items affecting compara­ bility and bad debt losses. CONTENTS Company presentation Elekta in brief 2 CEO statement 5 Strategy Outlook 8 Strategy 10 Value creation 12 Offering 15 Oncology informatics 18 Treatment solutions 20 Service and support 25 Markets Macro environment 27 Geographic regions 28 Corporate responsibility 35 Fight cancer 38 Business ethics 40 Sustainable sourcing 43 People in focus 46 Statutory sustainability report 35–49 Corporate governance report 50 The share 64 Five-year review and key figures 66 Financial reports Board of Directors´ report 69 Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 76 Consolidated balance sheet 78 Changes in consolidated equity 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 82 Financial statements – Parent Company 84 Notes 86 Board of Directors’ signatures 113 Auditor’s report 114 Glossary 117 Definitions 119 Alternative performance measures 120 Regulatory status of products tations about future events. Although the expectations described in these statements This document presents Elekta’s product portfolio. Certain products or functionality are assumed to be reasonable, there is no guarantee that such forward-­looking statedescribed may be works in progress and/or pending regulatory approval for certain ments will materialize or are accurate. Because these statements involve assumptions markets. and estimates that are subject to risks and uncertainties, results could differ materially from those set out in the statement. Certain of these risks and uncertainties are Forward looking statements described further in the section Risks on pages 72–73. Elekta undertakes no obligation This report includes forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, stateto publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new ments relating to operational and financial performance, market conditions, and information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or stock exchange other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on current expecregulation. Who we are 120 4,000 Pioneers in precision radiation medicine We are driven by generating value sales in over installed base of for our customers and ultimately 120 countries treatment systems help clinics and hospitals to improve and save the lives of more 3,700 ~12% patients. Our commitment is built on a combination of curiosity, innovation and proximity to our customers. We are proud that we are the leading innovator in precision radiation medicine. employees globally share of net sales invested in R&D year 2017/18 Our values We work collaboratively and inclusively together. WE WORK AS Only then can we truly focus on getting things Elekta’s corporate culture is based ONE TEAM done for our customers. on openness, corporate responsibility and the company’s values. Our values act as motivation and We act with accountability and integrity, inspiration for our employees, WE DO WHAT taking personal and collective responsibility managers and for the organization WE SAY to make the right things happen. as a whole. WE KEEP We believe things can always be more efficient THINKING and effective: our innovative spirit and FORWARD resourcefulness keep us ahead of the game. 2 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 What we do Our creation of value Customer focus, innovation and efficient processes provide the basis to meet the expectations of customers, employees and society. This also forms the basis for Elekta’s corporate social responsibility and value creation for shareholders. GLOBAL VALUE CREATED Act as an Sustain a +37% MEGATRENDS innovation competitive Individualized care, leader cost-base increasing digitalization, growing demands for effishare price increase last ciency and a rising number twelve months of cancer patients Precision STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS radiation medicine Strategic enablers +8% net sales growth Continuously +3 Customers, patients, improve our processes shareholders, employees and other key stakeholdElevate the ers have high expectations customer ppts. adjusted EBITA Live our for Elekta experience values margin improvement World-class treatment solutions Elekta’s innovations, developed in close collaboration with researchers and clinics, have resulted in leading solutions for various forms of radiation therapy of cancer and treatment Software solutions Linac portfolio Neurosurgery portfolio of neurological conditions, as well as information systems that optimize and individualize cancer care. Brachytherapy portofolio MR Radiotherapy Service and support Corporate responsibilities Fight Business Cancer Ethics Elekta’s responsibilities include our susners and pursue our responsibilities tainability initiatives, which ultimately through four distinct focus areas for aim to improve, extend and save more sustainable business. Sustainable People in lives. We collaborate with strategic partSourcing Focus Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 3 Why it matters We help to save more lives Elekta works strategically in the fight against one of the leading causes of death in the world, cancer. As one of the industry’s principal global players, we are active in making a difference by helping more patients to live a better and longer life. In parallel, Elekta’s long-term business strategy helps to create conditions for profitable and sustainable growth. Every year, more than 15 million people are diagnosed with cancer1. At the same time, almost 9 million people die from their cancer disease, most in low and middle-income countries. As the total cost of the global cancer burden is estimated at an astronomical SEK 10,000 billion, it is difficult for the healthcare systems to offer everyone cost-effective and high-quality cancer care. Progress that makes a difference In many areas of the world, a cancer diagnosis no longer care to as many people as possible, and the development of means the end of life. Modern tools for diagnosing and cutting-edge solutions for treating the most complicated treating cancer are often both powerful and effective. For forms of cancer. Elekta, the continued development of treatment solutions forms the core of everything we do. We look upon the fight Together with others against cancer as an integrated component of our business Elekta has an important role to play in the fight against strategy and strive for continued growth for both business cancer. We do this together with others: political decision-­ reasons and in order to help more people. We work actively makers, voluntary organizations, strategic partners and to achieve a good balance between offering cost-effective with society at large. Though we mainly achieve this together with the oncology clinics and the customers we NUMBER OF NEW CANCER CASES cooperate with. We are therefore active in development Millions projects that, together with leading clinics and the contin25 25 uum of care’s principal stakeholders, aim to create the best 20 20 possible conditions for global cancer care. As part of efforts to set targets for, systemize and struc15 15 ture our contribution to better global cancer care, Elekta is 10 10 investing resources in the focus area Fighting Cancer, within the scope of the company’s responsibilities. Read more 55 about this work on pages 38–39. 00 2010 2012 2015 2020E 2025E 2030E 2035E 1) World Health Organization, Factsheet 2018 Total Men Women Source: Globocan 2012 http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs297/en/ 4 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 Where we’re going CEO STATEMENT High pace in innovation drives customer value and our growth A strong 2017/18, with growing order intake and positive margin development, created a platform for long-term, profitable growth. The CE-marking of our revolutionary Elekta Unity system in Europe in June 2018 solidifies our position as the industry’s leading innovator and pioneer in precision radiation medicine. I see this as the next generation radiation therapy system that will significantly improve the care for patients worldwide. It is through committed employees, our focus on leadership and save the lives of 1.5 million patients per year. Our sysand organization, and our sustained high pace of innovation tems are sold in more than 120 markets around the world. that we ensure we can continuously develop our customer offering and strengthen our customer relationships. And in Vision for precision radiation medicine doing so, secure a strong company delivering long-term An aging and growing global population is resulting in a profitable growth. steady long-term increase in the number of cancer cases. We are operating in a market where global demand for At the same time, technological progress is creating opporradiation therapy solutions are increasing. Our net sales tunities for increasingly precise, efficient and individualized grew by a healthy 8 percent and the adjusted EBITA margin cancer care. We always have the patient in focus in all our improved by 3 percentage points to 19 percent for fiscal year product development initiatives. 2017/18. In parallel, we maintained a low level of working Elekta’s inherent, innovative strength fuels the developcapital and achieved the strongest cash flow in Elekta’s hisment of what I refer to as precision radiation medicine. This tory. Our global installed base of treatment systems has comprises two elements: the opportunity to target radiagrown by 6 percent year on year. This forms the basis for our tion therapy with extreme precision in a way that was previservice business, which provides stable and recurring reveously impossible; and the ability to leverage the potential of nues over time. I am also pleased to see that our share price enormous data volumes using intelligent automation, which has increased by 37 percent (growth from July 2017) as well improves the treatment processes, the ease of use, and in as the proposed dividend by 40 percent. the end, the quality of life for patients. Our employees execute on the strategy Focus on corporate responsibility The key to these strong results is our employees’ decisiveness As a company and as individuals, we act responsibly in everyand ability to implement all of the crucial changes we have thing we do. During the year, Elekta became a signatory to made to the company’s processes and structure during the the UN Global Compact and Elekta’s support of the Sustainyear. This includes cost awareness in our global teams, manable Development Goals is a matter of course. Internally, we agement of structural changes in the production and supply have identified four focus areas that form the foundation of chain, and the capability to constantly improve our proour sustainability strategy. Over the past year, we have concesses and operations. Through our values – we work as one ducted a comprehensive project aimed at defining our goals team, we do what we say and we keep thinking forward – and how we can achieve them. This is important for Elekta we have strengthened our organization while also investing and I know that whatever we measure will also be followed in major innovations that enable our customers to improve up and implemented. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 5 CEO STATEMENT “The key to our strong results are our employees” Unity breaks new ground Growth in focus In June, Elekta Unity was CE-marked in the European marWe expect the conditions in our markets to remain favorket. It is the only system in the world that integrates the able in the current year. We will focus on the commercializasuperior, diagnostic quality of a high-field MRI system with tion of Elekta Unity in parallel with investment in new generan advanced system for precision radiation therapy. I am ations of software and treatment systems. We expect a convinced that Elekta Unity will fundamentally revolutionize total growth in net sales of around 7 percent, based on conradiation therapy while confirming Elekta as the unconstant currencies, and an EBITA margin of around 20 percent +7% tested innovation leader in precision radiafor fiscal year 2018/19. In conclusion, I would tion medicine. I believe that our new syslike to say that I am very proud of the committem will help a large and growing number ment shown by all of our employees and would of patients to have a better and longer life. therefore like to extend my sincere and warmElekta is an innovation company, distinest gratitude for all of their hard work over the guished by growth, and we will continue net sales growth past year. We have come a long way and our substantial innovation initiatives. Onefifth of our employees work in research and target for year 2018/19 achieved a great deal that will strengthen us on our journey of profitable growth. I look development. Our concept of success is ahead with confidence to a year in which we based on our innovation activities being conducted in close can together become even stronger, continue to evolve as a collaboration with our customers. I would therefore like to company, develop even better solutions for our customers extend my appreciation to our partner clinics who have conand ultimately help more patients live a better life. tributed their expertise and knowledge. Cooperation with our customers is a natural element of Elekta’s strategy – today and in the future. Richard Hausmann President and CEO 6 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 EMPLOYEES I would like to thank my 3,700 colleagues around the world for the great results and achievements. We will continue to invest in our organization and together create profitable growth and help even more patients. Richard Hausmann President and CEO Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 7 STR ATEGY Global megatrends that influence our future How are healthcare systems affected by increasing demands from patients for individualized care? And how should we behave towards informed patients who have an opinion about what treatment options are relevant? Added to this are the global trends towards higher demands of The rapid increase of cancer Exponential digitalization NUMBER OF NEW CANCER CASES Millions 25 25 Total 20 20 15 15 Men 10 10 Women 55 00 2010 2012 2015 2020E 2025E 2030E 2035E Source: Globocan 2012 GLOBAL TRENDS: EVERY YEAR more than 15 million new cancer IMAGE GUIDANCE AND THE INTEGRATION cases are diagnosed, a figure that is expected of large data volumes are two main areas driving the to grow by 75 percent over the next 20 years. increasing digitalization trend that characterizes the As the global population and average life expechealthcare and medical care sector. The underlying tancy increases, cancer care continues to be put reason is the growing need for improved highprecision under pressure. More people also now survive treatments, utilizing available data as well as to drive their cancer disease, which drives the demand cost effectiveness. Digitalization is developing exponenof retreatments. tially and will, ultimately, impact all areas of healthcare systems worldwide. HOW THIS AFFECTS ELEKTA: THE BROAD INCREASE in demand is driving investDIGITALIZATION CONTRIBUTES several opportuniments in new capacity, both in terms of advanced ties to enhance efficiency in cancer care and influences systems and standardized solutions. Global growth how we develop tomorrow’s information systems and is expected to be at around 3–5 percent annually in treatment solutions. The current focus is on digital systhe near future. Substantial population growth in tems to automate image guidance processes, by using emerging markets will also provide significant busiartificial intelligence available to the clinic’s users who ness opportunities in these markets. The growing can work more efficiently. This will contribute to build cancer burden means Elekta must deliver products our leadership in precision radiation medicine. As effiand services that meet highly varied needs, in difciency requirements increase, Elekta is providing digital ferent markets. solutions that improve clinical processes, are fully connected to the underlying systems, and provide secure and available data in real time. This development offers Elekta an opportunity to accelerate our integration of large data volumes, improve the treatment system’s processing power and to develop artificial intelligence in our information systems. Increasing digitalization also affects how we continuously improve our own processes, for example in service and support activities. 8 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 STR ATEGY Outlook more efficient care and the digitalization process facing the entire continuum of healthcare. One way is to understand the global megatrends that are currently transforming our world. For Elekta, this also provides the foundation for our long-term strategy. Individualized care Demands for increased efficiency WITHIN ONCOLOGY, individualized care concerns THE CHALLENGE for national healthcare authorities a clinical effort to offer the patient the most suitable is to ensure efficient and high-quality cancer care at a treatment option, based on insights into the genetic reasonable cost. At the same time, major players in the structure of the patient’s cancer disease. Individualized health insurance industry are developing incentive care also encompasses the move toward patient-driven structures intended to drive value­-based healthcare. demand for different treatments and the individual’s access to data and information. THE GLOBAL TREND toward more individualized AMONG CANCER PATIENTS TODAY, about healthcare affects Elekta and our customers in several 25 percent globally are treated using radiation therapy, ways, for instance how we should address patients who although research suggests that the treatment would are informed with both their own and other available be beneficial for more than 50 percent of all cancer data, with a good understanding of their own health patients. Elekta and the radiation therapy industry are and treatment options. This requires treatment solupromoting advantages of radiation therapy as the most tions and systems that are better and more precise cost-effective treatment option, which is increasingly than in the past. In the field of information systems, important considering higher demands from customers we integrate data-driven recommendations, in which for increased efficiency at clinics. Elekta will continue to details about a patient’s health and disease are comdevelop solutions that help clinics to streamline their bined with information used to optimize treatment workflows. sessions. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 9 STR ATEGY Strategy for sustainable and profitable growth Elekta’s strategy sets the direction for our operations and provides a basis for our business plan. The strategy focuses on three main areas – innovation, customer experience and cost base – and is complemented with two enablers. The strategy is adapted continuously to reflect changes in business conditions to keep it relevant. New technology, advanced software deeply rooted processes, the developdation. Elekta is delivering growth and solutions, demographics and financial ment of solutions and services that are is well equipped for the future, aiming factors create rising demand for more attractive to our customers both today to strengthen our presence in key maradvanced, intelligent and cost-effecand tomorrow, and by ensuring a comkets. Several factors are contributing, tive cancer care solutions. Global petitive cost base. among these Elekta’s offering, which is mega­trends are impacting Elekta’s Over the past three years, Elekta has evolving toward the smart integration business conditions as developments in successfully executed on a transformaof hardware and software solutions. the operating environment become tion program to secure improvements Service and support operations will also increasingly fast moving. of the financial performance and more continue to generate substantial value, The direction of these developments efficient operations. At the end of the both for us as a company and for our is no surprise, but is taken into account 2017/18 fiscal year, all of the activities customers. The Unity system will also in Elekta’s long-term strategy. Our have been implemented and Elekta is further develop Elekta’s core business. response is manifested in robust and now a company with a stronger founPrecision Strategic framework clarifies priorities radiation Elekta has a well-established and long-term strategic framework that commedicine prises three central priorities and two enablers. Innovative capacity is key to our strategy. By strengthening customer experience and with a competitive cost base, we create the conditions for a highly efficient Elekta that delivers world-class cancer care solutions. The strategic framework contributes to our targets together with continuous improvements to our processes and a genuine focus on our values. 10 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 STR ATEGY Act as an Sustain a innovation competitive leader cost-base Our innovation efforts are essential if we are both to Elekta’s strategic priorities are long term and ongoing. help clinics improve the lives of patients and be commerEnsuring a competitive cost base is therefore part of our cially successful. Elekta’s success is founded on our ability corporate culture that pervades our day-to-day work. to utilize innovative solutions to continuously improve the Elekta has completed a period of transformation, with treatment of cancer and neurological conditions using an aim to reduce the company’s cost levels and improve radiation therapy. Elekta will continue to prioritize and internal processes. During this period, we have substaninvest in the development of advanced products and sertially strengthened cash flow and reduced working capital. vices that improve healthcare and strengthen our position Moving forward, we will work with continuous efficiency in precision radiation medicine. enhancements and improvements that create more scope for reinvestments in growth of our business and investments in research and innovation. Elevate the Continuously customer improve our experience processes Elekta works with four main areas to strategically priorElekta’s focus on strong internal processes consists of itize strong customer relationships. We secure that our action plans with both concrete activities and close ties to customers receive a uniform experience, reliable deliveries, the corporate culture. Through regular, gradual improveconsistent behavior and genuine commitment. This ments in individual processes and mechanisms in our busienables us to help clinics and hospitals to improve and ness, employees are encouraged to think in new ways enhance the efficiency of their cancer treatments. about how we work. This creates the prerequisites for Elekta also views its value chain from a customer perstrong and long-term value creation with a high degree of spective. From our internal product development, supplier cost awareness. inspections and management, commercialization and testing of treatment systems in a clinical environment, to sales and day-to-day service and support. Live our values Our goal is that our values are firmly rooted and permeate everything we do. We work as a single team, we do what we say and we continue to think ahead. Through clear leadership, based on shared values, we contribute to a reduction in costs, sustainable growth and improved performance. Leadership is highly important to ensure that our values are reflected in everything we do. You can read more about Elekta’s management philosophy on pages 46–47. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 11 STR ATEGY Value creation Market and external expectations Elekta’s strategic priorities EXTERNAL DRIVERS Act as an Sustain a innovation competitive Elekta operates in a fast-paced external envileader cost-base ronment, with continuous development of global megatrends. Shifting demographics, digitalization, individualization and efficiency are areas primarily impacting our business. Precision The rapid increase of cancer Exponential digitalization radiation Individualized care medicine Strategic enablers Demands for higher efficiency Continuously improve our processes Elevate the STAKEHOLDER customer Live our EXPECTATIONS experience values Elekta aims to exceed our stakeholders’ high expectations in everything we do. We con­ Elekta’s strategy drives the critical areas of our operations. tinuously strive to improve patient care, By focusing on what is truly essential, we combine long-term thus creating stakeholder value. Continuous thinking with agility and a high degree of flexibility. dialogue remains one of our principal tools for strengthened, sustainable relations. Read more on pages 10–11. Our key stakeholders include: Customers (clinics and hospitals) Patients Employees Shareholders Suppliers Regulators Policy makers and NGO community Corporate responsibility integral to Elekta’s business strategy As one of the leading medical technological companies Based on structured stakeholder dialogue, Elekta has identiglobally, Elekta recognizes that we have an impact on stakefied four primary focus areas for our corporate responsibility: holders throughout our value chain. This is why we strive to • Fight Cancer – through an ecosystem of integrate corporate responsibility as a natural part of our strategic partners daily business operations. • Business Ethics – and prevention of corruption • Sustainable Sourcing – human rights and environmental focus • People in Focus – based on diversity and inclusion 12 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 STR ATEGY Value creation Value created, and output generated Results 2017/18 STAKEHOLDER VALUE Based on thorough analysis and adaption to our external environment, Elekta generates multidimensional value through a sound business strategy. By focusing where it mat+8% growth in net sales ters, Elekta strives for profitable growth whilst delivering significant value and output to +3 our key stakeholders. Shareholders Employees Share price and dividend growth Career opportunities and ppts. adjusted EBITA Orders, sales and profit personal development margin improvement Cash flow generation Organizational health 2.4 bn Capital employed Adherence to compliance and a culture of integrity Customers (hospitals and clinics) Innovations that improve quality Suppliers SEK Long-term partnerships cash flow from and lower cost of care operating activities Customer experience as measured Create innovative ecosystem by net promoter score based on continuous +40% improvement and innovation Long-term partnerships Regulators Patients Ensure safety and efficacy of care Access to care growth of Contribute and adherence to proposed dividends Clinical innovation for better international standards treatment outcomes +6% Patient experience Policy makers and NGOs Cost-effectiveness Awareness of radiation therapy growth in installed base of treatment solutions Access to radiation therapy in developing countries Member of UN Global Compact CE-marking of Elekta Unity (in June 2018) Elekta´s long-term financial ambitions Elekta conducts its operations based on a long-term plan, • Organic sales growth exceeding which is regularly reviewed and evaluated by the board of 10 percent in local currency directors. These financial objectives form the basis of the • Operating result improvement rate long-term planning. The objectives are under review and will to exceed sales growth in SEK be updated at a Capital Markets Day 2018. • Return on capital employed to exceed 20 percent • Net debt-to-equity ratio less than 0.5 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 13 STR ATEGY Research & Development Strategic research and development Continued investment in innovation A high pace of innovation and research and development are business-critical elements of Elekta’s operations and the foundation of long-term growth. We have reached an important milestone now that the revolutionary Unity system has been CE-marked in Europe. In parallel, we are continuing our innovation projects to consolidate our leading position in the devel­ opment of radiation therapy solutions of the future. Elekta represents a longstanding and strong tradition of are also active in completely new fields of innovation. In line innovation – and will continue to do so moving forward. with rapidly increasing digitalization, the boundary between Our innovation efforts are essential for us to both help hardware and software has also become less clear. This is clinics improve the lives of patients and so we can be comnothing new to Elekta, which has a long history of investing mercially successful. in the development of integrated systems and solutions. Automatically connected and intelligent sensors are a Innovation is strategically important natural part of treatment systems that communicate with Our investments in the field of innovation are comprehensoftware solutions and information systems. Artificial intelsive and long-term. This high level of ambition is important ligence is becoming more sophisticated through our investfor both us and our customers, and has resulted in investments in Elekta Digital, while our ability to automatically ments totaling over SEK 6 bn over the past five years. For analyze large data volumes is continuously improving. us at Elekta, innovation and development are strategically Elekta has an established organization and properly important. However, innovation has no intrinsic value, but is functioning processes for large-scale innovation work. At based on our genuine motivation to help customers to meet the same time, we remain open in our approach to collaboincreasing demands for both better patient outcomes and ration with others. Elekta is currently part of several importefficiency. ant strategic partnerships in development, both in the field of oncology information and in the development of the next Erasing boundaries between software and hardware generation of treatment systems. We are working with several parallel initiatives, with Elekta It is through innovation that we can drive cancer care Unity as the latest proof of our innovative capacity. We are forward, create value for our customers, strengthen our investing in the advancement of MR-linac technology and market positions and generate value for our shareholders. 14 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Integrated and patient-focused treatment solutions Oncology informatics Innovative software solutions for the entire care and treatment spectrum Our services and systems in oncology information help clinics provide Advanced Innovative software maximum value in a Advanced treatment systems solutions cost-effective manner. treatment systems Compre­hensive Cancer cases are on the increase, at the for high-precision solutions same time as the number of treatable diagradiation therapy noses is rising. This results in a greater workload for clinics, often within an unchanged Service economic framework. Elekta offers a range and support of advanced oncology information systems to create better conditions for continuous improvement in a clinic’s efficiency, quality Product life cycle services and care results. with proactive service and support Our offering is driven by our ability to develop cutting-edge treatment solutions and our Treatment solutions profound understanding of how to conduct effective cancer care in a clinical environment. Our treatment solutions are developed and optimized for effective cancer treatments with minimal damage to healthy tissue. Elekta develops treatment systems for a wide range of cancer types and serious neurological conditions. In our endeavor to enhance efficiency and precision, Elekta is continuously developing its treatment systems to become even better and more gentle for patients, which improves quality of life also after treatment. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 15 OFFERING Comprehensive and tailored treatment solutions Oncology informatics Innovative software solutions for the entire care and treatment spectrum From real-time analysis of relevant decision-making data with MOSAIQ® to seamless coordination of cancer care records in METRIQ®, Elekta offers a world-leading oncology information sysMOSAIQ® Oncology-Specific EMR MOSAIQ® Oncology Analytics tem, with individually-developed softElekta’s popular comprehensive solution for The analysis program that visualizes all stages ware solutions for a variety of applicaclinical, operational and financial data for of patient care. tions. Customers employing Elekta’s oncology departments. advanced informatics solutions can improve both patient outcomes and utiKey characteristics: Important work proKey characteristics: MOSAIQ® Oncology lization of healthcare resources. Elekta’s cesses are streamlined through the use of a Analytics makes it possible to monitor clinical, information systems are also developed single system to manage and improve clinoperational and financial information in real using open APIs, which improves comical and operational efficiency. The system time, and to understand and visualize patient patibility with different types of hardhas built-in automated decision support, a care. The system is designed for a secure cloud ware. Artificial intelligence and autohigh degree of interoperability and the widenvironment and has the ability to handle mated processing of very large data est connectivity in the industry. large-scale use with the integration of subvolumes are other properties that are stantial data volumes. continuously integrated into and developed in Elekta’s software solutions. Treatment solutions Advanced treatment system with high-precision radiation therapy Elekta’s treatment solutions are versatile and powerful, and are being continuously improved. As a field of radiation therapy evolves, we invest heavily in providing flexible, intelligent and needsdriven applications that strengthen and MR Radiation therapy Linac portfolio expand current treatment options. Elekta’s recently CE-labelled flagship Our established and high-performing portCommon to all of Elekta’s linear accelUnity, with the aim to enable significantly folio of linear accelerators provide the most erators and systems for stereotactic improved treatment of the most common common form of radiation therapy. radiosurgery and brachytherapy, is that types of cancer. they provide effective treatment with a high degree of precision and minimal Key characteristics: The combination of Key characteristics: A complete solution impact on the surrounding healthy tisa linear accelerator and magnetic resothat can effectively treat a broad spectrum sue. With the new Elekta Unity, we are nance imaging (MRI) creates opportunities of cancers by precisely targeting a high dose taking a step into the future, with a to monitor the radiation therapy in real time of radiation to the tumors, while minimizing degree of precision in radiation therapy and adapt the treatment. Unity also prothe dose to surrounding tissue with state of that was previously not possible. vides an opportunity to reach tumors that the art image guidance and dynamic delivhave, until now, been difficult to treat. ery technologies. 16 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Service and support Extended product life cycle with proactive service and support Elekta provides various types of life cycle support and life cycle service that offer our customers enhanced performance through better longMONACO® Treatment Planning METRIQ® Cancer Registries term planning of maintenance An advanced treatment planning soluSecure coordination and evaluation of and modernization, greater prodtion which combines gold-standard accumultiple cancer programs and registry uct safety and reduced costs for the racy and speed, ensuring the appropriate submissions. clinic as a whole. Our offering in serpersonalized plan for the external beam vice and support is built on proactivity, radiotherapy. both in terms of the services we provide and how we organize our support Key characteristics: Monaco® 5.11 offers Key characteristics: Highly detailed dataactivities. a comprehensive, single box solution for base with operational safety that provides With Elekta Care™ as the support treatment planning. Includes personalized insight into the overall patient outcomes. hub, we provide local contact persons packages to meet specific clinical needs, Also guarantees the quality of data for and specialist clinical expertise that stereotactic treatment planning support research and reporting. is available 24 hours a day to support and unique biological modeling capabilities. Elekta’s customers throughout the treatment system’s entire life cycle. Together with Elekta Care, we offer a broader ecosystem of service and support services: • Predictive support with IntelliMax® provides integrated and connected sensors that proactively identify servicing needs in the treatment system • Training services and guidance supports oncology nurses and the clinic’s other key roles in system functionality and practical operation of the treatment system • Logistics services and spare-part management for quick and flexible handling of any adjustments to the treatment system’s components Neurosurgery portfolio Brachytherapy portfolio • Field service with Elekta’s certiElekta’s radiosurgery system, Leksell Elekta’s system for internal radiation fied technicians on site at the cusGamma Knife®, enables non-invasive treattherapy applied adjacent to the tumors, tomer’s facility and in the clinical ment of tumors and other serious neurologparticularly effective in treating, for examenvironment ical conditions. ple, prostate cancer and cervical cancer. Key characteristics: The stereotactic Key characteristics: The brachytherapy radiosurgery system focuses with extreme systems delivers internal doses of radiaprecision and is therefore particularly suittion with high precision and reduced risk of able for neurological conditions. Combined damage to surrounding, healthy tissue. with advanced imaging and systems for positioning, the treatment is safe, effective and cost efficient. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 17 OFFERING Oncology informatics Oncology informatics Delivering insights and workflow efficiency In our efforts to help care providers improve efficiency, quality and outcomes, Elekta’s software solutions provide a wide range of valuable functionality and applications. Strengthened automatic analysis, decision support tools and AI-capabilities are features that will solidify Elekta’s leading position in oncology informatics. Oncology informatics continues to play remains high. Elekta is continuing to types of cancer continues to increase, an increasingly important role in caninvest in the development of leading its technical complexity follows. Utilizcer treatment. Its necessity will also oncology informatics solutions, suping the robust and versatile MOSAIQ continue to grow as healthcare is porting both treatment systems and platform, Elekta helps realize the becoming more personalized and our customers’ clinical workflow envipotential in our customers’ cancer demand for treatment efficiency ronments. As the number of treatable clinic operations. Elekta and IBM Watson in strategic partnership With enormous volumes of data at their disposal, many clinics and ment, Watson for Oncology can assist both large and small clinics. oncology departments are facing the challenge of information For recently established oncology departments and smaller clinoverload. To address this issue, Elekta has recently formed a straics, the decision support engine can help the clinician gain insights tegic partnership with IBM and its AI division to strengthen Watson and experience from significant volumes of relevant data, utilizing for Oncology – a unique management engine for real-time clinical fewer resources. You can read more about the Watson for Oncoldata. Delivering state-of-the-art decision support, based on autoogy initiative on page 33. mated analysis of global datasets including diagnostics and treat18 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Oncology informatics Simplifying advanced functionality Elekta’s vision of future cancer care, based on data-driven patient treatment, forms the basis for our focus on innovative and advanced software. Developed with user-centricity in focus, Elekta’s MOSAIQ offers smart interface design while relying on advanced backend algorithms and functionality. Our oncology information systems are also built to work independently, regardless of hardware used to treat the patient or the design of the clinical environment. Elekta therefore puts strong emphasis on testing and optimizing the integration of our solutions in a new clinical environment – ensuring our understanding of the care providers’ needs are accurate and met. Once implemented, the customer receives a scalable solution for a secure, highperformance and reliable infrastructure, which is critical for safe healthcare with high patient volumes. Feature-driven development Elekta’s MOSAIQ is specifically designed define pathways and clinical protocols for development depends on using autoto support clinicians through the their particular environment, strengthmation and artificial intelligence (AI). patients’ entire oncology journey. It ened analysis tools for large volumes of Connecting the metrics to the treatsupports all activities in a cancer clinic patient data in MOSAIQ, as well as ment planning will generate interesting and provides clinical and practice manimproved imaging and visualization of its possibilities. Combined with IntelliMax®, agement tools, treatment planning plan review software. Further, Elekta can Elekta’s solution for remote servicing of software, delivery and assessment now provide the market’s leading autotreatment systems, it will ultimately tools, as well as business intelligence mated speech integration software to provide the oncology department with applications. In Elekta’s quest to bring reduce time needed for a multitude of the ability to visualize clinical, operatogether the people, the workflows, clinical tasks, such as transcription and tional and financial outcomes of every and the information clinics need to documentation. treatment with even higher precision. deliver quality, we are continuously To us at Elekta, management of adding features and capabilities to our Designed for the future large data volumes, automated analytsoftware solutions. Elekta’s software solutions are built to ics, AI and cloud computing continue to Recent additions to the Elekta softperform in today’s digital environment, be the future for our development of ware portfolio includes redeveloped IQ but also designed with the future in software solutions for oncology. Scripts, which help customers better mind. The future of Elekta’s application Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 19 OFFERING Treatment solutions MR Radiation therapy Two worlds, one future Unlimited possibilities A paradigm shift in radiation therapy. Elekta’s Unity combines magnetic resonance imaging with the latest generation linear accelerator. Now CE-marked for clinical use in Europe, it sets a completely new standard in image-guided radiation therapy. Elekta Unity is the only system that A new standard in radiation therapy Unity as an opportunity to further uses intelligent software to integrate When the two technologies are comstrengthen their positions as leading a superior diagnostic quality high-field bined, unique opportunities are created cancer treatment clinics when patients 1.5 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging to improve the level of treatment for the make greater demands and choose care system with an advanced linear most common forms of cancer, which providers based on the standard of techaccelerator for radiation therapy. The together account for a large share of nical equipment and patient outcomes. Unity system comprises a completely mortality from all cancer disease worldnew platform, which can basically be wide. Elekta’s Unity also has the potential Clinical treatment of first patient described as providing high-quality to treat cancer indications that currently After many years of research and images of tumors and surrounding are not, or very rarely, treatable using development, the first patient was tissue in real time during radiation radiation therapy. Moreover, the ability treated using Elekta’s MR-linac therapy. This results in a more precise to create high-quality images, and the research system in the Netherlands in dose of radiation and an opportunity insight this provides into tissue biology, 2017. The clinical tests confirmed the for new treatment areas while minioffers a major potential to provide better system’s incredible precision, safety mizing the impact on surrounding dosage. In practice, this means the and the simplicity with which it can be tissue. oncologist can see how different parts of integrated into other applications. The the tumor respond to the intensity of the patient, with skeletal metastases in the CE-marked for clinical use in Europe treatment down to cell level. spine, was treated with a high dose of After careful testing and rigorous qualFor Elekta, the successful launch and radiation that was delivered with ity control, the Elekta MR-linac system reception of the Unity system means extreme precision. During treatment, Unity has now been CE-marked for the expansion and strengthening of our the maximum deviation from the clinical use in the European market. family of linear accelerators. With its tumor was only 0.25 millimeters, which Interest in Elekta Unity is also substanpopular functions, there are many minimizes the risk of damage to tial in other markets and to date orders potential uses at oncology clinics worldhealthy, surrounding tissue. Read more for 28 systems have been placed. wide. Most of Elekta’s customers view about the treatment on page 31. How it works Key features: The MR-linac system is installed in a radiaNext generation linac tion-proof bunker environment and is carefully calibrated by radiation physicists from Elekta and the clinic. High-resolution MR images are 1.5T high-field MR imaging generated before, during and after and are used as decision-making data to optimize the Slip ring technology therapy. A precise and exact treatment combination with radiotherapy and MR offers Intelligent software the potential to deliver a high dose of radiation to the tumor while sparing, to a very large degree, the surrounding healthy tissue due to Short, wide bore magnet visualization of the tissue being treated. Read more at: unity.elekta.com 20 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Treatment solutions Elekta Unity Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 21 OFFERING Treatment solutions Linac portfolio Versatile and effective treatment of several cancer types Our family of linear accelerators offers radiation therapy systems that are effective for both patients and clinics. Versatility and high precision ensure more accurate treatments, shorter treatment times and the potential to treat a broad spectrum of tumor types. As one of the market’s principal innovators, Elekta helps to continuously drive developments in linac technology forward. Many indications and a wide range of tumor types can now be treated using a single linac system; for example brain and spine, head and neck, breast, lungs and prostate cancers. Together with advanced software systems, the treatment is optimized for both patients and clinics – while retaining precision. Maximum effect using Elekta’s comprehensive solutions Elekta’s innovation work is constantly advancing and we are continuously developing our portfolio of linear accelerators. We have taken another step forward through our most advanced Elekta Versa HD™ system, in combinacan be used on several types of candynamic radiosurgery (HDRS). By packtion with the proprietary beam shaping cers, with a high degree of precision ing up to 6 times more modulation solution and Agility™ multileaf collimaand effectiveness. Combined with the capability, dose resolution is further tor. This combined solution provides a Monaco treatment planning solution, optimized allowing safe escalation of precise and high dose of radiation that Versa HD™ is capable of High definition doses and complex stereotactic treatments to be delivered in standard treatment slots of 15 minutes or less. How it works To further improve efficiency, Elekta The linear accelerator produces a beam offers a market-leading oncology inforof radiation that is actively shaped and mation system that seamlessly inteaimed at the tumor with high precision grates with the various units and treatin accordance with a calculated, individment systems used in clinics. Elekta’s ually adapted treatment plan. Using an alternating current voltage, the electrons comprehensive solutions also include accelerate to high speeds and are aimed Elekta Care with IntelliMax®, which is at the target with the intention of delivused to remotely read the system staering a maximum dose of radiation to the tus and to update the functionality of tumor, with minimal impact on the surthe treatment system. Elekta’s local rounding healthy tissue. The linear accelservice and support team also ensures erator also includes an integrated system continuous upgrading and optimizing for visualization and positioning of the of the treatment systems based on the tumor target. prerequisites of each customer. 22 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Treatment solutions Neurosurgery portfolio Precision treatment of the brain With more than a million patients treated, Elekta has confirmed its position as world-leader in stereotactic radiosurgery. Continuous development of our Leksell Gamma Knife offers a safe, efficient and cost-effective treatment of serious neurological conditions. Within the field of neuroscience, Elekta neurological conditions, where surgery Physicians can thereby offer more perdevelops highly precise solutions for and chemotherapy are more difficult to sonalized treatment without sacrificing both the diagnosis and treatment of perform. With Gamma Knife surgery, precision and accuracy. As Leksell neurological diseases. As the undisthe patient can usually be treated and Gamma Knife is celebrating its 50th puted pioneer in this complex field, go home the same day, which makes it anniversary, the technology is being Elekta has developed radiotherapy a very resource-efficient method. made available to more patients, in treatments in the clinical environment more markets. For Elekta, our worldsince the end of the 1960s. Today, our 50 years of continual improvement leading position in radiosurgery and customers treat some 80,000 new The globally established, sixth generastereotactic neurosurgery is a favorable patients every year, distributed across tion of Leksell Gamma Knife®, the Icon™ starting point creating the prerequisites 54 countries with more than 300 cliniis breaking new ground in gamma knife moving forward for even more sophistical Leksell Gamma Knife units. technology. Icon is built on the precision cated treatment of serious neurological Stereotactic radiosurgery is a nonof earlier models with the addition of conditions. invasive and very precise method, new technology, such as integrated which makes it particularly suitable for imaging and a frameless alternative. How it works Stereotactic radiosurgery is specifically developed to inhibit neurological conditions. Elekta’s Leksell Gamma Knife® Icon™ directs and focuses 192 precise beams into a single iso-center toward an area of the brain. Advanced imaging and a system for motion control enables real-time adaptive treatment. The accuracy offered by frame-based or frameless immobilization ensures that the dose of radiation hits the target volume to be treated. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 23 OFFERING Treatment solutions Brachytherapy portfolio Highly effective treatment inside the tumor Elekta is the world-leader in cancer treatment using small radiation sources that are placed inside the body, adjacent to a tumor. The method delivers localized radiotherapy with a high degree of precision. Brachytherapy is an effective form of Gentle and accessible to patients can be made available to many radiation treatment used to treat, for Brachytherapy also offers substantial patients, even for a relatively minor example, gynecological cancer, prosbenefits to patients as it is associated investment. tate cancer, breast cancer and skin with low risk for serious side-effects cancer. The treatment system is small and short treatment times. The treatLeader in internal radiation in size, versatile, cost effective and ment requires specialist expertise, but Elekta’s brachytherapy system is under valuable for oncology clinics around can be performed as an out-patient continuous development and is part of the world. procedure. This means the treatment our leading radiotherapy portfolio. In total, Elekta has about 60 percent of the world market for high-dose brachytherapy and the product port­ folio includes Esteya® for skin cancer, the Flexitron® treatment system, the treatment planning software Oncentra® and a large number of applicators for precise and simple treatment. Altogether, Elekta’s brachytherapy system represents the market’s most comprehensive offering in internal radiation. How it works A radioactive isotope, in the form of a very small seed (usually iridium-192), is carefully and temporarily placed inside or directly adjacent to the cancer tumor using the treatment system’s afterloader. The radiation is high from the isotope, but this rapidly decreases, and with its short range the radiated area can be precisely limited. This makes it possible to deliver an effective dose of radiation that destroys cancer cells. Specifically developed software is used to plan the treatment and the radiation of the tumor. 24 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 OFFERING Service and support Elekta services Proactive support throughout the entire lifecycle Elekta’s global service and support solutions are built upon proactivity and are provided throughout the product lifecycle. By utilizing our economies of scale and local presence in key markets, we ensure maximum system availability and ease of use. Elekta is now aiming to further strengthen and grow its service and support operations. The aftermarket is one important eleElekta Care support hub ment of Elekta’s operations, particularly Through Elekta Care™ we provide local in times of increased efficiency requirecontact persons and specialist clinical ments and capacity increases in radioexpertise that is available 24 hours a therapy treatment. Elekta has proacday. In addition to basic service and tive service and support operations and support services, Elekta also provides strives, in everything we do, to maintain integrated and connected sensors that the systems throughout their product proactively identify servicing needs, lifecycle. Using continuous perforlocal training services and specialist mance analysis, remote monitoring and training, logistics services and spareupdating, and opportunities to finepart management, as well as field sertune and optimize the functionality of vice by Elekta’s certified technicians on the treatment systems, we create consite in the clinical environment. ditions for the best possible patient care. In parallel, we create greater A service transformation safety for our customers through better for the future long-term planning of maintenance At Elekta, we are continuously working and modernization, greater product to improve our processes and to chalsafety and reduced costs for the clinic lenge ourselves. One result of this as a whole. strategy is our initiative to further strengthen service and support activiOur product lifecycle philosophy also Operations in 40 countries ties. Organizational adjustments aim extends to other parts of Elekta’s operOur service and support division is to improve our efficiency and raise the ations. We develop our products and strong, and currently comprises about global quality of the support services. their components to be service com40 percent of our total revenue. In total In somewhat simplified terms, this patible through our designed-for-­ about 1,000 employees are employed means we are leveraging global proserviceability process, while ensuring in both strategic and operative work cesses and tools and continuing to that cost-savings are made in the right within the service organization. We identify the key elements in our workplaces, to avoid sacrificing quality. operate two large-scale global call flows that provide us with a greater Elekta views the service transformation centers that handle support issues on degree of efficiency. Through Elekta’s that is now beginning from a long-term an ongoing basis and ensure that our longstanding experience of delivering perspective, with a focus on coordinacustomers can talk to clinically trained aftermarket services linked to advanced tion to first establish and then adhere support personnel around the clock, treatment systems, we know that certo key process structures. This is how regardless of where they are. As part of tain processes and special methods are we can continue to increase customer work to further strengthen our availessential to a successful service and satisfaction and how we can ensure ability, we are currently constructing a support. Elekta’s priority is to further that the clinics can care for their third center in Southeast Asia. strengthen these. patients in the best possible manner. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 25 CORNERSTONE HUB Pioneering facilities for quality execution. Key operations in Elekta’s development of cancer treatment solutions is conducted in our new state-of-the-art Cornerstone Hub in Crawley, UK. 26 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 MARKETS MARKETS Macro environment Potential in a growing market The global market for radiation therapy is characterreach and strength. The availability of radiation therapy and ized by a significant demand for capacity, major the prerequisites for investing in the expansion of cancer regional differences and favorable underlying economic care vary considerably between different regions and local developments. With a stronger foundation Elekta is markets. In low-income countries, access to radiation therwell positioned for continued long-term profitable apy remains low and it is not unusual that less than 10 pergrowth. cent of the population has access to radiation therapy, while research confirms that the treatment method is suitable to Elekta’s three main regions are different in character and use for more than 50 percent of cancer patients. According their underlying markets are characterized by varying conto Lancet Oncology, the leading global forum for design and ditions. Elekta, which supplies systems and treatment soludevelopments in oncology, increased access to radiation tions in more than 120 markets, adapts to local business therapy would save millions of lives at the same time as conditions at the same time as we benefit from our global the global cost for cancer would be substantially reduced. 893 USD NGI –3.3% 5,411 USD NGI +0.8% 9,403 USD 3,073 USD NGI +1.5% 420 USD NGI +1.6% NGI +4.6% Health expenditure per 75 USD person and National NGI +6.7% Gross Income growth High (12,736 USD or more) 19 USD NGI +4.6% Upper middle (4,125–12,736 USD) 947 USD NGI –4.7% Lower middle (1,125–4,125 USD) Low (1,125 USD or lower) 6,031 USD 570 USD Expenditure on health NGI –0.2% NGI +1.5% per person, 2014, USD NGI growth, 2015 362 USD NGI +1.8% Source: The World Bank Increased average life expectancy Most of the world’s population lives today in countries where 60 is increasing fastest. As most of today’s cancer clinics and linincome levels are below average, which are also the countries ear accelerators are in high-income countries, there is a significant where average life expectancy and the number of people over need to increase the installed base. TOTAL NUMBER OF INSTALLED POPULATION 2013, BILLIONS AGE 60+, EXPECTED NUMBER, 100 MILLIONS LINEAR ACCELERATORS, 2013 +150% 801 8,911 Compared to 2015 2.44 2.55 692 +190% Compared to 2015 544 483 409 394 1.27 310 320 3,115 1,014 237 0.84 54 33 115 62 Source: UN,ST/ESA/SER.A/390 Source: UN,ST/ ESA/SER.A/390 2015 2030 2050 Source: Lancet Oncology 2015; 16:1153-86 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 27 MARKETS Geographic regions NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA Strengthened position in a dynamic market Closing fiscal year 2017/18, Elekta has strengthened its position in the North American market. Organizational changes and improved process management has resulted in consecutive growth quarter by quarter. CHAR ACTERISTICS NORTH AMERICA • The US is the world’s largest market for radiMarket ation therapy and it has the largest installed The North American market is the world’s largest market for radiation therapy base of linear accelerators and it is characterized by a high penetration of treatment solutions, services • Predominately private healthcare providers and after-market business. However, there are still opportunities for long-term • The market is driven by replacement investgrowth due to growing patient volumes, continued market consolidation and ments: renewing installed systems with new customer behavior shifting towards value-based healthcare. machines and enhanced functionality The North American market is also relationship-driven, which means presence • Around 60 percent of cancer patients are in key areas of the market is important. Further, the US has the world’s highest treated with radiation therapy healthcare cost per person, which is driving the need for increased efficiency. This in turn drives demand for new functionality and more comprehensive and inte• The world’s highest healthcare costs per grated solutions. person As the South American market has a significant need for radiation therapy • Increasing efficiency requirements create a capacity, the long-term outlook remains positive. However, certain South Amerdemand for more integrated and compreican markets are facing geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges, yet the hensive solutions region as a whole is showing strong potential for appealing long-term growth. • Ongoing consolidation in the hospital market leads to independent clinics merging ELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES with hospitals and healthcare networks 24% Solutions, 47% SOUTH AMERICA Service, 53% • Growing need for efficient and high-quality Region’s contribution to total net sales, 34% cancer care market share of linear • Rapidly aging population accelerator orders • A combination of private and public care providers Performance and activities Our performance in the North American market has been strong and delivered organic growth throughout the year. Elekta has consequently stayed on course and fully anchored the organizational changes and adjustments in process management previously communicated. Order intake in the region increased by 5 percent for the year, corresponding to 9 percent based on constant exchange rates. Elekta’s South American performance for 2017/18 has improved, including important orders in the Brazilian, Peruvian, Bolivian and Mexican markets. 28 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 MARKETS Geographic regions EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA Solid performance in a growing market Elekta continues to lead the EMEA market and has won several large tenders during the year. In June, Elekta’s revolutionary MR-linac system, Unity, was CE-marked. CHAR ACTERISTICS WESTERN EUROPE Market • Interest and demand for new technology, Radiation therapy capacity in the region is insufficient. This holds true for both particularly in improving clinical efficiency Western Europe and for the region’s emerging markets. In developing coun• Predominately public markets, with a tries, access to radiation therapy and other forms of advanced cancer treatment steadily growing private sector remains fragmented or scarce. Western European markets are investing in new radiation therapy capacity as the number of cancer cases increases and earlier • Need for replacement investments and diagnosis rates improve. Further, replacement orders and lifecycle support sermodernization of installed base vices provide a growth opportunity. • Increasing demand for service and support The Eastern European markets are showing positive signs of activity and investment. The resources for cancer treatment are less advanced and many EASTERN EUROPE, countries rely on national programs to expand and modernize care. This means MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA demand can fluctuate significantly over time. • Generally, less developed resources for In Africa, only a small percentage of the population have access to radiation cancer care, even if many countries have therapy, implying significant long-term opportunities for growth. national programs for expansion and modernization of radiation therapy ELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES • Turkey: Growing emerging market mainly 49% driven by private investments Solutions, 64% Service, 36% • Russia: Widespread need for increased Region’s contribution to capacity, dependent on domestic economic total net sales, 38% conditions and political priorities market share of linear • Africa: Small proportion of the populaaccelerator orders tion have access to radiation therapy and advanced cancer care. Substantial longPerformance and activities term potential For 2017/18 as a whole, both Western Europe and developing markets across the region performed well. Order intake in the region increased by 6 percent for the year, corresponding to 4 percent based on constant exchange rates. Markets performing particularly well include the UK, spurred by a significant deal with the National Health Services (NHS) together with a contract covering five Elekta Unity systems from Proton Partners International. Further, Elekta has secured several important deals in Spain, Turkey and South Africa during the year. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 29 MARKETS Geographic regions ASIA PACIFIC Continued demand for comprehensive solutions The Asia Pacific market continues to be a fast-growing region. Elekta has a strong regional presence. CHAR ACTERISTICS Market ASIA PACIFIC The long-term need for increased cancer care will remain high in the region due to longer average life expectancy and greater economic prosperity. China still • Includes 60 percent of the global populaleads the region in terms of volume and pace of investments, whilst Asia Pacific tion, but less than 30 percent of the world’s markets predominately are characterized by the buildout of new treatment linear accelerators. Rapidly increasing life capacity. However, there is also an increasing percentage of older installed sysexpectancy, improving economic prosperity tems reaching the end of their lifecycles, driving demand for service and support and more effective diagnostics are driving as well as future replacement investments. long term development of demand for speMarket growth for the region as a whole proved favorable during the year. In cialized healthcare China, numerous large cities and urban areas are adopting and expanding radia• China: Elekta’s second largest market after tion therapy, contributing to significant business opportunities. For 2017/18, highthe US. Elekta is the clear market leader. growth markets include India, South Korea, Australia and Thailand. The Japanese Growth in both public and private sectors. market, developing sluggishly, continued to be weak during the year. Focus is primarily on expansion of capacity. However, replacement investments are becoming more prevalent in the future ELEKTA´S MARKET POSITION NET SALES • Japan: Mature and developed market, 44% Solutions,67% in areas oversaturated and focused on Service, 33% replacement investments. Slow market Region’s contribution to development during a number of years, but total net sales, 28% good long-term potential for increased use market share of linear of radiation therapy as only 25–30 percent accelerator orders of cancer patients receive radiation therapy • Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Performance and activities Korea and Taiwan: well established healthElekta is the leader in China, which remains one of Elekta’s principal markets. care systems with high capacity for cancer During the year Elekta received orders on multiple Unity research systems to the care. Quick to adopt new technology country. In addition, Elekta delivered solid results in India, Thailand, Australia and • India: Radiation therapy and other types of South Korea. Our performance in the Japanese market, also affected by subdued specialized healthcare mainly offered in the customer activity, did not live up to our expectations for the year. For the region private sector. Growing market still lackas a whole, order intake decreased by 2 percent for the year, corresponding to an ing significant capacity. Public sector investincrease of 2 percent based on constant exchange rates. ments expected to increase in the long term Elekta’s ability to combine leading innovation with durable and efficient treatment solutions provides us with an advantageous position to address the Asia Pacific markets. A significant number of clients are partnering with Elekta as we can deliver efficient high-capacity solutions, capable of treating large patient volumes. As regional economic growth continues, capacity for large-scale investments increases. 30 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 Story 1 Elekta MR-linac Elekta MR-linac successfully treats first patient After intensive research and development, clinicians benefits of Elekta’s MR-linac technology. He said: at University Medical Center (UMC) Utrecht, the “These first clinical treatments show an outstandNetherlands, used Elekta MR-linac to treat a cancer ing level of dosimetric and geometric accuracy of patient in a so-called first-in-man study. Elekta the online planning and the radiation delivery MR-linac is the only magnetic resonance radiation based on the 1.5T MRI guidance.” The team was therapy (MR/RT) system that integrates a high-field able to accurately deliver the dose within 0.25 mm, 1.5 Tesla MR scanner with an advanced linear accelthereby reducing the exposure to healthy tissue. erator and intelligently-designed software. UMC Utrecht is one of seven founding members This first-in-man study confirmed the technical of Elekta’s MR-linac Consortium, a global collaboaccuracy and safety of the MR-linac system in the ration of institutions focused on uniting leaders in clinical setting. radiation oncology, MR-imaging, physics and Bas Raaymakers, Professor of Experimental radiotherapists. Physics at UMC Utrecht, led the study and claimed that UMC Utrecht’s successful treatment of a spiElekta MR-linac is a work in progress and is not nal metastases patient demonstrated the clinical available for sale or distribution in all regions. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 31 Elekta chosen again to modernize UK’s Story 2 radiotherapy services The UK’s Cancer Strategy Implementation Plan has an important goal: to achieve the very best outcomes by providing modern, high-quality equipment and ensuring access to the best treatments possible. To meet this objective, the National Health Service (NHS) Supply Chain has chosen Elekta, in part, to transform radiotherapy services across England, the largest single modernization and upgrade of cancer treatment equipment for 15 years. The order, announced in November, comprised Elekta Synergy® linacs with Agility™ multileaf collimators for high speed beam shaping and Elekta’s MOSAIQ® oncology information system. The Synergy linacs include VMAT, which improves radiation therapy treatment speed and dose reduction to the patient. In NHS England’s progress report on the implementation plan, it states that “the new radiotherapy machines use leading-edge technology to target radiation doses more precisely and can reduce treatment time from weeks to days.” Steve Tomkins, Elekta’s Business Unit Manager for the UK, says: “Elekta takes pride in our excellent relationship with NHS Supply Chain and our long-term commitment to radiotherapy in the UK. We are especially proud that this equipment, used to treat cancer patients in England and Wales, will come from our international linac manufacturing site in Crawley.” H.M. Prince William visits The Royal Marsden, one of the UK’s leading cancer clinics. The clinic utilizes several Elekta linear accelerators. 32 Story 3 Elekta and IBM Watson Health: Super powers unite to enhance cancer care E lekta has a legacy of using the potential of digithe evidence-based library curated by MSK, top tization and data to advance cancer patient ranked for its oncology expertise. The system anacare and management. Through Elekta Digital, lyzes 40 million documents that MSK has curated in we envision intelligent systems and machine learning just 15 seconds processing time and is designed to as the next generation of oncology informatics: facilitate decision making among tumor boards and transforming big data into actionable intelligence other multi-disciplinary care teams. that advances individualized care. We strengthened This agreement positions Elekta as the first radiathis vision in January 2018 through an agreement tion therapy company to offer a solution that comwith IBM Watson Health to unite its ‘Watson for bines an oncology information system (MOSAIQ®) Oncology’ computing technology with Elekta’s portwith artificial intelligence, deep learning algorithms folio of digital solutions. and cognitive cloud computing. Developed in collaboration with Memorial Sloan Elekta will begin including Watson for Oncology Kettering Cancer Center (MSK) in New York, Watson as an integrated offering with Elekta treatment and for Oncology provides physicians with access to IBM’s software solutions during 2018. tools for clinical decision support, as well as access to Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 33 Story 4 The future of Leksell Gamma Knife radiosurgery 2018 marks the 50th anniversary of the first patient treated with Leksell Gamma Knife® radiosurgery. Professor Lars remains relevant and modern because of our collaborative approach to its development with researchers, clinicians, patients, and industry Leksell strongly believed there must be a gentler, organizations. more targeted alternative to open surgery to treat “Leksell Gamma Knife is a perfect example of many intracranial indications. His invention from a disruptive technology that, through continuous 1967 has transformed the treatment of brain disupgrades over the years, is now considered a susorders around the world. taining innovation,” says L. Dade Lunsford, MD, With pinpoint accuracy, Leksell Gamma Knife Distinguished Professor of Neurological Surgery delivers up to thousands of low-intensity radiation at the University of Pittsburgh. beams to one or more targets in single or multiple Through sustained investment and collaborasessions. Now in its sixth generation, with Leksell tion with its partners, Elekta expects Gamma Gamma Knife® Icon™, the gold standard technolKnife radiosurgery to continue enabling the treatogy continues to evolve. Although Leksell Gamma ment of new indications, better prognoses for Knife radiosurgery is a mature technology, it patients, and the potential to save lives. 34 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY Integrating corporate responsibility throughout our value chain As one of the leading medical technology companies globally, we recognize our impact on stakeholders throughout the value chain. This is why we strive to integrate corporate responsibility as a natural part of our daily business operations. Long-term goal and materiality At Elekta, four focus areas drive our Our long-term goal is to maximize our societal impact while commitment to corporate responsibility: securing continued profitable growth. We do this by implementing effective governance systems, having an increasFight Business ingly proactive approach and a greater awareness of what Cancer Ethics it means to be a truly responsible company. Listening to stakeholders plays a crucial role in fulfilling through an ecosystem of and prevent this mission. Our materiality assessment is based on internal strategic partners corruption risk assessment exercises and dialogues with our investors. In 2017, as part of our work to formulate our new corporate Sustainable People in responsibility approach, we engaged in close dialogue with Sourcing Focus large institutional investors. In addition, our business operations maintain close dialogue with customers. We also human rights conduct customer and employee engagement surveys to and environmental based on diversity focus and inclusion evaluate our performance and impact as a supplier and employer. Moving forward, our aim is to enhance the scope These four areas represent the most material corporate responsi­ of our materiality assessment by engaging a broader group bility risks and opportunities that Elekta is facing throughout our of different key stakeholders, including suppliers, NGOs, value chain. It is also an integral part of our value creation and local communities and stakeholders potentially affected by business model, described on pages 12 and 15–17. Read more about our operations. This is crucial in order for us to understand our approach and performance in each focus area in the coming sections. and identify our full impact as a company and corporate citizen. Our aim is also to eventually produce a report following GRI Standards. CEO Statement: Sustainable long term commitment At Elekta, we believe acting efforts where it matters and unwavering commitment. As a responsibly is a key factor for ensuring that we act responsimember of the UN Global Comlong-term success and continbly throughout our business pact I would also like to reiterate ued profitability. This report operations. Being a responsible Elekta’s ongoing commitment shows our stakeholders how company means we do what we to the principles. This report is we meet stringent requirements say and act with integrity in all our annual Communication on and expectations, as well as our situations, ensuring zero tolerProgress. strategy and targets. ance of corrupt behavior or misCaring for life is how we conduct, requiring our business define our way of acting, our partners to adhere to the same way of doing business. Elekta’s high ethical standards, and corporate responsibility stratenabling our own people to Richard Hausmann egy mirrors this by focusing our grow. This is our clear and President and CEO Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility across the entire value chain 2 Suppliers 3 Product development Manufacturing 1 VALUE 4 Employees CHAIN Transportation 7 Usage Sales 5 6 1 Employees 4 Manufacturing 6 Sales • 3,700 employees operating in 40 countries. • Elekta has three production units of our • Working with external distributors and • Diverse company in terms of nationality, own: one in China, one in the Netherlands agents means strict demands on internal but challenge to increase representation and one in the UK. strategies and processes to counter the of women at Group management level • All facilities are certified in accordance risk of corruption. and to leverage diversity. with the ISO 14001 environmental • Increased need for robust procedures • New leadership development programs management system. when dealing with healthcare are strongly focused on diversity and • Health and safety risks are continuously professionals and public authorities. inclusion. managed by local Environmental Health • Elekta has implemented a and Safety Specialists. compliance program, educating, ensur2 Product development ing due diligence and monitoring of • Safety aspects, from installation to han5 Transportation agents and distributors. dling and use, comprise an integral part • Transport and travel account for a of the development process. significant portion of Elekta’s environ7 Usage • Focus moving forward is continued mental impact. • Our core business directly contributes development of innovative and energy­• A Group-wide logistics platform is used to to the Sustainable Development Goals -efficient products, which help clinics reduce the volume of transportation and by providing better access to cancer reduce energy consumption. packaging and to streamline the delivery treatments. of spare parts. • It is crucial that the products provide a 3 Suppliers high level of safety during use. Elekta • Elekta currently procures direct offers in-depth training on how the materials from about 600 suppliers. products work and should be used. • Most salient risks are labor related • Elekta’s linear accelerators currently use and sourcing of conflict minerals. about 30 percent less energy than com• New Sustainable Sourcing Program parable devices in the market. focused on identifying and mitigating risks. 36 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Our sphere of influence aim to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. Elekta’s radiation therapy solutions are used by a vast The Elekta Code of Conduct summarizes the ethical number of healthcare providers around the world, treatprinciples applying to all our employees globally, as well ing millions of patients. Our products and services are as external stakeholders doing business or interacting with produced in close collaboration with selected suppliers of Elekta. components and raw material, and sold through a large To clarify certain aspects of the Code of Conduct, we global network of distributors. Employees play a key role have adopted specific policies and procedures within differin this process, as do strategic partners. Without the ent business functions. For more information, see each speecosystem in which we operate, we would be unable to cific section of the Corporate Responsibility Report. succeed as a company and create value for our owners, In order for stakeholders to report violations of the Code investors and other stakeholders. of Conduct, or any other policy or procedure, Elekta has established a global whistleblower tool through which suspected violations can be anonymously reported. Our InterOur impact nal audit function provides support in the form of internal The environment and our environmental footprint are just investigations based on needs. In the event of a confirmed as important as our stakeholders. Elekta’s environmental breach, the company decides on corrective actions. impact mainly comprises indirect upstream emissions Elekta’s Compliance and Integrity function, headed by the caused by purchasing components used in our products, Senior Vice President Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer, is the transportation of these goods, and business travel. responsible for developing the company’s corporate responsiHowever, we also have a direct footprint from heating and bility program. This program extends beyond legal compliance, electricity at our premises. ensuring wider organizational integrity and culture of compliFor Elekta, this impact on stakeholders and the environance. Goal setting is carried out in close collaboration with ment means we have a clear responsibility. Our aim is to business operations based on identified corporate responsibilminimize our negative impact and maximize value creation ity aspects. This strategic model aligns risk, responsibility and throughout our value chain. integrity, ensuring meaningful sustainability factors are built into senior decision-making. In 2018 the Senior Vice President Our approach to corporate responsibility Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer also became part of Elekta’s responsibility engagements is based on committhe Executive Management team. ment to the leading global corporate responsibility and Our approach as a responsible company is also echoed sustainability initiatives. We have been a signatory of the through our corporate values (see page 2). These values United Nations Global Compact since 2017. We also follow summarize our DNA as a company and the culture we are the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the nurturing. Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals The business community has a key role to play in working to achieve the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals – the Agenda 2030. Based on our own analysis, we have specific potential to contribute to the highlighted goals1. Our impact is most notable in strengthening Good health and well-being. Our focus to improve, prolong and save the lives of people with cancer and brain disorders enables us to contribute in particular to target 3.4 (By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being). 1) The targets of specific relevance under each goal are: 3.4, 5.1, 5.5, 8.5, 8.7, 9A,9B, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 16.5, 17.6, 17.9, 17.16, 17.17. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 37 SUSTAINABILITY Fight Fight cancer with safe and efficient products Cancer through an ecosystem of strategic partners Turning innovation into cutting-edge solutions Innovation and providing access to cancer treatments globally are crucial to fight cancer on a broader scale. Every year, close to 1.5 million patients are treated worldwide with an Elekta solution. With our new MR-linac, Unity, we are ready to take cancer treatments to the next level. Identified opportunities Our main opportunities to contribute to sustainable development through our core business include building global partnerships, enabling better access to health care – including in develOne example is Elekta’s MR-linac Consortium – an industrial-academic partnership that Elekta founded in 2012 with seven centers and our technology partner, Philips. The aim was to provide an 28 Elekta Unity oping countries – and ensuring quality and safety evidence-based introduction of the systems ordered of our products. MR-linac, and to support the advanceBased on experience, we know that the most ment of the technology. The result of their work is a new valuable innovations occur in clinics and among cutting-edge radio therapy system known as Elekta Unity. physicians and physicists treating patients. BuildThis is the only radiation therapy delivery system that inteing relationships with strategic partners is theregrates precision radiation dosing with high-field, 1.5 Tesla fore a cornerstone for future innovation. magnetic resonance imaging. This enables more precise and As a global provider of medical equipment, less invasive treatments, tailored to each patient’s specific we know that the prerequisites in cancer care might differ needs. considerably among various markets. In emerging markets, To lower the entry barrier for deploying new innovations with limited resources, adapting systems to local needs is and technologies, we strive to involve the users at an early crucial. stage. Testing and piloting the system was a central part of Quality and safety of products and services is a basic the consortium work throughout the development phase. prerequisite for any supplier, especially for providers of Naturally, we offer extensive training programs and support advanced medical equipment. Radiation therapy solutions processes for the full range of Elekta’s offerings, supporting involve the delivery of high doses of radiation, which could our users globally. cause serious harm if not performed correctly. Tailoring systems to local needs Our management approach Countries with limited resources deal with specific challenges, Collaboration through consortiums and partnerships such as limited access to premises, electricity and lack of Around 20 percent of Elekta’s global workforce is dedicated space. In those situations, it is crucial to adapt systems to to research and development. The Vice President Research local needs in order to provide access to treatments for all and Innovation works with an international team to coordipatients. Elekta Compact™ is one example. A radiation thernate and manage research across the globe. With a systemapy system with low energy consumption and operational atic approach, we are actively engaging in the global eco-­ simplicity, which can be used in smaller spaces. We also offer system of cancer clinics and researchers, collaborating financial solutions, training and collaborate with various through consortiums and partnerships. organizations to strengthen cancer care in growth regions. 38 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Fight Cancer – through an ecosystem of strategic partners Quality and safety of products and services 3 questions to: Safety of products and services refers to everything from ensuring the right radiation dosage at the right place and time, to information management. A good example is our Monaco treatment planning system – a system supporting all major types of treatment modalities utilizing a Monte Carlo algorithm longer William Hall than any treatment planning system. This algorithm enables MD Assistant Professor, the most accurate dose calculation available. Elekta’s nearly 40 Radiation Oncology years of experience in treatment planning have enabled ongoing Medical College refinements in this algorithm to ensure the highest possible stanof Wisconsin dard for planning accuracy. In what capacity do you collaborate with Elekta? I am an academic radiation oncologist, representing “20 percent of Elekta’s the Medical College of Wisconsin in the MR-Linac workforce is dedicated to Consortium. As part of the Consortium, I am clinical coordinator, coordinating the seven medical colleges research and development.” who are members of the Consortium. How can Unity contribute to sustainable development through access to health care? Quality in business operations as well as offerings is key to our Unity provides us with unique opportunities to underlong-term success. Elekta’s global quality management system stand responses to cancer treatment, and thereby is ISO 9001 compliant and provides the guidance and tools evaluate how radiation treatment is provided. The needed to ensure that the products and services we offer consisunique imaging technology of Unity allows us to personalize treatments. All patients respond differently tently meet customer needs. Naturally, we also comply with the to radiation and this new technology will provide a ISO 13485 standard, which specifies the requirements for providless toxic treatment with fewer side effects. Overall, ing medical devices and related services. Unity will enable improved access to efficient and less invasive cancer treatments. Activities in 2017/2018 What are the implications, from an accessDuring the year, ten new members joined to-healthcare point of view, of MOMENTUM? the MR-linac consortium, laying the founMOMENTUM is a comprehensive clinical develop-­ dation for future innovations. The Elekta ment program enabled by a Multi-institutional Unity radiation therapy system was offiProspective Observational Cohort Study, allowing cially launched in the market in June 2018 us to leverage outcomes of each individual treatment. The MOMENTUM databases will be accessible as the final CE marks were received. to all participants in the program, which will improve We are continuing to enable better access to training globally our understanding of the effectiveness of different through the Elekta Care Learning Centers in Cape Town, Beijing, approaches and enable optimization of future and Atlanta, offering training to professionals and enabling eastreatments. In this way, we are using MOMENTUM to ier access to training in the regions. During the year, 942 particicreate a transformative treatment paradigm that will be accessible to as many patients as possible. pated in training sessions at the centers. Furthermore, in 2018 we were part of establishing the first radiotherapy site in Rwanda. Previously, we participated in launching the first radiotherapy sites in Laos, Gabon, and Mali, as well as the first Linac-based radiotherapy site in Ghana. Corporate Giving Elekta’s approach to corporate giving is to engage Performance and outlook in initiatives that put the patient in focus and involve our employees. Throughout the year we have parCustomers rate Elekta highly for product quality and product ticipated in a wide range of initiatives globally. One safety, however remains a focus for both customers and Elekta example is the Cerebral Palsy Alliance in Australia, a alike. To ensure continuous improvement in these areas Elekta charity event challenging people to take 10,000 steps is investing in proactive and predictive support. In the last year a day for 28 days. Every raised dollar goes back to we have developed a new predictive support model for our help people with cerebral palsy. We also partner with a wide range of organizations such as the Swedish Oncology Informatics platform and we expect to have over 500 Cancer Society and Radiating Hope, with the aim of customers taking advantage of this innovation by the end of the advancing global cancer research. Moreover, in 2018 year. The positive impact experienced by our customers is that we will donate a linac to Jordan’s Al Bashir Hospital, we can predict, and resolve, a system issue before it has any reinforcing Jordan’s ability to care for refugees who chance to interrupt the clinical schedule. have or will develop cancer in the coming years. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 39 SUSTAINABILITY Business People in focus and diversity Ethics and prevent corruption Compliance program preventing corruption, strengthening business ethics Business ethics is a key focus area in our compliance program. Robust processes are vital, as non-compliance with laws and regulations and poor business ethics lead to distrust among stakeholders and the general public, undermine the morale and engagement of employees and could ultimately lead to fines. Combating corruption and bribery has been a top priority for Elekta for a number of years now. Our Corporate policies aim is to avoid any situation that could potentially The Code is available in 11 languages and is further elaboentail violation of laws or the guiding principles in rated by a number of corporate policies emanating from the our global industry agreements. We implement Board of Directors and the President and CEO. These include best-practice anti-bribery and corruption programs with the following: emphasis on values and conduct. Understanding the under• Conflicts of Interest • Confidential Information lying factors that influence employees to behave ethically or • Fair Competition • Export Control unethically is essential to efficiently prevent unethical con• Privacy duct. We also join forces with peers in leading industry associations to develop a binding framework for ethical interactions The updated Code of Conduct was launched in 2015 and has with healthcare professionals. since been revised to include a new CEO statement tying the letter and spirit of the Code to our corporate values. Identified risks The corporate policies are supplemented by specific The healthcare sector is particularly vulnerable to corruption procedures and instructions explaining how the principles due to the close interaction with those in charge of government stated in the policies should be implemented. funds. A high level of interaction with healthcare professionals The Anti-Corruption Policy provides guidance to calls for detailed guidelines on business practices that need to em­ployees and business partners, primarily in various interbe free from even the suggestion of improper influence. We actions with healthcare providers and professionals. Local cooperate with a variety of business partners selling our soluAnti-­Corruption Supplements have been developed for tions to customers in more than 120 countries, many of which certain countries where we have identified a need for more are considered to be at high risk of corruption. Working with disdetailed and stricter guidelines than the general standards tributors and agents places a large responsibility on us to select set forth in the global Anti-Corruption Policy. partners that uphold a high standard of ethical conduct and to An important part of the Anti-Corruption Policy is dedidevelop and maintain efficient compliance programs. cated to managing third-party representatives such as distributors and agents. We place strict demands in relation Our management approach to adherence to our automated Compliance Desktop® proPolicies and procedures cess, which includes risk-based due diligence of business Our Code of Conduct and Group-wide Anti-Corruption partners. The selection and evaluation of business partners ­Policy are cornerstones in building and maintaining personal and a thorough review of the commercial context are effecintegrity across the company and protecting our reputation. tive means to reduce compliance risks. 40 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Business Ethics – and prevent corruption 3 questions to: “500 employees received face-­­­­toface Code of Conduct and Ethical Blindness training during 2017.” Habib Nehme Vice President, Middle East and Africa The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the implemenFrom your perspective, working in the region, tation of an effective anti-bribery and corruption compliance prowhat are the main corruption risks? gram. Senior Vice President Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer, The risk is ever-present stemming from dealing with reporting to the Board at least four times a year, develops the independent third parties to operating in a war-torn compliance program and puts forward a long-term anti-bribery as well as politically and economically unstable region. We need to take extra care when partici­ and corruption plan for the Board’s yearly endorsement. For more pating directly in public procurement, making sure information on the Compliance function and its interaction with who the end users of our products are and where the the Board of Directors, see the Corporate Governance Report on money is coming from in order not to contribute to page 56. money laundering or deal with entities on international watch lists. One of our main focuses is ensuring that all our distributors have the same ethical Training and e-learning approach as Elekta. We strive to make Code of Conduct training as relevant and engaging as possible for employees and business partners. Our What are the main challenges on the horizon? Code of Conduct training includes ethical dilemmas and real-­­­life Lack of transparency and bureaucracy in the public case scenarios. sector and conflicts of interest remains the highest challenge in these markets, despite the fact that the To provide hands-on and easily available guidance on the market is shifting to more private healthcare sermain corporate policies, monthly training videos dedicated to vices. Access to the decision makers in the public a specific topic are published internally. To ensure a wide distrisector is a challenge that we can overcome by havbution and that the policies are understood and practiced by all ing direct contact and access to the ministries of employees, this material is embedded in a mandatory Code of health and decreasing the number of middle companies. Conduct e-training course. How do we ensure that our employees care Elekta Integrity Line about ethical behavior and compliance? To facilitate employee reporting of any violaWe can never communicate this enough. We need to tions of the Code of Conduct, Elekta has estabconstantly remind ourselves of our Code of Conduct and doing business in the right way. We must also live lished a global whistleblower tool that can be our values, and that starts by making sure we have used to anonymously report any suspected the right people with the right mindset. Our leaders violations. All cases reported are followed up internally by the should show the way and lead by example. It is cruSenior Vice President Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer and cial to build our capacity for dealing with corruption reported to the Board at regular intervals. by providing training using real-life cases so that the organization has an opportunity to speak up. In 2017/2018, 11 cases of alleged violations of law or our Code of Furthermore, open reporting should be possible Conduct were reported through the Elekta Integrity Line, directly without the fear of retaliation. to our specific Compliance e-mail address or through other channels. The majority of cases reported were related to conflicts of interest or fraud against Elekta. All relevant cases have been investigated and followed up with appropriate remediation measures and sanctions that included termination of contract. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Business Ethics – and prevent corruption Compliance program: preventing corruption whilst strengthening business ethics MITIGATION RISK AUDIT Monitoring and continuous Risk improvements assessment Detect and respond appropriately 9 2 to allegations and discipline misconduct 8 1 3 Organization Top-level commitment Interaction with healthcare 7 4 Practical accessible and professionals policies and procedures 6 5 Third party risk Communication management and training Step 1: Identification Step 2: Commercial evaluation Step 3: Compliance Due diligence Step 4: Notification Step 5: Contracting Step 6: Monitoring 2 Risk Assessment 6 Third Party Risk Management Actions: During the year, we held anti-bribery and corruption risk Actions: To date, we have implemented our due diligence tool, assessment workshops in the North America and Eastern Europe Compliance Desktop®, and performed commercial evaluations Regions. and integrity due diligence of 100 percent of third parties under Targets: Our goal is to conduct the same workshops in the Middle Phase 1 – distributors, sales agents and service partners. This was East and Africa, and China Regions during 2018/2019. The aim is completed across all regions. also to conduct a competition law risk assessment during 2019. Targets: For Phase 2, we aim to achieve the same level of due diligence and evaluation of governmental official intermediaries and 5 Communication and Training non-sales intermediaries. Actions: 100 percent of all employees in a customer-facing sales role have received Code of Conduct and Ethical Blindness training 8 Detect and Respond as part of the sales excellence training program. Actions: This year, we launched the Elekta Integrity Line in new 500 employees received face-to-face Code of Conduct and markets with Elekta sales offices: Russia, Algeria and Vietnam, Ethical Blindness training during 2017, which means that 2,500 enabling employees to anonymously report violations of our employees have now received this training since the updated Code Code of Conduct via a system hosted by a third party. of Conduct was launched in 2015. 90 percent of employees and An ethics survey was sent out to all employees to measure consultants completed Part 1 of the Code of Conduct e-learning employee perception of Tone at the Top and culture of compliance course over a five-month period. and integrity. We will have the results of this survey later this year. Anti-Corruption and Bribery training was provided to the Elekta We have also integrated soft controls (e.g. request confirmation AB Board of Directors and parts of the executive management of knowledge of and compliance with policies and procedures) into team during 2017/2018. Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption our existing internal control program. The main goal is for local training for our distributors and agents was conducted in six of management to provide assurance concerning the implementation eight regions. of policies in their organizations and to assess the level of risk Targets: 90 percent of all employees will have received Code of awareness. Conduct and Ethical Blindness training in 2018/2019. Targets: Moving forward we will integrate compliance and integ90 percent of employees and consultants will complete rity audits into our internal audit procedures, as well as assess the Part 2 of the Code of Conduct training in 2018/2019. effectiveness of Elekta’s Reporting Violations Policy. E-training for distributors will be rolled out in 2018/2019. 42 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 Sustainable Sourcing human rights and environmental focus Building sustainable supply chains Elekta pursues a responsible procurement policy consistent with internationally proclaimed human rights, business ethics, respect for fundamental workers’ rights, and environmental standards – all of which are key conditions for doing business with Elekta. As a first step, we have decided to focus our susnected to their extraction are cobalt and tungsten. tainable sourcing efforts on suppliers of direct Both of these minerals are, to a large extent, mined in materials representing 90 percent of the purchashigh-risk areas. ing value, corresponding to 96 suppliers. Of these, The identified risks are the result of an initial risk assess19 are located in China, while the remainder have ment that will be updated annually to reflect results from production facilities in Europe, North America the Sustainable Sourcing Program. and Japan. From an environmental viewpoint, our most prominent risks are suppliers who specialize in heavy manufacturing Identified risks processes, coating systems, chemical deposition and metalBased on external and internal expertise, Elekta conducted lurgical casting resulting in potential waste and hazardous a risk assessment of its supply chain in 2017/2018. The risk chemical disposal. assessment drew upon information such as country-specific risks, risks prevalent in the medical technology industry and For more information on our environmental impact, our current impact. Since most of our suppliers of direct refer to our Carbon Emission Report published on materials do not operate in high-risk countries, the most the Elekta website. severe human rights risks are located further upstream in our supply chain. Elekta therefore places a strong emphasis Our management approach on suppliers to ensure suppliers and sub-suppliers comply In November 2017, Elekta adopted a new Supplier Code of with the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Conduct. The Code applies to all Elekta suppliers in all marElekta identifies the following categories as the most kets and jurisdictions. salient human rights risks: labor rights in manufacturing; The Supplier Code of Conduct includes requirements on and sourcing of conflict minerals. human rights, labor rights, sourcing of conflict minerals, Risks related to labor rights in manufacturing consist of business ethics, and environmental protection. The procureexcessive overtime, lack of freedom of association, forced ment function is responsible for implementing the Supplier labor, rights of children of migrant workers and low wages. Code of Conduct and the Sustainable Sourcing Program, Notwithstanding the good work being done in these fields by with support from the Global Sustainability Manager. many of our suppliers in China, we are aware that it is a business environment that is particularly prone to such issues. To Sustainable Sourcing Program support our suppliers in China in dealing with these risks, 2017/2018 heralded the commencement of Phase 1 of the they will be prioritized with regard to on-site audits in the Elekta Sustainable Sourcing Program, signifying the first phase of the Sustainable Sourcing Program. onboarding of global direct material suppliers within We use several metals and minerals crucial for our prod90-percent spend. The supplier onboarding adopts a riskucts. The two minerals used in our products subject to the based approach to ensure a focused due diligence effort is most severe risks of adverse human rights impacts conimplemented. Each supplier will be provided access to the Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable Sourcing – human rights and environmental focus Sustainable Sourcing Program Direct material HIGH RISK 1 suppliers 90% spend Compliance Desktop ® 1 Initial / Regular on-site audit 2 2 SAQ Yearly risk Preferred or Active: assessment No follow up audit 3 Risk grading of all 3 suppliers Corrective Action Plan MEDIUM RISK Conditional or Disquali ed: Follow up within six months Desktop audit LOW RISK No audit 5 Follow up audit 4 Elekta Compliance Desktop® web-based application portal minerals are sourced from smelters certified by the Responsible requesting completion of the supplier onboarding questionMinerals Initiative. Due to complex supply chains, we have yet to naire, based on their understanding of, and compliance determine source countries of minerals used in our products. with, the Elekta Supplier Code of Conduct. Achieving this is a prioritized focus area for 2018/2019 and diaWhere supplier responses are found to suggest further logue with relevant suppliers has been initiated. investigation is warranted, the supplier is enrolled on the 74 27 Sustainability Audit Program. The audit program focuses on compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct. During W Tungsten Co 2017/2018, and over the course of next year, our attention is Cobolt 183.84 58.933 on conducting audits of all identified high-risk suppliers, and resolving potential issues. To date, 18 high-risk suppliers have In order to get all direct material suppliers in Phase 1 up to been identified and will undergo the audit process with the speed and enable us to initiate the audit process, we are assistance of our third-party audit partner. As we progress currently working on updating supplier contracts with a new to Phase 2, the remaining number of direct material suppliclause referencing the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our initial ers will be onboarded to the program. focus is on suppliers in China. As disclosed in our updated Modern Slavery and Human As part of our effort to strengthen Elekta’s focus on Trafficking Statement, the Sustainable Sourcing Program sustainable sourcing, a global sustainability procurement will also function as our due diligence procedure to identify specialist was appointed during the year, responsible for and mitigate risks related to modern slavery and human coordination in the procurement function and working trafficking in our supply chain. closely with the Global Sustainability Manager. We believe that forming close relationships with Activities in 2017/2018 relevant third-party vendors is a crucial step to accelerate Launching the Sustainable Sourcing Program and adopting and support the implementation of the Sustainable a Supplier Code of Conduct have been our main areas of Sourcing Program. We are therefore collaborating with Red focus over the past year. Flag Group (providing the web-based Compliance Desktop® We have also placed strong emphasis on dealing with risks application) and Intertek (acting as third-party auditor). related to sourcing of conflict minerals. To date, we have traced Moreover, we are also cooperating with Normative, the supply chain of cobalt and tungsten and ensured that the helping us compile and analyze our carbon emissions. 44 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable Sourcing – human rights and environmental focus 3 questions to: “Launching a Supplier Code of Conduct and adopting the Sustainable Sourcing Anna-Karin Programme have been our Thorsander main areas of focus over the Head of Procurement Sweden past year.” How is sustainable sourcing integrated in Elekta’s overall procurement strategy? Our procurement strategy focuses on Total Cost of Ownership, including all cost elements during the Performance and outlook product lifecycle. To reduce total cost, we strive to reduce or remove factors, such as transportation Elekta sets out to update supplier contracts with reference to and waste. For example, we reduce transportation by the Supplier Code of Conduct for all Phase 1 suppliers and conlocating main suppliers close to us or the main market. duct on-site audits of all high-risk suppliers in Phase 1. We will Regarding waste, the ultimate way to reduce it is by also expand the Sustainable Sourcing Program to all direct recycling materials and, where possible, reusing com­ material suppliers, and eventually indirect material suppliers. ponents. Moreover, the Supplier Code of Conduct is now part of all new supplier contracts and adherence With regard to sourcing of conflict minerals, we will become to the Code is a prerequisite for doing business with members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative, enabling us to Elekta. take a more systematic approach to traceability. Moreover, we aim to map the supply chains of all minerals and metals used in What is the principle Elekta products to determine countries of origin. focus in sustainable sourcing? An area on which we intend to focus more is the In order to fully embed the Sustainable Sourcing Program reuse of materials and components, a major element across our organization, we will conduct training of relevant of the circular economy approach. All disposed functions within procurement on sustainable sourcing, including radioactive cobalt sets from Elekta sites are returned modern slavery and trafficking. to the supplier and are reused in gamma sterilization We see great potential in introducing a take-back program for of other products. Old products, which cannot be resold due to age, are sold as scrap to recycling comElekta products, in order to reuse and recycle materials, includpanies, ensuring that materials are properly taken ing packaging. Over the coming year, we will conduct a feasibilcare of. Taking back tungsten collimators and elecity study to determine viability of introducing such a program. tronic components for reuse in new products is The absolute majority of Elekta’s environmental impacts are something we want to explore further. We will also comprised of Scope 3 emissions, mainly indirect upstream emisinvestigate reusing packaging materials. sions caused by purchasing components used in our products, Looking forward, how can Elekta transportation of these goods, and business travel. Over 90 strengthen its sustainable sourcing efforts? percent of our total Scope 3 emissions come from purchased I believe we need to think more in terms of sustaincomponents and amount to a total of 319,904 tons of CO2. ability at the product design phase, increasingly Through implementation of our Environmental Policy we aim choosing materials that are possible to reuse and recycle. With assistance from our supply chain, we at reducing our impact by for example managing resource concan invest in sustainable efficiency from ‘cradle to sumption during production, reducing emissions to air and water cradle’. and, as far as possible, avoiding the use of environmentally hazardous materials. For more information on our environmental impact, refer to our Carbon Emission Report published on the Elekta website. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 45 SUSTAINABILITY People in People in focus and diversity Focus based on diversity and inclusion Fostering a culture based on diversity and inclusion Our employees are our most important assets. As an employer, we strive to build a sustainable workplace that supports professional and personal growth and wellbeing. Our global People Agenda aims to leverage the full potential of our employees. Identified risks under the People Policy, clarifying our commitment to creAttracting and retaining qualified employees, ating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive workplace. as well as managing talent and competence To support our approach to diversity and inclusion, we focus development, are crucial for our capabilities on five key areas: gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, as an innovator of cancer treatments. Lack of and nationality, ethnicity and culture. competences could jeopardize our long-term success as Naturally, Elekta complies with national labor legislation a provider of medical equipment. in all markets. All employees have the right to join a trade We want to attract employees from a wide range of union and to bargain collectively in accordance with local backgrounds and cultures, fostering a culture of diversity laws and applicable conventions. We are aware of the and inclusion. challenges this approach poses in countries where collective From a health and safety perspective, our production bargaining is not applied. In China, we have engaged in diasites involve operating heavy machinery and handling logue with local authorities. radioactive materials, which could cause serious damage We strive to nurture an open corporate climate where if not carried out correctly. discussions and interaction among employees are part of daily work, for instance via our social media tools provided Our management approach through our intranet. We also hold quarterly townhall meetBuilding a responsible workplace ings at our local operations, organized by different corpoThe Human Resources function, headed by the Executive rate functions. The townhall meetings held by our CEO are Vice President, Human Resources, formulates the global broadcasted globally to all Elekta employees. Furthermore, People Agenda in collaboration with executive managewe strive toward building a culture of continuous daily ment. The agenda applies to all business operations and is dialogue between employees and managers. based on the overall strategy for the company. Local HR functions are responsible for implementing the agenda, as Competence and talent development well as addressing local HR issues based on national regulaAs part of the global performance management process, tions and laws or specific needs. each employee shall have a development plan to help Our company values were formed together with employees address development needs. The plan is updated in connecin 2016. These values summarize how we want to act as a comtion with yearly performance reviews. pany and toward each other. Learn more on page 2. Elekta has an anchored People Policy that sets out how Diversity and inclusion we will meet our commitment to promoting and maintainElekta strives to achieve a workplace free from any kind of ing a culture of diversity and equal opportunity. As of this discrimination, ensuring that all employees are treated year, a Diversity and Inclusion Procedure is also included equally, irrespective of age, race, gender, religion, sexual 46 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY People in Focus – based on diversity and inclusion orientation, disabilities, marital status, social origin, political opinion or ethnic background. Our global People Agenda In 2017, Elekta launched a global People Agenda. The aim is Health, wellbeing and safety of employees to leverage the full potential of the employees in executing We are committed to ensuring a safe work environment our overall company strategy. This agenda is based on four throughout our operations, preventing workplace accidents, cornerstones: injuries and illnesses. Local Environmental, Health & Safety • Leadership – our leaders’ capability of driving the development of a sustainable corporate culture where all units coopSpecialists are responsible for continuous monitoring and miti­ erate to create the best solutions for the company. gation of health and safety risks at our manufacturing sites. • Sustainable people pipeline – actively developing and growing our people to evolve the business, and a talent pipeline to Activities in 2017/2018 secure future growth of the organization. Our leaders play an essential role in driving our continued • Reward – implementing reward systems that support transformation as a company. In 2017, a new Leadership achievement of our corporate goals and the desired leaderDevelopment Program was launched providing support to ship behavior. our managers in developing their capabilities to drive change • Organizational capability – identify required capabilities to and encourage strong commitment among employees. The realize our corporate strategy. 36 program also aims to strengthen cross-functional cooperation. This is a customized one-year program, To secure the pipeline of future leaders, we also launched in partnership with several leading a Next Generation Elekta Leader Program. This is a threeinternational business schools. This month program, including similar elements featured in managers currently ensures an international outlook to the one-year leadership program, such as desk training and engaged in our LDP support managers, developing mentorship opportunities. Moreover, participants take part their intercultural skills and sensitivin driving action learning projects (ALPs), solving real busiities. To date, 16 Elekta managers have participated and each ness challenges for Elekta. Altogether, 30 future leaders are paired with a member of the executive management took part in the first round, and were assigned mentors who team as a mentor. Another 20 managers started in May 2018. were participants in the Leadership Development Program. Health and Safety at Elekta’s Beijing manufacturing site Elekta’s Beijing manufacturing implemented an idea scheme site has approximately 200 for employees to provide sugemployees and primarily gestions on health and safety assembles, tests and performs and other efficiency improvequality assurance. The main ments. Approximately 200 sughealth and safety risks at our gestions have been made over manufacturing sites are radiathe past three years, with more tion hazards when testing than 90 percent being accelerators, as well as general implemented. safety risks in a factory environLast year, Elekta’s Beijing ment when dealing with heavy facility was selected by the govmachinery. ernment authorities as one of These risks are managed ten companies in the local daily through implementation region, out of a total of 500, at of health and safety policies, the forefront when it comes to rigorous safety procedures implementation of national and continuous training of all health and safety laws and regemployees. An Environmental, ulations. To date, the site has Health and Safety Specialist is not had any serious work-reresponsible for performing reglated accidents and regularly ular risk assessments together passes rigorous government with employees who are inspections with zero exposed to the risks. Elekta has non-conformities. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 47 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY People in Focus – based on diversity and inclusion An important initiative in our focus on people is the Elekta Leadership Development Program. Here, talents from our global organization are given the opportunities to grow and further develop their skills, ultimately strengthening Elekta from within. In selecting participants for both leadership programs, Performance and outlook a balanced gender and geographical representation is Employee experience a key component. Evaluating employee experience is key in order to underIn 2018, we held our second Elekta Together Day, a global stand our impact as a company and employer. Elekta event for all employees to collaborate, build connections conducts a Group-wide employee engagement survey on and together look at what we need to do to make Elekta a a regular basis. This survey includes a range of indices, great place to work. Elekta employees participated in workmeasuring the company’s employer brand and employees’ shops to discuss what Elekta offers its employees as well as loyalty. Other measurements are evaluation of key leaderhow further progress can be made. ship skills, employee engagement, and cooperation and During 2017, Elekta Limited in the UK conducted a gender efficiency in teams. 2,962 pay gap review of comparable roles within the company, in accordance with UK regulations. The results indicate that our mean gender pay gap is 9.84 percent. This gap is believed to be largely attributed to the higher proportion of males versus females who work in engineering professions. However, we are continuing to work hard to further narrow this gap. Our employees participated in our efforts include focused activities to encourage more women engagement survey to join the engineering profession. We anticipate that balancing the ratio of women to men will, over time, reduce the genThe latest survey was conducted in December 2017. der pay gap. For more information, refer to our Gender Pay Compared to the previous survey, Elekta’s employer brand Gap Statement published on the Elekta website. has somewhat weakened, although there are differences among various functions within the company. One reason EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS for this trend could be the transformation and restructuring Index Number activities of recent years, which may have caused a sense of 100 60 uncertainty among some employees. We aim to improve this in the year ahead. 75 45 The share of employees that are strongly engaged in their 50 30 job was higher than in the past, although energy levels are low in parts of the organization. Engagement among man25 15 agers shows the same trend. The latest survey also shows 0 2012 2014 2017 0 2015 2016 2017 that communication needs to be strengthened throughout the organization. 48 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY People in Focus – based on diversity and inclusion 3 questions to: “Our global People Agenda aims to leverage the full Denise Lau potential of our employees.” Vice President, Order Fulfillment, Region Asia Pacific Diversity and inclusion What was your experience from Given Elekta’s geographical diversity and spread, it is natural the Elekta Leader­ship Development Program? Participating in the program provided a unique that there is ethnical and cultural diversity among our em­­ opportunity to work together and learn from each ployees. Currently, 30 percent of all employees are women. other. Not only focusing on how to be a diverse and Women accounted for 19 percent of top managers and 23 inclusive company in theory, but also learning practipercent of succession candidates. These figures show that cal skills needed for collaboration and understanding improving the gender balance in management positions our differences. As part of the program, we were also each assigned a global project to lead. needs to be a prioritized issue at Elekta. We also see potential for better utilization of the diversity of our work force. Has it changed your approach to leadership? Going forward, Elekta plans to increase its focus on diverThe program has helped me to develop an even more sity and inclusion. The new leadership programs are a step inclusive leadership style. One part of our training in the right direction to ensure a more diverse gender reprewas mentoring a participant of the Next Generation Elekta Leaders Program. As a global company, we at sentation at management level in the future. Moreover, we Elekta need to utilize our strength in diversity. By also need to have an executive management team that involving and engaging all team members, as well mirrors our global workforce. As of today, members of as external stakeholders, we can overcome barriers executive management are mostly European. These issues of geographical distances and cultural differences. are included in our yearly succession planning. Ultimately, this will enable us to establish a strong foothold in the medical industry in every corner of the world. Health, wellbeing and safety of employees The health and wellbeing of our employees is measured in What challenges does Elekta face several ways. Workplace accidents are followed up by colfrom the perspective of diversity and inclusion? lecting data from production sites involving manual manuTo be a successful global company, we must focus on diversity and inclusion. If we do not understand and facturing work. In 2017, we reported 27 workplace accidents, value the cultural differences of our own employees, all of which occurred at our main production site in Crawly. our customers and ultimately patients, we will not All of these accidents were minor, not resulting in any type succeed in the global market. I believe that impleof serious injury. Although this is a lower number compared menting the new leadership programs is a crucial with the previous year (52), we are concerned and will constep in creating a more diverse and inclusive company culture. tinue to work toward minimizing workplace accidents. Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Elekta AB (publ), corporate identity number 556170-4015 Engagement and responsibility Opinion It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainabilA statutory sustainability report has been prepared. ity report for the year the financial year 1 May 2017 – 30 April 2018 on pages 12,15–17, 35–49 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Stockholm, July 9, 2018 Accounts Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Signature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing Johan Engstam standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainabilAuthorised Public Accountant ity report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any difaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination ferences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. version shall prevail Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 49 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance report 2017/18 Elekta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited liability company listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Elekta considers good corporate governance, including risk management and internal control, to be an important element of a successful business operation since it provides opportunities for maintaining confidence among customers, patients, shareholders, authorities and other stakeholders. Elekta’s corporate governance report 2017/18 was prepared by the Company’s board of directors, in accordance with the annual accounts act and the Swedish corporate governance code, as a separate report from the board of directors’ report, and it has been reviewed by the Company’s external auditor. Elekta AB (publ) is referred to as “Elekta AB”, “the Company” or “the Parent nomination committee. This was motivated by the fact that Laurent Leksell, Company” and the Elekta Group, which includes Elekta AB and its subsidiarin his capacity as the major shareholder, is well suited to effectively lead the ies, is referred to as “Elekta” or “the Group”. work of the nomination committee in order to achieve the best result for Elekta has implemented and complied with the Swedish corporate govthe Company’s shareholders. According to point 2.4 of the Corporate Governance code (the corporate governance code) with one exception during ernance Code, the chairman of the board of directors is not to be the chairthe fiscal year of 2017/18. Elekta’s nomination committee resolved to appoint man of the nomination committee. the chairman of the board of directors, Laurent Leksell, as chairman of the Chairman’s comments 2017/18 Elekta is a global medical technology company pioframework, and reinforced neering significant innovations and clinical solutions, group functions for risk, which are at the forefront in treating cancer and regulatory compliance and brain disorders. Our primary purpose is to help cliniquality management furcians improve patients’ lives and Elekta’s clinical ther. This enables us to solutions contribute to treatment of close to 1.5 milmanage and mitigate risks lions patients annually, all around the world. Thus, in a more structured manwe have a major responsibility towards our customner. Elekta has zero tolerers and their patients. ance towards all actions that do not comply with or As a manufacturer of medical devices, Elekta’s follow regulations, our Code of Conduct and other operations are governed by requirements, regulabusiness policies. We strive for, and expect, the hightions and standards established by regulatory est ethical business standard. authorities in various countries, as well as by our The Board of Directors continue to support and own policies and procedures, including our Code of monitor the company to ensure that we reach our Conduct. Elekta is furthermore listed on Nasdaq strategic and financial objectives. We are fully confiStockholm and has an international shareholder dent that the initiatives and actions that are being base, which contributes to the high demands we set pursued and implemented by executive manageon Elekta’s governance, including risk management ment will contribute to a positive future, and the furand internal control. The board emphasizes its work ther development of Elekta. with Elekta’s strategy and international development, as well as corporate governance. The purpose of Elekta’s governance framework is to create, preserve, and realize value for our shareholders as well as to provide and secure sustainable, July 9, 2018 long-term development of our operation. During the past few years, Elekta has therefore Laurent Leksell implemented and strengthened our internal control Chairman of the board 50 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ­Elekta’s governance structure As per April 30, 2018 2 1 3 Nomination External Shareholders Committee Auditor 9 4 Board of Directors Internal Audit 4.1 Executive 4.2 Compensation Audit and Capability Committee Committee 5 President and CEO 7 6 Compliance Executive Management QA and RA 8 Risk Management Operations Internal Control Elects/Appoints Informs/Reports direct Other; Controlling, HR Informs (e.g. directions, objectives, steering documents)/ Informs/Reports indirect Legal and Security/IT Reports (e.g. results, compliance, deviations) 1 Shareholders requested by the external auditor or by shareholders holding at least 10 percent of the shares. Decisions are normally made by a simple majority, and Ownership structure in elections, the person receiving the most votes is deemed elected. The At the end of the fiscal year, Elekta AB had 23,632 shareholders, of whom Swedish companies act requires certain decisions, such as amendments of 50 percent were domiciled in Sweden. At April 30, 2018, the largest sharethe articles of association and the transfer of shares to employees particiholder was Laurent Leksell with companies, with 30.7 percent of the votes. pating in equity-based long-term incentive programs, to be made by a qualRead more about the share and shareholders on pages 64–65. ified majority. Disclosures on direct or indirect shareholdings in Elekta AB representing at least one-tenth of the voting rights, and information about Shares and votes authorizations by the general meeting of shareholders for the board of Elekta AB’s B share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. On April 30, 2018, the directors to decide upon acquisition of own shares are set out on page 64. total number of registered shares in Elekta AB was 383,568,409 divided between 14,980,769 Series A shares and 368,587,640 Series B shares. At the Annual general meeting of shareholders general meetings of shareholders, which is the forum in which shareholders The annual general meeting of shareholders is held in Stockholm, Sweden. may exercise influence, Series A shares entitle the holder to 10 votes, while The date and venue for the meeting will be announced on Elekta’s website Series B shares carry one vote each. Read more about the share and sharewww.elekta.com not later than in connection with the third interim report holders on pages 64–65. May–January. Notification of the annual general meeting is published, according to the rules of the Swedish companies act, not earlier than six Dividend policy weeks and not later than four weeks in advance of the meeting. Elekta’s goal is to provide shareholders with a favorable return and value Shareholders who cannot attend in person may be represented by an growth. The policy is to distribute at least 30 percent of profit for the year in authorized proxy. Only shareholders included in the shareholder register are the form of dividends, repurchase of shares or comparable measures. A diventitled to vote. Shareholders with trustee-registered shares who wish to idend decision is based on Elekta’s financial position, earnings trend, growth vote must request that they be entered in the shareholder register by the potential and investment requirements. record date for the annual general meeting. The annual general meeting is held in Swedish, but all relevant documentation is also available in English. General meeting of shareholders At the annual general meeting, shareholders have the opportunity to ask The general meeting of shareholders is Elekta AB:s highest decision-­making questions. Elekta always strives to ensure that the members of the board of body. In addition to the annual general meeting of shareholders (ordinary directors, the executive management and the external auditor are present general meeting of shareholders), extraordinary general meetings of at the annual general meeting. shareholders may be held at the discretion of the board of directors or, if Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 51 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders Further information regarding the annual general meeting 2017, including The 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders was held in Stockholm on the minutes, is available at www.elekta.com. No other general meetings of August 23, 2017. The meeting was attended by 321 shareholders, either pershareholders were held during the 2017/18 fiscal year. sonally or by proxy, corresponding to approximately 66 percent of the votes in the Company. All members of the board of directors were present at the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders meeting save for Caroline Leksell Cooke who was elected new member of The 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders will be held in Stockholm, the board of directors at the meeting. The 2017 annual general meeting of Sweden, at Moderna Museet on August 30, 2018 at 2:00 pm. More informashareholders resolved on the following: tion regarding the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders is available •• A dividend payment of SEK 1.00 per share to shareholders to be divided at www.elekta.com. into two separate payments of SEK 0.50 each 2 Nomination committee •• Discharge of the members of the board of directors, the President and CEO Richard Hausmann and former President and CEO Tomas Puusepp, Procedure for appointment of nomination committee respectively, from liability for management in the 2016/17 fiscal year The 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders resolved that the nomina•• Adoption of fees to the board of directors totaling SEK 5,010,000 tion committee for the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders would (4,295,000), of which SEK 1,130,000 (1,075,000) to the chairman of the be appointed through a procedure whereby the chairman of the board of board of directors and SEK 485,000 (460,000) to each of the other exterdirectors, before the end of the second quarter of the fiscal year, would connal members of the board of directors, as well as remuneration for board tact the four largest shareholders in terms of voting rights, besides the sharecommittee work of a total SEK 755,000 (770,000), of which SEK 110,000 holder or shareholders the chairman of the board of directors may repre(90,000) to the chairman of the executive compensation and capabilsent as of the last banking day of September. These shareholders would be ity committee and SEK 75,000 (50,000) to each of the other members of given the opportunity to appoint one person each who, together with the the committee, and SEK 225,000 (200,000) to the chairman of the audit chairman of the board of directors, would constitute the nomination comcommittee and SEK 135,000 (110,000) to each of the other members of mittee. The chairman of the nomination committee would, unless the nomthe committee ination committee unanimously decides otherwise, be the member of the •• Re-election of members of the board of directors Luciano Cattani, nomination committee appointed by the largest shareholder in terms of votAnnika Espander Jansson, Laurent Leksell, Johan Malmquist, Tomas ing rights. No remuneration would be paid to the members of the nominaPuusepp, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher and Birgitta Stymne Göransson. tion committee. Caroline Leksell Cooke was elected new member of the board of directors. Laurent Leksell was re-elected chairman of the board of directors Composition of the nomination committee for the 2018 annual •• Re-election of PwC as external auditor, with authorized public accountant general meeting of shareholders Johan Engstam as the auditor in charge The composition of the nomination committee for the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders was announced in a press release on November •• Adoption of guidelines for remuneration of senior executives 22, 2017. The nomination committee for the 2018 annual general meeting of •• Adoption of equity-based long-term incentive program, Performance shareholders comprises: Share Plan 2017, to encompass 11 key employees of the Group •• Laurent Leksell, chairman of the board of directors and representing •• Authority for the board of directors for acquisition and transfer of own his own and related parties’ holdings shares The work of the board of directors including some important agenda items in 2017/18 Two board meetings • Interim report Q1 • AGM • Inaugural board meeting One board meeting • Adoption of working instructions for board, One board meeting • Adoption of annual report (includcommittees and the President and CEO • Year-end report ing all reports included therein) • Report from the audit committee • Meeting with auditors and review of • Adoption of notice and final • Review of the company’s marketing organization external audit report for the full year proposals to the AGM • Update and discussion on the business operations • Report from the audit committee • Approval of the board’s reasoned in region North and South America statement regarding share repur• Review and approval of budget fiscal chase and statement with respect • Final review of the company transformation year 2017/18 incl. financial targets to dividend program 2017 MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER One board meeting • Facilities tour in Crawley • Review of strategy plan 52 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT •• Per Colleen – appointed by the Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund man of the board. The conclusion is presented to the nomination committee •• Tomas Flodén – appointed by AMF and AMF Fonder by the chairman of the board. The nomination committee has through the audit committee’s chairman obtained the audit committee’s recommenda•• Magnus Henjeby – appointed by Nordea Investment funds tion as regards election of auditor. •• Åsa Nisell – appointed by Swedbank Robur Fonder The nomination committee’s complete proposals for the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders and reasoned statement is published in the The nomination committee has appointed Laurent Leksell as chairman of notice convening the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders, which is the nomination committee. The assignment for the nomination committee available at www.elekta.com is valid until the end of the next annual general meeting of shareholders, or, where applicable, until a new nomination committee has been appointed. 3 External auditor Preparation for the 2018 annual general meeting of Appointment of the external auditor shareholders The external auditor of Elekta AB is appointed by the annual general meetThe role of the nomination committee ahead of the annual general meeting of shareholders for a period until the end of the next annual general ing of shareholders includes: Proposing a chairman of the annual general meeting of shareholders. meeting of shareholders, chairman of the board of directors, members of the board of directors, auditor, fees to the board of directors and fees to the External auditor and auditor in charge auditor and the procedure for appointing the nomination committee. The 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders re-elected PwC as external The nomination committee held five meetings prior to the 2018 annual auditor with Johan Engstam as auditor in charge. PwC has been the external general meeting of shareholders. For the composition of the board of direcauditor of Elekta AB since the 2012 annual general meeting of shareholders. tors, the nomination committee paid particular attention to the Company’s Johan Engstam was born in 1966 and is an authorized public accountant. strategy, operations, stage of development and other conditions. The nomiDuring the year, he was also the auditor in charge of MedCap AB, Tobii and nation committee has applied the corporate governance code, section 4.1, as Astra Zeneca AB. He has no assignments in any other company that affect diversity policy when preparing its proposal for board composition. The purhis independence as the auditor in charge of Elekta AB. pose of the policy is that the proposed board of directors shall be characterized by versatility and breadth as regards competence, experience, backResponsibility ground and gender balance. The nomination committee believes that the The audit engagement includes the audit of the annual report and consolproposed composition fulfills the target of versatility and breadth as regards idated accounts of Elekta AB, the proposed appropriations of the Compathe competency, experience and background of the board members. Out of ny’s profit or loss and the administration of the board of directors and the the nine proposed board members, four are women and five men, meaning President and CEO of Elekta AB. The audit engagement also includes reviewthat the percentage of women is 44 (33) percent. ing whether the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives adopted by Annually an evaluation of the board of directors’ work, expertise, comthe annual general meeting of shareholders have been complied with. The position and independence of its members is initiated by the chairman of audit engagement also includes a review of the interim report for the second the board of directors, partly to assess the preceding year, partly to idenquarter as well as a statutory examination of the corporate governance and tify areas for development for the board of directors. The evaluation is perthe Corporate Responsibility Report. formed with support from an evaluation form and by discussions as well as by individual interviews of the board members performed by the chairOne board meeting • Interim report Q2 One board meeting • Report from the executive compensation and capability committee • Interim report Q3 • Report from the audit committee • Report from the executive compensation and capability committee • Update and discussion regarding the business in China • Report from the audit committee • Long-term financing • Software strategy NOVEMBER DECEMBER 2018 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL One board meeting Two board meetings • Market overview and financial • Market overview and financial update update • General review of Company’s M&A process • Approval of direction in the budget directive Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 53 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Work during the year •• Ensuring that external information and communications are characterPwC has performed the audit of Elekta for the 2017/18 fiscal year, based on ized by openness, and that they are accurate, reliable and relevant a risk-based external audit plan, resulting in the unqualified auditor’s report and statement, which are available on pages 114–116 and at www.elekta.com. The working instructions for the board of directors establish that the board According to the audit committee’s guidelines can services in addiis to: tion to audit services, known as permissible non-audit services, that Elekta •• Hold at least seven ordinary meetings per year may procure from the external auditor in order to assure that the impar•• Adopt finance and foreign exchange policies tiality and independence of the external auditor is not put at risk, not •• Adopt a code of conduct exceed 70 percent of the cost for audit services measured over a three-year period. The audit committee may decide to make exceptions under certain •• Approve a long-term plan and budget, including an investment budget circumstances. •• Approve investments and similar decisions where the amount of the Non-audit services procured from the external auditor during the 2017/18 transaction exceeds SEK 5 M if such a transaction falls outside the fiscal year adhered to the guidelines established and comprised tax consulapproved investment budget tancy and other services such as consultancy work related to internal control •• Decide on acquisition or sale of real property or shares, or acquisition or and accounting principles. sale of the assets of, or a major part of the assets of, another company The fees to the external auditor for the 2017/18 fiscal year are reported in •• Decide on the establishment and liquidation of subsidiaries Note 10. •• Adopt guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to be approved by 4 Board of directors the annual general meeting of shareholders •• Decide on terms of employment for the President and CEO according to Appointment of the board of directors guidelines for remuneration of senior executives approved by the annual The board of directors of Elekta AB (“the board”) is appointed by the annual general meeting of shareholders general meeting of shareholders for a period until the end of the next annual •• Adopt the annual report, year-end report and interim reports general meeting of shareholders. According to the articles of association of Elekta AB, the board is to have between three and ten members with Within the board, there is no special distribution of responsibilities among no more than five deputy members. There are no other rules in the articles the members of the board in addition to the duties that the board has deleof association concerning the appointment or removal of members of the gated to the executive compensation and capability committee and to the board. audit committee respectively. Composition and independence of the board of directors Risk management The board of directors comprises nine members. The members of the board Risk management, internal governance and internal control are key comare Laurent Leksell, who is also the chairman of the board, Luciano Cattani, ponents of Elekta’s strategy and management processes. Elekta’s board Annika Espander Jansson, Caroline Leksell-Cooke, Johan Malmquist, Tomas of directors assumes the overall responsibility for establishing an efficient Puusepp, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher and Birgitta Stymne Göransson. risk management, internal governance and internal control system. The There are neither deputy board members nor employee representatives responsibility for maintaining the system is delegated to the President and on the board. CEO, who is assisted by the executive management and specifically estabThe general counsel serves as secretary for the board. lished committees, functions and employees. Functions that are responsiThe composition of the board meets applicable independence requireble for risk management, internal governance and internal control continuments as six of the nine members of the board have been deemed indepenously report on the status directly to the board of directors and/or the audit dent in relation to the Company, the executive management and major committee. shareholders. These six members are: Luciano Cattani, Annika Espander Elekta’s risk work focuses on assessing and managing strategic risks, Jansson, Johan Malmquist, Wolfgang Reim, Jan Secher and Birgitta Stymne operating risks, legal and regulatory risks, market and external risks and Göransson. financial risks. A risk assessment is performed continuously in order to idenAttendance at board meetings is shown on pages 60–61. tify the risks related to the achievement of established objectives, compliance with laws and regulations, and financial reporting. The board of direcResponsibility tors also manages subjects for decision that include risk management in, for The board’s work is regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, the articles of example, Elekta’s strategy and management processes and business deciassociation, the corporate governance code and the working instructions sions. Find out more about risk management in the board’s report on risk for the board of directors. management and internal control over financial reporting on pages 58–59. The board is responsible for the organization of Elekta AB and the management of the Company’s operations in the interest of the Company Work during the year and all shareholders. This includes appointing a President and CEO who is During the 2017/18 fiscal year, the board held ten minuted meetings. Attenresponsible for managing the day-to-day operations in accordance with dance at board meetings is shown on pages 60–61. These meetings are norinstructions from the board. The responsibilities for the board also include: mally held at Elekta’s head office in Stockholm, but are at times held at •• Establishing overall goals and strategy other locations where Elekta has offices or facilities. Representatives from •• Defining guidelines to govern ethical conduct with the purpose of ensurthe executive management and other senior managers regularly attend ing the long-term ability to create value board meetings to report on matters within their respective area of respon•• Ensuring an effective system for follow-up and control of the company’s sibility.For ordinary board meetings, an agenda with decision supporting operations and risks that the company and its operations are exposed to material is available ahead of the meetings. The work of the board including important agenda items in 2017/18 is on page 52–53. •• Ensuring a satisfactory process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and other regulatory compliance requirements applicable for the company as well as compliance with internal company regulations 54 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4.1 Executive compensation and capability committee 4.2 Audit committee Appointment of the executive compensation and capability committee Appointment of the audit committee The board shall appoint an executive compensation and capability committee The board shall appoint an audit committee, which shall consist of at least (“the executive compensation and capability committee” or “ECCC”), which two members of the board with at least one having accounting or audit shall consist of at least two members of the board. The chairman of the board competency. The majority of the committee members are to be indepenof directors may be chairman of the committee. Other members appointed by dent of the Company and its executive management. The committee’s the general meeting of shareholders shall be independent of the Company and members cannot be employed by the Company. At least one member of the its executive management. committee who is independent of the Company and its executive management shall also be independent of the Company’s major shareholders. Composition The executive compensation and capability committee consists of three Composition members appointed by the board at the first board meeting following the The audit committee consists of three members, who were appointed by election of the board by the annual general meeting of shareholders for a the 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders for the period until the term of one year. The members of the committee are Laurent Leksell, who next annual general meeting. The members of the committee are Birgitta is also the chairman of the committee, Luciano Cattani and Johan MalmStymne Göransson, who is also the chairman of the committee, Jan Secher quist. Attendance at committee meetings and independence are shown on and Annika Espander Jansson. Participation at committee meetings as well pages 60–61. The President and CEO also attends the committee’s meetings as independence of the members are shown on pages 60–61. and the Executive Vice President Human Resources serves as secretary for The President and CEO, the CFO and the Chief Audit Executive also the committee. attend the committee’s meetings as well as the external auditor as applicable. The associate general counsel serves as secretary for the committee. Responsibility The objective of the executive compensation and capability committee is to Responsibility ensure a fair and equitable remuneration scope and structure for managThe objective of the audit committee is to monitor the Group’s financial ers at Elekta. Such remuneration should be designed to contribute to genreporting and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control, internal audit erating maximum value for shareholders and customers, while maintaining and risk management. The objective is also to keep itself informed about the Group’s market competitiveness. It should further be designed to ensure the external audit of the annual report and consolidated report of Elekta AB the Group’s ability to attract, motivate and retain managers who are key to as well as to review and monitor the impartiality and independence of the achieving the business objectives of the Group. This applies to remuneration external auditor, and pay particular attention if the external auditor prostructures for the executive management and for other remuneration strucvides the Group with services other than audit services. Furthermore, the tures targeting all Elekta managers. The objective of the committee is also objective is to assist the nomination committee in preparing the proposal to to ensure succession planning and reviews of management succession plans the annual general meeting of shareholders regarding election of external for senior management levels and other Group-critical positions, and to auditor. The committee works in accordance with working instructions for ensure gender and diversity analysis and actions. Furthermore, the objective the audit committee adopted by the board. The committee keeps the board of the committee is to ensure senior management competencies and caparegularly informed and prepares matters to the board for decision. bilities including organization development programs. The committee works in accordance with directives for the executive compensation and capability Work during the year committee adopted by the board. The committee keeps the board regularly During the fiscal year 2017/18, the audit committee held four minuted meetinformed and refers matters to the board for decision as necessary. ings. Attendance at committee meetings is shown on pages 60–61. The most important agenda items at the meetings were: Work during the year •• Review of interim reports, year-end report and annual report 2017/18 During the 2017/18 fiscal year, the executive compensation and capability •• Review of accounting principles committee held six minuted meetings. Attendance at committee meetings is shown on pages 60–61. The most important agenda items at the meet•• Balance sheet review and cash flow analyses ings were: •• Monitoring of the global internal control project •• Remuneration review including variable remuneration of the executive •• Review of the finance organization management •• Review of charter for the internal audit function •• Preparation and decision on new overall short-term incentive program for •• Approval of internal audit plan 2018/19 •• Review of internal audit reports •• Evaluation and update of Elekta’s performance share plan for the •• Review of compliance reports executive management •• Review of external audit plan •• Preparation and proposal for a new long-term incentive program for •• Review of external audit reports 2018/19 for key individuals not included in the executive management •• Evaluation of the external audit •• Follow-up of compliance with the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives approved by the annual general meeting of shareholders •• Evaluation and update of guidelines for permissible non-audit services •• Evaluation of update of Elekta’s benchmarking system, global perfor5 President and CEO mance management •• Succession planning and reviews of management succession plans for Appointment of the President and CEO senior management levels and other Group-critical positions The board appoints Elekta AB’s President and CEO. •• Preparation of the board’s recommendations regarding guidelines for Richard Hausmann is President and CEO of Elekta AB. More informaremuneration of senior executives for the next annual general meeting tion about Richard Hausmann is provided in the presentation of the execof shareholders utive management on page 62. Remuneration of the President and CEO is described in Note 7. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 55 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Responsibility The compliance function also monitors the implementation of the program The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of to ensure compliant personal data processing within the Group. In addition, the Company in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as Compliance is responsible for the overall strategy and coordination of the internal steering documents including the working instructions for the Chief areas of sustainability which are material for Elekta. Elekta’s Chief CompliExecutive Officer adopted by the board and other instructions from the ance Officer reports functionally to the CEO but functions as an indepenboard. The President and CEO also represents the Group in various contexts, dent and objective body ensuring compliance concerns are being approprileads the work of the executive management and makes decisions in consulately resolved and reported to the board of directors. tation with the members of the executive management. Work during the year 6 Executive management Focus areas during the year included the following: •• Further strengthening the compliance program to prevent corrupAppointment of the executive management tion and clarifying regulations for Elekta’s interaction with healthcare The President and CEO appoints the members of the executive manageprofessionals ment following approval by the board of directors. •• Continuously updating the Compliance and Integrity function •• Identifying risks and proposing action plan for the processing of personal Composition data As of April 30, 2018, Elekta’s executive management comprised the President and CEO, the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), the Chief Operating Officer •• Training employees in Elekta’s code of conduct and steering documents (“COO”), Chief Marketing and Sales Officer (“CMSO”), Chief Strategy Officer according to the long-term plan and the goals established by the board (“CSO”), Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”), the Execute Vice President Global •• Ensuring program efficiency and risk-based due diligence of parties, Services, the Executive Vice President Region North and South America, the including business partners and distributors and agents, are impleGeneral Counsel and Executive Vice President, the Executive Vice President mented within the Group in accordance with the goals established by Human Resources and the Executive Vice President Corporate Communications the board and Investor Relations. During the 2017/18 fiscal year, the roles Chief Commercial •• Advising on matters that falls within the scope of responsibility of the Officer and Chief Marketing Officer have been replaced with the new role Chief Compliance and Integrity function Marketing and Sales Officer as per August 23, 2017. A presentation of the current •• Internal investigations including the preparation of proposed measures executive management is provided on page 62. Remuneration of the executive in consultation with management and the board of directors management is described in Note 7. •• Appointment of a Sales Compliance Committee as a decision making body for questions relating to business ethics and anti-corruption •• Continuing Elekta’s sustainability work with four distinct focus areas as Management well as in close cooperation with the responsible directors identifying risks and setting targets Product Customer Supply Reporting to the board lifecycle relationship chain Support It is necessary to have regular information about how the Company manmanagement management management ages and prevents compliance risks. It is important that the board is well informed of both the preventive measures and any weaknesses in order to ask the right questions and remain a critical auditor of the operations. Responsibility Elekta’s Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer presents the progress of The President and CEO is responsible for and leads the work and meetings of the risk-based compliance program at each quarterly meeting of the board the executive management. The executive management makes joint deciof directors, and reports on any incidents and the status of ongoing invessions following consultation with various parts of the Group. tigations. A written compliance report is submitted at every information meeting. The audit committee constantly monitors, on behalf of the board, Work during the year any matters that may require greater focus and Elekta’s Chief Compliance The executive management meetings are normally held each week by teleand Integrity Officer is present at each ordinary meeting with the audit phone and with regular intervals in conjunction with visits to the Group’s committee. various offices and facilities. In addition to continuous reporting, the board has during the year evaluThe most important agenda items at the meetings were strategic and ated and approved the long-term plan for preventive anti-corruption efforts operational issues such as product development, acquisitions/divestments, with clear goals for the coming fiscal year. The long-term plan is drawn up investments, market development, organization, long-term plans and budbased on risk analyses and the best international practise. get, and monthly and quarterly business and financial reviews. 8 Quality assurance and regulatory affairs 7 Compliance Appointment Appointment The quality assurance (QA) and regulatory affairs (RA) functions are headed The Compliance and Integrity function is headed by the Elekta Group’s Chief by Vice President Quality Assurance and Vice President Regulatory Affairs Compliance and Integrity Officer. respectively, after a division of the quality and regulatory affairs (Q&RA) function during the 2016/17 fiscal year. Responsibility The compliance function’s responsibilities are to review and evaluate comResponsibility pliance issues within the organization and ensure that management and The functions’ responsibilities include supporting management in its efforts employees of the Group are in compliance with the rules and ethical reguto comply with regulatory requirements for products, quality systems and lations in the most significant risk areas such as anti-corruption and intermarket entry. The functions provide transparency and interact with manactions with healthcare professionals, export control and competition law. agement and external regulatory bodies. The functions are responsible for 56 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT the quality system infrastructure and compliance, radiation safety and security, product clearances and approvals and post market vigilance and recall reporting. The functions are also responsible for and conduct internal audits Risk management and internal control of the quality system and regulatory compliance. Vice President Quality Assurance reports to Chief Operating Officer and Vice President Regulatory Affairs reports to the Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Internal governance and control environment Work during the year •• Ensuring product approval for regulatory market entry OBJECTIVES •• Implementation of internal audits MONITORING •• Managing inspections from different authorities and organizations, resulting in continuing certification •• Interacting with authorities in different regulatory forums and representation in different industry associations in discussions with authorities Information and worldwide communication 9 Internal audit RISK Appointment The internal audit function is appointed by and reports to the audit commitCONTROL tee and the board of directors. Responsibility The internal audit function is under the supervision of the Chief Audit Executive. The internal audit function is an independent and objective assurance and consulting activity. Elekta’s Chief Audit Executive reports functionally to the audit committee, and administratively to the Chief Financial Officer In addition, specifically established functions such as compliance, quality (CFO). The scope of the internal audit function encompasses the examinaassurance, regulatory affairs, internal control, etc. provide guidance and tion and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of Elekta’s goverassessments on governance, risk management and internal control related nance, risk management and internal control processes as well as the qualto their areas of expertise, the so-called “second line of defense,”. The interity of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities to achieve the nal audit function, the so-called “third line of defense”, provides indepenGroup’s objectives as part of the assurance activity. It also encompasses dent and objective assurance and advisory support to management on consulting activities and advisory support in relation to Elekta’s governance, governance, risk management and internal control. risk management, and internal control processes. Elekta has defined risk management and internal control as a process, The internal audit function works in accordance with the guidelines for affected by the board and its committees, the President and CEO, the execthe internal audit function adopted by the board. utive management and other managers and personnel, and designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives Work during the year relating to: •• Preparation and review of risk map as a basis for the internal audit plan •• Establishment of an internal audit plan Operations •• Internal audit of risk and control matrices for processes encompassed •• Effectiveness and efficiency of operations by the global internal control project •• Safeguarding of assets against loss •• Internal audit of the Group’s and subsidiaries’ various processes based on a risk-based internal audit plan Reporting •• Special investigations •• Reliability, timeliness and transparency of internal and external financial •• Member of program management office for the global internal and non-financial reporting control project Compliance •• External audit co-ordination •• Adherence to applicable laws and regulations, and internal steering •• Audit committee meeting planning and administration documents •• Internal audit reports to the executive management, the audit committee and the board of directors Risk management and internal control over financial reporting is a sub-set of the risk management and internal control process. The risk management Elekta´s process for risk management and internal control and internal control process is applicable to all Elekta operations, including business areas, regions, functions, management, people, processes and The board and its committees assume the overall responsibility for estabtechnology. lishing effective governance of Elekta including risk management and interAll business activities involve risks from external and internal sources. nal control. The responsibility for designing, implementing and conducting Risk is defined as the possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect effective governance including risk management and internal control is delthe achievement of objectives. Risks that are effectively managed may lead egated to the President and CEO, who is assisted by the executive manageto opportunities and value creation, while risks that are not could result in ment, other operational managers and personnel, the so-called “first line of damage and losses. defense”. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 57 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal governance and control environment means of attaining these objectives and monitoring performance are set. The Elekta’s internal governance and control environment comprise its values, objectives reflect choices made on how the Group seeks to create, preserve code of conduct, risk strategy, organization, roles and responsibilities, deland realize value for its stakeholders. Governance is twofold; it concerns both egation of authority, and policies and procedures. Policies and procedures effectiveness and accountability. Effectiveness is measured by performance, clarify certain important aspects of the control environment such as board and accountability includes all issues surrounding disclosure and transparency. independence from management, a commitment to attract, develop and Objective setting is a prerequisite necessary to internal control and a key retain competent individuals as well as performance measures, incentives part of the Elekta strategy and management processes. Therefore, Elekta’s and rewards to drive accountability for performance. corporate governance encompasses both the strategy and management Elekta has adopted a number of steering documents at group-wide level: processes, outlining the establishment of both long-term objectives and strategies with at least a three-year perspective and short-term objectives •• Working Instructions for the board of directors, working instructions and plans with a one-year perspective, and the risk management and interfor the Chief Executive Officer, instructions regarding financial reporting nal control process. for the board of directors, working instructions for the audit committee, a directive for the executive compensation and capability committee and a charter for the internal audit function Control environment Important elements of the control environment applicable for Elekta’s •• Values financial reporting are the financial guide, including the accounting policy, •• Code of conduct, anti-corruption policy, whistle-blowing procedure and reporting instructions, authorization policy and finance policy. In addition, competition policy there are other important elements of the control environment for finan•• Elekta financial guide cial reporting such as the communication policy and processes and work instructions to be found in group wide steering documents and in the Elekta To govern the operations, Elekta has established a business management business management system. system with internal steering documents. The most important elements of Risk assessment is carried out continuously throughout the year in order this system are: to identify risks that can affect the possibility to reach targets set in relation •• The organizational structure with defined roles and responsibilities and to the strategy, the business, reporting and compliance. delegation of authority Risk assessment •• Other policies and procedures such as the communication policy, quality Risk assessment includes identifying any risk that the qualitative characterpolicy, environmental policy, IT policies and HR policies istics of useful financial information according to IFRS may not be fulfilled •• Processes and work instructions, for example, the strategy and management or the financial reporting assertions may not be supported. Risk assessment processes, the main business processes (product lifecycle management, criteria include occurrence, completeness, accuracy, cut-off, classification, customer relationship management and supply chain management), existence, rights and obligations, and valuation for profit and loss and balas well as supporting processes ance sheet items in the financial reporting as applicable, but also information processing relating to input, processing and recording of data. A risk In addition to group-wide steering documents and the business manageassessment regarding internal control over financial reporting is performed ment system, operations are also governed by external laws, regulations, once a year and covers profit and loss and balance sheet items in the finanrules and guidelines, such as the Swedish companies act, NASDAQ Stockcial reporting and related areas and processes. The work is documented in holm rule book for issuers, Swedish corporate governance code, and requirea risk map and included in risk and control matrices (RACM:s) per area and ments and standards from supervisory authorities in the field of medical process. technology. Control activities The board of directors’ report on risk management Control activities mitigate the risks identified to achieve set objectives and internal control over financial reporting through adherence to risk tolerance levels in terms of globally defined minimum internal control requirements over financial reporting. The control The board of directors’ report on risk management and internal control activities are documented in risk and control matrices (RACM:s) per area, over financial reporting has been prepared in accordance with the annual process and risk. accounts act and the Swedish corporate governance code, and constitutes Control activities are aimed at preventing errors and irregularities from an integral part of the corporate governance report. The external financial occurring and/or detecting errors and irregularities that may have occurred. reporting has been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and Control activities can be manual or automated, such as authorizations and applicable accounting standards, namely the International Financial Reportapprovals, verifications, reconciliations, and business performance reviews, ing Standards (IFRS), and other requirements on listed companies, such as or a combination of the two. the NASDAQ Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers. Elekta’s work on risk manControl activities comprise the following areas and processes: agement and internal control over financial reporting is based on the 2013 updated internal control – integrated framework (the “framework”), and •• Entity level controls – over the control environment the enterprise risk management integrated framework (the “ERM frame•• General IT controls – over IT system components, processes and data work”), both established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations for a given IT environment including logical access, program change of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The COSO framework is based on management, back-up and recovery 17 fundamental principles linked to the five components: control environ•• Process controls – over processes such as order recognition, order to cash, ment, risk assessment, control activities, monitoring, and information and revenue recognition, purchase to pay, inventory, payroll and financial communication. statement close. Objective The globally defined minimum internal control requirements over financial The Elekta Group is governed and controlled based on the distribution of reporting comprise entity level controls that are regulated through Elekta’s rights and responsibilities, including decision-making, among different corsteering documents at Group-wide level, the business management system porate bodies according to laws and regulations as well as internal steering and internal control frameworks of standard controls that include general documents. A structure is provided through which Elekta’s objectives and the IT controls and uniform process controls for all Elekta companies and locally 58 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT defined controls where necessary. The controls included in the internal control status of the effective design and operating effectiveness of risk manageframework are documented in RACM:s as standard models for all entities and ment and internal control over financial reporting are channeled up the then specifically for each individual entity. All controls in the internal control organization based on the result of the monitoring in order for manageframework are based on risk assessments of financial flows that impact the ment at different levels to be able to take corrective actions as necessary. financial reporting in general and more specifically for the individual entities. The President and CEO and the Chief Audit Executive in turn inform the audit committee and the board, respectively, of the results of the monitoring in Monitoring order for them to be able to fulfill their oversight responsibility. This commuMonitoring of internal control over financial reporting is carried out through nication normally takes place at the ordinary audit committee meetings ongoing evaluations, separate evaluations, or some combination of the two, and board meetings, respectively. to ascertain whether the five components of risk management and internal Elekta provides the financial markets and other stakeholders with concontrol are present and functioning. Control environment, risk assessment, tinuous external information and communication regarding the Group’s and control activities, monitoring and information and communication. the Company’s financial performance and position in accordance with the Ongoing evaluations are routine operations, built into processes. Monicommunication policy. External information and communication regarding toring takes place on a real-time basis by operational managers and personfinancial reporting is provided in the form of: nel and periodically by management at different levels of the Group, and the •• Interim reports, year-end reports and annual reports audit committee and the board, and includes for example monitoring of the •• Press releases on news and events that may significantly affect the following: Group’s valuation and future prospects •• Business and financial performance •• Presentations and telephone conferences for financial analysts, investors •• Order bookings and revenue recognition and media representatives on the day of publication of interim reports •• Compliance reports from the compliance function and year-end reports and in conjunction with the release of important •• Internal audit reports from the QA and RA functions related to, news and events for example, the quality system and regulatory compliance •• Capital market days arranged by the Group at one of its major entities •• Internal audit planning or in conjunction with major scientific conferences •• Internal audit reports from the internal audit function •• Information on the Elekta website: www.elekta.com, including reports, press releases and presentations •• External audit reports from the external auditor Elekta observes a silent period prior to each interim and year-end report. Special evaluations may be performed through: •• Periodic reviews of whether risk management and internal control are Activities in the fiscal year 2017/18 operating as intended by financial managers and general management During the fiscal year 2017/18, the implementation of the global internal at local, regional, business area and Group level as applicable control project, comprising the internal control framework for financial •• Control self-assessment (CSA), a tool for local management to report on reporting, proceeded and was completed according to plan. The implementhe current status of effective design and operating effectiveness of the tation has been validated by the internal control function. Independent globally defined minimum internal control requirements over financial reviews of implementation and operational compliance were performed at reporting documented in RACM:s a selection of implemented entities. The project is administered by a pro•• Internal audit according to the internal audit plan gram management office with representatives from the internal audit function and the internal control function. Development and implementation of Instructions and budget approvals of internal control for financial reporting additional controls to be included in the global internal control project have are conducted by the audit committee on behalf of the board of directors been prepared during the fiscal year. Continuous information relating to the and require supporting documentation in the form of presentation of status, results of the independent reviews were addressed at the meetings of the progress and solutions as well as supporting appendices such as Internal audit audit committee and subsequently has been followed up by the board. The reports and internal control reports. Status, progress and solutions for internal review of the company’s internal steering documents as a basis for the comcontrol over financial reporting are discussed at the audit committee meeting pany’s control environment proceeded as planned during the fiscal year. and instructions are documented and where approvals are required, approvals are performed and documented accordingly. The audit committee subseActivities in the fiscal year 2018/19 quently briefs the board of directors at the next board meeting and provides During the 2018/19 fiscal year, the plan is to expand the global internal supporting documentation for discussion and approval. control framework through implementation at a few smaller entities currently not in scope for the internal control framework. Independent reviews Information and communication at a selection of entities for operational compliance will be carried out Information and communication regarding risk management and internal during the fiscal year. Final implementation of the prepared controls to be control over financial reporting relates to both internal and external inforincluded in the global internal control framework will be completed during mation and communication. the fiscal year. Administration and support of the control framework as well Internal information about important internal steering documents for as the identification and management of improvement measures will be risk management and internal control over financial reporting, including carried out throughout the year. The review of the company’s internal steerRACM:s, as well as the communication policy and processes, work instrucing documents as a basis for the company’s control environment will contions and other relevant information in the Elekta business management tinue as planned during the fiscal year. system, are channeled down the organization and communicated to releThe internal audit plan will, based on a risk perspective, have its main vant personnel on the Group’s intranet. Internal information regarding the focus on financial reporting, operating processes, and on specific risk areas. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 59 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors Laurent Leksell Luciano Cattani Annika Espander Caroline Leksell Cooke Jansson First elected: 1972 2008 2015 2017 Board chairman Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Chairman of the Member of the executive Member of the audit  executive compensation compensation ­and committee and capability c­ ommittee capability committee Attendance: 10/10 6/6 10/10 6/6 10/10 3/41) 6/102) Total fees: 1,130,000 110,000 485,000 75,000 485,000 135,000 485,000 Year of birth: 1952 1945 1964 1981 Education: MBA and PhD from StockMaster of Science in EcoBachelor of Science in BSc Degree Stockholm holm School of Economics, nomics from the U ­ niversity Chemistry from Uppsala University, studied marketSweden of Rome, Italy University/University of ing at Wharton School at Michigan, and MBA in Interthe University of Pennsyl­ national Business Managevania and at Columbia ment from Uppsala UniverBusiness School sity, Sweden Independence: Independent of the Company Independent of the ComIndependent of the ComIndependent of the and the executive managepany and the executive pany and the executive Company and the executive ment, not independent of management and indepenmanagement and indepenmanagement, not major share­holders dent of major shareholders dent of major ­shareholders independent of major shareholders Other board assignments: Board chairman: Leksell – Board member: Lifco AB, Board chairman: Bonit Social V­ entures and StockEsperio AB and Asperia AB Invest S.A./N.V holm School of Economics Board member: Leksell Board member: InternaSocial Ventures’ investment tional Chamber of Comcommittee merce (ICC) Holdings in Elekta AB: 14,980,769 A-shares 30,000 B-­shares 8,000 B-shares 182,308 B-shares (own and closely related 8,056,624 B-shares parties) Principal work experience Founder of Elekta and ExecPresident for EMEA at 25 years’ experience as an Extensive experience in and other ­information: utive Director from 2005 Stryker Corporation from advisor and investor, as well the areas of digital stratto 2013. Former President 2001 to 2004, Group Presias from executive positions egy, communication and and CEO of Elekta during dent International at Stryker within the financial markets, technology and is currently the years from 1972 to Corporation from 2005 to among others from Hanresponsible for major inter2005. Among others, Assis2008, and Executive Vice delsbanken, Enskilda Secunational business in the tant Professor and FacPresident International rities, and Catella. Operarole as industry manager at ulty m­ ember of Stockholm Public Affairs at Stryker Cortional experience from the Google School of ­Economics, IFL and poration from 2008 to 2010. pharmaceutical industry Insead Fontainebleau, and CEO of Eucomed (European (Pharmacia) Visiting Scholar at Harvard MedTech Industry Trade Business School Association) in 2012 1) Elected as new member of the 2) E  lected as new board member audit committee in connection in connection with the AGM with the AGM 2017 and has 2017 and has thereafter parthereafter participated in 3 ticipated in 6 out of 7 board out of 3 committee meetings meetings 60 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of directors Johan Malmquist Tomas Puusepp Wolfgang Reim Jan Secher Birgitta Stymne Göransson 2015 2013 2011 2010 2005 Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Member of the executive Member of the audit Chairman of the audit compensation ­and committee committee capability committee 10/10 6/6 10/10 10/10 10/10 4/4 10/10 4/4 485,000 75,000 485,000 485,000 485,000 135,000 485,000 225,000 1961 1955 1956 1957 1957 BSc Degree Stockholm Electrical Engineer, studies Master of Sciences and DocMaster of Science in MBA from Harvard B ­ usiness School of Economics, in Physics at the Royal Institor of Physics from ETH Industrial Engineering School and Master of Sweden tute of Technology in StockZurich and ­Management from ­Science in Chemical Engiholm and at the University of Linköping ­University, neering and Biotechnology Stockholm and Management ­Sweden from the Royal Institute of (IEP) at IMD in Lausanne Technology in Stockholm, Sweden Independent of the Not independent of the Independent of the ComIndependent of the Independent of the Company and the executive Company and the executive pany and the executive Company and the execuCompany and the executive management and indepenmanagement, independent management and indetive management and indemanagement and indedent of major ­shareholders of major ­shareholders pendent of the major pendent of the major pendent of the major ­shareholders ­shareholders ­shareholders Board chairman: Tingstad Board chairman: Global Board chairman: Ondal Board chairman: Peak Board member: Pandora AS, AB and Arjo AB Medical Investments GMI AB Medical Systems GmbH and Management AG Capio AB, Rhenman & Board member: Mölnlycke Board member: The Swedish DORC B.V. Board Member: The EuroPartners Asset Management Health Care AB, Dunker­ ­American Chamber of ComBoard member: GN Store pean Chemical Industry AB, Midsona AB, and stiftelserna, Chalmers merce in New York, Permobil Nord A/S, Klingel GmbH Council and IKEM (InnovaSportamore AB University of ­Technology AB and Sectra AB and Medlumics S.L. tion and Chemical Industries Board chairman: Foundation, Stena Adactum in Sweden) BCB Medical Oy AB, Trelleborg AB, and Getinge AB 20,000 B-shares 600,000 B-shares 17,500 B-shares 18,800 B-shares 6,100 B-shares Extensive experience from CEO at Investest AB. CEO at DORC B.V. from President and CEO of Perstorp President and CEO of the medical technology Various positions at the March 2017 until August AB from September 2013. Memira Group 2010 to 2013. industry, among others Research Institute for 2017. Previously, indepenPreviously President and CEO CEO of Semantix Group as president and CEO for Nuclear Physics, Scanditrodent consultant focusof Ferrostaal AG from 2010 to 2005 to 2009, and COO/ Getinge AB between 1997 nix and Ericsson before being ing on the medical technol2012, operating partner of the CFO of Telefos 2001 to 2005. and 2015. Before that, variemployed by Elekta in 1988. ogy industry. Until the end US private equity fund Apollo Before that, various manous positions within the Since then, he has held variof 2007, CEO of Drager Medin London from 2009 to 2010, agement positions, includGetinge group and ous management positions ical AG. At Siemens from CEO of Clariant AG in Basel ing Åhléns AB, Gambro and Electrolux group within the Company, includ1986 until 2000, as President from 2006 to 2008 and CEO of McKinsey & Co ing head of Elekta’s neurosurof the Special X Ray ProdSICPA in Lausanne from 2003 gery operations, President of ucts Division and CEO of the to 2005. Before he held varElekta’s subsidiary in North Ultrasound Division among ious leading ­positions in the America, global head of other positions ABB Group during the years Elekta’s sales, marketing from 1982 to 2002 and service operations, and President and CEO of Elekta during fiscal years 2005/06 to 2013/14, and during 2015/16 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 61 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Executive management Richard Hausmann Gustaf Salford1) Year of birth: 1960 Year of birth: 1977 Role: President and CEO Role: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Employed since: 2016 Employed since: 2009 Holdings8): 29,000 B-shares Holdings8): 2,100 B-shares Education: Doctorate in Physics­from Education: MSc in Business Regensburg University, G ­ ermany Administration, Stockholm School of Economics EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BUSINESS FUNCTIONS Maurits Wolleswinkel John Lapré Steve Wort Paul Bergström2) Year of birth: 1971 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1963 Year of birth: 1974 Role: Head of Portfolio and Chief Role: Chief Technology Role: Chief Operating Role: EVP Global Services Strategy Officer (CSO) Officer (CTO) Officer (COO) Employed since: 2017 Employed since: 2011 Employed since: 2011 Employed since: 1991 Holdings8): – Holdings8): 5,000 B-shares (Nucletron 2009) Holdings8): – Education: MSc Electrical EngineerEducation: MSc in Mechanical Holdings8): 5,250 B-shares Education: Senior Executive ing, Royal Institute of Technology, Engineering from Delft University Education: MSc in Human Programme, London Business Stockholm of Technology, and MSc in Nutrition and Physiology, and School; Post Graduate Diploma in General ­Management from PhD in T­ oxicology from Wageningen Management, Southbank UniverNyenrode ­University ­University sity, London EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REGIONS Ioannis Panagiotelis3) Anming Gong Peter Gaccione4) Renato Leite5) Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1959 Year of birth: 1972 Role: Chief Marketing Role: EVP Region China Role: EVP Region North Role: EVP Region Europe and Sales Officer (CMSO) Employed since: 2009 and South America Employed since: 2018 Employed since: 2017 Holdings8): – Employed since: 1997 Holdings8): – Holdings8): – Education: MSc Biomedical Holdings8): – Education: MSc Biomedical EngiEducation: MSc in Medical Physics Engineering, Huazhong University Education: BS Electronic neering, COPPE/UFRJ, Rio de Janeiro; and a PhD in Biomedical Physics and of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Engineering BSc Mechanical Engineering, Federal Bioengineering from the University of China University of Rio de Janeiro; Aberdeen, and MBA from IESE BusiAdvanced Business Management, ness School in Barcelona Babson College, Massachusetts EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SUPPORT FUNCTIONS Jonas Bolander Caroline Mofors6) Oskar Bosson7) Karin Svenske Nyberg Year of birth: 1966 Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1976 Year of birth: 1966 Role: EVP and General Counsel Role: SVP Chief Compliance and Role:EVP Corporate Role: EVP Human Resources Employed since: 2001 Integrity Officer Communications and IR Employed since: 2017 Holdings8): 200 B-shares Employed since: 2014 Employed since: 2018 Holdings8): – Education: Master of Laws from Holdings8): – Holdings8): 525 B-shares Education: MSc Chemical EngineerStockholm University Education: Master of Laws (LLM) Education: MSc Molecular­Bioteching, Royal Institute of Technology, and Master Degree in Litigation, nology Engineering and Bachelor Stockholm, and Behavioural Arbitration and Alternative Dispute Business and Economics, Uppsala Science, Stockholm University Resolution from University of Paris II, University Panthéon-Assas, France 62 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement To the general meeting of the shareholders in Elekta AB (publ) corporate identity number 556170-4015. Engagement and responsibility Opinions It is the board of directors who is responsible for the corporate governance A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorstatement for the year the financial year May 1, 2017 – April 30, 2018 on dance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual pages 50–62 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law Accounts Act. are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing Stockholm, July 9, 2018 standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conSignature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Johan Engstam Authorized public accountant 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail 1) Gustaf Salford assumed the role as Chief Financial Officer on July 1, 2017, succeeding Håkan Bergström 2) P aul Bergström assumed the role of EVP Global Services on October 16, 2017 3) Ioannis Panagiotelis assumed the role of Chief Marketing and Sales Officer on August 23, 2017 4) P eter Gaccione assumed the role as EVP Region North America on June 1, 2017, succeeding Bill Yaeger 5) The EVP Region Europe became a member of the executive management on June 1, 2018 6) The SVP Chief Compliance and Integrity Officer became a member of the executive management on June 1, 2018 7) Oskar Bosson assumed the role of EVP Corporate Communications and IR on February 12, 2018 8) O wn and closely related parties Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 63 THE SHARE Strong share price performance Elekta B-shares have been listed on the NASDAQ Stockholm since 1994. Total OUTCOME OF SHARE PROGRAM 2015/18 number of registered shares on April 30, 2018 was 383,568,409 whereof treaAllocation of sury shares amounted to 1,541,368 series B-shares. Total trading in Elekta shares performance on NASDAQ Stockholm during the period May 1, 2017 – April 30, 2018 amounted 2017/18 shares to 374.1 million shares (327.1), corresponding to 98 percent (85) of the total numMini­­­Maxiber of shares. Market capitalization on April 30, 2018 amounted to SEK 36,660 M Financial target mum,% mum,% Actual, % Outcome, % (34,076), an increase by 8 percent. Average annual percentage growth in earnings per DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES APRIL 30, 2018 share 32 41 26 0 Percentage of Total allocation of Class of share No. of shares No. of votes capital votes performance shares 0 A-shares 14,980,769 149,807,690 3.9% 28.9% B-shares 368,587,640 368,587,640 96.1% 71.1% OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE APRIL 30, 2018 Total 383,568,409 518,395,330 100.0% 100.0% PercentPercentAverage See Note 25 for more information on Elekta’s share capital. No. of age of age of No. per Shareholding, shareshare­ No. of share shareDividend and proposal to repurchase shares No. of shares holders holders shares ­capital holder Elekta’s goal is to provide shareholders with a favorable return and value 1–500 14,538 61.5% 2,338,915 0.6% 161 growth. The policy is to distribute at least 30 percent of profit for the year in 501–1,000 3,284 13,9% 2,702,509 0.7% 823 the form of dividend, repurchase of shares or comparable measures. A divi1,001–10,000 4,857 20.6% 14,540,533 3.8% 2,994 dend decision is based on Elekta’s financial position, earnings trend, growth 10,001–100,000 656 2.8% 19,555,941 5.1% 29,811 potential and investment needs. For 2017/18, the board proposes, in accor100,001– 297 1.2% 344,430,511 89.8% 1,159,699 dance with the Company’s dividend policy, a total dividend of SEK 1.40 (1.00) Total 23,632 100.0% 383,568,409 100.0% 16,231 per share. Total dividend amounts to approximately SEK 535 M (382) and Source: Euroclear Sweden 49 (306) percent of net profit for the year. The board also proposes the dividend to be divided into two payments. See page 74 for more information on MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS APRIL 30, 2018 dividend. Percentage of The board intends to propose to 2018 Annual General meeting to renewal of the Board´s authorization to repurchase shares in Elekta AB. The Owner No. of shares capital votes proposal limits the number of shares to be repurchased to a maximum Laurent Leksell and companies1) 24,037,393 6.3% 30.7% of 10 percent of the number of shares outstanding in Elekta AB. JP Chase NA2) 27,425,215 7.2% 5.3% Fjärde AP-fonden 23,798,565 6,2% 4.6% Share program Nordea Investment Funds 21,844,410 5.7% 4.2% The annual general meetings in 2009–2017 have resolved to adopt share AMF Pensionsförsäkringar and programs, called performance share plans. Performance share plan 2014/17, AMF Fonder 19,507,284 5.1% 3.8% resolved by the annual general meeting in 2014, was concluded during the year. Swedbank Robur Fonder 18,425,050 4.8% 3.6% Outstanding programs as per April 30, 2018 were performance share plan Alecta 12,000,000 3.1% 2.3% 2015/18, 2016/19 and 2017/20 respectively. The resolutions entailed that the conAndra AP-fonden 11,425,715 3.0% 2.2% ditions and the guidelines stated in the respective plans shall form the basis for Handelsbanken fonder 6,898,611 1.8% 1.3% the receipt of shares by key employees of Elekta upon fulfillment of certain perState Street Bank & formance requirements during the periods 2015/16–2017/18, 2016/17–2018/19 and Trust Com. Boston2) 6,688,907 1.7% 1.3% 2017/18–2019/20, respectively. The scope of performance share plans 2015/18, Other 211,517,259 55.1% 40.7% 2016/19 and 2017/20 are summarized in the tables below. See Note 7 for more Total 383,568,409 100.0% 100.0% information on the plans. Source: Euroclear Sweden and Finansinspektionen 1) In June 2018 1,000,000 shares were sold. SHARE PROGRAM 2) Custodian,the holding include several smaller shareholders, none of which has 2015/18 2016/19 2017/20 declared holdings above 5 percent Originally designated number of shares 289,284 280,386 272,379 The table above lists the 10 largest known shareholders in Elekta AB as of Share price used for calculation of April 30, 2018. Foreign ownership was approximately 50 (44) percent. Foreign theoretical value, SEK 56 77 84 holdings which are held by trustees may include other large shareholders Allotment of share 2018-09-16 2019-09-14 2020-09-14 with undisclosed holdings, even if no other foreign shareholder has declared Number of shares as of April 30, 2018 216,963 249,232 272,379 holdings above 5 percent. Under the performance share plan 2015/18, the performance targets are measured and earned by one-third each financial year from 2015/16 until 2017/18. The results for the 2015/18 financial year, as disclosed in the table below, did not meet the minimum performance level to deliver any performance shares. 64 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 THE SHARE CHANGE IN SHARE CAPITAL UNTIL APRIL 30, 2018 THE ELEKTA SHARE Total number Total share SEK Thousands, shares Year Transaction of shares capital 110 60,000 1994 New issue 7,397,180 36,985,900 1994 Exercise of warrants 7,897,180 39,485,900 100 50,000 1997 New issue 10,497,451 52,487,255 90 40,000 2000 New issue 27,853,617 139,268,085 2001 Conversion of debentures 31,661,867 158,309,335 80 30,000 2001 Exercise of warrants 31,678,867 158,394,335 2002 Exercise of warrants 32,181,742 160,908,710 70 20,000 2003 Exercise of warrants 32,647,067 163,235,335 60 10,000 2003 Conversion of debentures 32,781,267 163,906,335 2003 Exercise of warrants 32,953,967 164,769,835 50 0 2003 Redemption of shares 31,066,254 155,331,270 2016 2017 2018 2004 Exercise of warrants 31,567,454 157,837,270 Elekta B OMX Stockholm PI OMX Stockholm Health Care 2005 Exercise of warrants 31,596,236 157,981,180 Number of traded shares  Source: SIX Financial Information 2005 Bonus issue 31,596,236 189,577,416 2005 Split 3:1 94,788,708 189,577,416 DATA PER SHARE 2005 Cancellation of repurchased shares 94,114,008 188,228,016 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2005 Exercise of warrants 94,194,372 188,388,744 Earnings per share 2006 Exercise of warrants 94,451,456 189,902,912 before dilution, SEK 3.01 1.45 0.36 0.33 2.88 2006 Redemption of shares 93,649,756 187,299,512 after dilution, SEK 3.00 1.45 0.36 0.33 2.88 2006 Exercise of warrants 93,741,598 187,483,196 Cash flow per share 2007 Exercise of warrants 93,880,090 187,760,180 before dilution, SEK 1.31 1.78 1.00 2.69 3.79 2007 Conversion of debentures 93,900,016 187,800,032 after dilution, SEK 1.24 1.78 1.00 2.69 3.79 2007 Exercise of warrants 92,272,445 187,806,632 Shareholders’ equity per share 2007 Cancellation of repurchased shares 93,903,316 184,544,890 before dilution, SEK 16.39 17.41 16.79 17.73 20.87 2008 Exercise of warrants 93,075,863 186,151,726 after dilution, SEK 20.32 17.41 16.79 17.73 20.87 2008 Cancellation of repurchased shares 92,124,563 184,249,126 Dividend, SEK 2.001) 0.50 0.50 1.00 1.402) 2009 Exercise of warrants 92,237,944 184,475,888 Share price, Elekta series B, 2010 Exercise of warrants 94,188,044 188,376,088 April 30, SEK 91.00 78.00 58.70 92.45 99.46 2011 Exercise of warrants 94,769,763 189,539,526 Market capitalization, 2012 Exercise of warrants 95,701,670 191,403,340 April 30, SEK M 34,697 29,740 22,382 34,076 36,660 2012 Split 4:1 382,806,680 191,403,340 Lowest share price, SEK 82.10 66.10 51.60 57.50 66.12 2012 Conversion of convertible loan 382,807,329 191,403,665 Highest share price, SEK 115.60 95.05 78.70 93.15 99.74 2013 Conversion of convertible loan 382,828,114 191,414,057 Average number of shares 2014 Conversion of convertible loan 382,828,765 191,414,383 before dilution, 000’s 381,277 381,287 381,288 381,306 382,027 2015 Conversion of convertible loan 382,829,045 191,414,523 after dilution3), 000’s 400,686 381,287 381,288 381,306 382,027 2016 Conversion of convertible loan 382,829,047 191,414,524 Number of shares, April 304) 2017 Conversion of convertible loan 383,568,409 191,784,205 before dilution, 000’s 381,287 381,287 381,288 382,027 382,027 after dilution, 000’s 400,696 381,287 381,288 382,027 382,027 1) Ordinary dividend 1,50 SEK and extra dividend 0,50 SEK 2) Proposed dividend 3) N  umber of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 4) N  umber of registered shares at closing excluding treasury shares (1,541,368 per April 30, 2018) Financial calendar Three-month interim report May–July 2018/19 August 30, 2018 Annual general meeting August 30, 2018 Six-month interim report May–October 2018/19 November 29, 2018 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 65 FIVE YEAR REVIEW AND KEY FIGURES Five year review and key figures INCOME STATEMENT SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Net sales 10,694 10,839 11,221 10,704 11,333 Operating expenses excl. amortization, depreciation and items affecting comparability –8,393 –9,221 –9,417 –8,887 –9,066 Depreciation –118 –146 –165 –156 –151 EBITA before items affecting comparability and bad debt losses 2,183 1,472 1,639 1,661 2,116 Bad debt losses – 1) -166 –149 –46 –53 Amortization –295 –366 –469 –499 –524 EBIT before items affecting comparability 1,888 940 1,021 1,115 1,538 Items affecting comparability –161 –3 –598 –518 – Operating result 1,727 937 423 598 1,538 Financial net –225 –221 –234 –258 –164 Profit before tax 1,502 716 189 340 1,374 Taxes –350 –158 –44 –214 -276 Profit for the year 1,152 558 145 126 1,099 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,148 552 137 125 1,099 Non-controlling interests 4 6 8 1 0 1) Data not available for bad debt losses. CASH FLOW SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Operating flow 1,692 1,299 709 767 2,054 Changes in working capital –417 524 461 1,051 351 Cash flow from operating activities 1,275 1,823 1,170 1,819 2,404 Continuous investments –781 –956 –774 –774 –816 Cash flow after continuous investments 494 867 396 1,045 1,589 Short-term investments – – – – –83 Acquisition of operations 4 –188 –12 –18 –58 Cash flow from investing activities –777 –1,144 –786 –792 –957 Cash flow after investments 498 679 384 1,027 1,447 Cash flow from financing activities –888 186 –1,303 –55 –367 Cash flow for the year –390 865 –920 972 1,080 BALANCE SHEET SEK M 2014-04-30 2015-04-30 2016-04-30 2017-04-30 2018-04-30 Intangible assets 6,845 8,174 8,210 8,704 9,175 Tangible fixed assets 624 881 803 795 895 Financial assets 359 371 364 308 261 Deferred tax assets 143 224 281 375 267 Inventories 1,078 1,297 1,135 936 1,121 Receivables 6,596 6,972 6,375 6,450 6,197 Short-term investments – – – – 83 Cash and cash equivalents 2,247 3,265 2,273 3,383 4,458 Total assets 17,892 21,184 19,441 20,950 22,457 Shareholders’ equity 6,257 6,646 6,412 6,774 7,975 Interest-bearing liabilities 4,486 6,033 4,950 5,272 5,344 Interest-free liabilities 7,149 8,505 8,079 8,905 9,138 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 17,892 21,184 19,441 20,950 22,457 66 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 FIVE YEAR REVIEW AND KEY FIGURES KEY FIGURES 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Gross order intake, SEK M n/a 12,825 13,821 14,064 14,493 Net order intake, SEK M 12,253 11,907 12,880 n/a n/a Order backlog, SEK M 13,609 17,087 18,239 22,459 24,675 Operating margin, % 16 9 4 6 14 Profit margin, % 14 7 2 3 12 Shareholders' equity, SEK M 6,257 6,646 6,412 6,774 7,975 Capital employed, SEK M 10,743 12,678 11,360 12,046 13,319 Net debt, SEK M 2,239 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 Equity/Assets ratio, % 35 31 33 32 36 Net debt/Equity ratio, multiple 0.36 0.42 0.42 0.28 0.10 Interest cover ratio, multiple 10.6 6.7 4.4 6.0 13.6 Return on shareholders' equity, % 21 9 2 2 16 Return on capital employed, % 17 9 4 5 13 Investments in tangible and intangible assets, SEK M 726 982 874 681 861 Depreciation and amortization, SEK M –414 –512 –634 –655 –675 Operational cash conversion, % 60 126 111 145 109 Average number of employees 3,631 3,679 3,677 3,581 3,702 EBITA BEFORE ITEMS EQUITY AND CASH FLOW AFTER ­ AFFECTING COMPARABILITY NET SALES AND EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS AND BAD DEBT LOSSES PROFIT BEFORE TAX SEK M % SEK M SEK M SEK M 8,000 8 000 80 4,500 4 500 3,000 3 000 12,000 12 000 6,000 6 000 60 3,000 3 000 2,250 2 250 9,000 9 000 4,000 4 000 40 1,500 1 500 1,500 1 500 6,000 6 000 2 000 2,000 20 00 750 750 3 000 3,000 00 0 -1 500 -1,500 00 00 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Equity Operating flow Profit before tax Equity/Assets ratio Change in working capital Net sales Continuous investments Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 67 Content Board of Directors’ Report 69 Note 18 Shares in subsidiaries 103 Consolidated income statement 76 Note 19 Shares in associates 104 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 76 Note 20 Other financial assets 104 Consolidated balance sheet 78 Note 21 Inventories 104 Changes in consolidated equity 80 Note 22 Accounts receivable 104 Consolidated cash flow statement 82 Note 23 Other current receivables 105 Financial statements – Parent Company 84 Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 105 Note 25 Equity 105 Notes 86 Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities 106 Note 1 Essential accounting principles 86 Note 27 Provisions 106 Note 2 Financial risk management 88 Note 28 Prepaid income 107 Note 3 Financial instrument 90 Note 29 Accrued expenses 107 Note 4 Estimates and assessments 93 Note 30 Other current liabilities 108 Note 5 Segment reporting 93 Note 31 Assets pledged 108 Note 6 Net sales 94 Note 32 Contingent liabilities 108 Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 95 Note 33 Cash flow statement 108 Note 8 Depreciation/amortization 97 Note 34 Related party transactions 109 Note 9 Operating leases 98 Note 35 Business combinations 109 Note 10 Remunerations to auditors 98 Note 36 Average number of employees 109 Note 11 Expenses by nature 98 Note 37 Events after the reporting period 110 Note 12 Income from participations in Group companies 98 Note 38 Effects from the implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 110 Note 13 Net financial items 98 Board of Director´s signature 113 Note 14 Interest income, interest expense and similar items 98 Auditor’s report 114 Note 15 Taxes 99 Glossary 117 Note 16 Intangible assets 100 Definitions 119 Note 17 Tangible fixed assets 102 Alternative performance measures 120 68 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Elekta AB (publ.), corporate idenFrom a competitive perspective there are also various companies addresstity number 556170-4015 and registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit ing specific segments within radiation therapy. Companies, such as Accuray the consolidated financial statements and annual report for the fiscal year with its radiosurgery solutions, Bebig with its brachytherapy products, 2017/18, covering the period May 1, 2017 – April 30, 2018. Amounts in parentheViewray with its MR linac products and Philips and Raysearch with its treatses indicate values for the previous fiscal year. Elekta AB (publ.) is referred to ment planning solutions, are part of our competitive landscape. Hospital as “Elekta AB” or “the Parent Company” and the Elekta Group, which includes Information System (HIS) companies are addressing the HIS market with Elekta AB and its subsidiaries, is referred to as “Elekta” or “the Group”. hospital wide solutions where cancer care is one of many different specialties. In addition, there are a number of companies with products and appliElekta’s operations cations supporting different aspects of cancer care processes. Elekta is a medical technology company which aims to improve, prolong Long-term financial ambitions and save lives through clinical solutions for treating cancer and brain disorders. The Group develops clinical treatment solutions for radiation therapy Elekta’s aim is to achieve sustainable profitable growth. Elekta conducts its and radiosurgery, as well as workflow-enhancing software systems, across operations based on a long-term plan which is regularly reviewed and evalthe spectrum of cancer care. Elekta is a leader in clinical solutions for image uated by the Board of Directors. The following financial objectives form the guided radiation therapy and stereotactic radiosurgery, giving oncologists basis of long-term planning: and neurosurgeons an unmatched capability to treat tumors and func•• Organic sales growth exceeding 10 percent in local currency tional targets with ultra-high precision while sparing healthy tissue. •• Operating result improvement rate to exceed the sales growth in SEK Elekta’s treatment solutions and oncology informatics portfolios are •• Return on capital employed to exceed 20 percent designed to enhance the delivery of radiation therapy, radiosurgery and brachytherapy, and to drive cost efficiency in clinical workflows. Elekta’s •• Net debt/equity ratio less than 0.50 operations are divided into three geographical regions: The objectives are currently under review and new objectives will be pre•• North and South America sented at a Capital Markets Day in 2018. •• Europe, Middle East and Africa •• Asia Pacific The financial year 2017/18 Market •• Gross order intake was SEK 14,493 M (14,064), an increase of 3 percent or 5 percent based on constant exchange rates The global market development for Elekta’s solutions is driven by the need •• Net sales increased 6 percent to SEK 11,333 M (10,704), or 8 percent for qualitative cancer care at an affordable cost. based on constant exchange rates Cancer incidence and prevalence are increasing. More patients are sur•• EBITA before items affecting comparability and bad debt losses viving their cancer, which increasingly makes cancer a chronic disease with amounted to SEK 2,116 M (1,661) growing number of patients all over the world in need of long-term care. The cost of cancer care is increasing and the demands for cost efficiency in •• Items affecting comparability was SEK 0 M (–518) and bad debt health systems and among care providers is an important part of the marlosses SEK –53 M (–46) ket dynamics. This benefits solutions within radiation therapy which is one •• Operating result was SEK 1,538 M (598) of the most cost-effective treatment solutions. •• Profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,099 M (126) A complete radiation therapy program includes various technologies in •• Earnings per share amounted to SEK 2.88 (0.33) before/after dilution Elekta’s product portfolio. New advancements in precision, accuracy and •• Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 2,404 M (1,819), effectiveness will increase the need for radiation therapy. Information man­representing an operational cash conversion of 109 percent (145) agement solutions constitute an important element in care delivery where hospital information systems and cancer informatics are other important •• Cash flow after continuous investments amounted to SEK 1,589 M (1,045) elements of Elekta’s solutions. There is a ­significant shortage of radiation •• The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 1.40 (1.00) per share for therapy capacity, which is an important fact in understanding the potential 2017/18 to be divided into two payments and market in many developing e ­ conomies. Order intake and order backlog Competition Gross order intake increased by 3 percent and 5 percent based on constant exchange rates. The order backlog was SEK 24,675 M on April 30, 2018, comThe main competitor in the global market, with a comprehensive product pared with SEK 22,459 M on April 30, 2017. Orders that are cancelled or not range and overlap with Elekta, is Varian Medical Systems. Elekta is overall expected to materialize as planned are removed from the order backlog. one of the largest suppliers of radiation therapy solutions. For the emerging The order backlog was affected by adjustments of SEK –1,444 M (–441) and markets, Elekta is the largest supplier. translation differences of SEK 493 M (1,295) relating to the revaluation of the Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 69 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT order backlog at closing rates. The order backlog adjustments were mainly increase of 7 percent based on constant exchange rates. The increase was related to new arrangements with McLaren Health Care USA and New mainly related to strong revenue growth in China and India. The contribution Karolinska Solna, Sweden. margin in the region amounted to 31 percent (30). The Chinese market continues to grow and Elekta is the market leader GROSS ORDER INTAKE in China. The South East Asia markets are growing fast while the Japanese SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Change, % market continued to be weak. See page 30 for more information on region Asia Pacific. North and South America 4,720 4,516 5% Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,389 5,078 6% Asia Pacific 4,384 4,470 –2% Net sales Net sales increased by 6 percent to SEK 11,333 M (10,704), equivalent to an Group 14,493 14,064 3% increase of 8 percent based on constant exchange rates. The increase was mainly driven by strong growth in China, Western Europe and emerging Market comments markets. North and South America Gross order intake in the region increased by 5 percent to SEK 4,720 M NET SALES (4,516), corresponding to a 9 percent increase based on constant exchange rates. North America had a strong year with good growth both in US and in SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Change, % Canada. Latin America, Brazil and distributor markets in South America North and South America 3,878 4,147 –6% showed an increased demand. Net sales decreased by 6 percent to SEK Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,280 3,444 24% 3,878 M (4,147), corresponding to a decrease of 2 percent based on conAsia Pacific 3,175 3,114 2% stant exchange rates. Latin America showed growth in the year with Group 11,333 10,704 6% increased deliveries to Brazil. North America was down as the growth in orders have not yet converted into higher revenue. The contribution margin Earnings in the region amounted to 36 percent (37). Gross margin was 42 percent (41). Operating expenses increased by 5 perThe US market growth is primarily driven by service and software and cent as result of increased investments in Elekta Unity. Selling and adminisreplacement investments of currently installed linear accelerators. Hospitrative expenses amounted to SEK 2,156 M (2,093), corresponding to 19 pertal consolidation continues and is driving the market towards more comprecent (20) of net sales. hensive solutions and larger projects, as well as longer lead times for purEBITA before items affecting comparability and bad debt losses chasing decisions. South America has a significant need for high-quality, amounted to SEK 2,116 M (1,661). Items affecting comparability amounted to cost-effective cancer care. At the same time, economic development has SEK 0 M (–518) with prior year items mainly referring to costs related to legal been volatile for a number of years, resulting in low investments in new disputes and costs for severance, efficiency initiatives and external support equipment. within the transformation program. The effect from changes in exchange See page 28 for more information on region North and South A ­ merica. rates was approximately SEK 160 M (315), including hedges. Operating result was SEK 1,538 M (598), corresponding to an operating Europe, Middle East and Africa margin of 14 percent (6). Gross order intake in the region increased by 6 percent to SEK 5,389 M (5,078) Net financial items amounted to SEK –164 M (–258). The improveand increased by 4 percent based on constant exchange rates. The increase ment was mainly related to lower interest rates as result of a refinancwas mainly related to good order growth in UK, Italy and Romania. Net sales ing in the previous year. Profit before tax amounted to SEK 1,374 M (340). increased by 24 percent to SEK 4,280 M (3,444), corresponding to an increase Tax amounted to SEK –276 M (–214). The tax rate of 20 percent is mainly of 22 percent based on constant exchange rates. We saw an increase in explained by effects of lower statutory tax rate in the US. Profit for the year deliveries to markets such as Germany, Spain and Austria. The contribution amounted to 1,099 M (126). margin in the region amounted to 34 percent (31). The increase compared to Earnings per share amounted to SEK 2.88 (0.33) before/after dilution. the previous year mainly relates to the strong increase in revenues. Return on shareholders’ equity amounted to 16 percent (2) and return on During the year, Elekta signed a number of significant orders, with capital employed amounted to 13 percent (5). National Health Services Supply Chain in UK, Cork University Hospital in Ireland, Ministry of Health in Romania, Ministry of Health in Egypt and five Investments and depreciation Elekta Unity to Proton Partners International in UK. Continuous investments were SEK 861 M (682). Investments in intangible Emerging markets had a mixed year with Russia benefitting from the assets amounted to SEK 642 M (541) and were mainly related to ongoing R&D newly established direct sales and support hub and Turkey showing good programs. The increase was related to the Elekta Unity project. Investments growth, while Africa had a slower year. in tangible assets amounted to SEK 219 (140) and the increase was mainly See page 29 for more information on region Europe, Middle East and related to a new office building in the UK. Amortization of intangible assets Africa. and depreciation of tangible fixed assets amounted to a total of SEK 675 M (655). Asia Pacific Gross order intake in the region decreased by 2 percent to SEK 4,384 M Research and development (4,470), corresponding to a 2 percent increase based on constant exchange Elekta conducts research and development (R&D) aimed at strengthening rates with strong growth in Australia, Hong Kong and South Korea. Net and enhancing its position as technology leader. R&D expenditure, before capsales increased by 2 percent to SEK 3,175 M (3,114), corresponding to an 70 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT italization of development costs, increased by 13 percent (12) and amounted May 2016. humediQ GmbH has now initiated a new arbitration against the to SEK 1,347 M (1,196), equal to 12 percent (11) of net sales. Costs related to the same Elekta group companies and arising out of the same agreement as R&D function amounted to SEK 1,095 M (1,018). Capitalization and amortizathe previous arbitration. Elekta believes that the claims are meritless and tion of development costs in the R&D function amounted to a net of SEK 252 will vigorously defend itself. M (178). Capitalization amounted to SEK 637 M (534) and amortization to SEK 385 M (356). The increase in capitalization is related to Elekta Unity. Investigation in Italy As communicated in November 2015, Elekta’s subsidiary in Italy and some Cash flow former employees are suspected of interfering with public procurement Cash flow from operating activities improved by SEK 585 M to SEK 2,404 M processes. Elekta provided all requested information to the Italian author(1,819). Cash flow after continuous investments increased to SEK 1,589 M ities during the investigation which closed in August 2016. Elekta has zero (1,045). Operational cash conversion was 109 percent (145). The cash flow tolerance for any deviation from its code of conduct and have clear corpoimprovement was mainly due to higher earnings and continued decrease of rate policies and procedures in place. The Judge of the Milan Court declared working capital. on July 3, 2017 lack of jurisdiction and the case is referred to the Prosecution See pages 82–83 for more information on the consolidated cash flow. Office of Monza. Financial position McLaren Health Care and Elekta mutually terminate Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments amounted to SEK long-term agreement 4,541 M (3,383) and interest-­bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 5,344 M Michigan-based McLaren Health Care and Elekta have mutually agreed to (5,272). Thus, net debt amounted to SEK 803 M (1,889). Equity amounted to terminate their business agreement from December 2013. McLaren Health SEK 7,975 M (6,774). Net debt/equity ratio was 0.10 (0.28). Care and Elekta will continue their business relationship, but on a smaller On June 29, 2017, Elekta AB entered into a new five-year revolving credit scale. facility of EUR 200 M, primarily intended to be used as a back-up financing. The previously existing EUR 175 M revolving credit facility with maturity in Elekta MR-linac functionality and CE mark update May 2018 was cancelled in conjunction with the signing of the new facility. On November 10, 2017, Elekta announced that the company extended the The balance sheet has been affected by changes in exchange rates. final stage of the development and testing of Elekta Unity in order to finalThe exchange rate effect of the translation of cash and cash equivalents ize and validate the linac control system, as well as ensure that customers amounted to SEK –4 M (138). The translation difference in interest-bearing can make use of the full potential of high-field functional MRI imaging from liabilities amounted to SEK 54 M (207). Shareholder’s equity was affected by day one. On June 18, 2018, Elekta Unity received CE mark. For further inforexchange rate differences amounting to SEK 499 M (364). mation, refer to Significant events after year-end below. See pages 78–79 for more information on the consolidated balance sheet. Significant events after year-end Employees CE mark received for Elekta MR-linac The average number of employees during the year was 3,702 (3,581). The On June 18, 2018, Elekta Unity magnetic resonance radiation therapy number of employees on April 30, 2018 totaled 3,716 (3,681). Value added (MR/ RT) system has received CE mark, clearing the technology for comper average employee amounted to SEK 1,365 T (1,140). mercial sales and clinical use in Europe. Significant events during the year Changes to the Executive Management team Changes to the Executive Management team Renato Leite joined Elekta on June 1, 2018, as Executive Vice President Peter Gaccione was appointed Executive Vice President for North America Region Europe and member of the Executive Management team. on June 1, 2017, succeeding Bill Yaeger. As of June 1, 2018, Caroline Mofors, Senior Vice President Chief CompliGustaf Salford was appointed Chief Financial Officer effective July 1, ance and Integrity Officer, is a member of the Executive Management team. 2017. He succeeded Håkan Bergström. The Executive Management team is presented on page 62. Ioannis Panagiotelis was appointed Chief Marketing and Sales Officer (CMSO) effective August 23, 2017. All Elekta markets report to the CMSO Sustainability except China and North America; who report directly to the CEO. Steven Wort was appointed Chief Operating Officer effective Elekta AB has prepared a Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance September 1, 2017. He is an Elekta veteran and succeeded Johan Sedihn. with Chapter 6 Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The CorPaul Bergström was appointed Executive Vice President Global Services, porate Responsibility Report is attached to this Annual Report and is preeffective November 1, 2017. sented on pages 12, 15–17 and 35–49. Oskar Bosson was appointed Executive Vice President Corporate Communications and Investor Relations, effective February 12, 2018. Quality The Executive Management team is presented on page 62. Elekta continue to focus on improving processes as one of their key strategic priorities. Elekta conducts regular audits to ensure compliance to estabNew humediQ legal dispute lished requirements from medical regulatory authorities. Where approAs earlier reported an arbitration tribunal in London issued an award in priate Elekta’s development, production or sales units are certified in the dispute between two Elekta group companies and humediQ GmbH in accordance with relevant ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 standards. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 71 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT IT that these prospective and intimate relationships are maintained, in order to understand customer needs. Elekta IT has continued to focus on improving Elekta’s efficiency through New products and improved methods for treatment are continuously our progressive portfolio of integrated business solutions. By exploiting our released and future developments on the medical equipment market might investment in global IT platforms, we are able to use common technologies have an impact on Elekta’s ability to compete. Thus, it is crucial that new for a range of business activities and deploy them consistently around the products and technical solutions developed by Elekta are protected from world. This approach has allowed Elekta to consolidate operational responthe risk of improper use by competitors. When possible and deemed approsibility for our processes into Elekta Business Services in Warsaw, where priate, Elekta protects its intellectual property rights by way of patents, the team now run a wide range of remote services in support of the Elekta copyrights and trademark registrations. Regions and Global Functions. This digitalization of business processes has Elekta sells its products through its direct sales force and through an enabled the first introduction of robotic process automation in our accountexternal network of agents and distributors. The Group’s continued success ing activities to improve the speed and quality of transactional processing is dependent on its ability to establish and maintain successful relationships through the elimination of human error. Plans are now in place to extend with customers and collaborations with external sales channels. the use of robotic automation in our IT environment to improve the control Corruption is a risk and an obstacle for development and growth in and efficiency in our business operations. some countries of which Elekta has operations. Elekta has implemented In common with most businesses, the introduction of stronger privacy an anti-corruption policy to discourage corruption as well as third party standards associated with GDPR has created a great deal of focus on cyber risk management processes. security and data protection. At Elekta, we have welcomed the new stanElekta’s operations comprise several geographical markets. This does dards and, together with the compliance function, the global IT function expose the Group to a vast number of laws, regulations, policies and guidehas been leading a programme of work to ensure that our systems and prolines regarding topics such as health, security, environment, trade restriccesses fully meet the demands of the new legislation. This preparation work tions, competition, exchange control and delivery of products. As a manu­ has seen Elekta introduce new technology to strengthen further our sysfacturer of medical equipment, Elekta’s operation is guided by demands tem access controls and the reporting and monitoring necessary to meet and standards set by regulatory authorities. Rule changes might bring the new standards. By also including technologies to prevent the potenabout increased costs or hinder sales of Elekta’s products. Regulatory protial loss of data, we are proactively mitigating the risk and have successfully cesses may interfere with the possibility to introduce products. deployed “tokenization”, where particularly sensitive data, or data being Much like other companies within the same field of business, Elekta accessed in sensitive parts of the world, is substituted by random encrypted is dependent on assessments and decisions made by authorities such as characters to render any information useless in the event of an intrusion. Läkemedels­verket in Sweden or the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) By continuing to invest in progressive IT Platforms such as Microsoft in the US. Assessments of that sort are inclusive of product safety as well Azure, we have been able to efficiently use the same cloud-based infraas permission to market and sell medical equipment. Applications to these structure for purposes as diverse as administering the classroom faciliauthorities demand comprehensive documentation, and unforeseen cirties in the Elekta Regional Training Centres, providing on-demand comcumstances might interfere with the ability to introduce, market, sell and puting services to our software engineers, and centrally managing the big deliver products, as well as hindering or limiting the commercial appeal data requirements for the LINAC beam modelling, where we have substanand/or causing a severe financial cost. tially reduced the time required for pre-clinical calibration. Elekta will conElekta has to fulfill rigorous demands in accordance with international tinue its commitment to the Salesforce.com platform, on which we run all rules and product safety standards from the International Electrotechnical of the customer facing business operations. By extending the use of this sys­Commission (IEC) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO), tem, we have recently implemented a new Customer Portal, which allows us Rådets direktiv 93/42/EEG on medical products, FDA’s demands on quality to connect with our customers for them to gain access to support services systems, as well as a number of other domestic directives and rules. These from Elekta and manage their installed base of clinical equipment. In the are explained in Elekta’s quality system in accordance with ISO 9001 and first month of service, over 9,000 customers accessed the system to collabISO 13485. Quality systems are reviewed and certified by external regulatory orate with Elekta in this exciting new way. authorities and are regularly inspected by FDA. To deviate from safety regulations is an example of a circumstance which might result in delays and Risks prohibit deliveries of Elekta products. Elekta is continuously evaluating conditions to enter new markets. The Elekta’s presence in a large number of geographical markets leave it open process takes into consideration both the opportunities and risks involved. to potential exposure to political and economic risk on a global scale and There are regulatory registration requirements with each market that could in individual countries or regions. United Kingdom’s decision to leave the potentially delay product introductions and certifications. European Union, as an example, might lead to economic uncertainty that Political stability in certain countries and the security situation for may impact Elekta since an important part of the business is located in employees traveling to exposed areas are constantly evaluated. the United Kingdom. In some markets weak economic development and Elekta depends on the capability of producing advanced medical equipstrained finances may mean less availability of financing for private cusment, which requires highly qualified personnel. The Group’s ability to tomers and reduced future health care spending by governments. attract and retain qualified personnel and management is of great imporElekta operates in a competitive landscape. The medical equipment tance and will have a significant impact on the future success of the Group. industry is characterized by relatively swift technological alterations with Elekta’s ability to commercialize its solutions is dependent on the reimadvances in industrial knowhow. Elekta’s products are developed in close bursement level that hospitals and clinics can obtain. Reimbursement sys­collaboration with research institutes. For Elekta it is of great significance tems vary depending on the country. Alterations in the existing reimburse72 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ment systems related to medical products or implementation of new loans. Some of Elekta’s financing agreements are subject to financial coveregulations might have a direct impact on demand for Elekta’s products. nants, such as net debt/ebitda and interest cover. A development of finanElekta’s delivery of treatment equipment relies on customers’ capabilcial metrics impacting net debt and/or ebitda negatively, could end up in a ity to receive the delivery on site. Depending on contractual terms a delay break of covenants resulting in a need to renegotiate the agreements or to can result in postponed invoicing and also affect the timing of revenue recrepay existing financing. Note 2 provides further details and information ognition. The Group’s credit risks are normally limited, since customer operregarding financial risks and financial risk management. ations are, to a large extent, financed either directly or indirectly by public funds. See also Note 2 and Note 22 for more information on credit risk and Sensitivity analysis credit exposure. Elekta is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for delivery of critElekta’s operation is bound to projects the basis of consists of relatively ical components. There is a risk of delivery difficulties occurring due to cirbig deliveries to customers. The lead time from delivery to installation can cumstances beyond Elekta’s control. Critical suppliers are regularly followed therefore vary from period to period. Quarterly variations of delivery volup regarding delivery precision and quality of components. umes occur, which has a high impact on net sales and net income each Integrating third party components with Elekta products might bring quarter. Elekta’s gross margin can also vary from period to period dependabout product responsibility for the components. Unforeseen problems can ing on p­ roduct and geographic mix and currency movements. During the cause delays, hinder or limit the products’ commercial use and/or translate year, Elekta had a gross margin of 42 percent (41). to a cost for the Group. As a result of its international operations and structure, Elekta has a sigFrom time to time Elekta is involved in disputes associated with the businificant exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. This pertains primarily to ness operations. Situations in question might revolve around disputes over expenses in SEK and GBP against revenue in USD and EUR. Based on the product liability, contractual questions, immaterial rights and alleged flaws year’s income, expense and currency structure a general change of 1 perin the delivery of goods or services. Disputes can be costly, time consuming centage point in the SEK exchange rate against other currencies would and can hamper the process of ongoing operations. Intellectual property affect the Group’s operating profit by approximately +/– SEK 36 M (13). disputes are costly and might have a material impact on Elekta’s operations In the short term, the effect is reduced through hedging. and financial position. In addition, it can be difficult to predict the outcome Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end a general change of of intricate disputes. Disputes related to Elekta’s product l­iability might con1 percentage point in the interest on borrowings and investments would cern alleged negligence, warranty issues or mistreatment and might bring affect the Group’s profit before tax by approximately +/– SEK 14 M (4). about major costs unrelated to the final verdict. Elekta has product liability insurances. However, there is still a risk that future demands will exceed or Parent company fall outside of the insurance coverage. Elekta’s business operations involve development, manufacturing and The Parent Company of the Group, Elekta AB, conducts no operating activdelivery of products and services in a large number of jurisdictions. Operities but provides group management, joint group functions and finanations are taxed under the laws in the jurisdictions in which they operate. cial management. Profit for the year amounted to SEK 598 M (91) inclusive Changes in tax regimes could impact the Group’s cash tax liabilities and of dividends from subsidiaries of SEK 725 M (271). Total assets amounted to tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results SEK 12,044 M (11,445) of which shares in subsidiaries amounted to SEK 2,239 depending on the nature of the change. M (2,222) and receivables from subsidiaries amounted to SEK 5,879 M International regulations governing the global tax environment are also (6,549). Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments at year-end subject to regular changes. Due to the uncertainty related to which of the amounted to SEK 3,708 M (2,479). Shareholders’ equity amounted to SEK final tax regulations under consideration will be enacted Elekta cannot pre2,823 M (2,606). Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 9,118 M (8,649), dict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on the business. of which SEK 3,793 M (3,381) constituted liabilities to subsidiaries. The averElekta’s operations within research and development, production, disage number of employees during the year was 36 (30). The number of tribution, marketing and administration depend on a large number of employees on April 30, 2018 was 36 (31). For further information refer to the advanced IT systems and IT solutions. Routines and procedures are applied in Parent Company’s financial reports and the accompanying notes. order to protect the hardware, software and information against damages, manipulations, loss or incorrect use. If these systems and solutions should be Shares affected by any interference resulting in loss of information it might have a The total number of registered shares on April 30, 2018 was 383,568,409 negative impact on Elekta’s operations, result and financial position. divided between 14,980,769 A-shares and 368,587,640 B-shares. One series In its operation, Elekta is subject to a number of financial risks such as A-share entitles the holder to 10 votes and series B-shares entitle the holder ­currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Currency risks arise to one vote for each share. All shares carry equal rights to participate in the primarily as a product of future business transactions, recognized assets and Company’s assets and profits. In accordance with Section 12 of the Articles liabilities along with net investments in foreign operations. I­nterest rate risk of Association, series A-shares are subject to right of first refusal. All concerns the risk of fluctuating rate levels affecting Elekta’s result negatively, A-shares are owned by Laurent Leksell via companies, also the only shareparticularly rising long-term loan costs. Credit risk ascends from financial holder representing more than 10 percent of total votes. On April 30, 2018, credit risk related to liquid cash and cash equivalents, short-term investtreasury shares amounted to 1,541,368 (1,541,368) equivalent to 0.4 perments, derivative financial instruments and receivables from banks and cent (0.4) of the total number of outstanding shares as well as of share financial institutes along with credit exposure towards customers and discapital. Regarding treasury shares, par value is 0,50 SEK per share and tributors. Liquidity risk relates to the risk of being unable to fulfill payment average cost is 49,70 SEK per share. obligations as a result of inadequate liquidity or difficulty taking on external See pages 64–65 for more information on Elekta’s share. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 73 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Dividend and proposal to repurchase shares of employment for the executive management of the Group. The guideFor 2017/18, the Board proposes a dividend of SEK 1.40 (1.00) per share to be lines will be valid for employment agreements entered into after the Annual divided into two payments. Total proposed dividend amounts to approxiGeneral Meeting and for any changes made to existing employment agreemately SEK 535 M (382) and 49 percent (306) of net profit for the year. The ments thereafter. It is proposed that the Board be given the ability to deviBoard intends to propose to the 2018 Annual General Meeting a renewal of ate from the below-stated guidelines in individual cases where specific reathe Board’s authorization to decide on the acquisition of a maximum numsons or requirements exist. The guidelines in the following proposal are ber of own shares so that, after the acquisition, the company holds no more unchanged compared to the guidelines which were proposed by the Board than 10 percent of the total number of outstanding shares in Elekta AB. of Directors and approved by the Annual General Meeting in 2017, but the sections ‘Variable salary’ and ‘Annual Incentive’ have been consolidated APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT and clarified. Amounts in SEK April 30, 2018 Guidelines Distributable shareholders’ equity of the Parent Company It is of fundamental importance to Elekta and its shareholders that the Premium reserve 656,609,561 guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for the execRetained earnings 1,219,817,210 utives of the Group attract, motivate and retain competent employees Profit for the year 598,240,232 and managers, both in the short and long-term. To achieve this goal, it is Total 2,474,667,003 important to ensure fairness and internal equity, while maintaining market competitiveness in terms of the structure, scope and level of executive comThe Board of Directors and the President and CEO propose: pensation within Elekta. Employment conditions for executive manageto be distributed to the shareholders, ment should comprise a balanced mix of fixed salary, a variable salary coma total dividend of SEK 1.40 per share1) 534,837,857 ponent, annual incentive, long-term incentives, pension and other benefits, and that the remaining amount be carried forward 1,939,829,146 as well as notice and severance payments, where applicable. Total 2,474,667,003 1) The total amount distributed may change up until the record date depending on changes in the number of shares Total target cash compensation Total target cash compensation (fixed plus variable salary components), should be competitive in the geographic market where the executive is resThe Board’s statement on the proposed dividend ident. The level of total target compensation should be reviewed annually In making this proposal for dividend, the Board has taken into account the to ensure that the company is competitive for similar positions in the marThe Parent company’s dividend policy, solidity as well as its general financial ket to be able to recruit and retain business critical competencies where position, whereby the Parent company’s ability to fulfill existing and foreneeded. Market medians are established with the assistance of external seeable payment obligations in a timely manner, as well as potential acquicompensation benchmarking. Since compensation should be performancesitions and other investments. The Parent Company’s equity includes SEK driven, the target annual variable salary component should account for a 105 M pertaining to assets and liabilities measured at fair value in accorrelatively high portion of the total target compensation. dance with Chapter 4 Section 14 a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The equity ratio and liquidity is reassuring, under the assumption that the Parent company and the Group continue to be profitable. The impact of the Compensation components proposed dividend on the Group’s reported equity/assets ratio of 36 percent The Group compensation system comprises various forms of compensa(32), will be marginal. Concerning the Parent company’s and the Group’s tion. This ensures well-balanced remuneration, thereby strengthening and result and position in general, refer to the statements of income, stateunderpinning short and long-term objective setting and achievement. ments of com­prehensive income, balance sheets and statements of cash flow and notes. Fixed salary It is the assessment of the Board of Directors that the proposed diviExecutive Management’s fixed salary shall be individual and based on the dend n ­ either prevents the Parent company, and other companies within content and responsibility of the position, the individual’s competence and the Group, from fulfilling their obligations, nor from making the necessary experience in relation to the role held, as well as the geography in which the investments. The proposed dividend can therefore be justified in respect of position is based. Chapter 17, section 3, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act (the prudence rule). Variable salary In addition to a fixed salary, Executive Management also has a variable salArticles of association ary component, the annual Incentive/bonus. The variable component is The Articles of Association state that board members are appointed and structured as a portion of the total cash remuneration package and is pridismissed by the Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Association conmarily related to the achievement of common Group financial performance tain no specific regulations regarding changes to the Articles of Association. goals. The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for variable salary components shall primarily be related to the outcome of specific financial and Guidelines for remuneration to executive management functional objectives within the Group compensation and benefit system. The goals for the variable salary component are established annually by The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting on August the Board to sustain the business strategy and objectives. Other KPIs may 30, 2018 approve the following guidelines for remuneration and other terms be used to drive focus on non-financial objectives of particular interest. 74 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The size of the variable salary component depends on the position held and Pensions may amount to between 30 percent and 70 percent of the fixed salary for When establishing new pension agreements, senior executives who are ention-target performance. Performance against fixed targets and payment tled to pension benefits should only be enrolled in defined-contribution for results achieved are measured quarterly or annually. schemes. The standard retirement age for Swedish citizens is 65 years while If performance related financial goals within the variable salary plan other executives follow the rules of their respective countries of residence. exceeding 100 percent of the target, there is the opportunity for additional The main guideline is that the size of pension contributions be based only on compensation for over performance. The annual incentive entails a potenthe fixed salary. Certain individual adjustments may occur based on local tial to earn a maximum of 200 percent of the target variable salary commarket practice. ponent. Accordingly, the maximum payout level for the sum of the variable salary component is capped at a 200 percent of the original target for variOther benefits able compensation. The plan also contains a minimum performance level Benefits such as company cars and health, medical and sickness-related or threshold under which no variable salary or annual incentive will be paid insurance schemes, should be of a more limited value compared with other out at all. items of the compensation package and in line with the market practice for the respective geographic market. Equity-based long-term incentive programs The Board also uses long-term incentives to ensure alignment between Notice periods and severance agreements shareholder interests and executive management, senior managers and Periods of notice in Elekta follow local labor legislative requirements in other key colleagues. On an annual basis, the Board of Directors evaluates the geographies in which they are based. Senior executives generally have whether an equity-based long-term incentive program should be proposed notice periods of between 6 and 12 months and, during specific circumto the Annual General Meeting. stances, to be entitled to severance payment equal 6–12 months employIn order to strengthen long-term thinking in decision-making and ensure ment. In the event of a material change of control, the President and achievement of long-term objectives, while also covering situations where CEO shall be entitled to an extra severance payment equal to 18 months equity-based solutions may be inappropriate or precluded by law, the Board employment. may also selectively decide on other types of non-equity-based long-term Severance agreements entitling executives to lump sum payments will incentive programs. Monetary long-term incentives should only be used as in principle not be signed. remuneration in special circumstances and be in line with practice in each market. They must also require continued employment in the Group. Preparation and decision process During the year, Elekta’s Executive Compensation & Capability Committee Retention measures (ECCC) provided the Board with recommendations regarding principles for In order to ensure long-term engagement and retention of key staff in formulating the Group’s remuneration system and remuneration of senior connection with the acquisition of new business, the divestment of operaexecutives and senior managers. The recommendations covered formulations or other transitional activities, an additional annual incentive with a tion of the bonus system, distribution between fixed and variable remuneradeferred payment of 12–24 months may or may not be applied. This deferred tion and the size of any salary increases. The ECCC also proposed criteria for incentive requires continued employment until an agreed future date for assessing the performance of senior executives and senior managers. Any any payment to be made and is applied only in special and rare circumdecisions on remuneration for the CEO is taken by the Board in its entirety. stances, which means that it is not part of any ordinary executive remunerThe Board has discussed the proposals from the ECCC and its motion to ation scheme. The deferred incentive should never exceed 50 percent of the the Annual General Meeting is based on the recommendation submitted. contractual annual variable salary component and shall in other aspects Elekta’s ECCC comprises the Chairman of the Board and three independent comply with the Group bonus plan. Board members. The President and CEO attend the committee’s meetings. The Group Vice President Human Resources acts as the ECCC secretary. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2017/18 2016/17 Net sales 6 11,333 10,704 Cost of products sold –6,584 –6,277 Gross profit 4,748 4,427 Selling expenses –1,208 –1,165 Administrative expenses –948 –928 R&D expenses –1,095 –1,018 Exchange rate differences 42 –201 Operating result before items affecting comparability 1,538 1,115 Items affecting comparability – –518 Operating result 5–11 1,538 598 Income from participations in associates 13 –7 –17 Financial income 13 67 31 Financial expenses 13 –225 –271 Exchange rate differences 13 1 –1 Profit before tax 1,374 340 Income taxes 15 –276 –214 Profit for the year 1,099 126 Profit attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,099 125 Non-controlling interests 0 1 Earnings per share: Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 2.88 0.33 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 2.88 0.33 Average number of shares before dilution, thousands 382,027 381,306 Average number of shares after dilution, thousands 382,027 381,306 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2017/18 2016/17 Profit for the year 1,099 126 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income: Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 27 –19 1 Tax 15 5 0 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income –14 1 Items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income: Revaluation of cash flow hedges 3 –5 34 Translation differences from foreign operations 499 364 Tax 15 2 –7 Total items that subsequently may be reclassified to the statement of income 496 391 Other comprehensive income, net 482 392 Total comprehensive income 1,581 518 Comprehensive income attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 1,581 517 Non-controlling interests 0 1 76 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated income statement In the income statement presented on the previous page items affecting comparability have been separately recognized. Items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 0 M (–518) and mainly refer to costs related to legal disputes and costs for severance, efficiency initiatives and external support within the transformation program. The table below presents the income statement down to operating result before and after items affecting comparability with items affecting comparability allocated by function. 2017/18 2016/17 Excluding Costs Including Excluding Costs Including items related to items items related to items affecting Restruct­legal affecting affecting Restruct­ legal affecting SEK M Note comparability uring costs disputes comparability comparability uring costs disputes comparability Net sales 6 11,333 – – 11,333 10,704 – – 10,704 Cost of products sold –6,584 – – –6,584 –6,277 –23 – –6,300 Gross profit 4,748 – – 4,748 4,427 –23 – 4,404 Selling expenses –1,208 – – –1,208 –1,165 –5 – –1,170 Administrative expenses –948 – – –948 –928 –231 –235 –1,394 R&D expenses –1,095 – – –1,095 –1,018 –24 – –1,042 Exchange rate differences 42 – – 42 –201 – – –201 Operating result 5–11 1,538 – – 1,538 1,115 –283 –235 598 Net sales The change in unrealized exchange rate effects from effective cash flow Net sales increased 6 percent to SEK 11,333 M (10,704), corresponding to hedges amounted to SEK –5 M (34) and is reported in other comprehensive 8 percent increase based on constant exchange rates. income. Closing balance of unrealized exchange rate effects from effective cash flow hedges in shareholders’ equity was SEK 33 M (36) exclusive of tax. Net sales, Change, Operating ­According to Elekta’s currency hedging policy, anticipated sales in f­ oreign SEK M %1) result, SEK M currency may be hedged up to 24 months. Q1 2,169 12 38 Net financial items amounted to SEK –164 M (–258). The improvement Q2 2,802 19 365 was mainly related to lower interest rates as a result of refinancing in the Q3 2,747 7 366 previous year. Q4 3,614 0 769 Income before tax amounted to SEK 1,374 M (340). Tax expense Full year 2017/18 11,333 8 1,538 amounted to SEK –276 M (–214) or 20 percent (63). The decrease of the tax1) Compared to last fiscal year based on constant exchange rate rate was mainly due to the increased earnings before tax and the US tax reform. Profit after tax amounted to SEK 1,099 M (126). Earnings Gross margin was 42 percent (41). EBITA before items affecting comparaRESULT OVERVIEW bility and bad debt losses amounted to SEK 2,116 M (1,661). The effect from SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 changes in exchange rates was approximately SEK 160 M (315) including Operating result/EBIT before items hedges. affecting comparability 1,538 1,115 Operating result increased by 158 percent and amounted to SEK 1,538 M Bad debt losses 53 46 (598). Operating margin was 14 percent (6). Amortization: Research and development expenditures before capitalization of develCapitalized development costs 408 380 opment costs increased 13 percent to SEK 1,348 M (1,196) equal to 12 percent (11) of net sales. Capitalization of development costs and amortizaAssets relating business combinations 116 119 tion of capitalized development costs amounted to net SEK 229 M (155), of EBITA before items affecting comparability and bad debt losses 2,116 1,661 which SEK 252 M (178) relates to the R&D function. Capitalization within the R&D function amounted to SEK 637 M (534) and amortization to SEK 385 M (356). Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 16 9,175 8,704 Tangible fixed assets 17 895 795 Shares in associated companies 19 42 22 Other financial assets 3, 20 219 285 Deferred tax assets 15 267 375 Total non-current assets 10,598 10,181 Current assets Inventories 21 1,121 936 Accounts receivable 22 3,402 3,726 Accrued income 1,601 1,640 Current tax assets 15 177 191 Derivative financial instruments 3 170 92 Other current receivables 23 846 802 Short-term investments 24 83 – Cash and cash equivalents 24 4,458 3,383 Total current assets 11,858 10,769 Total assets 22,457 20,950 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Parent Company shareholders: Share capital 25 192 192 Contributed funds 812 812 Reserves 1,096 600 Retained earnings 5,876 5,171 Parent Company shareholders, total 7,975 6,774 Non-controlling interests 0 0 Total equity 7,975 6,774 Non-current liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 4,369 5,272 Deferred tax liabilities 15 693 778 Long-term provisions 27 158 142 Other long-term liabilities 3 63 33 Total long-term liabilities 5,283 6,224 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 975 0 Accounts payable 1,132 1,000 Advances from customers 2,575 2,531 Prepaid income 28 2,053 1,874 Accrued expenses 29 1,854 1,875 Current tax liabilities 15 107 111 Short-term provisions 27 201 231 Derivative financial instruments 3 46 48 Other current liabilities 257 281 Total current liabilities 9,199 7,952 Total equity and liabilities 22,457 20,950 For information about assets pledged and contingent liabilities see Note 31 and 32 respectively. 78 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated balance sheet The Group’s consolidated balance sheet has been affected by changes in ple, the US is largely a private hospital market with replacement investexchange rates. The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are transments. The operating cycle in the projects are typically shorter than Elekta’s lated at the closing rate as per the closing date. The exchange rates used for average. In a typical customer relationship, Elekta receives partial paytranslation as per 30 April 2018 and 30 April 2017 respectively are presented ments at order receipt, delivery, installation and acceptance. North Amerin the table on page 87. ica is the region where Elekta has the lowest Days Sales outstanding (DSO). Lastly, customers in Europe are typically public hospitals and contracts are Assets and capital employed awarded through public procurement ­processes. In such cases, terms and The Group’s total assets increased by SEK 1 507 M to SEK 22,457 M (20,950). conditions are often pre-defined by the customer. This means that Elekta Fixed assets totaled SEK 10,598 M (10,181) of which goodwill amounted to get paid late in the operating cycle and payment times are generally lonSEK 5,607 M (5,388). ger than normal. There are many examples of projects where customers pay Current assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and short-term after acceptance of installation. investments, decreased by SEK 69 M to SEK 7,317 M (7,386). Accounts receivAccounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,402 M (3,726) as per 30 April, able, accrued income and inventories decreased by 3 percent (4). Inventory showing a decrease of 9 percent in SEK. The majority of non-due accounts value in ­relation to net sales was 10 percent (9). receivable are normally due within 90 days. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by In a limited number of customer projects, Elekta is providing financing SEK 1,158 M to SEK 4,541 M (3,383) at year-end, totaling 20 percent (16) of through extended payment terms. Such receivables amounted to total assets. Of total bank b ­ alances SEK 8 M (12) were pledged primarily for SEK 170 M (185) as per 30 April and are included in “Other financial assets” commercial guarantees. in the balance sheet and specified as “Contractual receivables” in Note 20. The Group’s capital employed increased to SEK 13,319 M (12,046). Customer advances represent projects for which invoiced amounts exceed revenue recognized. Advances from customers amounted to Liabilities and shareholders’ equity SEK 2,575 M (2,531) as per 30 April, an increase of SEK 45 M. Interest-free liabilities and provisions increased by SEK 234 M to SEK 9,138 M (8,904). Interest-bearing liabilities totaled SEK 5,344 M (5,272). Net debt WORKING CAPITAL amounted to SEK 803 M (1,889). Total equity was SEK 7,975 M (6,774). Return SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 on shareholders’ equity amounted to 16 percent (2) and return on ­capital Working capital assets employed amounted to 13 percent (5). Net debt/equity ratio was 0.10 (0.28) Inventories 1,121 936 and equity/assets ratio was 36 percent (32). Accounts receivable 3,402 3,726 Accrued income 1,601 1,640 Working capital Other operating receivables 846 802 Elekta’s operations is to a large extent project based. Payment flows from Sum working capital assets 6,970 7,104 projects generally occur in connection with order receipt, delivery and acceptance, which generates fluctuations in working capital. Thus, moveWorking capital liabilities ments in working capital depend on the progress of projects and the timAccounts payable 1,132 1,000 ing of certain events in relation to terms in the contract. Invoicing and Advances from customers 2,575 2,531 payments from the customer occur in accordance with the terms of the Prepaid income 2,053 1,874 contract while revenue is recognized based on accounting principles. Th­ereAccrued expenses 1,854 1,875 fore cash flow from projects does not always coincide with the recognition Short-term provisions 201 231 of revenue and may result in either an asset (accrued income) or a liability Other current liabilities 257 281 (advances from customers). Sum working capital liabilities 8,071 7,792 Elekta’s payment terms varies significantly between regions and speNet working capital –1,101 –688 cific customers. For example, in China, the majority of Elekta’s customers are in the public sector. Financing and payments are normally structured by Percent of net sales –10% –6% a bank through a letter of credit arrangement. When Elekta has met certain performance conditions, payments are obtained from the issuing bank. The Net working capital amounted to SEK –1,101 M (–688) at year-end, corremajority of the proceeds are normally due at shipment. As another examsponding to –10 percent (–6) of net sales. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in consolidated equity Other Elekta AB:s NonShare ­contributed Translation Hedge Retained owners, controlling Total SEK M Note capital capital reserve reserve earnings total interests equity Opening balance May 1, 2016 192 740 210 –2 5,262 6,402 10 6,412 Profit for the year – – – – 125 125 1 126 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – 1 1 – 1 Cash flow hedges – – – 341) – 34 – 34 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 364 – – 364 – 364 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 15 – – – –7 0 –7 – –7 Other comprehensive income 0 0 364 27 1 392 0 392 Total comprehensive income 0 0 364 27 126 517 1 518 Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – –31 –31 –1 –32 Dividend – – – – –191 –191 –10 –201 Incentive programs – – – – 5 5 – 5 Tax effect incentive programs – – – – 0 0 – 0 Conversion of convertible loan 0 72 – – – 72 – 72 Transactions with the shareholders, total 0 72 0 0 –217 –145 –11 –156 Closing balance April 30, 2017 192 812 574 26 5,171 6,774 0 6,774 Opening balance May 1, 2017 192 812 574 26 5,171 6,774 0 6,774 Profit for the year – – – – 1,099 1,099 0 1,099 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans – – – – –19 –19 – –19 Cash flow hedges – – – –51) – –5 – –5 Translation differences from foreign operations – – 499 – – 499 – 499 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 15 – – – 2 5 7 – 7 Other comprehensive income – – 499 –3 –14 482 – 482 Total comprehensive income – – 499 –3 1,085 1,581 0 1,581 Dividend – – – – –382 –382 – –382 Incentive programs – – – – 2 2 – 2 Tax effect incentive programs – – – – 0 0 – 0 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – – –380 –380 – –380 Closing balance April 30, 2018 192 812 1,073 23 5,876 7,975 0 7,975 1) Of which transferred to the income statement in 2017/18: SEK –90 M (–185) 80 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on changes in consolidated equity In 2017/18 Elekta paid a total dividend of SEK 382 M. The dividend payment ferences arising from the translation of liabilities raised as a hedging instruhas affected equity through a reduction of retained earnings. ment for a net investment in foreign operations. The translation reserve The total number of shares in Elekta as of April 30, 2018, amounted amounted to SEK 1,073 M (574) at year end. to 383,568,409 of which 14,980,769 A-shares and 368,587,640 B-shares. Cash flow hedges are reported in the hedge reserve via other compreSee Note 25 for more information on share capital. hensive income. Elekta hedges its currency risk in line with the policy estabTotal equity includes equity of foreign subsidiaries. Translation is perlished by the Board. The scope of this hedging is determined by the Comformed at closing rate and the translation difference is reported in the pany’s c ­ urrency risk assessment. Currency hedging is defined on the basis translation reserve via other comprehensive income. The translation differof the expected sales in foreign currency over up to 24 months. Hedging is ence amounted to SEK 499 M (364) in 2017/18. Shareholders’ equity in fordone to reduce the effects of short-term fluctuations on the currency mareign currency is hedged when it is deemed appropriate in individual cases. kets. The hedge reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences arising in con­ net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments attributable junction with the translation of foreign operations that have prepared their to hedging transactions that have not yet occurred. During 2017/18 the financial reports in a currency other than that used in the group’s financial change in the hedge reserve was SEK –3 M (27) after tax and the closing reports. In addition, the translation reserve consists of exchange rate difbalance of the hedge reserve was SEK 23 M (26). CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED EQUITY CONSOLIDATED EQUITY AND RETURN SEK M SEK M % 22,000 000 8 000 8,000 40 40 Omvärdering av förmånsbestämda pensionsplaner Omvärdering av förmånsbestäm 11,500 500 Omräkningsdifferenser Omräkningsdifferenser 6 000 6,000 30 30 Konvertering av konvertiblelån Konvertering av konvertiblelån 11,000 000 4 000 4,000 Utdelning från innehav utan bestämmande inflytande 20 20 Utdelning från innehav utan bes 500 500 Utdelning Utdelning 2 000 2,000 10 10 00 Förvärv av innehav utan bestämmande inflytande Förvärv av innehav utan bestäm Resultat Resultat -500 -500 00 00 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2014-04-30 2015-04-30 2016-04-30 2017-04-30 2018-04-30 Kassaflödessäkringar Kassaflödessäkringar Incentive programs Dividends Incitamentsprogram Incitamentsprogram Cash flow hedges Dividend from non-controlling interest Average shareholder’s equity, SEK M Profit for the year Conversion of convertibles Return on shareholder’s equity, percent Acquisitions of Translation differences non-controlling interest Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 81 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M Note 2017/18 2016/17 Operating activities Profit before tax 1,374 340 Non-cash items: Depreciation 8, 16, 17 675 655 Interest net 33 97 178 Other non-cash items etc. 33 257 50 Operating cash flow before interest and tax 2,403 1,222 Interest received 67 31 Interest paid –165 –219 Income taxes paid 15 –250 –268 Operating cash flow 2,054 767 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories –136 231 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables 404 158 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities 83 662 Change in working capital 351 1,051 Cash flow from operating activities 2,404 1,819 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets 16 –642 –633 Investments in machinery and equipment 17 –212 –141 Sale of fixed assets 38 0 Increase in long-term receivables 0 0 Decrease in long-term receivables 0 0 Continuous investments –816 –774 Cash flow after continuous investments 1,589 1,045 Business combinations 33, 35 –45 –24 Short-term investments –83 – Investments associates –17 – Repayments from partnerships 19 4 6 Cash flow from investing activities –957 –792 Cash flow after investments 1,447 1,027 Financing activities Borrowings 33 15 1,996 Repayment of debt 33 – –1,829 Acquisition of non-controlling interest – –21 Dividend –382 –201 Cash flow from financing activities –367 –55 Cash flow for the year 1,080 972 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,383 2,273 Cash flow for the year 1,080 972 Exchange rate differences –4 138 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 24 4,458 3,383 82 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement describes the ability of the operations to generate Cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK 2,404 M (1,819). The cash and cash equivalents. Elekta’s cash flow is used primarily to finance cashflow improvement was mainly due to higher earnings and continued market growth, strategic research projects and investments. Based on the decrease of working capital. income statement and balance sheet translated at the average exchange Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –957 M (–792) rate, the statement shows the Group’s net flows during the year. including investments in intangible assets of SEK –642 M (–633). Elekta’s project-based operations affect cash flow through movements Cash flow after continuous investments increased by SEK 544 M to in working capital. Payment flows from projects generally occur in connecSEK 1,589 M (1,045). tion with order receipt, delivery and acceptance – mostly not coinciding Cash flow after investments amounted to SEK 1,447 M (1,027), including with ­revenue recognition – thus generating fluctuations in working capital ­payments relating to business combinations of SEK –45 M (–24). levels. See also comments on working capital on page 79. Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK –367 M (–55). The operating cash flow (cash flow from operating activities exclusive of change in working capital) amounted to SEK 2,054 M (767), an increase of SEK 1,287 M compared with the preceding year. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES SPECIFICATION OF CASH FLOW AFTER CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS SEK M SEK M 3 000 3,000 2 000 2,000 2,000 2 000 1 000 1,000 1,000 1 000 00 00 -1,000 -1 000 -1 000 -1,000 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Per quarter Investments/disposals Changes in working capital Rolling 12 months Operating cash flow Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company Financial statements – Parent Company Income statement – Parent Company Balance sheet – Parent Company SEK M Note 2017/18 2016/17 SEK M Note April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Administrative expenses –86 –108 ASSETS Operating result before other Non-current assets items affecting comparability 7, 9, 10 –86 –108 Intangible assets 16 68 75 Other items affecting comparability – –11 Shares in subsidiaries 18 2,239 2,222 Operating result –86 –119 Shares in associated companies 19 – – Receivables from subsidiaries 2,411 2,679 Income from participations in Group ­companies 12 725 268 Other financial assets 20 14 26 Income from participations in associated Deferred tax assets 15 0 63 companies 13 –14 –30 Total non-current assets 4,732 5,065 Interest income and similar items 14 212 153 Current assets Interest expenses and similar items 14 –177 –222 Receivables from subsidiaries 3,468 3,870 Exchange rate differences 1 7 Other current receivables 23 137 31 Profit before tax 661 58 Short-term investments 24 83 – Income taxes 15 –63 33 Cash and cash equivalents 24 3,625 2,479 Profit for the year 598 91 Total current assets 7,312 6,380 Total assets 12,044 11,445 Statement of comprehensive income – Parent Company EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Equity Profit for the year 598 91 Share capital 25 192 192 Other comprehensive income Statutory reserve 156 156 Items that subsequently may be Restricted equity 348 348 reclassified to the statement of income: Premium reserve 657 657 Hedge of net investment – – Retained earnings 1,818 1,601 Tax – – Unrestricted equity 2,475 2,258 Other comprehensive income, net – – Total equity 2,823 2,606 Total comprehensive income 598 91 Untaxed reserves – – Long-term provisions 27 9 36 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 4,366 5,268 Long-term liabilities to subsidiaries 26 39 39 Total long-term liabilities 4,405 5,307 Current liabilities Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 959 – Short-term liabilities to subsidiaries 26 3,754 3,342 Short-term provisions 27 0 30 Other current liabilities 30 94 123 Total current liabilities 4,807 3,495 Total equity and liabilities 12,044 11,445 84 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company Cash flow statement – Parent Company SEK M Note 2017/18 2016/17 Operating activities Profit before tax 661 58 Interest net 33 –48 47 Other non-cash items etc. 33 –245 168 Interest received 211 153 Interest paid –162 –229 Income taxes paid 15 0 –20 Operating cash flow 417 176 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating r­ eceivables 234 459 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating l­iabilities –24 –83 Change in working capital 210 376 Cash flow from operating activities 627 552 Investing activities Investments in subsidiaries 33 –74 –84 Short-term investments 24 –83 – Increase (–)/decrease (+) in long-term r­ eceivables 786 –4 Cash flow from investing activities 629 –88 Cash flow after investments 1,256 464 Financing activities Borrowings 412 2,587 Repayment of debt – –1,887 Conversion of convertible loans – 72 Dividend –382 –191 Cash flow from financing activities 30 582 Cash flow for the year 1,286 1,046 Change in cash and cash equivalents during the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,479 1,499 Cash flow for the year 1,286 1,046 Exchange rate differences –140 –66 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 24 3,625 2,479 Changes in equity – Parent Company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Premium Retained Total SEK M Share capital reserve reserve ­earnings equity Opening balance May 1, 2016 192 156 585 1,698 2,631 Profit for the year – – – 91 91 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 91 91 Dividend – – – –191 –191 Incentive programs 0 – 0 2 2 Conversion of convertible loan 0 – 72 – 72 Transactions with the shareholders, total 0 – 72 –189 –117 Closing balance April 30, 2017 192 156 657 1,601 2,606 Opening balance May 1, 2017 192 156 657 1,601 2,606 Profit for the year – – – 598 598 Other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – 598 598 Dividend – – – –382 –382 Incentive programs – – – 1 1 Transactions with the shareholders, total – – – –381 –381 Closing balance April 30, 2018 192 156 657 1,818 2,823 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 85 NOTES Notes Note 1 Essential accounting principles Elekta AB, with corporate registration number 556170-4015, is a Swedish nition standard replacing IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction conpublic company with its registered office in Stockholm. The address to the tracts. The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning head office is Elekta AB, Box 7593, SE-103 93 Stockholm. on or after January 1, 2018 and Elekta will implement the new standard This annual report, including the consolidated financial statements, as of May 1, 2018, for more information see Note 38. was signed and approved for publication by the board of directors of Elekta •• IFRS 16 Leases AB on July 9, 2018. The statements of income and the balance sheets, for IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations the ­Parent Company and the Group, included in the annual report and the IFRIC 4, SIC15 and SIC 27. The new standard will affect the accounting for consolidated financial statements, are subject to adoption by the annual leases in the books of a lessee, whereas the accounting will in all mategeneral meeting on August 30, 2018. rial aspects remain unchanged for lessors. With the new standard there The most important accounting principles applied in the preparation of will no longer be a distinction between operating and finance lease. All the financial reports are set out below and, where applicable, in the followleases, with the exception of short-term leases and those of minor value, ing notes. Mainly, the same principles are applied for the Parent Company will be recognized in the balance sheet. Depreciation of lease assets must and the Group. The Parent Company’s accounting principles deviating from be separately recognised from interest on lease liabilities in the income those applied by the Group, or con­sidered important to describe, are stated statement. The evaluation of the effect on the financial statements of under a separate heading at the end of this note. the Elekta Group is ongoing. The initial assessment is that the major effect from implementing the new standard will relate to operating lease Basis for preparation agreements for offices, factories and warehouses. The standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019 Elekta’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorand Elekta will implement the new standard as of May 1, 2019. dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union (EU) on April 30, 2018, the Swedish Annual Accounts Other new or revised standards and interpretations, not yet applied, are Act and standard RFR 1 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The Parnot ­considered to have a material impact on the Elekta Group’s financial ent Company’s financial reports have been prepared in accordance with the ­statements. Swedish Annual Accounts Act and standard RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Consolidated accounts Measurement basis The consolidated accounts include Elekta AB (the Parent Company) and its Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost apart from financial subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Group has a conassets and liabilities that are short-term investments, derivatives and trolling interest. The Group has a controlling interest in a company when it contingent considerations, which are recognized at fair value. has exposure, or right, to variable returns from its holding in the company and has the ability to use its power over the company to affect the returns. A subNew and revised IFRS applied from May 1, 2017 sidiary is included in the con­solidated accounts from the point in time when the controlling interest is obtained until the point in time when the controlling The following amended standards were effective January 1, 2017 and have interest ceases. Intra-group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealized been applied from May 1, 2017. intra-group profits are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. •• Amendments to IAS 7 Statements of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initative. •• Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets The acquisition method for Unrealised Losses. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the acquisition method, which means that the cost of shares in subsidiaries is elimNone of the amendments above have had a material impact on the finaninated against their equity at the time of acquisition. Acquisition related cial statements. transaction costs are not included in the cost of the shares but expensed as incurred. The equity in a subsidiary is determined on the basis of the fair value New and revised IFRS not yet applied of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the acquisition date. Thus, only the part of the subsidiary’s equity which has arisen after the acquisition date The following new standards have been issued by the IASB but are not yet is included in the consolidated accounts. In business combinations, where the effective for the year ended April 30, 2018. The new standards will be applied sum of (i) the cost of shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-controlling as described below. See also Note 38 for estimated effects from the impleinterest and (iii) the fair value of previously held equity interest, exceeds the mentation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 fair value of the Group’s share of acquired identifiable net assets at acquisi•• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments tion, the difference is reported as goodwill. A negative difference, negative IFRS 9 is a new standard on accounting for financial instruments and goodwill, is recognized immediately as an income in the income statement. replaces IAS 39. The standard comprise classification, valuation and If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end impairment of financial instruments as well as hedge accounting. IFRS 9 of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, provisional amounts is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, are reported for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Such 2018 and Elekta will implement the new standard as of May 1, 2018, for amounts may be adjusted during the measurement period, or new assets or more information see Note 38. liabilities may be recognized, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would •• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new revenue recog86 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Non-controlling interests Income statement In connection with acquisitions of less than 100 percent, when a controlling influence is achieved, non-controlling interests are determined either as Elekta presents its income statement classified by function where the opera proportional share of the fair value of identifiable net assets excluding ating expenses are allocated to cost of products sold, selling expenses, goodwill or at fair value. Non-controlling interests are recognized as a sepadministrative expenses and R&D expenses. Exchange rate differences and arate item in the Group’s equity. The Group’s profit or loss and every comitems affecting comparability are reported on separate lines within the operponent of other comprehensive income are attributable to the shareholders ating result. These items have been identified as important to distinguish of the P ­ arent and to non-controlling interests. Losses attributable to non-­ from operating revenue and costs directly related to functions in order to controlling interests are recognized even if this results in a negative balease comparability over time. Items affecting comparability are events or ance. Subsequent acquisitions up to 100 percent and divestments of partictransactions with significant financial effects, which are relevant for underipations in a subsidiary that do not lead to a loss of controlling influence are standing the financial performance when comparing income for the current ­recognized as equity transactions. period with previous periods, including restructuring programs, expenses relating to major legal disputes, impairments and gains and losses from Translation of foreign subsidiaries acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries. The Group companies prepare their financial statements in their functional currency, i.e. the currency used in the primary economic environment Transactions and balances in foreign currency in which they mainly operate. These reports provide the basis for the con­ solidated accounts which are prepared in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the respective Group functional currency of the Parent Company and the presentation currency. ­Company’s functional currency by use of the currency rate prevailing on the The income statements and balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries have transaction date. Monetary receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are been translated, from their respective functional currency, to the presensimilarly translated by use of the closing day rate. Exchange rate differences tation currency of the Group. All items in the income statements have been arising upon translation, and upon payment of the transaction, are reported translated at the average rate for the reporting period, while assets and liain the income statement with the exception of those related to qualified bilities in the balance sheets have been translated at the closing rate. Transhedge transactions, related to cash flows or net investments, which are recoglation differences are reported in other comprehensive income. nized in equity under other comprehensive income. Exchange rate gains and Certain long-term financing related to subsidiaries, where a settlement losses on operating balance sheet items are recognized in the operating result. is not considered to take place in the foreseeable future, is considered as an Exchange rate gains and losses on loans and investments are recognized as increase in the Parent Company’s net investment in the subsidiaries. Taking financial items. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost the tax effect into consideration, exchange gains and losses are reported in are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. other comprehensive income. Cash flow statement The cash flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. EXCHANGE RATES Average rate Closing rate Country Currency 2017/18 2016/17 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Australia AUD 6.429 6.546 6.556 6.606 Canada CAD 6.495 6.610 6.746 6.473 China CNY 1.262 1.289 1.368 1.282 Euroland EUR 9.811 9.518 10.509 9.630 United Kingdom GBP 11.103 11,314 11.942 11,439 Hong Kong HKD 1.062 1.120 1.104 1.136 Japan JPY 0.075 0.080 0.079 0.079 USA USD 8.302 8.694 8.664 8.840 The parent company Revenues The Parent Company’s revenues consist mainly of dividends from sub­ The Group’s Parent Company, Elekta AB, carries out group management sidiaries. Dividends are recognized when the right to receive payment is and provides joint group functions and financial management. The P ­ arent judged to be firm. Company’s revenues consist mainly of dividends from subsidiaries. The most material balance sheet items are shares in subsidiaries, intra-group Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates ­balances and external loans. Shares in subsidiaries and shares in associates are accounted for at cost less The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prepared in accorany accumulated impairment losses. Acquisition-related transaction costs dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and standard are included in the cost of the shares. The recoverable amount of shares in RFR 2 of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 requires the Parent subsidiaries or shares in associates is calculated whenever there is an indiCompany, in its annual accounts, to apply all the International Financial cation of a reduction in value. Impairment is performed if the recoverable Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the EU in so far as this is possible amount is lower than the carrying value. Impairment losses are recognized within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and with regard to in the financial net in the income statement. the relationship between accounting and taxation. RFR 2 states what exceptions from, and additions to, IFRS should be made. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 87 NOTES Note 1 Essential accounting principles, cont. Financial instruments Group contributions Derivative financial instruments and short-term investments are accounted Group contributions are reported in accordance with RFR 2. Group contrifor at fair value. Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments butions received and given are recognized as income from participations are reported in the income statement with the exception of exchange differin Group companies and increase of shares in subsidiaries respectively. The ences related to a monetary item that forms part of a net investment in a tax effect of group contributions is recognized in the income statement in foreign subsidiary. Such value changes are recognized in equity under other accordance with IAS 12. comprehensive income. Contingent considerations are reported as provisions in the Parent Company. Note 2 Financial risk management Accounting principles are exposed to currency risk. Such net investments in foreign currency are hedged when viewed as appropriate on an individual basis. See note 3 for accounting principles relating to financial instruments. Based on the year’s income, expense and currency structure (transaction exposure) a general change of one percentage point in the SEK exchange Financial risk factors rate against other currencies would affect Group net profit and shareholders’ equity by approximately +/– SEK 28 M (10), exclusive of hedging effects. As a result of its operations, the Elekta Group is exposed to a number of The table below shows the impact on net income from a 1 percent weakenfinancial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s over­ ing of the Swedish krona (SEK) in relation to the major currencies. riding risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce any potentially unfavorable effects on the IMPACT ON OPERATING RESULT OF A 1 PERCENT Group’s financial results. WEAKENING OF SEK, SEK M Risk management is conducted by the Group’s finance department, Currency April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks. Work is pursued in line USD 31 28 with the policies established by the board for over­arching risk management EUR 6 –4 and for specific areas such as currency risk, interest-rate risk, credit risk, utilization of derivative instruments and financial instruments that are not JPY 5 6 derivatives, and the investment of surplus liquidity. GBP –9 –17 CNY –2 –4 Market risk Other currencies 5 3 Market risk encompasses currency risk, interest-rate risk and price risk. The The Group’s net sales and operating expenses by currency for 2017/18 are Group’s exposure to and management of currency risk and interest-rate risk shown in the following diagram. are described below. The Group’s exposure to price risk is limited and is not described in particular. NET SALES AND OPERATING EXPENSES PER CURRENCY Currency risk SEK M Because of its international operations, the Group is exposed to currency risks 6,000 6 000 in the form of transaction exposure and translation exposure. Trans­action exposure arises as a result of future business transactions and translation exposure emerges as a result of recognized assets and liabilities in ­foreign cur3,000 3 000 rency as well as net investments in foreign operations. The Group’s currency risk mainly arises from currency exposures in US dollars (USD), Euro (EUR), 00 British Pounds (GBP), Japanese Yen (JPY) and Chinese Yuan (CNY). The Group’s net revenue arises primarily in USD, EUR and JPY, while the Group’s net expenses largely arise in Swedish kronor (SEK), GBP and CNY. –3,000 -3 000 USD EUR JPY GBP CNY SEK Övriga Sales companies primarily have income and expenses in their functional USD EUR JPY GBP CNY SEK Other ­currency while production companies are to a greater extent exposed to curNet sales 2017/18 Net sales 2016/17 rency risk as sales are largely in a currency other than the functional curOperating expenses 2017/18 Operating expenses 2016/17 rency. The currency risk that arises from future business transactions and recognized assets and liabilities are managed using derivative contracts Interest-rate risk based on forecasted net flows and recognized net balances. Elekta’s polInterest-rate risk refers to the risk that changes in the interest rate level icy is to hedge the exchange-rate risk using forwards or options, the extent ­negatively affect Elekta’s earnings. of which is determined by the Group’s estimation of the exchange-rate risk Elekta’s policy is to reduce the interest-rate risk through the use of and in accordance with the Group’s established policy. Hedging is conducted loans, investments and derivatives. The Group’s finance department anaon the basis of expected net sales over a period up to 24 months. Each Group lyzes exposure to interest-rate risk, whereby refinancing, turnover of existcompany is responsible for quantifying its transaction exposure in particular ing positions, alternative financing and hedging are taken into account. flow forecasts that then provide the basis for determination of the exposure Based on this, the effect on earnings that a certain change in the interest and decisions on hedging measures. Currency hedging of r­ ecognized assets rate would have is calculated, in which the total change in the interest rate and liabilities in foreign currency is hedged, in accordance with policy, from is used for all currencies. 50 percent to 100 percent. Elekta usually obtains long-term loans at a variable or fixed interest rate Hedging is carried out in order to reduce the effects of short-term flucbased on current market conditions. Conversion to fixed or variable interest tuations in currency markets. The Parent Company’s direct and indirect rates is done using interest rate derivatives when this is deemed appropriholdings in foreign operations entail that net assets in the foreign operations ate from a risk management and market perspective. An interest rate swap 88 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES entails that the Group reaches agreement with another party with the inditomer is analyzed before the conditions for payment and delivery are offered. cated intervals (such as per quarter) to swap the difference between fixed A continuous follow up of the credit risk in receivables outstanding and and variable interest amount, estimated on the basis of the contracted agreed transactions are performed. A risk assessment is conducted continu­nominal amount. ously of credit worthiness through the observance of the customer’s financial Based on the balance sheet structure at year-end and under the position and other influencing factors as well as previous experience. No sinassumption that all other variables were constant, a general change in gle customer accounts for 10 percent or more of Elekta’s net sales. the interest rate on loans and investments by one percentage point would A continuous assessment is made of the credit risk in receivables outaffect the Group’s net result and shareholders’ equity by +/– SEK 11 M (3), standing and at the end of the financial year 2017/18 the provision for bad excluding hedging effects. The impact on the result is mainly attributable to debts amounted to SEK 152 M. See Note 22 for an analysis of credit exposure lower/higher interest expense for loans at variable interest rate. in accounts receivable and provision for bad debts. On April 30, 2018, interest-bearing liabilities totaled SEK 5,344 M (5,272), of which SEK 3 M (4) pertained to financial leasing. The average fixed interLiquidity risk est term was 1.1 years (1.6) and the weighted average interest rate, taking Liquidity risk pertains to the risk of not being able to cover payment obligainterest rate derivatives into account, was 2.5 percent (2.5). See Note 26 for tions due to insufficient cash and cash equivalents or difficulties in obtainmore information on interest-bearing loans. ing external financing. The operating Group companies draw up cash flow forecasts, which are consolidated centrally. At the Group level, rolling foreCredit risk casts for the Group’s liquidity reserve are observed in order to ensure that Credit risk arises via financial credit risk related to cash and cash equivathe Group has sufficient cash resources to meet the requirements of current lents, short-term investments, derivative instruments and balances at banks operations, while also retaining sufficient scope of unutilized credit facilities. and financial institutions as well as through credit exposure vis-à-vis customExcess liquidity in operating Group companies is transferred centrally ers and distributors. Credit risk is managed primarily at Group level, but, as and is managed by the Group’s financial function. Investments are made regards credit risk in accounts receivable and accrued income, the primary primarily in interest-bearing accounts, term-limited borrowing, money marresponsibility lies with the individual Group companies. Maximum credit risk ket instruments, money market funds and tradable securities, depending is deemed to correspond to the carrying values of the financial assets recogon which instrument is viewed as having an appropriate term or sufficient nized in the balance sheet. liquidity to meet the particular situation. In order to reduce the liquidity risk, Elekta endeavors to maintain readily available funds equal to at least Financial credit risk 10 percent of net sales. On April 30, 2018, available cash and cash equivaElekta’s finance policy includes special counterparty regulations in which lents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 4,533 M (3,371), or the maximum credit exposure and the lowest credit rating for various coun40 percent (31) of net sales. In addition, Elekta had SEK 2,100 M (1,685) in terparties are specified. Only banks and financial institutions that have unutilized credit facilities. received the credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of – A (long) and A1+ The table below shows the Group’s liquidity risk through a maturity anal(short) or higher – are accepted. Elekta’s liquidity is invested in accordance ysis regarding financial liabilities (including interest payments as applicawith the determined policy, with the goal of maintaining high liquidity comble) and derivatives recognized as financial liabilities. The amounts noted bined with a low credit risk. in the table are contractual, undiscounted cash flows classified on the basis of the term on the balance sheet date that remains to the agreed matuCredit risk in accounts receivable rity date. Credit risk in accounts receivable, including accrued income, are managed primarily by the individual group companies. The credit risk for each new cusMATURITY ANALYSIS: FINANCIAL LIABILITIES April 30, 2018 April 30, 20171) > 1 yrs > 3 yrs > 1 yrs > 3 yrs SEK M < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total < 1 yr < 3 yrs < 5 yrs > 5 yrs Total Loans (Note 26) 1,098 1,185 3,018 444 5,745 131 2,156 3,044 476 5,807 Finance leases (Note 26 ) 0 3 – – 3 4 – – – 4 Accounts payable 1,132 – – – 1,132 1,000 – – – 1,000 Derivative financial instruments – outflow, gross 5,452 207 – – 5,659 4,587 71 – – 4,658 Derivative financial instruments – inflow, gross –2,057 –201 – – –2,258 –3,140 –70 – – –3,210 Other liabilities 257 63 – – 320 281 33 – – 314 Total 5,882 1,257 3,018 444 10,601 2,863 2,190 3,044 476 8,573 1) Comparatives have been adjusted for interest payments. Capital management NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO Note April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to secure a Interest-bearing liabilities 26 5,344 5,272 going concern through maintaining a high creditworthiness and a well-­ Cash and cash equivalents and balanced capital structure with the aim of generating return to shareholders short-term investments 24 –4,541 –3,383 and benefits for other stakeholders, and to keep down the costs of capital. Net debt 803 1,889 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group can change Total equity 7,975 6,774 the dividend paid to shareholders, repay capital to shareholders, issue new Total capital 8,778 8,663 shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Net debt/Equity ratio 0.10 0.28 Elekta’s objective is that the net debt/equity ratio is not to exceed 0.5. This key figure is calculated as net debt in relation to total equity. Net debt is ­calculated as interest-bearing liabilities (short and long term according to the The net debt/equity ratio was 0.10 compared to 0.28 to prior fiscal year. See consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. Note 26 for more information on interest-bearing liabilities. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 89 NOTES Note 3 Financial instruments Accounting principles Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances with finanA financial asset or a financial liability is reported in the balance sheet cial institutions and short-term investments with an original maturity of when the Company becomes party to the contractual terms and conless than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are reported at nomiditions of the instrument. A financial asset is removed from the balance nal value. sheet when the contractual rights are realized, fall due, or the Company loses control of them. Spot acquisitions or sales of financial assets are Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss reported on the settle­ment date, which is the date on which the asset is This category includes derivatives with negative fair values that are not delivered. Accounts receivable are reported in the balance sheet when the used for hedge accounting, financial liabilities held for trading and contininvoice is dispatched. gent c ­ onsiderations. Liabilities in this category are measured at fair value The fair value of quoted financial assets corresponds to the asset’s listed with changes in that value recognized in the income statement. bid price on the closing date. In the absence of such information, a valuation is carried out using generally accepted methods such as the discountFinancial liabilities measured at amortized cost ing of future cash flows at the quoted market interest rate for the particuThis category includes financial liabilities that are not held for trading, for lar maturity. example loans and accounts payable. These are recognized initially at fair For short-term loans, the fair value is deemed to comply with the carryvalue, net after transaction costs, and subsequently at amortized cost ing amount in view of the fact that a change in market rate of interest does according to the effective interest method. not have a material effect on the market value. Financial assets and liabilities are off-set and reported at a net amount Loan liabilities in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to net and when the intenLoan liabilities are initially reported at fair value, net of transaction costs, tion is to settle the items using a net amount or simultaneously realize the and subsequently at amortized cost according to the effective interest assets and settle the liability. method. Loan liabilities carrying a fixed rate of interest that are reported Financial assets and liabilities are divided into the following categories under hedge accounting in line with the method for fair value hedging are in accordance with IAS 39. valued at market in respect of the interest component. Changes in market value are off-set with changes in value of the hedge instrument in net finanFinancial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss cial items. Assets are classified in this category when the intention is to sell in the short A convertible loan is recognized as a compound financial instrument term. Derivatives with a positive market value are classified in this catedivided into a liability component and an equity component. Upon initial gory unless they are used for hedge accounting. Assets in this category are ­recognition of the convertible bond, the fair value of the liability component ­recognized at fair value and changes in value are recognized in the income is determined based on the present value of the contractually determined statement. Financial derivatives and short-term investments in tradeable stream of cash flows based on a discount rate determined from the marsecurities were assigned to this category during the year. ket rate of comparable instruments without the conversion option. Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component is measured based on its Loan receivables and accounts receivable amortized cost, using the effective interest method. The carrying value of Loan receivables and accounts receivable are financial assets, which are not the liability component gradually approaches the nominal value of the conderivatives, with fixed or determinable payments, which are not quoted in vertible loan. The gradual increase in the liability component is recognized an active market. The receivables arise when money, goods or services are in the income statement as interest expense and the total interest expense ­provided directly to another party without any intention of trading in the of the convertible loan therefore includes the gradual increase in the liability receivables. Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost less component as well as the cash coupon. The equity component is calculated any provision for impairment. The category include for example accounts as the difference between the nominal value of the convertible loan and the receivable as well as cash and cash equivalents. ­initially recognized liability component. The equity component is carried at a fixed value in shareholders’ equity. Transaction costs related to the issue of Accounts receivable the convertible loan are distributed between the liability and equity compoSince the anticipated life of accounts receivable is short, reporting is based nent in proportion to the distribution of the issue proceeds. The transaction on the amounts expected to be received, based on individual assessment costs are included in the calculation of amortized cost, using the effective of any bad debts, without discounting in accordance with the method for interest method, and are expensed over the term of the convertible loan. ­amortized cost. Impairment loss on accounts receivable is recognized in operating profit. 90 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Hedging of net investments for hedging purposes are recognized as follows. Changes in value relating Loans in foreign currency are reported at closing rate. Exchange rate difto cash flow hedges are reported in other comprehensive income and are ferences for loans in connection with hedging of net investments in foreign taken to the income statement as the hedged cash flow affects the income operations are reported in other comprehensive income, with tax effects statement. Any ineffective portion of the change in value is reported taken into account, and are thus off-set against the translation differences directly in the income statement. that arise when translating the subsidiaries’ balance sheets into SEK. The result of a revaluation of derivatives used to hedge fair value is reported in the income statement along with changes in the fair value of Accounts payable the receivable or liability exposed to the hedged risk. The valuation principle for accounts payable is the amortized cost principle. The table below presents the Group’s financial assets and financial liaThe expected lifetime for accounts payable is short and thus the payables bilities by measurement category with the carrying amount and fair value are reported at nominal value without discounting. per item. Fair value for long-term interest-bearing liabilities has been established by discounting future payment flows at current market interest rate Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes and then converting to SEK at the current exchange rate. For other financial All derivatives are initially and continuously recognized at fair value in the instruments the fair value is estimated to agree with the carrying amount. ­balance sheet. Gains and losses on remeasurement of derivatives used FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS PER CATEGORY April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEK M Note amount value amount value FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting 111 111 44 44 Short-term investments 24 83 83 – – Loan receivables and accounts receivable: Other financial assets 20 219 219 285 285 Accounts receivable 22 3,402 3,402 3,726 3,726 Other receivables 23 371 371 355 355 Cash and cash equivalents 24 4,458 4,458 3,383 3,383 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting 59 59 63 63 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting 27 27 20 20 Other liabilities (contingent considerations) 20 20 77 77 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost: Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 4,369 4,372 5,272 5,322 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 26 975 975 0 0 Accounts payable 1,132 1,132 1,000 1,000 Other liabilities 300 300 237 237 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting 26 26 28 28 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 91 NOTES Note 3 Financial instruments, cont. The table below shows how the Group’s financial assets and financial observable data than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly (that ­liabilities, which are carried at fair value, have been categorized in the fair is, price quotations) or indirectly (that is, obtained from price quotations). value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows. Level 1: Quoted Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Other DISTRIBUTION BY LEVEL WHEN MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 SEK M Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 111 – 111 – 44 – 44 Short-term investments 83 – – 83 – – – – Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 59 – 59 – 63 – 63 Total financial assets 83 170 – 253 – 107 – 107 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments – non-hedge accounting – 27 – 27 – 20 – 20 Contingent considerations – – 20 20 – – 77 77 Derivatives used for hedging purposes: Derivative financial instruments – hedge accounting – 26 – 26 – 28 – 28 Total financial liabilities – 53 20 73 – 48 77 125 Financial instruments, level 1 MOVEMENTS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS LEVEL 3 The fair value of tradeable securities are reported based on quoted prices on SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 an active market. Contingent considerations Opening balance May 1 77 104 Financial instruments, level 2 Business combinations – 13 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded on an active Payments –45 –24 market are determined by means of available valuation techniques. MarReversals –13 –6 ket information is used when available. The use of corporate-specific information is avoided whenever possible. If all important in-data required for Revaluations 1 –10 a fair value valuation of an instrument is observable, the instrument is in Translation differences 0 0 level 2. Specific valuation techniques used in the valuation of financial instruClosing balance April 30 20 77 ments include, for example, listed market prices, fair value for interest-rate swaps, calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows based Outstanding derivative financial instruments on observable yield, fair value of currency forward contracts determined The Group’s derivative financial instruments outstanding at April 30 are prethrough the use of rates for currency foreign exchange contracts on the sented with nominal amounts and fair values in the table below. The total balance sheet date. amount of fair values of assets and liabilities respectively are equivalent to the carrying values recognized in the balance sheet. Financial instruments, level 3 The change during the year for instruments at level 3 refers to contingent considerations. Contingent considerations are valued at the fair value based on data available such as conditions set forth in the purchase agreement and current assessments of the estimated fulfillment of the conditions. DERIVATIVES OUTSTANDING April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Hedge reserve Hedge reserve SEK M Nominal Asset Liability after tax Nominal Asset Liability after tax Currency derivatives: Cash flow hedges 1,899 59 26 23 1,898 63 28 26 Non-hedge accounting 4,694 111 27 – 3,737 44 20 – Currency derivatives, total 6,593 170 53 23 5,635 107 48 26 The table below presents detailed information regarding the Group’s outstanding cash flow hedges. Realized results from cash flow hedges have been recognized on the line “Currency rate differences” in the operating result and amounted to SEK –90 M (–185) during the year, of which SEK 1 M (1) was related to the ineffective portion. 92 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES CASH FLOW HEDGES OUTSTANDING April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Currencies Currency Amount Term Exchange rate Currency Amount Term Exchange rate EUR/GBP EUR 2M 9 mon 0.914 EUR – – – EUR/SEK EUR 29 M 4–24 mon 10.113 EUR 2M 6 mon 9.588 JPY/GBP JPY 800 M 6–18 mon 0.007 JPY 1,100 M 3–18 mon 0.007 JPY/SEK JPY 900 M 5–21 mon 0.075 JPY 300 M 6–12 mon 0.082 USD/GBP USD 132 M 2–18 mon 0.752 USD 172 M 2–18 mon 0.785 USD/SEK USD 34 M 3–14 mon 8.354 USD 28 M 3–21 mon 8.770 The hedged transactions in foreign currency are estimated to take place in the coming 24 months. Results from the forward exchange agreements recognized in the hedge reserve in other comprehensive income on 30 April 2018, will be accounted for in the income statement in the periods when the hedged transactions will affect the income statement. The estimated future effect from outstanding cash flow hedges are presented in the table below. OUTSTANDING CASH FLOW HEDGES’ ESTIMATED EFFECT ON THE INCOME STATEMENT 2018/19 2019/20 SEK M Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Expected result from cash flow hedges 17 25 4 0 0 –2 –3 –1 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities consists solely of derivative instruments that are encompassed by legally binding agreements on offsetting. OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2017/2018 2016/2017 Amounts Net Amounts Amounts Net Amounts set off amounts ­covered by set off amounts ­covered by in the in the ­netting agreein the in the ­netting agreeGross ­balance ­balance ments but not Net Gross ­balance ­balance ments but not Net SEK M amount sheet sheet set off amount amount sheet sheet set off amount Financial assets 170 – 170 –43 127 107 – 107 –42 64 Financial liabilities 53 – 53 –43 10 48 – 48 –42 6 In the case of financial assets and liabilities that are subject to legally binding offsetting agreements, each agreement between the company and the counterparties permit net deduction of the relevant financial assets and liabilities if both parties elect to apply net deduction. If both parties are not in agreement regarding net deduction, gross deduction is applied. In the event that one party defaults, the other party is entitled to deduct on a net basis. Note 4 Estimates and assessments Note 5 Segment reporting The preparation of financial statements and application of accountAccounting principles ing standards require that management use estimates and assessments. Therefore, they make certain assumptions which are considered reasonOperating segments are reported in accordance with management reporting able under the prevailing circumstances. Thus, estimates and assessments as reported to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-­ affect the financial reports and they are frequently based on experience as maker is the function that is responsible for allocation of resources and assesswell as other factors, including expectations of future events. Using other ment of the operating segments’ performance. In Elekta, this function has been assumptions than those actually applied in the preparation of the finanidentified as the President and CEO who is responsible for and deals with the concial statements, the result can be different and the actual outcome seldom tinuous administration of the Group based on the board’s guidelines and instruccomplies with the anticipated result. For Elekta, estimates and assessments tions. To his aid, he has the executive management. Elekta’s President and CEO are particularly important in: evaluates business performance from both geographic and product based per•• revenue recognition, see Note 6 spectives. The geographic follow-up is however the main perspective and the •• valuation of accounts receivable, see Note 22 product based perspective con­stitutes a complement to the geographic monitoring and control. It is from the geographic perspective that the business activ•• calculation of deferred taxes, see Note 15 ity is conducted and managed. Evaluation of financial performance is executed •• impairment testing of goodwill, see Note 16 for three geographic regions which are Elekta’s operating segments: •• calculation of provisions, see Note 27 •• North and South America •• Europe, Middle East and Africa Estimates and assessments are continually reassessed. •• Asia Pacific The same accounting principles are applied in the segment reporting as for the Group. Information on other non-current assets (intangible assets) per country cannot be disclosed as the necessary information is not available. See Note 16 for information on goodwill per region. For information regarding tangible fixed assets per country see Note 17. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 93 NOTES Note 5 Segment reporting, cont. SEGMENT REPORTING North and Europe, Middle East Asia Other/ Group South America and Africa Pacific Group-wide2) total SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Net sales1) 3,878 4,147 4,280 3,444 3,175 3,114 – – 11,333 10,704 Operating expenses –2,476 –2,600 –2,807 –2,365 –2,184 –2,174 – – –7,467 –7,139 Contribution margin 1,401 1,547 1,473 1,079 992 940 – – 3,865 3,565 Contribution margin, % 36% 37% 34% 31% 31% 30% Global costs –2,327 –2,450 –2,327 –2,450 Items affecting comparability –518 – –518 Operating result 1,401 1,547 1,473 1,079 992 940 –2,327 –2,968 1,538 598 Income participations in associated companies –7 –17 –7 –17 Financial income 67 31 67 31 Financial expenses –225 –271 –225 –271 Exchange rate differences 1 –1 1 –1 Income before tax 1,401 1,547 1,473 1,079 992 940 –2,491 –3,226 1,374 340 Income tax –276 –214 –276 –214 Profit for the year 1,401 1,547 1,473 1,079 992 940 –2,767 –3,440 1,099 126 Net sales per product type Solutions3) 1,823 2,075 2,735 2,006 2,126 2,130 – – 6,683 6,211 Service 2,055 2,072 1,545 1,438 1,050 984 – – 4,650 4,494 Total 3,878 4,147 4,280 3,444 3,175 3,114 – – 11,333 10,704 Depreciation/Amortization –194 –245 –440 –377 –41 –33 – – –675 –655 Investments 369 328 451 323 41 30 – – 861 681 1) Which of net sales, internal SEK 6,138 M (5,476) 2) W  ithin other/group-wide are costs that can not be allocated by segment such as global costs and items affecting comparability. Allocations by segment are not done for financial items and tax 3) The product type solutions includes hardware and software combined as it better reflects the business follow-up Note 6 Net sales Accounting principles b ­ undled deals the total revenue is allocated to its different parts based on their relative fair values. As explained below, methods for revenue recognition Elekta’s revenue is derived primarily from the sales of hardware and software are different between hardware products, software products and services. products, as well as service contracts and services to these products. The revThe timing of revenue recognition often does not coincide with invoicenue is valued at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, and ing and payments from customers. Payment terms or conditions for projects represents the amounts received for sold products and services, net of sales differ between regions. In some markets, partial payments will be due upon discounts, returns and value added tax. Revenue from the sale of products is certain events such as order receipt, delivery and acceptance. In other marrecognized when all of the following conditions are satisfied: kets, the entire payment is due upon completion of implementation or accep•• The risk and rewards of ownership of the goods has been transferred to tance. Amounts invoiced are reported as accounts receivable while revenue the buyer recognized amounts not yet invoiced are reported as accrued income. •• The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the Hardware products goods sold The risk and rewards related to hardware products are usually transferred to the customer upon shipment or delivery depending on the contracted •• The amount of revenue and the related costs can be measured reliably shipment terms. The hardware products are delivered to comply with the •• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction delivery date contracted with the customer. At this point the customer will flow to the entity has invested heavily in preparing an appropriate environment in which to accommodate the equipment and will be firmly committed to embarking The above implies that each contract requires an examination of any cirupon the final stages of the project such as installation and training and this cumstances, terms and conditions affecting the transaction. is normally the point in time where the main part of revenue is recognized. Revenue from the rendering of service is recognized when the outOnce technical acceptance has been received from the customer the last come can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the economic benepart of revenue (related to installation and training) is recognized. Hardfits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity. When the service ware products include integrated software components required for the is performed by an undetermined number of acts over the specified service product’s essential functionality. period, revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period. Bundled deals, where hardware, software products and service may be Software products included in the same deal, are very common. A bundled deal is treated as a After completing the implementation of software, or a part thereof, the project and is supported by a project team that coordinates the delivery and customer will be presented with a certificate detailing the products delivimplementation of the products, which can occur at different stages. For ered which is then signed by the customer. When the customer has signed 94 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES the certificate, fully or partly, it serves as proof of acceptance. By signfied often forms the basis for amounts recognized as either accounts receivable ing it the customer confirms that the products, services and training have or accrued income. Amounts invoiced are reported as accounts receivable while been provided in accordance with the agreement and that the software has revenue recognized amounts not yet invoiced are reported as accrued income. been handed over to the customer for clinical use. When Elekta receives the Net sales for the year amounted to SEK 11,333 M (10,704). Accrued income signed certificate, revenue will be recognized given that all conditions for amounted to SEK 1,601 M (1,640). Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,402 M revenue recognition have been met. Many times, the acceptance procedure (3,726). For more information on accounts receivable see Note 22. is performed in steps which also leads to a gradual recognition of revenue. Net sales per country is based on sales to customers in the respective country. There is no individual customers representing more than 10 percent Service contracts of net sales. Service revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the arrangement or the expected period during which those specNET SALES BY COUNTRY ified services will be performed. Maintenance and support agreements SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 on software products are generally renewed on an annual basis. The reveSweden 43 80 nue for maintenance and support will be deferred and amortized over the USA 3,080 3,436 length of the contract. China 1,084 953 Japan 744 888 Estimates and assessment Germany 592 412 One of the conditions for revenue recognition is that revenue from the sale of United Kingdom 555 557 products is recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods has France 408 341 been transferred to the buyer. The assessment of when these risks and rewards Italy 388 348 are transferred requires that each contract is examined of the circumstances India 387 347 affecting the transaction. The risk and rewards related to hardware products are Canada 300 240 usually taken as transferred to the customer upon shipment or delivery dependSpain 287 145 ing on the contracted shipment terms. Thus, the main part of revenue is norAustralia 261 258 mally recognized upon either shipment or delivery. The timing of revenue recOther countries 3,203 2,699 ognition often does not coincide with invoicing and payments from customers. Total 11,333 10,704 Therefore, the assessment of the conditions for revenue recognition being satisNote 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs Accounting principles income statement over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. This leads to an estimated cost, corresponding to the Remuneration paid to employees in the form of wages/salary, paid vacaearned portion of the estimated share value at allotment, being charged tion, etcetera is accounted for as it is earned. to profit and loss over the vesting period. At each closing in the vesting period the expected number of vested shares is revised and the impact of Share-based compensation any changes over the original estimates are recognized in the income stateOngoing share programs are reported according to IFRS 2 Share-based payment, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. ments and are mainly equity-settled. The conditions of the share programs In addition, provisions are made for estimated employer contributions state that they may be settled in other ways than through shares. This posrelated to the share programs. Calculations are based on a theoretical market sibility is only applied to a very limited extent and neither cost nor obligation valuation where the market value is calculated using Black & Scholes based on are material amounts. the share price on the closing date. For allotted shares, social security expenses Accounting for equity-settled share-based compensation programs are paid on the basis of the market value on the allotment date. entails that the instrument’s fair value at grant date is recognized in the SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Salaries and remunerations: Board and Managing directors 127 131 33 17 Other employees 2,808 2,797 26 37 Total salaries and other remunerations 2,935 2,928 59 54 Social security costs: Pension costs 231 225 12 13 Other social security costs 348 330 20 18 Total social security costs 579 555 32 31 Total salaries, other remuneration and social security costs 3,514 3,483 91 85 Bonuses included in the above salaries and other remunerations paid to fit pension plans. Pension costs in the Parent Company amounted to the Boards and the Managing directors of subsidiaries amounted to SEK SEK 12 M (13) of which the total amount related to defined contribution 38 M (34), and SEK 4 M (1) in the Parent Company. Total pension costs pensions plans. For further information regarding defined benefit pension amounted to SEK 231 M (225) of which SEK 14 M (15) concern defined beneplans see Note 27. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 95 NOTES Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration and social security costs, cont. Remuneration to the board of directors The AGM resolved the adoption of fees to the board of directors totaling SEK 5,765,00 (5,065,000), of which 5,603,000 (5,065,000) were paid. The fees were distributed in accordance with the table below. FEES FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Remuneration Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration Regular ­compensation Remuneration SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­committee audit committee ­remuneration ­committee audit committee Chairman: Laurent Leksell 1,130 110 – 1,075 90 – Members: Luciano Cattani 485 75 – 460 50 – Siaou-Sze Lien – – – 460 50 – Tomas Puusepp1) 323 – – – – – Wolfgang Reim 485 – – 460 – 110 Jan Secher 485 – 135 460 – 110 Birgitta Stymne Göransson 485 – 225 460 – 200 Annika Espander Jansson 485 – 135 460 – 110 Johan Malmqvist 485 75 – 460 50 – Caroline Leksell Cooke 485 – – – – – Total 4,848 260 495 4,295 240 530 1)Tomas Puusepp did not receive any remuration during his period as president and CEO. Remuneration to executive management In fiscal year 2016/17, two members of Elekta’s executive management team was offered, and accepted, to participate in an individual performance The guidelines for remuneration to the executive management, which are based incentive scheme extending to 2016/17 and 2017/18. The agreements proposed by the board of directors for the AGM on August 30, 2018 are prehave been terminated during fiscal year 2017/18 and no new schemes have sented on pages 74–75. The proposed guidelines are unchanged compared been offered. Reported expenses for the scheme was SEK – M (3.1) excludto those proposed by the board of directors and approved by the AGM on ing social security costs. The requirements for fulfilling the objectives for the August 23, 2017. The executive management for 2017/2018 was comprised scheme, and the related progressive payouts, are regulated in an agreeof a total of eleven people, of whom six are located in Sweden and the other ment that has been approved by Elekta’s executive compensation and five in the Netherlands, the UK, and China. The tables below display remucapability committee, ECCC. nerations and other benefits to the executive management in 2017/18 and 2016/17 respectively. REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS TO EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2017/18 Fixed Variable Severance Share-based Other Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration pay compensation ­benefits costs Total President and CEO – Richard Hausmann 6,720 4,035 – 808 545 2,712 14,820 Other senior executives resident in Sweden (4)1) 10,940 4,046 461 382 744 2,648 19,220 Other senior executives resident abroad (7.5)1) 20,190 8,917 7,484 1,549 1,517 2,181 41,838 Total senior executives 37,850 16,998 7,945 2,739 2,806 7,541 75,879 Member of the board/Previous President and CEO – Tomas Puusepp 5,077 – – – 87 1,590 6,754 1) Average number of persons receiving renumeration during the year. More information about changes to the executive management team are presented on page 62. REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS TO EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2016/17 Fixed Variable Severance Share-based Other Pension SEK Thousands ­remuneration ­remuneration pay compensation ­benefits costs Total President and CEO – Richard Hausmann1) 6,072 2,779 – 1,003 136 1,750 11,740 President and CEO – Tomas Puusepp1) 425 21 – – 7 99 552 Other senior executives resident in Sweden (4) 10,459 6,776 3,252 1,531 699 2,083 24,800 Other senior executives resident abroad (6) 25,109 11,098 4,460 2,059 1,037 1,261 45,025 Total senior executives 42,065 20,674 7,713 4,593 1,879 5,194 82,119 Member of the board/Previous President and CEO – Tomas Puusepp 4,674 234 6,191 – 79 1,093 12,272 1) Richard Hausmann was appointed as President and CEO effective June 10th 2016. He succeeded Tomas Puusepp Variable remuneration pertains to the bonus for the 2017/18 and 2016/17 fiscal years respectively, partly paid quarterly during each fiscal year and partly paid in the year after. 96 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Share based payment The terms of the performance share programs 2015, 2016 and 2017 further state that: As per April 30, 2018, Elekta has three outstanding share programs. The •• The performance targets may be adjusted should an event occur that share program performance share plan 2014/17, which was outstanding as affects the operations of the Company or the number of outstandper April 30, 2017, has expired during the year. ing Elekta shares or otherwise affecting the performance targets and The total number of shares that may be allotted under the share programs deemed relevant by the board is 738,574 (1,237,043) B-shares. The share programs are secured by delivery of •• The performance targets will be finally evaluated at the end of the applishares already held or repurchased by Elekta and, consequently, no new shares cable performance period and each participant will receive the number will be issued under the share programs. Share programs awarded to employees of shares he/she is entitled to according to the participant’s award agreehave a potential dilution effect. However, certain performance targets must be ment depending on the attainment of the applicable performance tarmet for dilution to occur and this was not the case at the closing date. gets over the performance period The share-related incentive programs are reported in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments. The recognized costs related to the share •• The value that a participant can receive in settlement of the perforprograms amounted to SEK 2 M (6), whereof social security amounted to mance share award is maximized at 400 percent of the value of the SEK 0 M (1). See page 64 for more information. shares at the date of grant of the performance share award •• Potential allotments of shares will take place September 16, 2018, Share programs September 14, 2019 and September 14, 2020, respectively The AGM has for a number of years resolved to adopt share programs called Participants shall at allotment of shares receive compensation for any cash performance share plans. Performance share plan 2014/17, resolved by the dividends paid during the respective three year performance period. AGM in 2014, expired during the year. For information on the program see the Before the number of shares to be allotted is finally determined, the annual report 2016/17 page 93. Outstanding programs as per April 30 2018 board shall examine whether the allotment is reasonable, taking into conwere performance share plan 2015/18, 2016/19 and 2017/20 respectively. The sideration the Company’s financial results and position, conditions on the performance share plans cover approximately 10 (2015/18), 8 (2016/19) and stock market and other circumstances, and if not, as determined by the 11 (2017/20) key employees of the Group respectively. The performance share board, reduce the number of shares to be allotted to the lower number of plans entitle the participants to obtain, free of charge, B-shares in Elekta shares deemed appropriate by the board. Delivery of shares and dividend upon fulfillment of certain performance requirements. compensation in settlement of the performance share award shall be made The main terms of the performance share programs are: as soon as practicable following the lapse of the performance period. •• A performance share award shall entitle a participant to receive, The conditions of the share programs state that the right to perforsubject to the terms and conditions set forth in the performance share mance share awards may be settled in other ways than through the delivery plans 2015, 2016 and 2017 and applicable award agreements, a number of shares. As per April 30, 2018, there were no material obligations to settle of B-shares based upon the attainment of performance targets over a in any other way than through shares. three year performance period SHARE PROGRAM •• Each performance share award shall be subject to forfeiture in the event of termination of employment due to a reason other than death, disabil2014/17 2015/18 2016/19 2017/20 ity or retirement or failure to attain performance targets over the appliOriginally designated number cable performance period of shares 976,726 289,284 280,386 272,379 •• Performance share awards shall be settled through the delivery of shares Share price used for calculation of theoretical value SEK1) 75 56 77 84 unless otherwise decided by the board Allotment of shares 2017-09-21 2018-09-16 2019-09-14 2020-09-14 •• The number of shares to be allotted will depend on the degree of fulfillNumber of shares as of ment of financial targets April 30, 2017 691,480 265,177 280,386 – Granted during the year – – – 272,379 The financial targets for performance share plan 2015 are defined as averCancelled/Expired during age annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during the the year –691,480 –48,214 –31,154 – fiscal year 2015/16 until the fiscal year 2017/18, versus EPS for the fiscal years Released during the year – – – – 2014/15. Under performance share plan 2015/18 the maximum number of Number of shares as of shares will be allotted if the annual average EPS growth is at or exceeds 41 April 30, 2018 – 216,963 249,232 272,379 percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the annual average EPS growth 1) Average closing share price of the Elekta class B share on the exchange NASDAQ is below 32 percent and allotment of shares between annual average EPS Stockholm during a period of ten trading days before the day the participants are growth 32 and 41 percent is linear. offered to participate in the program The financial targets for performance share plan 2016 are defined as average annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during the fiscal year 2016/17 until the fiscal year 2018/19, versus EPS for the fiscal Note 8 Depreciation/amortization years 2015/16. Under performance share plan 2016/19 the maximum number Group of shares will be allotted if the annual average EPS growth is at or exceeds SEK M 2017/18 2016/171) 132 percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the annual average EPS Cost of products sold 52 50 growth is below 103 percent and allotment of shares between annual averSelling expenses 137 139 age EPS growth 103 and 132 percent is linear. Administrative expenses 62 72 The financial targets for performance share plan 2017 are defined as average annual percentage growth rate in earnings per share (EPS) during the fiscal year R&D expenses 424 394 2017/18 until the fiscal year 2019/20, versus EPS for the fiscal years 2016/17. Under Total 675 655 performance share plan 2017/20 the maximum number of shares will be allot1) Comparatives have been adjusted due to updated allocations ted if the annual average EPS growth is at or exceeds 154 percent, no allotment of shares will occur if the annual average EPS growth is below 109 percent and allotment of shares between annual average EPS growth 109 and 154 percent is linear. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 97 NOTES Note 9 Operating leases Note 11 Expenses by nature Accounting principles In the income statement costs are broken down by function. Operating expenses amount to SEK 9,793 M (10,107). Below, operating expenses are The lease of tangible assets, for which the Group is essentially responsible for ­broken down by nature: the same risks and benefits as it would be in the case of direct owner­ship, is Group classified as finance lease. The leased asset is reported as a fixed asset and the SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 corresponding obligation to pay a lease fee is reported as an interest-bearing Products, materials and consumables 4,149 3,958 liability. The lease payments are distributed between amortization of the liaPersonnel costs 3,566 3,482 bility and financial expense, so that each reporting period is charged with an Depreciation and amortization (Notes 8, 16 and 17) 675 655 interest amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate on the reported liabilOperating lease fees (Note 9) 229 212 ity during each period. The leased asset is depreciated in accordance with the Other expenses 1,174 1,800 same principles that apply to owned assets of the same type. If any uncerTotal 9,793 10,107 tainty exists about whether the asset will be taken over at the end of the lease period, the asset is depreciated over the lease period, if this is shorter. Lease of assets, for which the lessor, for all practical purposes, is con­ Note 12 Income from participations sidered the owner, is classified as operating lease. The lease fee is expensed in Group companies on a straight-line basis over the lease period. The Group has mainly operating lease. There are few finance leases. See Note 17. Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Group Dividends from subsidiaries 410 271 SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Group Contribution 315 – Leasing fees paid during the year 229 212 Divestment of shares in subsidiaries – –3 Nominal value of agreed future leasing fees: Total 725 268 Due for payment within 1 year 238 221 Due for payment after 1 year but within 5 years 585 581 Note 13 Net financial items Due for payment after more than 5 years 613 658 Total 1,436 1,460 Group SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Leasing fees paid by the Parent Company during the year amounted to SEK Income from participations in associates 7 13 585 K (455). Future leasing fees due for payment within one year amount to Write-down shares in associates – -30 SEK 396 K (260), after 1 year but within 5 years SEK 342 K (176). Write-down loan in associates -14 – The operating lease contracts are mainly contracts for premises where Income from participations in associates –7 –17 the business is conducted. Interest income, external 66 31 Note 10 Other financial income 1 – Remunerations to auditors Financial income 67 31 Interest expenses, convertible loan – –67 Group Parent Company Interest expenses, other external loans –163 –142 SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Other financial expenses –62 –62 Group auditor (PwC) Financial expenses –225 –271 Audit engagements 12 12 5 4 Exchange rate differences on financial i­ nstruments 1 –1 Audit-related services 1 0 0 0 Net financial items –164 –258 Tax consultancy 1 4 – 0 Note 14 Interest income, interest Other services 0 2 0 1 Total Group auditor 14 18 5 5 Other auditors expense and s­ imilar items Audit engagements 0 0 – – Parent Company Tax consultancy 7 1 1 – SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Other services 0 0 – – Interest income from subsidiaries 159 140 Total other auditors 7 1 1 – Interest income, external 53 13 Total 21 19 6 5 Interest income and similar items 212 153 Audit engagements refers to remuneration to auditors for work related to Interest expenses to subsidiaries –10 –5 the statutory audit, including audit of the annual report and the accountInterest expenses, convertible loan – –67 ing records, the administration of the board of directors and the CEO as well as Interest expenses, other external loans –153 –128 audit consultancy work directly linked to the audit assignment. Audit-­related Other financial expenses –14 –22 services comprises quality assurance services, including consultancy work Interest expenses and similar items –177 –222 driven by observations made in the audit engagement. Other services refers to other services/consultancy work which are not covered by any of the other categories above, e g consultancy work related to internal control and acquisitions. Of fees for audit engagements SEK 5 M pertains to PwC Sweden, of other work related statutory assignments SEK 0 M pertains to PwC Sweden, of fees for tax consultancy SEK 0 M pertains to PwC Sweden, and of other services SEK 0 M pertains to PwC Sweden. 98 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Note 15 Taxes Accounting principles do so and when the deferred tax amounts concern the same tax authority. For items recognized in profit or loss, the related tax effects are also recogThe tax expense in the income statement includes all tax that is to be paid nized in profit or loss. For items recognized in other comprehensive income, or received for the current year, adjustments relating to previous years’ related tax effects are also recognized in other comprehensive income. current tax, and changes in deferred tax. Deferred tax is calculated and reported in accordance with the balance sheet method. In accordance with Estimates and assessments this method, deferred tax is calculated on the basis of the temporary differences between the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabiliDeferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are balance sheet items ties. Deferred tax assets relating to loss carry-forwards and other future tax which are subject to estimates and assessments. Deferred tax is calculated credits are recognized to the extent it is probable that deductions can be on t­ emporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax valmade against future profits. Valuation is based on nominal amounts based ues of assets and liabilities. Estimates and assessments affect the recogon the tax rules prevailing in each country and the anticipated tax rate for nized deferred tax amounts in the determination of the carrying amounts the following year in each country. Deferred taxes relating to temporary difof the d­ ifferent assets and liabilities, and also through forecasts regarding ferences attributable to investments in subsidiaries are not recognized in future taxable profits in those cases where a future utilization of deferred the consolidated financial statements since Elekta AB, in all cases, can contax assets depends on future taxable profits. Deferred taxes amounted to a trol the time of reversal of the temporary differences and it is not considered net liability of SEK 426 M (403), whereof assets SEK 267 M (375) and liabiliprobable that such a reversal will occur in the foreseeable future. Deferred ties SEK 693 M (778). tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is a legal right to INCOME TAXES Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Current taxes –206 –253 – – Current tax adjustments for prior years –38 –1 – – Deferred taxes –32 40 –63 33 Total –276 –214 –63 33 Swedish tax 22% 22% Effect of other tax rates for foreign companies 1% 21% Change in tax legislation –5% – Tax, current and deferred, related to prior years 2% 10% Other 0% 10% Tax rate 20% 63% CURRENT TAX, NET (LIABILITY +/RECEIVABLE –) Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Opening balance, May 1 –80 –67 –21 –1 Reclassifications 24 5 – – Adjustment for prior years 38 1 – – Current tax for the year 206 253 – – Paid taxes –257 –268 5 –20 Translation differences –1 –4 – – Closing balance, April 30 –71 –80 –16 –21 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets/liabilities in the balance sheet are attributable to the following: Group Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Net SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Loss carry-forwards 52 132 – – 52 132 Untaxed reserves – – –1 –31 – –31 Intangible assets 0 0 –749 –766 –749 –766 Tangible fixed assets 20 14 –46 –43 –26 –29 Financial assets/liabilities 5 3 –31 –7 –27 –4 Other assets 129 164 –27 –36 102 128 Other liabilities 238 187 –15 –20 223 167 Deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 444 500 –869 –903 –426 –403 Offsetting –177 –125 177 125 – – Net deferred tax assets/tax liabilities 267 375 –693 –778 –426 –403 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 99 NOTES Note 15 Taxes, cont. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (+)/LIABILITIES (–), NET SEK M Group, net Parent Company, net Opening balance May 1, 2016 –409 29 Adjustment for prior years –32 – Deferred taxes for the year 72 33 Deferred taxes charged in other comprehensive income –7 – Translation differences –27 – Closing balance April 30, 2017 –403 63 Reclassifictions 13 – Adjustment for prior years –25 – Change in tax legislations 66 – Deferred taxes for the year –79 –63 Deferred taxes charged in other comprehensive income 7 – Translation differences –5 – Closing balance April 30, 2018 –426 0 The Group has tax loss carry forwards of approximately SEK 300 M (490) for which deferred tax assets have not been recognized. These tax loss carry forwards have long or indefinite periods of utilization and are subject to regular assessment of whether it is probable that deductions can be made against future profits. TAX RELATING TO COMPONENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Revaluation of defined benefit pension plans 5 0 – – Revaluation of cash-flow hedges 2 –7 – – Total 7 –7 – – Note 16 Intangible assets Accounting principles Customer relations and other intangible assets Intangible assets also include technology, brands, customer relations, Intangible assets contain goodwill, capitalized development costs, customer ­etcetera. In conjunction with the acquisition of such assets, the acquisition contracts, customer relationships and other intangible assets. Other intanvalues are reported as assets, which are amortized on a straight line basis gible assets mainly consist of acquired technology. Amortization of intangiover the estimated useful life. Surplus value in acquired order backlog is also ble assets is reported in the income statement and allocated to functions as reported as other intangible assets. applicable. There are no intangible assets related to manufacturing processes or the like, therefore no amortization is allocated to cost of goods sold. AMORTIZATION PERIODS: Technology 5–11 years Goodwill Brands 6–10 years Goodwill comprises the positive amount by which the sum of (i) the cost Customer relations 10–20 years of shares in subsidiaries, (ii) the value of non-controlling interest and (iii) Order backlog 0.5–1 year the fair value of previously held equity interest exceeds the fair value of the Group’s share of acquired identifiable net assets at acquisition. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for Impairment impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicated. See also The carrying amount of a depreciated asset is tested for impairment when­section Impairment. ever there are indications that the carrying amount might not be recoverable. If there are indications of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount Research and development is calculated. The recoverable amount consists of the higher of the value in Research costs are expensed as they are incurred. In those instances in use of the asset in operations and the value that would be received if the which it is difficult to distinguish between the research phase and the develasset was sold to a third party, the net realizable value. Value in use consists opment phase in a project, the entire project is considered as research of all incoming and outgoing payments attributable to the asset during the and is expensed as incurred. Identifiable costs for the development of new period it is expected to be used in operations, plus the net realizable value products are capitalized to the extent that these are considered to provide at the end of the useful life. If the calculated recoverable amount is less future economic benefits. In other instances, development expenditures than the carrying amount, impairment is made to the asset’s recoverable are expensed as they are incurred. Costs for development once reported in amount. An impairment loss recognized in previous periods is reversed if the income statement are never capitalized in future periods. Capitalized the reasons for the impairment no longer exist. However, a reversal will not expenditures are amortized on a straight-line basis from the time when the be higher than the carrying amount would have been if an impairment loss asset is available for use, which normally occurs when it is produced comhad not been recognized in previous periods. mercially, and during the estimated useful life of the asset. The amortizaGoodwill is subject to annual impairment testing even if there are no indition period is 3–5 years. cations of impairment. The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to cash generating units. When testing for impairment of goodwill, the assets are 100 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES grouped in cash-generating units and assessments are made on the basis of of an asset’s net realizable value and its value in use. Normally, it is not possithese units’ future cash flows. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. ble to determine the net realizable value. Therefore, the value in use is normally All impairment losses, and any reversals of the same, are recognized in the value being compared with the carrying amount. Thus, each cash genthe income statement. erating unit’s value in use is calculated in assessing any impairment of goodwill. Calculations are performed through discounting future estimated cash Estimates and assessment flows. In order to perform the calculations a number of assumptions concerning future circumstances and estimates of parameters are made, for example For the Group, the most significant estimates and assumptions are those growth and discount rate. Any adjustments of the assumptions made could relating to impairment testing of goodwill. This means that the effect on the have an effect on the carrying amount of the goodwill. Assuming a lower financial reports may be considerable if the estimates and assessments made growth rate would lead to a lower recoverable amount. A higher discount rate would prove to deviate significantly from the actual outcome. In connection would also lead to a lower recoverable amount. Goodwill amounted to SEK with impairment testing of goodwill the carrying amount is compared with 5,607 M (5,388). the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined by the higher INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Parent Company Capitalized Other Other ­development Customer intangible Total intangible Total Parent SEK M Goodwill costs ­relationships assets Group assets Company Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2017 5,389 3,726 1,530 1,006 11,651 91 91 Reclassifications –13 0 13 0 – – – Purchases/Capitalization – 637 – 5 642 – – Divestments/Disposals – –47 – – –47 – – Translation differences 234 73 95 34 436 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2018 5,610 4,389 1,638 1,045 12,682 91 91 Accumulated amortization May 1, 2017 –1 –1,696 –502 –748 –2,947 –16 –16 Reclassifications – 0 – 0 – – – Divestments/Disposals – 47 – – 47 – – Amortization for the year – –408 –92 –24 –524 –8 –8 Translation differences –2 –32 –29 –20 –83 – – Accumulated amortization April 30, 2018 –3 –2,089 –623 –792 –3,507 –24 –24 Carrying amount April 30, 2018 5,607 2,300 1,015 253 9,175 68 68 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2016 5,069 3,083 1,432 946 10,530 91 91 Business combinations 13 – 19 – 32 – – Purchases/Capitalization – 535 – 6 541 – – Divestments/Disposals –2 – – –5 –7 – – Translation differences 309 108 79 59 555 – – Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2017 5,389 3,726 1,530 1,006 11,651 91 91 Accumulated amortization May 1, 2016 – –1,262 –388 –670 –2,320 –8 –8 Divestments/Disposals – – – 5 5 – – Amortization for the year – –380 –86 –33 –499 –8 –8 Translation differences –1 –54 –28 –50 –133 – – Accumulated amortization April 30, 2017 –1 –1,696 –502 –748 –2,947 –16 –16 Carrying amount April 30, 2017 5,388 2 030 1,028 258 8,704 75 75 Other intangible assets mainly relates to technology acquired through GOODWILL BY SEGMENT business combinations. Capitalized development costs comprise capitalSEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 ized expenditure for research and development as well as other capitalized North and South America 1,918 1,841 development costs such as software. Total capitalized development costs Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,972 1,908 amounted to SEK 637 M (535) for the year whereof capitalization of develAsia Pacific 1,716 1,639 opment costs within R&D represented SEK 637 M (534). Total 5,607 5,388 Impairment testing The value in use for each unit is derived from discounted cash flows, based on estimated future cash flows. The estimates are based on the financial budGoodwill is tested for impairment every year in order to assure that the get for the next fiscal year as determined by the executive management, and ­carrying amount of each of the Group’s cash-generating units is not higher expected future development up to five years. Assumptions regarding sales than its recoverable amount. The Group’s cash-generating units equal the volume, sales prices, operating expenses and product mix form the basis for geographic regions, which also constitute the Group’s operating segments. estimated future growth and margin development. Volume assumptions are The carrying amount equals capital employed and the recoverable amount based on historical outcome, the executive management’s expectations on for each cash-generating unit is determined based on a calculation of value market development, and expected global market growth. Price assumptions in use for each unit. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units are based on current market trends and inflation forecasts. Margin develop­(operating segments) is shown in the following table. ment is based on current margin levels and product mix adjusted for expected Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 101 NOTES Note 16 Intangible assets, cont. price changes and possible changes in the product mix. For periods after five Sensitivity analyses have been carried out with regard to the discount rate years, the extrapolation of expected cash flows has been assumed to be a pru(risk) and long-term growth with a general reduction in the growth rate dent 2 percent (2), which is considerably lower than the anticipated indusafter five years of 2 percentage points (2) (implying an assumption of zero try growth. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax interest rate growth) and a general increase in the weighted capital cost of 2 percentage of 8 percent (8). The interest rate corresponds to the Group’s current weighted points (2). The sensitivity analyses did not demonstrate any impairment. cost of capital (WACC) and is based on current market assessments. In addition to the annual impairment test, goodwill is tested whenever Impairment testing is performed in April/May every year, after the budthere are indications of impairment. get and business plans have been determined by the executive management. The 2018 (2017) test showed that there is no impairment. Note 17 Tangible fixed assets Accounting principles is ­depreciated on a straight-line basis during its economic life of between 3 and 5 years. Installations and improvements on third party property are Tangible assets acquired by Group companies are reported at cost, less depreciated over the period of the lease agreement. accumulated depreciation and any write-downs. Assets in acquired com­ The residual value of assets and their useful economic lives are reviewed panies are reported at fair value on the acquisition date after deducannually and adjusted as required, see Note 16 for impairment principles. tion of subsequent accumulated depreciation. Machinery and equipment See Note 9 for operating lease. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Machinery Equipment, etc for tools and Finance lease SEK M ­production ­installations equipment Buildings Total Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2017 270 1,372 5 205 1,852 Reclassifications 1 –2 5 –4 0 Purchases 19 192 1 7 219 Divestments/Disposals –11 –52 –1 – –64 Translation differences 9 49 0 16 74 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2018 288 1,559 10 224 2,081 Accumulated depreciation May 1, 2017 –174 –826 –5 –53 –1,057 Reclassifications 0 –2 –1 3 0 Divestments/Disposals 6 51 1 – 58 Depreciation for the year –21 –117 –1 –12 –151 Translation differences –6 –25 0 –5 –36 Accumulated depreciation April 30, 2018 –195 –919 –6 –67 –1,186 Carrying amount April 30, 2018 93 640 4 157 895 Accumulated acquisition value May 1, 2016 119 1,402 5 191 1,717 Reclassifications 133 –133 – – 0 Purchases 18 116 – 6 140 Divestments/Disposals –2 –48 –1 – –51 Translation differences 2 35 1 8 46 Accumulated acquisition value April 30, 2017 270 1,372 5 205 1,852 Accumulated depreciation May 1, 2016 –76 –795 –4 –40 –914 Reclassifications –80 80 – – 0 Divestments/Disposals 2 41 1 – 44 Depreciation for the year –19 –125 –1 –11 –156 Translation differences –1 –27 –1 –2 –31 Accumulated depreciation April 30, 2017 –174 –826 –5 –53 –1,057 Carrying amount April 30, 2017 96 546 0 152 795 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS BY COUNTRY SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Sweden 62 81 United Kingdom 429 327 China 132 121 USA 102 110 Netherlands 93 87 Other countries 77 69 Total 895 795 102 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Note 18 Shares in subsidiaries Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Opening balance May 1 2,222 2,129 Investments – 13 Adjusted purchase price –35 – Liquidation – –3 Shareholder contributions 52 83 Closing balance April 30 2,239 2,222 No. of Interest, Carrying amount, Company Corp. id. no. Domicile shares % SEK M Elekta Instrument AB 556492-0949 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000,000 100.0 50 Leksell Institute AB 556942-6314 Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0 0 Elekta Neuromag Oy 0756256-7 Helsinki, Finland 1,832 100.0 44 Elekta KK 65 820 Tokyo, Japan 2,000 100.0 36 Elekta Holding Limited 2699176 Crawley, England 22,810,695 100.0 494 Elekta Holdings US Inc. 58-1876545 Norcross, USA 6,020 100.0 432 Elekta Ltd. R889657862 Montreal, Canada 1 100.0 229 Elekta Asia Ltd 502 493 Hong Kong, S.A.R. 81,022,160 100.0 13 Elekta Instrument (Shanghai) Ltd 310115764250077 Shanghai, China 1 100.0 50 Elekta BMEI (Beijing) Medical Equipment Co., Ltd. 91110114400615135X Beijing, China 0 100.0 230 Elekta Pty Limited ACN 109 006 966 Sydney, Australia 1 100.0 1 Elekta Medical System India Private Limited U33112DL2005PTC139794 New Delhi, India 10,000 100.0 31 Elekta SA B 414 404 913 Paris, France 2,493 100.0 4 Elekta Medical SA A-818 867 31 Madrid, Spain 10,000 100.0 3 Elekta GmbH HRB 63500 Hamburg, Germany 0 100.0 0 Medical Intelligence Medizintechnik GmbH HRB 14835 Schwabmünchen, Germany 0 100.0 226 Elekta GmbH FN 166018w Innsbruck, Austria 1 100.0 3 Elekta Hellas EPE 998 569 196 Athens, Greece 0 100.0 0 Elekta S.A./N.V. HRB 613 484 Zaventem, Belgium 250 100.0 1 Elekta BV 17 097 384 Best, The Netherlands 40 100.0 0 Elekta S.p.A. 02723670960 Agrate Brianza (MI), Italy 500,000 100.0 66 Elekta Medical Systems Comercio e Servicos para Radiologia, Radiocirurgia e Radioterapia LTDA. CNPJ 09.528.196/0001-66 Sao Paolo, Brazil 0 100.0 73 Elekta (Pty) Ltd 2000/018814/07 Pretoria, South Africa 1 100.0 0 Elekta Pte Ltd 20090927AZ Singapore, Singapore 10,000 100.0 0 Elekta Limited, South Korea 1311111-0259 Seongnam-si, South Korea 473,879 100.0 16 Elekta Services S.R.O 292 80 095 Brno, Czech Republic 0 100.0 0 Elekta Medikal Sistemler Ticaret A.S. 196757 Istanbul, Turkey 87,900,000 100.0 87 Elekta Medical SA de CV EME140919G49 Mexico City, Mexico 50 100.0 26 Elekta sp.Z.O.O KRS 0000538192 Warsaw, Poland 2,000 100.0 104 Elekta Company Limited 106810452 Hanoi, Vietnam 1 100.0 2 Elekta Business Services sp.Z.O.O KRS 000567549 Warsaw, Poland 1 100.0 1 Elekta SARL Algeria 16236978051 Dely Ibrahim, Algeria 0 49.0 0 Elekta LLC 7704369566 Moscow, Russian federation 0 100.0 4 RRTS Unipessoal Lda 514185155 Lisbon, Portugal 0 100.0 13 Total 2,239 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 103 NOTES Note 19 Shares in associates Accounting principles method. Holdings in associates are initially recognized at cost in the con­ solidated balance sheet. The carrying amount is adjusted for the share of Associates are companies which are not subsidiaries but in which the Group associates’ earnings after the acquisition date. Dividends from associates has a significant, but not controlling, interest. This normally means com­ are reported as a reduction of the carrying amount. Income from partici­ panies in which the holding represents more than 20 percent but less than pations in associates is a separate line in the income statement. 50 percent of the voting rights. Associates are reported by use of the equity SHARES IN ASSOCIATES Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Opening balance May 1 22 12 – – Investments 17 30 – 30 Participations in income of associates (Note 13) 7 13 – – Dividends etcetera –4 –6 – – Write-down (Note 13) – –30 – –30 Translation differences –1 3 – – Closing balance April 30 42 22 – – Note 20 Other financial assets Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Participations in other companies 3 3 – – Derivative financial instruments 0 15 – – Loan receivables 14 38 – – Contractual receivables 170 185 – – Other non-current receivables 32 44 14 26 Total 219 285 14 26 Note 21 Inventories Note 22 Accounts receivable Accounting principles Estimates and assessment Inventories are valued in accordance with the ’first in, first out’ principle and Accounts receivable is one of the most significant items in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Internal profits arising from and is carried at nominal value net after provisions for bad debts. Thus, the deliveries between Group companies are eliminated upon consolidation. provision for bad debts is subject to estimates and assessments. Accounts receivable amounted to SEK 3,402 M (3,726) including bad debt provisions of INVENTORIES SEK 152 M (121). See Note 2 for further information regarding the credit risk in Group accounts receivable. See Note 3 for accounting principles. SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Components 227 189 Work in progress 48 45 Group Finished goods 845 702 SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Total 1,121 936 Accounts receivable, gross 3,554 3,847 Provision for bad debts –152 –121 Impairment of inventories during the year amounted to SEK 67 M (83). In the Carrying amount 3,402 3,726 income statement this is reported as cost of products sold. Credit risk analysis of accounts ­receivable Not due 2,280 2,384 Overdue 1–60 days 515 831 Overdue 61–90 days 166 88 Overdue >90 days 441 423 Total accounts receivables, net 3,402 3,726 Provision for bad debts Opening balance May 1 –121 –92 Provisions –53 –46 Reversals 2 9 Realized loss 26 12 Reclassification – –1 Translation differences –6 –3 Closing balance April 30 –152 –121 104 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Note 23 Other current receivables Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Prepayments to suppliers 72 103 Derivative financial instruments 109 7 Other receivables 371 355 Current tax assets 16 21 Prepaid expenses 404 344 Other receivables 1 1 Total 846 802 Prepaid expenses 11 2 Total 137 31 Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Current investments classified as cash equivalent 2,707 1,828 2,707 1,828 Short-term investments 83 – 83 – Cash and bank 1,751 1,555 918 651 Total 4,541 3,383 3,708 2,479 Available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments amounted to SEK 4,533 M (3,371) which is cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments reduced by bank balances included in assets pledged. See Note 31. Note 25 Equity Number of shares in Elekta AB (publ) A-shares B-shares Total Share capital Number of shares May 1, 2016 14,250,000 368,579,047 382,829,047 191,414,524 Conversion of convertible loan 730,769 8,593 739,362 369,681 Number of shares April 30, 2017 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,541,368 1,541,368 Number of shares May 1, 2017 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 Conversion of convertible loan – – – – Number of shares April 30, 2018 14,980,769 368,587,640 383,568,409 191,784,205 of which treasury shares – 1,541,368 1,541,368 APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT paid out during the financial year amounted to a total sum of SEK 382 M, Amount to be paid to the shareholders SEK 534,837,857 corresponding to SEK 1.00 per share. At the AGM on 30 August, 2018, a diviAmount to be carried forward by the Parent Company SEK 1,939,829,146 dend of SEK 1.40 per share for the year 2017/18 – a total sum of approximately SEK 535 M will be proposed. The average number of shares before and after Total non-restricted equity of the Parent Company SEK 2,474,667,003 dilution during the year, rounded to the nearest thousand, was 382,027 thouAll shares have a par value of SEK 0.50 and provide the holders with equal sand (381,306). The number of repurchased shares on April 30, 2018, totaled rights to the Company’s assets and earnings. All shares are entitled to divi1,541,368 B-shares (1,541,368). The share program awarded to employees dends s­ ubsequently issued. One series A-share entitles the holder to 10 votes have a potential dilution effect. Certain performance targets must be met and one series B-share to one vote. In accordance with section 12 of the artifor dilution to occur and this was not the case at the closing date. cles of a ­ ssociation, series A-shares are subject to right of first refusal. All series For more information on the Elekta share, see pages 64 –65. A-shares are currently owned by Laurent Leksell via company. The dividend Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 105 NOTES Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities Group Parent Company SPECIFICATION BY CURRENCY April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, Liability amount SEK M SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, Bond loan 1,997 1,996 1,997 1,996 Currency 2018 2017 2018 2017 Liabilities to credit Swedish kronor, SEK M 2,000 2,000 1,997 1,995 institutions 3,344 3,272 3,328 3,272 US dollar, USD M 202 200 1,746 1,764 Liabilities to subsidiaries _ – 3,793 3,381 Euro, EUR M 50 50 525 482 Finance lease liabilities 3 4 – – British Pound, GBP M 90 90 1,072 1,026 Total 5,344 5,272 9,118 8,649 Polish Zloty, PLN M 1 3 3 4 Maturity term Brazilian real, BRL M 0 0 0 0 structure, ­external Total 5,344 5,272 loans < 1 year 975 4 959 – FIXED INTEREST TERM INCLUDING EFFECTS OF DERIVATIVES > 1 year < 3 years 999 1,924 1,000 1,916 > 3 year < 5 years 2,937 2,902 2,941 2,910 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 > 5 years 433 442 433 442 < 1 year 975 4 Total 5,344 5,272 5,333 5,268 > 1 year < 3 years 999 1,924 > 3 year < 5 years 2,937 2,902 > 5 years 433 442 Total 5,344 5,272 Note 27 Provisions Accounting principles credit method in a way that distributes the costs over the employee’s working life. These obligations are valued at the present value of the expected future payments. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other compreProvisions hensive income in the period during which they arise. Provisions are reported when the Group has, or is considered to have, an ­obligation resulting from an event that has occurred and for which payWarranty reserves ments are likely to meet the obligation. A further condition is that it is Estimated costs for product guarantees are charged against operating possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount to be paid. costs in conjunction with the income recognition of the products. The estimated costs are established using historic statistics, with known changes Pensions taken into account regarding product quality, repair costs etcetera. Pensions are reported either as defined contribution plans or as defined benefit plans. Most of Elekta’s pension commitments are met through Estimates and assessment ongoing payments to authorities or other independent organizations that administer the pension plans. For these defined contribution pension plans, Provisions include uncertainties and entails various judgments. Provisions a pension cost is reported on a continuous basis as the benefits are earned, for guarantees are based on historic statistics, while others, such as proviwhich normally coincides with the date on which the fees are paid. sions for legal disputes and restructuring are based on management’s best Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in a few estimate of the expected outcome. A provision is only reported when an countries. Independent actuaries calculate the magnitude of the obligaevent has occurred for which economic responsibility is probable and when tions in each plan and revalue the obligations of the pension plans each it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount to be paid. Total year. The pension costs are estimated using the so-called projected unit provisions amounted to SEK 359 M (373). PROVISIONS Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Restructuring reserve 19 117 0 2 Warranty provisions 98 95 – – Other provisions 84 19 0 28 Short-term provisions 201 231 0 30 Provision for pensions 127 93 – – Other provisions 31 49 9 36 Long-term provisions 158 142 9 36 106 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Pension plans Elekta has defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in a few countries. Most common is however defined contribution plans. Total pension costs for the Group amounted to SEK 231 M (225) of which SEK 14 M (210) relate to defined contribution pension plans (see Note 7). PENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS MOVEMENT IN PROVISION FOR PENSIONS Group Group SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 Current service cost –14 –13 Opening balance: Interest expense –3 –3 Defined benefit obligation 181 160 Interest income 2 1 Fair value of plan assets –88 –78 Actuarial gains (+) and losses (–) –19 1 Provision for pensions May 1 93 82 Total pension costs defined Pension costs 33 14 benefit plans –33 –14 Contributions/Repayments 3 –4 whereof reported in: t he income statement –14 –15 Benefit payments –2 –5 other comprehenChange in provision plan –6 1 sive income –19 1 Translation differences 6 5 Closing balance: DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Defined benefit obligation 226 181 Group Fair value of plan assets –99 –88 SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Provision for pensions April 30 127 93 Defined benefit obligation, funded plans 122 97 Fair value of plan assets –99 –88 MAIN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE) Provision for pensions, funded plans 23 9 Group Defined benefit obligation, April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 unfunded plans 104 83 Discount rate 1.5% 1.6% Provision for pensions, unfunded plans 104 83 Future salary increases 1.8% 1.5% Pension provision for defined benefit plans, net 127 93 MOVEMENT IN PROVISIONS Group Parent Company Restructuring Warranty Other Other SEK M reserve ­provisions provisions provisions Opening balance May 1, 2016 155 101 149 77 Provisions 227 73 38 1 Reversals –9 –58 –15 –6 Provisions utilized during the year –257 –23 –102 –13 Reclassifications – – –4 – Translation differences 1 3 2 5 Closing balance April 30, 2017 117 95 68 64 Provisions 46 100 89 0 Reversals –13 –48 –34 –35 Provisions utilized during the year –130 –54 –10 –22 Translation differences –1 5 2 2 Closing balance April 30, 2018 19 98 115 9 In the consolidated accounts, other provisions mainly refer to project related provisions. In the Parent company, contingent considerations are reported as provisions and amount to SEK 0 M (55). Note 28 Prepaid income Note 29 Accrued expenses Group Group SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Prepaid service income 1,539 1,529 Reserve for additional project costs 731 831 Other prepaid income 514 345 Accrued commission costs 85 95 Total 2,053 1,874 Accrued vacation pay liability 155 154 Accrued social costs 57 45 Accrued interest expenses 47 49 Other items 779 701 Total 1,854 1,875 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 107 NOTES Note 30 Other current liabilities Note 31 Assets pledged Parent Company Group SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Accounts payable 7 27 Bank balances 8 12 Accrued expenses (see below) 69 74 Total 8 12 Derivative financial instruments 13 18 Collateral pledged for contingent liabilities. Other liabilities 5 4 Total 94 123 Accrued expenses Accrued vacation pay liability 4 6 Accrued social costs 2 3 Accrued interest expenses 47 46 Other items 16 19 Total 69 74 Note 32 Contingent liabilities Group Parent Company SEK M April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 April 30, 2018 April 30, 2017 Guarantees 34 46 1,305 1,075 Total 34 46 1,305 1,075 Guarantees consist of mainly advance payment guarantees and performance guarantees. Also parental guarantees and bid bonds are common. Note 33 Cash flow statement Group Parent Company SEK M 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Interest net Interest income –66 –31 –211 –153 Interest expenses 163 209 163 200 Total 97 178 –48 47 Other non-cash items Participations in profit/loss of associated companies, after tax 7 17 14 30 Write-down of shares in associated companies – – – 3 Write-down of loan 14 – – – Result from divestments/disposals of fixed assets 6 3 – – Cost of incentive programs 2 –5 – – Group contribution – – –315 – Unrealized exchange rate effects etc 190 32 55 105 Other items 38 3 1 30 Total 257 50 –245 168 Business combinations Purchase price – –31 – –1 Contingent considerations –45 –24 –22 – Unpaid part of purchase price – 31 – – Shareholder contributions – – –52 –83 Total –45 –24 –74 –84 More information on business combinations is presented in Note 35. CHANGES IN NET LIABILITIES RELATED TO FINANCING ACTIVITIES Opening balance Cash flow Non-cash changes Closing balance Foreign exchange Fair value SEK M Other movements changes Bond loans 1,996 – 1 – – 1,997 Short-term loans 0 – – – – 0 Financial leases liabilities 4 – – –1 – 3 Liabilities to credit institutes 3,272 15 – 54 3 3,344 Total 5,272 15 1 53 3 5,344 108 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES Note 34 Related party transactions Transactions between Elekta AB and its subsidiaries are shown in Notes 12, None of the board members or any of the senior executives has, or has had, 14 and 26. These transactions are eliminated upon consolidation. Sales to any direct or indirect involvement in any business transactions between associated companies amounted to SEK 28 M (35), receivables from associthemselves and Elekta. In addition to this, no other transactions with ated companies amounted to SEK 25 M (32) and costs related to associated related parties have occurred. Remunerations and benefits to key personnel companies amounted to SEK 3 M (0). in m ­ anagement positions are presented in Note 7. Note 35 Business combinations 2017/18 ing on February 15, 2017. The acquisition price consisted of a fixed amount of approximately SEK 25 M and a maximum variable amount of approxiNo business combinations were entered into during the year. An amount of mately SEK 6 M, which is depending on the achievement of goals set-up for SEK 45 M (24) of contingent considerations related to acquisitions in previthe transferred business. According to the purchase price allocation goodous years has been paid out. will and intangible assets amount to approximately SEK 31 M based on the full variable amounted the acquisition price. Elekta consolidates the Avanco 2016/17 business from January 31, 2017. The acquisition is expected to add 0 percent to Elekta’s net sales on an annual basis and is expected to be accretive On January 31, 2017, Elekta acquired the service business as well as personto Elekta earnings per share (EPS). Transaction costs amounted to approxnel of Portuguese distributor Sociedade Avanco, S. A. (Avanco). The acquiimately SEK 1 M and were reported as other operating expenses in the consition will bring Elekta closer to its Portuguese customers. Through the solidated income statement. transaction Elekta assumed all service contract revenue from Avanco startNote 36 Average number of employees Men Women Total 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Parent Company 18 16 18 14 36 30 Subsidiaries: Sweden 147 143 74 77 221 220 USA 582 654 284 246 866 900 Great Britain 507 512 154 142 661 654 China 319 362 251 168 570 530 The Netherlands 170 174 41 41 211 215 Germany 118 120 32 32 150 152 Poland 48 30 87 45 135 75 Japan 77 73 25 21 102 94 India 89 88 7 6 96 94 Canada 58 55 15 14 73 69 Italy 55 56 16 18 71 74 France 52 50 14 13 66 63 Australia 39 38 10 9 49 47 Brazil 35 41 14 14 49 55 Spain 39 37 9 9 48 46 Hong Kong 31 32 15 17 46 49 Turkey 29 24 11 10 40 34 Finland 25 24 7 6 32 30 Mexico 27 26 4 5 31 31 Austria 15 15 6 6 21 21 South Korea 17 18 3 3 20 21 Singapore 12 12 4 3 16 15 Russia 12 1 3 0 15 1 Czech Republic 10 9 3 3 13 12 Belgium 11 9 2 2 13 11 Greece 9 10 3 3 12 13 Portugal 9 2 3 1 12 3 South Africa 8 5 2 2 10 7 New Zealand (branch) 5 5 2 1 7 6 Vietnam 6 5 – – 6 5 Switzerland (branch) 3 3 1 1 4 4 Total average number of employees 2,582 2,649 1,120 932 3,702 3,581 Specification men/women among board of directors and executive management During the financial year, the board of directors of Elekta AB consisted of 67 percent (67) men. The executive management consisted of 91 percent (95) men. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 109 NOTES Note 37 Events after the reporting period Renato Leite joined Elekta on June 1, 2018, as Executive Vice President On June 18, 2018, Elekta Unity magnetic resonance radiation therapy (MR/ Region Europe and member of the Executive Management team. RT) system has received CE-mark, clearing the technology for commercial As of June 1, 2018, Caroline Mofors, Senior Vice President Chief Compliance sales and clinical use in Europe. and Integrity Officer, is a member of the Executive Management team. Note 38 Effects from the implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial instruoccur at the time of transfer of control to the customer, which according ments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after Januto Elekta’s assessment is when the treatment solution is ready for installaary 1, 2018 and Elekta will apply the new standards from May 1, 2018. tion at the customer’s site. Prior to the implementation of IFRS 15, revenue For IFRS 15 Elekta has decided to apply the full retrospective method recognition for treatment solutions occurred when risks and rewards were with restatement of the prior year comparative period. IFRS 9 will be applied transferred to the customer, which is normally at the time of shipment. retrospectively and as permitted by the standard the comparative period The financial impact reported in equity on transition will primarily depend will not be restated. The net balance effect from the transition to IFRS 15 on the number of treatment solutions that are shipped but not yet being will be reported in equity and is estimated to SEK –987 M as per May 1, 2018 installed at the customer’s site at this point in time. Other less significant and SEK –1,212 M at the beginning of the comparative year. The transition to financial effects from the transition relate to changes in the allocation of IFRS 9 will affect the opening balance of fiscal year 2018/19 and the impact the transaction price to various performance obligations. The effects from on equity is estimated to SEK –39 M. the implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 are further described below. The one-time effect reported in equity from the implementation of the The following schedule presents the estimated transition effects on standards is mainly relating to IFRS 15 and the timing for revenue recogniequity and other balance sheet items from the implementation of IFRS 15 tion of treatment solutions. According to IFRS 15 revenue recognition should and IFRS 9. EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 AND IFRS 9 ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Opening balance 2017/18 Closing balance 2017/18 Opening balance 2018/19 Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Restated Adj. Adjusted SEK M Apr 30, 2017 IFRS 15 Apr 30, 2017 Apr 30, 2018 IFRS 15 Apr 30, 2018 Apr 30, 2018 IFRS 9 May 1, 2018 Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 375 91 466 267 83 350 350 10 360 Other financial assets 285 – 285 219 – 219 219 0 219 Current assets Inventories 936 1,384 2,320 1,121 1,455 2,576 2,576 – 2,576 Accounts receivable 3,726 – 3,726 3,402 – 3,402 3,402 –25 3,377 Accrued income 1,640 –789 851 1,601 –441 1,160 1,160 –24 1,136 Other current receivables 802 134 936 846 222 1,068 1,068 0 1,068 Total assets 20,950 820 21,770 22,457 1,319 23,776 23,776 –39 23,737 Total equity 6,774 –1,212 5,562 7,975 –987 6,988 6,988 –39 6,949 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 778 –225 553 693 –182 511 511 – 511 Current liabilities Advances from customers 2,531 2,680 5,211 2,575 2,741 5,316 5,316 – 5,316 Prepaid income 1,874 1 1,875 2,053 –46 2,007 2,007 – 2,007 Accrued expenses 1,875 –398 1,477 1,854 –192 1,662 1,662 – 1,662 Short-term provisions 231 –26 205 201 –15 186 186 – 186 Total equity and liabilities 20,950 820 21,770 22,457 1,319 23,776 23,776 –39 23,737 110 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 NOTES IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers with the previous allocation model. The reallocation of revenue will result in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new revenue recognisome revenue being recognized earlier as the point in time for revenue rection standard replacing IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts. ognition of equipment and software occurs before recognizing revenue IFRS 15 introduces a new core principle which requires the expected amount relating to the service component. The new allocation model will only affect of revenue to be recognized when control over goods and services is transrevenues included in bundled deals as stand-alone sales are not affected by ferred to the customer, instead of when risks and rewards are transferred the revenue allocation model. which is the requirement under current standards. The new standard introduces a five-step model that should be applied Timing for revenue recognition of treatment solutions to all contracts with customers in order to establish how and when to recogUnder IFRS 15 revenue recognition should occur at the time of transfer of nize revenue: control to the customer. The assessment of control transfer should con1. Identify contracts with customers. sider indicators such as transfer of risk and rewards, rights to payment, customer acceptance, physical possession and transfer of legal title. For the 2. Identify the separate performance obligations. sale of devices in a standard bundled deal, Elekta considers the transfer of 3. Determine the transaction price of the contract. control to occur when the device is ready for installation at the custom4.Allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance er’s site. At this point in time the risk and rewards are usually transferred, obligations. Elekta has the right to payment and the customer has gained physical pos5. Recognize the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. session of the device. Contractual terms may vary and therefore judgement must be applied when assessing the indicators of transfer of control. Under An important amount of judgments is required when applying these steps the previous standard revenue was recognized when risks and rewards were to a contract in order to define performance obligations, transaction price, transferred to the customer, which is usually at the time of shipment under revenue allocation and timing of revenue recognition. a standard contract. The impact of the transition to IFRS 15 is that revenue recognition for devices included in a standard bundled deal is postponed. Allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations The financial impact reported in equity on transition relates primarily to A significant part of Elekta’s revenue is derived from bundled deals, in which devices that have been shipped but are not yet ready for installation at the devices, software and service are included in the same contract. IFRS 15 customer’s site at the transition date. gives clear guidance on how to allocate the transaction price to identified For software sales, control is considered to be transferred when the deliverables (performance obligations) in a bundled contract. According to licenses are made available to the customer which is usually at the accepthe standard the allocation should be based on stand-alone selling prices tance of the software. For a large part of the software licenses this is in and any discount should be proportionally distributed amongst the various line with revenue recognition under the previous standard. However, cerperformance obligations. A stand-alone-selling price is the price an entity tain software licenses that were considered being part of the devices under charges for goods or services when the entity sells it separately in similar the previous standard are considered to be separate performance obligacircumstances to similar customers. If goods or services are not sold sepations under IFRS 15, and as a result the timing of the revenue recognition has rately the stand-alone selling price must be estimated. As part of the implechanged under IFRS 15 to be aligned with revenue recognition for other softmentation of IFRS 15 a reassessment has been made of stand-alone sellware licenses. ing prices and the allocation of discounts to the components included in Based on the assessment performed, Elekta has identified the areas bundled contracts. The effects vary between contracts and markets but where the new standard requires changes to accounting policies, internal the general impact is that under IFRS 15 more revenue will be allocated to processes, procedures, systems and controls. Changes have been impledevices and software and less revenue will be allocated to service compared mented from May 1, 2018 in order to comply with the new standard. EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 RESTATEMENT ON CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Q1 2017/18 Q2 2017/18 Q3 2017/18 Q4 2017/18 May–Apr 2017/18 SEK M Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Net sales 2,169 335 2,504 2,802 101 2,903 2,747 9 2,756 3,614 –205 3,409 11,333 240 11,573 Cost of products sold –1,250 -92 –1,342 –1,620 –25 –1,645 -1,595 34 –1,561 -2,120 150 –1,970 –6,584 67 –6,517 Gross income 919 243 1,162 1,183 76 1,259 1,153 43 1,196 1,494 –55 1,439 4,748 307 5,055 Operating result 38 243 281 365 76 441 366 43 409 769 –55 714 1,538 307 1,845 Operating margin 2% – 11% 13% – 15% 13% – 15% 21% – 21% 14% – 16% Income taxes 0 –44 –44 –84 –18 –102 –25 –9 –34 –166 13 –153 –276 –57 –333 Net income –1 199 198 247 58 305 308 34 342 544 –42 502 1,099 249 1,348 Total comprehensive income for the period –265 199 –66 409 58 467 312 34 346 1,124 –42 1,082 1,581 249 1,830 Earnings per share before/ after dilution, SEK 0.00 0.52 0.52 0.65 0.15 0.80 0.81 0.09 0.90 1.42 –0.11 1.31 2.88 0.65 3.53 Adjusted EBITA 187 243 430 509 76 585 502 43 545 918 –55 863 2,116 307 2,423 Adjusted EBITA margin 9% – 17% 18% – 20% 18% – 20% 25% – 25% 19% – 21% Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 111 NOTES Note 38 Effects from the implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, cont. EFFECTS FROM IFRS 15 RESTATEMENT ON CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Q1 2017/18 Q2 2017/18 Q3 2017/18 Q4 2017/18 SEK M Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Reported Adj. Restated Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 290 124 414 310 131 441 260 98 358 267 83 350 Current assets Inventories 1,076 1,164 2,240 1,102 1,253 2,355 1,243 1,265 2,508 1,121 1,455 2,576 Accounts receivable 3,032 – 3,032 3,120 – 3,120 3,505 – 3,505 3,402 – 3,402 Accrued income 1,467 –570 897 1,545 –533 1,012 1,177 –408 769 1,601 –441 1,160 Other current receivables 878 148 1,026 917 155 1,072 926 184 1,110 846 222 1,068 Total assets 19,659 866 20,525 20,152 1,006 21,158 20,617 1,139 21,756 22,457 1,319 23,776 Total equity 6,511 –956 5,555 6,734 –919 5,815 7,040 –886 6,154 7,975 –987 6,988 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 668 –134 534 669 –115 554 593 –138 455 693 –182 511 Current liabilities Advances from customers 2,537 2,324 4,861 2,440 2,280 4,720 2,643 2,382 5,025 2,575 2,741 5,316 Prepaid income 1,704 –50 1,654 1,764 10 1,774 1,830 –7 1,823 2,053 –46 2,007 Accrued expenses 1,611 –297 1,314 1,742 –232 1,510 1,688 –197 1,491 1,854 –192 1,662 Short-term provisions 196 –21 175 172 –18 154 140 –15 125 201 –15 186 Total equity and liabilities 19,659 866 20,525 20,152 1,006 21,158 20,617 1,139 21,756 22,457 1,319 23,776 IFRS 9 Financial instruments Excess liquidity investments such as money market funds and tradeable IFRS 9 is a new standard on accounting for financial instruments which securities are held in a portfolio managed on a fair value basis and will be replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments. The standard comprises classificaclassified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. tion, measurement and impairment of financial instruments as well as Trade receivables within the group are in general held with the objechedge accounting. The financial effects from the transition to IFRS 9 for tive to collect contractual cash flows and therefore fulfill the requirements Elekta are limited and relate to the introduction of an expected credit loss for being classified into the hold to collect business model with valuation at model for impairment of financial assets to replace the previously used amortized cost. In some countries Elekta holds trade receivables that may incurred loss model. The new model mainly has an effect on the calculation be sold and are managed within a business model with the objective to realof bad debt losses as the new standard requires a provision for expected ize cash flows through both collection of contractual cash flows and selling losses to be made for all financial receivables, including those that are not of the asset. These trade receivables are valued at fair value through other yet due. With the new model the provision for bad debt and bad debt losses comprehensive income. The reclassification of assets does not result in any will increase or decrease based on the outstanding value of financial assets material changes in valuation of assets at the transition date. as an expected loss will be calculated for all outstanding amounts based Hedge accounting will be applied in accordance with IFRS 9 and Elekta on historical experiences and expectations about the future. The financial has confirmed that existing hedging relationships will qualify for hedge effect from the application of the new model for calculation of bad debt accounting under the new standard. In general, IFRS 9, more closely than losses mainly affects the value of trade receivables and accrued project the previous standard, aligns the hedge accounting rules to the risk manincome and is presented in the schedule on page 110. agement objectives of a company. Elekta applies hedge accounting for the IFRS 9 also introduces a new model for classification and related meahedging of foreign currency risks and from time to time also for hedging surement of financial instruments. Elekta has reviewed all financial instruinterest rate risks. The application of hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 ments in order to classify these according to the new standard and the folwill not result in any financial effects at the transition date. lowing main categories have been identified: 112 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ SIGNATURES The board of directors and the President and CEO certify that the annual ing standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and profit or financial report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted loss of the Parent Company and the Group, and that the management accounting p ­ rinciples and that the consolidated accounts have been prereport gives a fair review of the development and ­performance of the busipared in accordance with the international set of accounting standards ness, position and profit or loss of the Parent Company and the Group, and referred to in R ­ egulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and describes the ­principal risks and uncertainties that the ­Parent Company and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accountthe companies in the Group face. Stockholm July 9, 2018 Laurent Leksell Annika Espander Jansson Luciano Cattani Chairman of the board Member of the board Member of the board Caroline Leksell Cooke Wolfgang Reim Johan Malmquist Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Birgitta Stymne Göransson Jan Secher Tomas Puusepp Member of the board Member of the board Member of the board Richard Hausmann CEO and President Our audit report was submitted on July 9, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Johan Engstam Authorized public accountant Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 113 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report Unofficial translation. US and China. Elekta’s revenue recognition is dependent on the contract To the general meeting of the shareholders of Elekta AB (publ), terms stipulating the point in time at which the risks and benefits are transcorporate identity number 556170-4015 ferred to the client and on their payment capacity, and the terms often imply that invoicing and payment take place at a point in time differing Report on the annual accounts and from the point in time at which the related revenue recognition takes place. consolidated accounts Sales in new markets can imply new clients or contractual terms impacting the point in time at which a sale can be reported. Client agreements can Opinions also contain a combination of machine, services and software which can We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Elekta be complicated to report. The deliveries are also determined according to AB (publ) for the financial year 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2018. The annual when the clients want to have the products delivered and a major portion accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages of the sales takes place at the end of Elekta’s fourth quarter, and a delay 68–112 in this document. in reporting into the following financial year can have a major impact on In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounts. All in all, this implies that the reporting of sales and accounts the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the finanreceivables is dependent on management’s assessments of the clients’ paycial position of parent company as of 30 April 2018 and its financial performance ment capacity and on the stipulations of the contract terms. and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the finanIn particular, we considered where management made subjective judgecial position of the group as of 30 April 2018 and their financial performance ments; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Finaninvolved making assumptions and considering future events that are inhercial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts ently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of manAct. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the agement override of internal controls, including among other matters conannual accounts and consolidated accounts. sideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders material misstatement due to fraud. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to and the group. enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance The year’s audit of the consolidated accounts included, in addition to with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. the Parent Company, the subsidiaries in Sweden, England, US, The Netherlands, Germany, China including Hong Kong, Spain, Italy and Japan. The Basis for Opinions audit is executed on an ongoing basis throughout the year for these subWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sidiaries, and a number of companies report in conjunction with the secAuditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our ond quarter, and the audit of the annual book closing was at 30 April 2018. responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s These subsidiaries represent nearly 80% of Elekta’s total net sales. It should Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the also be noted that the majority of the companies within Elekta are subject group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and to statutory audits. have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and Materiality belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggreappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit approach Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitaOverview tive thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the • Overall materiality level: SEK 70 million, which is consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. Materiality equivalent to 5% of income before taxes. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the • Revenue from the sale of machines and contracts scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procecontaining both machines, software and services dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in Scope is to be reported in the correct amounts and in the aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. correct period Group materiality level SEK 70 million (55 million) • Valuation of accounts receivable and accrued How we determined it 5 % of income before taxes (5% of three year average Key income adjusted pre-tax income) Audit Matters Rationale for of the We chose income before tax as the benchmark as we Audit scope materiality benchmark believe that this is the value most often applied by The Elekta Group undertakes the sale of machines for applied users in comparing group results and as it is a generradiation therapy and related software, as well as of ally accepted benchmark. The level of 5% is used in maintenance and support services. The operations are undertaken in subauditing standards as an applicable quantitative sidiaries located all over the globe, whereby the largest markets are in the materiality threshold. 114 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 AUDITOR’S REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue from the sale of machines and contracts containing machines, software and services is to be reported in the correct amounts and in the correct period. Revenue from the sale of machines and contracts containing machines, software In performing our audit, we have mapped and evaluated Elekta’s processes and services is to be reported in the correct amounts and in the correct period. and controls regarding revenue recognition in order to obtain an understandElekta’s reported revenue and income refers to the sale of machines, software ing of how these function and where any possible errors might arise. Our mapand services. A significant portion of the revenues refer to the sale of machines. ping has focused on the approval of new client agreements, the model for the The reporting of these amounts is dependent on management’s assessments of allocation of revenue in the various parts of the agreements and on the concontract conditions in terms of when the risks and benefits are transferred to the trols in order to ensure that the sales are reported in the correct periods. This purchaser. mapping has been done in order to ensure that we focus our substantive proSales in the form of so-called multiple element arrangements, where hardcedures appropriately. After our mapping, we executed substantive proceware, software and services can be included in one and same contract, are a comdures including, amongst other things: mon form of sales in Elekta. •A  nalysis of revenue reported during the year compared with expected reveRevenue for these contracts is divided into sub-components. Where the revenue and revenue reported last year. nue is divided between the respective parts of the agreement. The revenue for the •E  xamination of a selection of new, major contracts and sales against conrespective sub-components is subsequently recognized when the risks and benetract terms and Elekta’s guidelines to assess the revenue recognition. fits are transferred to the client. Machines are delivered in accordance to the con• On a random sample basis, testing against proof of delivery to ensure that tractually agreed upon delivery date determined together with the client and it is revenue was reported in the correct periods and in the correct amounts. usual that the revenue referring to the machine is recognized at this point in time. The remaining portion of the revenue relating to software and installation is • Evaluation of Elekta’s accounting principles and the Note disclosures regardreported after the technical approval has been received from the client. Invoicing ing revenue recognition. occurs at fixed points according to what has been agreed with the client. Normally invoicing occurs: upon signing of the agreement, after delivery to customer, The results of these audit procedures resulted in no significant observations. and upon acceptance by the customer. This implies that the point in time of revenue recognition is usually not the same as the point in time of invoicing to and payment from the client. All in all, this implies that company management must perform assessments regarding the prices of the various parts of the client contracts, which impacts the point in time at which the sales margins are reported. As a result of this inherent complexity in revenue recognition and the estimations and assessments made by company management, we have deemed that revenue from sales of systems comprises a key audit matter. For accounting principles and disclosures, refer to Note 6 and pages 94–95 in the Annual Report for 2017/18. Valuation of accounts receivable and accrued income Accounts receivable and accrued income are significant items in the balance In our audit, we mapped Elekta’s processes and controls regarding overdue sheet and the valuation of these items is impacted by management’s assessaccounts receivables and accrued income in order to obtain an understanding ments of clients’ payment capacity. as to how they function and where any possible errors might arise. Our mapping The payment terms vary between countries and clients. Credit periods vary has focused on the follow-up of older receivables and on management’s assessbetween the markets and clients. In certain markets, partial payments are ment of the clients’ payment capacity and on the valuation of the reported made based on events, such as order receipt, delivery and the client’s approval accounts receivables and accrued income. This mapping has been done in order of the installation. In other markets, full payment is made after the finalization to ensure that we focus our substantive procedures appropriately. After our of the installation or in conjunction with approval. Invoiced amounts are mapping, we executed substantive procedures including, amongst others: reported as accounts receivables while reported revenues which are yet to be •A  nalysis of older accounts receivables and accrued income, and of the invoiced are reported as accrued income. reported provision for doubtful debts, in order to be able to independently Sales in new markets imply new clients and the premises for securing these evaluate the value of the receivables. clients can imply a high risk of having clients with a weaker payment capacity •O  n a random sample basis, confirmation of outstanding accounts receivor willingness to pay. ables directly with the clients. We also examined a selection of receivables As a result of the major component of estimations and assessments against payments received after year-end. undertaken by company management, we have deemed that the valuation of • Evaluation of Elekta’s accounting principles and the Note disclosures preaccounts receivable and accrued income comprises a key audit matter in the sented regarding accounts receivables and accrued income. audit. For accounting principles and disclosures refer to pages 89–90 and Note 22 The results of these audit procedures resulted in no significant observations. in the Annual Report for 2017/18. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misOther Information than the annual accounts and consolidated statements identified during our audit above SEK 10 million as well as misaccounts statements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for This document also contains other information than the annual accounts qualitative reasons. and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–49, 64–67 and 117–122. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this Key audit matters other information. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurand consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were ance conclusion regarding this other information. addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and provide a separate opinion on these matters. consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 115 AUDITOR’S REPORT accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsithe information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. bilities in accordance with these requirements. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirethey give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’ equity, conadopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are solidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board situation and ensuring that the company´s organization is designed so that of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directhe going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounttors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures ing is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Directhat are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with tor intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s Auditor’s responsibility responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the comOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our pany’s financial reporting process. opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Auditor’s responsibility Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual •• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misrise to liability to the company, or statement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report •• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a mateOur objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the rial misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken with the Companies Act. on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the part of the auditor´s report. company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the adminisReport on other legal and regulatory requirements tration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. Opinions PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, 113 97 STOCKHOLM, was In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, appointed auditor of Elekta AB (publ) by the general meeting of the sharewe have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the holders on the 23 August 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the Managing Director of Elekta AB (publ) for the financial year 1 May 2017 to 30 4 September 2012. April 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit Stockholm 9 July 2018 be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminisPricewaterhouseCoopers AB tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the ManSignature on original auditors’ report in Swedish1) aging Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Johan Engstam Basis for Opinions Authorized Public Accountant We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 1) This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any difstandards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further ferences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of 116 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 GLOSSARY Glossary Adaptive radiation therapy Epilepsy Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) A treatment technique that aims to customize Disorder characterized by repeated, sudden with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) each patient’s treatment plan to patient disturbances of brain function. This provides high-quality images of tissue and specific variation by evaluating and charactumors while treatment is in progress, and also terizing the systematic and random variations External-beam radiation therapy enables adaptation of the radiation dose in realthrough image feedback and including them in The most common type of radiation therapy, in time. The method is under development in the adaptive planning. which the radiation source is produced by a linear MR-linac consortium. accelerator and delivered by the radiation beam Benign from the linear accelerator head rotated around Intensity-modulated radiation therapy The term benign is used when describing tumors the patient. By delivering the radiation from vari(IMRT) or growths that do not threaten the health of an ous angles, the radiation dose is distributed more IMRT is an advanced type of treatment that uses individual. Benign is the opposite of malignant. evenly in the tumor without excess damage to multiple very small beams of varying intensity surrounding healthy tissue. rather than a single, large, uniform beam. The Brachytherapy radiation can therefore be tailored to the size and Is also known as internal radiation therapy, Fraction shape of the tumor, allowing higher tumor doses involves placing a radiation source in or near the Part of the total radiation dose, delivered at a while minimizing the impact on healthy tissue. treatment area. This allows very high tumor doses daily treatment. to be achieved, while limiting the impact on surIncidence rounding organs. The method is typically used Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Incidence is the number of new cancer cases aristo treat gynecological cancer and prostate canIs an agency of the US Department of Health ing in a given period in a specified population. cer, but also breast cancer and certain types of and Human Services. The FDA is responsible for skin cancer. protecting and promoting public health through Invasive the regulation and supervision of for example A treatment technique that penetrates the skin, Cancer medical devices. skull, etcetera. The opposite of non-invasive Uncontrolled, abnormal growth of cells. (bloodless). Functional disorders Chemotherapy Diseases in the central nervous system. LINC Treatment of cancer diseases with the aid of Elekta’s two learning and innovation centers in chemicals that eliminate diseased cells. Gamma Knife® radiosurgery Atlanta, USA and in Beijing, China. The LINC:s Stereotactic radiosurgery with Leksell Gamma are state-of-the-art facilities that provide Elekta Cone beam CT (CBCT) Knife®. users and employees with an ideal environment A CBCT system mounted to a linac or Gamma for learning. Knife creates images used for verifying or deterGlioblastoma mining the location of the patient in relation to The most common and most aggressive maligLinear accelerator (linac) the treatment beam(s). nant primary brain tumor. They are usually highly Equipment for generating and directing ionizing malignant as a large number of tumor cells are radiation for treatment of cancer. Computed tomography (CT) reproducing at any given time and are supported A radiological method of imaging anatomical by a large network of blood vessels. Glioblastoma Magnetoencephalograph (MEG) structures by means of layering, using computer often infiltrate with normal healthy brain tissue. Equipment for real time mapping of the function technology. in different parts of the brain, by measuring the High dose radiation (HDR) magnetic field generated by brain cells activity. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) An amount of radiation that is greater than that A brain ‘pacemaker’ is implanted to stimugiven in typical radiation therapy. High-dose radiMagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) late brain activity and block signals that cause ation is precisely directed at the tumor to avoid Technology used to visualize and differentiunwanted symptoms present in functional neurodamaging healthy tissue, and may kill more canate organs and anatomical structures inside the logical disorders, for example tremor. cer cells in fewer treatments. body. It uses non-ionizing radiation and is thus harmless to the patient. Electronic brachytherapy Hypofractionation Type of brachytherapy that uses an X-ray tube to A treatment schedule in which the total dose of Malignant induce radiation. It can deliver radiation to the radiation is divided into large doses and treatRefers to cancerous cells that usually have the tumor with a high degree of precision whilst minments are given once a day or less often. ability to aggressively spread, invade and destroy imizing damage to healthy surrounding tissue. tissue. Opposite to benign. Due to the source of radiation used, electronic Image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) brachytherapy can be performed in a room with IGRT enables high precision targeting and accuminimal shielding. racy using high-resolution multi-dimensional X-ray images of the patient’s tissue. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 117 GLOSSARY Meningioma Prevalence Stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) A type of tumor that develops from the meninThe prevalence of a particular cancer can be Radiation therapy of cancer, where high preciges, the membrane that surrounds the brain and defined as the number of persons in a defined sion and accuracy is achieved by delivering the spinal cord. Meningiomas are the most compopulation who have been diagnosed with that radiation based on an external fixed-coordinate mon type of primary brain tumors and are often type of cancer, and who are still alive at the end system. benign. of a given year, the survivors. Prevalence of cancers based on cases diagnosed within one, three Stereotaxy Metastases and five are presented as they are likely to be of A technique in which a fixed-coordinate system Secondary malignant tumors originating from relevance to the different stages of cancer thercan determine the location of a point by specifyprimary cancer tumors in other parts of the body. apy, namely, initial treatment (one year), cliniing the coordinates in terms of height, depth and cal follow-up (three years) and cure (five years). laterally. Multileaf collimator Patients who are still alive five years after diagAn accessory to the linear accelerator, working nosis are usually considered cured since the death Tesla (T) like an aperture. With a large number of individurates of such patients are similar to those in the MRI requires a magnetic field that is both strong ally adjustable metal leaves, the treatment beam general population. and uniform. The field strength of the magnet is can be shaped to the size and shape of the tarmeasured in teslas (T). The majority of systems get volume. Proton therapy operate at 1.5T, even though there are commerA type of external radiation therapy where a parcial systems available between 0.2–7T. MR-linac ticle accelerator is used to direct proton beams See image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) with at the tumor during treatment. Proton therapy is Treatment planning system magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). used for research purposes and to a limited extent Treatment planning systems provide tools for for patient care, partly due to its high investment multimodality image registration, organ and Neurology and maintenance costs. tumor contouring, treatment simulation and plan The study of the nervous system and its disorders. optimization. Monaco® is Elekta´s comprehenRadiation therapy sive treatment planning system that supports all Neurosurgery Fractionated ionizing radiation treatment of major treatment techniques. Surgery of the brain or other parts of the central cancer. nervous system. Tumor Radiosurgery An abnormal mass of tissue that results when Oncology Non-invasive surgery in which a high, single dose cells divide more than they should or do not The study of tumor diseases. of precise ionizing radiation replaces surgical die when they should. Tumors may be benign instruments. (not cancer), or malignant (cancer). Also called Oncology information system (OIS) neoplasm. All patient information is collected and accessiStereotactic body radiation therapy ble in an oncology information system, from diag(SBRT) Volumetric modulated arc therapy nosis through treatment and follow-up, so that SBRT enables accurate delivery of radiation to a (VMAT) clinics can deliver the best possible care for every tumor and minimizes the radiation dose to surVMAT is a more advanced variant of intenpatient. MOSAIQ® is Elekta´s world leading oncolrounding tissue. This enables that small and medisity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). VMAT ogy information system. um-sized tumors can be treated with higher doses enables the physician to control the radiation and fewer sessions, known as hypofractionation. beam, dosage amount and speed of rotation Parkinson’s disease around the patient, which enables faster and Paralysis, with trembling and shaking as well as Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) more accurate treatment. muscular rigidity, with a change in movements This is typically used to treat tumors and other and posture by the patient. disorders in the brain. The method involves the delivery of a single high dose, to small and critically located targets in the brain. The method offers very high precision, with a minimum impact on surrounding brain tissue. 118 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 DEFINITIONS Definitions Average number of employees EBITA Operating margin Total annual number of paid working hours Operating result items plus a ­ mortization. Operating result in relation to net sales. divided by number of standard working hours per year. EBITDA Profit margin Operating result items plus d ­ epreciation and Profit before tax in relation to net sales. Adjusted EBITA and EBITDA amortization. EBITA and EBITDA adjusted for items affecting Return on capital employed comparability and bad debt losses. Equity/Assets ratio Profit before tax plus financial expenses in Total equity in relation to total assets. relation to average capital employed.1) CAGR, compound annual growth rate The mean annual growth rate over a specified Gross orders Return on shareholders’ equity period of time longer than a year. Order intake during a period. Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders in relation to average Capital employed Interest cover ratio2) shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling Total assets less interest-free liabilities. EBITDA in relation to interest expenses. interests.1) Capital turnover ratio Items affecting comparability Shareholders’ equity per share Net sales divided by average total assets.1) Events or transactions with significant financial Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling effect, which are relevant for understanding the interests in relation to the number of shares at Cash flow per share financial performance when comparing income year-end (excluding treasury shares). Cash flow after investments in relation to the for the current period with previous period, weighted average number of shares. including restructuring programs, expenses relatValue added per employee ing to major legal disputes, impairments and Operating profit plus salaries, other remuneraContribution margin per region gains and losses for acquisitions or disposals of tion and social security costs and cost of incenNet sales less cost of products sold and expenses subsidiaries. tive programs divided by average number of directly attributable to the respective region. employees. Net debt Days sales outstanding, DSO Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and Working capital The total of accounts receivables and accrued cash equivalents and short-term investments. Short-term interest-free assets less short-term income less advances from customers and preinterest-free liabilities, excluding current tax and paid income in relation to twelve months rolling Net Debt/Equity ratio derivatives. net sales divided by 365. Net debt in relation to total equity. 1) Average based on the last five quarters 2) New definition from 2016/17. The previous definition was Earnings per share Net orders profit before tax plus financial expenses in relation to Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Order intake during a period adjusted for cancelfinancial expenses Company shareholders in relation to the weighted lations, removals of orders and currency effects. average number of shares (excluding treasury shares). Operational cash conversion Cash flow from operating activities divided by EBITDA. Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 119 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative performance measures Reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) are measures and key figures that Elekta’s management and other stakeholders use when managing and analyzing Elekta’s business performance. These measures are not substitutes, but rather supplements to financial reporting measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. Key figures and other APM:s used by Elekta are defined on page 119. See below for comments on how APM:s are used by Elekta and, when applicable, reconciliations to the IFRS financial statements. Gross order intake Order and sales growth based on constant exchange rates Gross order intake represents the new orders that have been booked during Elekta’s order intake and sales are, to a large extent, reported in subsidiarthe period and this is in line with industry peers. ies with other functional currencies than SEK, which is the group reporting currency. In order to present order and sales growth on a more compaNet order intake rable basis and to show the impact of currency fluctuations, order and sales Up until 2015/16 Elekta reported net order intake. The difference between growth based on constant exchange rates are presented. The schedules gross and net order intake are backlog adjustments and currency effects. below present growth based on constant exchange rates reconciled to the total growth reported in accordance with IFRS. Order backlog Order backlog represents all orders that have been booked but not yet revenue recognized. Elekta follows the maturity profile of the order backlog when forecasting revenue. GROSS ORDER INTAKE North and Europe, Middle Asia South America East and Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2017/18 vs 2016/17 Change based on constant exchange rates 9 422 4 210 2 105 5 737 Currency effects –5 –218 2 101 –4 –191 –2 –308 Reported change 5 204 6 311 –2 –86 3 429 2016/17 vs 2015/16 Change based on constant exchange rates –11 –545 4 193 5 202 –1 –150 Currency effects 2 107 1 61 6 225 3 393 Reported change –9 –438 5 254 11 427 2 243 NET SALES North and Europe, Middle Asia South America East and Africa Pacific Total % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M % SEK M 2017/18 vs 2016/17 Change based on constant exchange rates –2 –95 22 763 7 203 8 871 Currency effects –4 –174 2 73 –5 –142 –2 –243 Reported change –6 –269 24 836 2 61 6 629 2016/17 vs 2015/16 Change based on constant exchange rates 1 40 –5 –183 –17 –606 –7 –749 Currency effects 3 102 –1 –24 4 155 2 233 Reported change 4 142 –6 –207 –13 –451 –5 –516 120 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gross profit and gross margin Capital employed Gross profit is the difference between net sales and cost of products sold Capital employed represents the value of the balance sheet net assets that and is presented on a separate line in the income statement. Gross profit as is the key driver of cash flow and capital required to run the business. It is also a percentage of net sales represents gross margin. The Gross margin is used used in the calculation of return on capital employed. by management to review effects on the income statement from factors such as product mix and price development CAPITAL EMPLOYED April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, April 30, EBITDA SEK M 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 EBITDA is used for the calculation of the interest cover ratio and operational Total assets 17,892 21,184 19,441 20,950 22,457 cash conversion. Deferred tax liabilities –687 –732 –690 –778 –693 Long term provisions –131 –259 –140 –142 –158 EBITDA Other long-term liabilities –8 –20 –73 –33 –63 SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Accounts payable –1,295 –1,262 –1,122 –1,000 –1,132 Operating result/EBIT 1,727 937 423 598 1,538 Advances from customers –1,686 –2,165 –1,943 –2,531 –2,575 Amortization: Prepaid income –1,200 –1,673 –1,648 –1,874 –2,053 Capitalized development Accrued expenses –1,526 –1,789 –1,817 –1,875 –1,854 costs 172 236 326 380 408 Current tax liabilities –219 –119 –93 –111 –107 Assets relating business Short-term provisions –169 –99 –347 –231 –201 combinations 123 130 143 119 116 Derivative financial instruments –13 –162 –50 –48 –46 Depreciation 118 146 165 156 151 Other current liabilities –215 –225 –157 –281 –257 EBITDA 2,140 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,213 Capital employed 10,743 12,678 11,360 12,046 13,319 Items affecting comparability Return on capital employed The classification of revenue or expenses as items affecting comparability Return on capital employed is a measure of the profitability after taking into is based on management’s assessment of the characteristics and also the account the amount of total capital used unrelated to type of financing. A materiality of the item. Expenses classified as items affecting comparability higher return on capital employed indicates a more efficient use of capital. in this annual report are presented in a schedule on page 77. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED EBITA items affecting comparability and SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 bad debt losses (Adjusted EBITA) Profit before tax 1,502 716 189 340 1,374 EBITA adjusted for items affecting comparability and bad debt losses is used by management to evaluate the business and is considered to assist manFinancial expenses 231 259 285 271 225 agement and investors in comparing the performance across reporting Profit before tax plus financial expenses 1,733 975 474 611 1,599 periods on a consistent basis. Bad debt losses have been excluded as these Average capital employed relate to turbulence in the market that is not expected to occur on a regu(last five quarters) 10,025 11,230 12,039 11,668 12,187 lar basis. For a reconciliation of EBITA adjusted for items affecting comparaReturn on capital bility and bad debt losses to operating result (EBIT) as presented in the IFRS employed, % 17% 9% 4% 5% 13% income statement, see page 77. Operating income (EBIT) and operating margin Return on shareholders’ equity Operating income or EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) is part of Return on shareholders’ equity measures the return generated on shareElektas’ long term financial ambitions. The measure is presented in the holders’ capital invested in the company. income statement as Elekta consider it to provide users of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Group’s operating perforRETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY mance from a financial perspective. The operating margin shows the operSEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 ating income as a percentage of net sales. Profit for the year 1,148 552 137 125 1,099 Average shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests (last five quarters) 5,553 6,260 6,587 6,541 7,007 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 21% 9% 2% 2% 16% Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 121 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Interest cover ratio Net debt The interest coverage ratio shows how much result that is available to pay Net debt is important to understand the financial stability of the company. interest on outstanding debt. Net debt is used by management to track the debt evolvement and to analyze the leverage and refinancing need of the Group. INTEREST COVER RATIO NET DEBT SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 EBITDA 2,140 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,213 SEK M 2013/12 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Interest expenses 202 217 240 209 163 Long-term interest-bearing Interest cover ratio, multiple 10.6 6.7 4.4 6.0 13.6 liabilities 4,361 4,958 3,065 5,272 4,369 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 125 1,075 1,885 0 975 Operational cash conversion Cash and cash equivalents and Cash flow is a focus area for management. The operational cash conversion short-term investments –2,247 –3,265 –2,273 –3,383 –4,541 shows the relation between cash flow from operating activities and EBITDA. Net debt 2,239 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 OPERATIONAL CASH CONVERSION Net debt/equity ratio SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Net debt/equity ratio is one of Elekta’s financial targets. The level of debt is Cash flow from operating important to understand the financial stability of the company. activities 1,275 1,823 1,170 1,819 2,404 EBITDA 2,140 1,449 1,057 1,253 2,213 NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO Operational cash conversion, % 60% 126% 111% 145% 109% SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Net debt 2,239 2,768 2,677 1,889 803 Shareholders’ equity 6,257 6,646 6,412 6,774 7,975 Working capital Net debt/equity ratio, In order to optimize cash generation, management focuses on working capmultiple 0.36 0.42 0.42 0.28 0.10 ital and reducing lead times between orders booked and cash received. A reconciliation of working capital to items in the balance sheet is presented on page 79. Equity/assets ratio The equity/assets ratio gives an indication of the financial flexibility and Days sales outstanding (DSO) independence to operate and manage variations in working capital needs as DSO is used by management to follow the development of overall payment well as to capitalize on business opportunities. terms to customers, which have significant impact on working capital and cash flow. EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 DAYS SALES OUTSTANDING (DSO) Shareholders’ equity 6,257 6,646 6,412 6,774 7,975 SEK M 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Total assets 17,892 21,184 19,441 20,950 22,457 Accounts receivable 4,197 4,207 3,301 3,726 3,402 Equity/assets ratio, % 35% 31% 33% 32% 36% Accrued income 1,699 1,895 2,126 1,640 1,601 Advances from customers –1,686 –2,165 –1,943 –2,531 –2,575 Prepaid income –1,200 –1,673 –1,648 –1,874 –2,053 Net receivable from customers 3,010 2,264 1,836 961 375 Net sales 10,694 10,839 11,221 10,704 11,333 Number of days 365 365 365 365 365 Net sales per day 29 30 31 29 31 Days sales outstanding (DSO) 103 76 60 33 12 122 Elekta Annual Report 2017/18 Elekta offices Elekta AB Box 7593 SE – 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden T +46 8 587 254 00 F +46 8 587 255 00 Europe, Middle East, Africa T +46 8 587 254 00 F +46 8 587 255 00 North America T +1 770 300 9725 F +1 770 448 6338 Latin America, South America T +55 11 5054 4550 F +55 11 5054 4568 Asia Pacific T +852 2891 2208 F +852 2575 7133 Japan T +81 3 6722 3800 F +81 3 6436 4231 China T +86 10 8012 5012 F +46 8 587 255 00 elekta.com /elekta @elekta /company/ elekta © 2018 Elekta AB (publ) All mentioned trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of the Elekta Group. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced in any form without written permission from the copyright holder. Production: Elekta’s Investor Relations and Finance Team, in cooperation with Intellecta Corporate. Photo: iStock, Folio, Shutterstock, Mats Lundqvist, Sandra Birgersdotter, Ger Bosma/ Alamy Stock Photo, Andrew Hatfield and Karoline Glasow.
