Egypt’s Lucky Charm S ince its inception in 1920, Banque Misr has chosen, with great honor, Queen Cleopatra to represent it as its icon and part of its logo. One of the strongest female rulers and the last pharaoh of Ancient Egypt; Queen Cleopatra is a symbol of one of the most prosperous periods in Egypt,s history. For this annual report, Banque Misr has chosen the sacred scarab; one of the most important amulets in Ancient Egypt, as its new icon and part of its logo. A scarab is a unique insect that has influenced Egyptian civilization for thousands of years. In fact, the idea of using the scarab as an amulet dates back to the building of the Pyramids in the early Egypt’s Lucky Charm Egyptian dynasties. To the Ancient Egyptians, the scarab was one of the most potent amulets, symbolizing the sun, protection, transformation, and resurrection. T hey used it as a charm that was believed to have magical powers in the empowering manner with which he enabled that would ward off evil and provide security for Banque Misr to become the creator and financier the owner. A scarab amulet with inscriptions was of projects. Harb was an entrepreneur with a clear also believed to help ensure maximum safety for the vision for the future of industry in Egypt; he strongly souls of dead and provide them with a brand new life fought the British occupation. and energy as they move into the afterlife. T he bank established major companies in every In addition, scarabs were the symbol of the god, sector; industrial, aviation, maritime, oil, insurance, Khepri, the Egyptian god of the sunrise. travel, weaving, mining, transportation, real estate, T housands of years later, the wealth and symbolism and art. Among these companies were Egypt Air, of the scarab were revived in Egypt,s modern Misr Insurance, Misr Oil Refining, Studio Misr, history. Misr Company for Cotton Ginning, and many more. Banque Misr was established in 1920 by pioneer T he establishment of its first national bank, with its economist Mohammed Talaat Harb Pasha as the mission to develop a prosperous national economy, first bank wholly owned by Egyptians with the aim guaranteed Egypt its most prosperous economic of contributing to and developing a strong national period; one that was moreover built on the basis of economy. self-sufficiency. Talaat Harb was the ideal unifier and leader in T he bank will continue to strive for its earned role the national struggle for economic independence and as the cornerstone to Egypt,s economy. T herefore, industrialization. T he novelty of his approach lay Banque Misr will remain Egypt,s lucky charm. G4-3 G4-9 Table of Contents Banque Misr at a Glance Foreword 12 About Banque Misr Ownership Customers Served by 15 Material Topics State-owned bank more than 8 million in Egypt 14,497 Employees Our Approach Through 6 Business Across 7 countries: Branches* 26 BM Approach 28 Introduction by the Chairman Divisions: Egypt Over 600; the largest branch Corporate Banking Lebanon network by any bank in Egypt 36 Our Strategy 40 Retail Banking UAE and the Middle East Domestic and International Presence SMEs and Microfinance France Capital Markets Group How BM Operates Germany Correspondent Network and Treasury China 52 Board of Directors Islamic Banking Russia 82 Board and Executive Committees 95 Our Commitment 102 BM Service Providers and Suppliers 8 2,154 14,577 103 Environmental Sustainability Mutual Funds Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)* Point of Sale Terminals (POS)* 106 Our People 112 Community Development 5.97 million Direct Equity Participation EGP 65 billion Our Activities No. of Issued Cards* 158 multi-sector companies Shareholders' Equity 140 Technology 142 Corporate Banking EGP 787 billion EGP 8.2 billion EGP 532.5 billion 145 Retail Banking Total Assets Net Profit After Tax Customer Deposits 149 SMEs and Microfinance 150 Capital Markets Group 153 Correspondent Network and Treasury EGP 15.5 billion EGP 3.3 billion EGP 5.9 billion 155 Islamic Banking Net Interest Income Net Fee and Commission Income Income Tax Paid Our Financial Performance 162 Message from the Chairman 164 Financial Statements * As of Dec.2017 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 1 The Story behind Banque Banque Misr Museum Misr’s Headquarters B anque Misr Museum, housed in the ground floor of the bank,s headquarters, houses several precious collections, which weave a rich tapestry of Egypt,s history. T he museum narrates the story of the strong determination and the concerted efforts of patriots who carried the torch of Banque Misr,s successful journey since its inception in 1920, represented by its founder, the pioneer Egyptian economist Talaat Harb Pasha and his partners, as well as their successors. T hey all joined forces and continued Banque Misr,s successful legacy and its journey of excellence in the Egyptian banking industry. Banque Misr,s management exerted extraordinary efforts to preserve this heritage while establishing the museum, which offers a formidable collection of Banque Misr Museum is housed in the ground historical documents and volumes tackling several floor of the bank's headquarters. In 1923, Banque economic and social topics related to the bank,s success Misr organized an international competition to choose the best architect to design and supervise the story. T he museum in turn houses rare copies of Talaat construction of its headquarters. Harb Pasha,s writings that address all spheres of life, The Italian architect, Antoino Lasciac, whose works in addition to other books that narrate the story of this are recognized in the histories of Egypt and Italy, was chosen from the competition. prominent economist. In 1925, the foundation stone of the building T he museum offers electronic access to the rich was laid. Talaat Harb Pasha kept the foundation information of its collections, which include writings, documents in a leather bag, which was later stored in volumes, photos, and historic documents that can be used one of the rooms, with a recommendation that these documents should be handed to an entity concerned for research, education, or enjoyment. with keeping documents and manuscripts. 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 3 The Story behind Banque Banque Misr’s Headquarters Misr’s Headquarters This domed ceiling is located inside Banque Misr's headquarters. This architectural piece of art was made by the renowned Italian architect Antoino Lasciac. In 1927, the building was completely constructed, with 100% Egyptian raw materials, workforce, and industries; except for the floors, which were imported from Belgium, and the marble columns and stairs from Germany. On June 5th, 1927, the bank's headquarters was inaugurated in a magnificent grand ceremony in the presence of all the state's consuls, ministers, high-profile citizens, and a delegate from King Fouad. This building was described by the renowned Egyptian poet Ahmed Shawqi as “the fourth pyramid” in a poem specially written for this day. The building comprises a storage basement and several floors: the ground floor is dedicated to the bank's customers with 60 counters; another floor is designated for the Chief Executive Officer and General Managers. In addition, the remaining four floors are allotted to the bank's companies, including the offices of their respective managers and staff. The building also has four elevators in every corner. The hall of Banque Misr's headquarters. This architectural piece of art was designed by the renowned Italian architect Antoino Lasciac. 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 5 Night Safe The Founding of Banque Misr Museum Banque Misr Museum, a place dedicated to narrating the rich history of the pivotal economic institution, has always been a longstanding dream for Talaat Harb Pasha's family, as well as Banque Misr's management and employees. In 2005, the bank's leadership took a leap of faith to bring this dream to life. They formed a supreme heritage committee and rendered it responsible for the project. Ms. Enayat Shaband and her valuable collectibles, which belonged to the bank, were a great inspiration in bringing Banque Misr Museum to life. An array of cultural cadres with broad experience led by Dr. Ahmed Nawar, who was the Head of Egypt's Fine Arts Sector, had given support to the project and supervised the artistic side of its construction. Banque Misr has also cooperated with various institutions to digitally render the artifacts through different media to allow the Formerly located outside Banque Misr's headquarters, the night safe belongs to the maximum dissemination of this heritage. Star of the Orient, the late Umm Kulthum. She deposited her jewelry in the bank's On May 11th, 2011 during a grand ceremony, Banque Misr Museum was inaugurated in night safe after the end of her shows every day. The bank would always take inventory the presence of the bank's former chairmen, as well as Talaat Harb Pasha's family. Since of Umm Kulthum's jewelry the day after receiving them. then, Banque Misr Museum has become a top destination for Arab and foreign tourists. The night safe gave Talaat Harb Pasha a head start by being the first to introduce the The bank has signed several partnerships aiming to instill the sense of belonging among system of depositing jewelry in 1927. the new generation by acquainting them with this unique story of success in the history of the Egyptian economy. 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 7 Banque Misr Museum Banque Misr Museum Banque Misr's Registry Book of public figures' visits, 1927 AD. A view of Talaat Harb's office Entrance of Banque Misr Museum A view of Talaat Harb's office 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 9 Banque Misr Museum Chapter One A guiding panel for Banque Misr Museum's collectibles Foreword A guiding panel for Banque Misr Museum's collectibles 10 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 11 G4-4 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-28 G4-30 G4-4 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-28 G4-30 About Banque Misr E stablished in 1920 by Egyptian pioneer economist Talaat Harb Pasha, Banque Misr (BM) introduced to Egypt the economic system relying on investing the public's savings in economic and social projects, making BM the first bank wholly owned by Banque Misr as Best Provider of Money Market Funds in Africa and the Middle East for the years 2009 and 2010, Best Provider of Money Market Funds in the Middle East for the years 2008, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, and Best Provider of Short-Term Egyptians. Investments/Money Market Funds in the Middle East for the years 2016 and 2017. Since the very beginning, the first bank owned by Egyptians for Egyptians has been Banque Misr's position as a regional pioneer is outstanding, having been the first bank committed to establishing companies in various sectors, such as textiles, insurance, in Egypt and North Africa to adhere to PCI data security standards, obtaining the latest transportation, aviation, entertainment, and filmmaking. All the while, the bank has iteration of the global Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS 3.2) never faltered in providing continuous support to its other regular banking and investment certification. BM's cutting-edge technologies facilitate its customers' access to banking activities. Presently, Banque Misr owns shares in 158 companies across different fields services; a quality the bank prides itself on. Banque Misr's ATM network today covers ranging from finance, tourism, housing, agriculture, and food, to companies in the field the entire country; making it one of Egypt's largest ATM networks. of communication and information technology. With 14,497 employees serving a client base of around 8 million, and a total paidIn recognition of the bank's persistent efforts to offer premium and up to the minute up capital amounting to EGP 15 billion, the bank's geographic outreach is extensive, services to all its esteemed clients, leading finance magazine Global Finance named especially in the economic sector. 12 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 G4-4 G4-5 G4-7 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-28 G4-30 G4-28 The bank's headquarters is located at 151 Mohamed Farid Street, Downtown, Cairo, Egypt. With over 600 electronically integrated branches owned and Material Topics: G4-30 operated on the national and international levels, Banque Misr is working to further expand its network. In addition to its extensive network in Egypt, it also has five branches in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), one T he 2016/2017 Annual Report is our third edition, guided by the framework of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); it is not just a review of Banque Misr's financial in Paris, a subsidiary in Germany, and 20 more branches of its subsidiary in Lebanon, and two representative offices in Russia (Moscow) and China achievements. It also aims, through an integrated approach, to highlight (Guangzhou). We are currently working on expanding further. the value and impact of Banque Misr's contribution to society. In addition to our already established worldwide network of correspondents, Therefore, the report encompasses both financial and non-financial data we aim in 2018 to launch more representative offices in Italy (Milan), South and information in hopes of being able to deliver a clear image of the Korea (Seoul), and in a number of African countries. kind of value we provide for our customers, society, and stakeholders throughout the year. At Banque Misr, we recognize and tackle topics Yet, we as Banque Misr do not only focus on our financial success and the expansion of our institution; in Banque Misr we commit to higher pertaining to sustainability that are crucial both to the bank and its values. We are equally committed to achieving progress in the Sustainable stakeholders. Development Goals defined by the United Nations (UN) in several areas, Our definition of a stakeholder takes a much broader sense than most including human rights, labor, preserving the environment, and combating people associate with the word. We consider anyone in contact with corruption. They are the core of our operations and we are determined to our institution as a stakeholder; whether they are an employee, existing succeed at furthering them. client, prospective client, the government, partners, suppliers, or even The bank has also extensively worked on supporting the communities in a nongovernmental organization (NGO). which it operates by carrying out a number of social initiatives and activities The four following action areas are what we consider necessary for our to enhance the general welfare of the community, with a special focus on success and sustainability: health, human rights, and the environment. As one of the leading public banks working toward the promotion of the The BM Approach: outlines Banque Misr's efforts in consolidating state's public policy, Banque Misr has taken part in several initiatives and and disseminating the culture of financial inclusion, as highlighted protocols to support national projects, including Al-Robeky Leather City in the introduction by BM's Chairman Mr. Mohamed Mahmoud Elworkshops, industrial complexes for micro, small, and medium-sized Etreby, and in the introduction to Banque Misr's financial statements. enterprises (MSMEs), «Mashrouak» (Your Project) program, the New The BM Approach also defines the principles that govern the bank's Damietta Furniture City workshops, pharmacists' businesses, etc. This internal culture and operations. comes in line with Banque Misr's deep belief that SMEs are a critical How BM Operates: explains the fundamental principles that govern component of the Egyptian economy, as they significantly contribute to our business as a whole, including how we keep our employees and the state's GDP. facilities safe, how we reduce any potential harmful impact on the Banque Misr has been supporting the national economy since its inception environment, how we engage with our community, and with our 97 years ago, and pledges to continue its sponsorship and support for collaborations and partnerships. national projects, companies, and investments to empower the national economy and investment prospects. BM Activities: outlines our key accomplishments, especially our operations in Egypt and the steps taken to support the national Ownership: economy. BM Financial Performance: drafts our financial performance for the B anque Misr is a state-run bank, with 100% of its shares owned by the Egyptian government. year based on transparent reports on financial statements. 14 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 15 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr's gold coin of 1970 AD, commemorating 50 years since Banque Misr's silver coin of 1980 AD, commemorating 60 years since its its establishment. The coin features the bank's headquarters and its establishment. The coin features the bank's headquarters and its Queen Queen Cleopatra icon. Cleopatra icon. 16 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 17 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr's EGP 5 silver coin of 1995 AD, commemorating its Banque Misr's gold coin of 1995 AD, commemorating its diamond diamond jubilee, which marked 75 years since its establishment. The jubilee, which marked 75 years since its establishment. The coin coin features the bank's tower building and Queen Cleopatra icon. features the bank's headquarters. 18 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 19 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr’s Commemorative Coins Banque Misr's EGP 1 silver coin of 1995 AD, commemorating its Banque Misr's EGP 1 gold coin of 1995 AD, commemorating its diamond jubilee, which marked 75 years since its establishment. The diamond jubilee, which marked 75 years since its establishment. The coin features the bank's tower building and its Queen Cleopatra icon. coin features the bank's tower building and its Queen Cleopatra icon. 20 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 21 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Commemorative Postage Stamps Banque Misr Commemorative Postage Stamps Misr Organization's postage stamp issued in 1961 AD in denominations of 10 millimes, on the occasion of the establishment of Banque Misr and in remembrance of the late Talaat Harb Pasha's 94th birthday (1867-1961). The stamp features Misr Spinning and Weaving Company's factories in Mahala El Kobra. It was made by the Survey Department, in the period of the United Arab Republic. A postage stamp issued in 1970 AD in denominations of 20 millimes, on the occasion of BM's golden jubilee that marked 50 years since its establishment. The stamp features Talaat Harb Pasha and Banque Misr's headquarters, It was made in the period of the United Arab A postage stamp issued in 1992 AD 1413 AH in remembrance of late Republic. Talaat Harb Pasha's 125th birthday (1867-1992). The stamp was issued in denominations of 10 piastres designed by Lotfy El Sawaf and made in Cairo Postal Printing Press. 22 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 23 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Commemorative Postage Stamps Chapter Two BM Approach A postage stamp issued in 1995 AD in denominations of 15 piastres on the occasion of Banque Misr's diamond jubilee, which marked 75 years since its establishment (1920-1995). The stamp was designed by Saeed El Badrawy and made in Cairo Postal Printing Press. 24 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 25 BM Approach F ounded with the mission to contribute substantially to the welfare and prosperity of Egypt, Banque Misr continues to adhere to its mission steadfastly, through capitalizing on the interests and demands of the Egyptian masses, whose welfare has always been at the very core of each operation and decision. We do not simply strive to generate profit, we strive to serve as a national financial catalyst, to be relied on to implement and aid national and strategic development in various social and economic fields. Seeking to own the largest network of branches in Egypt and the Middle East, the bank currently owns and operates more than 600 branches, each working to meet the objective of our inception. Each branch of ours exerts major efforts to meet the community's various financial needs across the nation. This section is dedicated to telling our tale of success. As with every story of success, ours was based on long-term commitment, fundamental principles of sustainability, governance, and distinction; the principles that underpin every operation of ours. Through this section as well, we present our current role and our future goals; to keep pace with the globe's momentto-moment political, economic, environmental, and technological changes. Our ambition is to further ensure sustainable growth, rendering it central to our way of doing business. 26 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 27 G4-1 G4-23 G4-1 G4-23 Creating Value for Society, Delivering Underlying Strong Results Introduction by the Chairman: O ver the past years, we have led Banque Misr to significantly improve returns and growth in value. The bank always seeks to have steady progress by achieving long-term sustainable plans along with increasing awareness of the importance of business ethics and being a responsible corporate citizen with a culture based on governance and compliance. We at Banque Misr are working proactively to ensure that we meet our clients' demands, support the community, and actively engage with our partners and stakeholders. Thereby, the impact of this deliberate path is incontestable in the bank's financial year 2016/2017 results that were released in the bank's third Sustainability Report, which has been prepared in compliance with the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. As we mark our third year of joining the UN Global Compact, we have been thoroughly committed to complying with its 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and combating corruption. We have moreover continued to ensure that the principles of corporate governance remain uncompromised. Also during 2016/2017, the bank has witnessed a significant growth in its business size, which was evidenced by the net profit increasing to around EGP 8.2 billion on June 30th, 2017, compared to EGP 5.5 billion on June 30th, 2016, marking a growth of approximately 48.5%. 28 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 29 G4-1 G4-23 G4-1 G4-23 The bank achieved good indicators, despite the country's Throughout fiscal year 2016/2017, the bank was able to arrange, fund, and participate in a number of syndicated challenges in carrying out its ambitious economic reform financing facilities totaling EGP 69.5 billion, distributed across a number of sectors, including electricity, program, which in return has affected the performance of cement, real estate investment, and oil. the banking sector throughout financial year 2016/2017. We relied on several aspects and strategies to develop our products and services in line with the government's reform Financial Inclusion: policies. Ambitious Economic Reforms and B anque Misr considers the ideal of financial inclusion to be a main target in light of its effects on achieving financial and social stability, enhancing growth opportunities, and creating comprehensive and sustainable development in our homeland. As such, the bank undertakes several activities to ensure that appropriate financial planning is achieved for the prosperity of the people and the development of the economy. Significant Challenges: Banque Misr has been a pioneer in spreading the culture of financial inclusion since its inception in Egypt, as our role T he Egyptian government embarked on an ambitious economic reform program and has taken decisive measures aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability and does not solely comprise of profit generation but principally also includes serving as a national financial catalyst, to be relied on to implement and support national and strategic development in various social and economic fields. As such, the bank always strives to serve the state's plans toward financial inclusion and the transition toward a sustainable public finances. The reform program, guided by cashless society by contributing to several initiatives, protocols, conferences, and programs that work on spreading the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) three-year $12 the culture of financial inclusion, as well as expanding electronic payment acceptance. billion bailout scheme, included the liberalization of the exchange rate regime, fiscal consolidation measures, and A gradual transition to a cashless society contributes in turn to attracting more segments of society through improvements in the business environment. innovative technological services to support electronic payment methods, in view of the weight of financial inclusion in maximizing the rates of economic growth and social development. Furthermore, Banque Misr firmly On November 3rd, 2016, the Central Bank of Egypt floated believes in the importance of enforcing financial inclusion as an inevitability and a priority for banks in Egypt in the Egyptian pound against the US dollar in a bold move the upcoming period. Banks must unite their efforts with those of the Central Bank of Egypt to take effective steps aimed at tackling a widening gap between the official and toward achieving a qualitative leap in the Egyptian economy through boosting financial inclusion. black market exchange rates. The decision further aimed to improve the country's external competitiveness, support exports and tourism, and attract foreign investment. E-Payment solutions The liberalization of the exchange rate regime was a key Banque Misr has an ATM network that serves our customers and all other financial institutions through 2,154 step toward restoring the competitiveness of the economy advanced ATM machines spread nationwide. In addition to the basic cash withdrawal and deposit services, the bank and boosting private sector activity, which had been has added several new services to its ATMs. These services include monetary transfers between individuals, bill severely impeded by shortages of foreign currency. It has payments, donations, and payments of various subscription fees. Banque Misr also improved its e-payment service also contributed to restoring the international financial by adding a service enabling social insurance e-payment, in addition to tax and other customs e-payments through institutions' confidence in the Egyptian economy; thereby, 326 branches distributed across Egypt, collecting about EGP 16 billion during 2016/2017. Aiming to turn Egypt the Egyptian stock market indices recorded significant into a cashless society, Banque Misr pioneered to occupy a total market share of 48% in automating governmental growth throughout 2017. workers' salaries through its ATM network. Following the liberalization decision, the Central Bank of Banque Misr has maintained first place in this field for the last 12 consecutive years. The total value of automated Egypt made two interest-rate increases during fiscal year 2016/2017, in an effort to control inflation after the salaries exceeded EGP 55 billion during fiscal year 2016/2017, dispensed to 2.4 million and 746,000 cards for the government raised fuel and electricity prices as part of other reform measures. public and private sectors, respectively, in addition to 58,000 accounts as of January 2018. Banque Misr was also ranked first in government payment services and collection of customs duties. Moreover, Helping Drive the Economy: BM came in first place in terms of merchant outlets accepting debit and credit cards with 16,413 locations as of December 2017, in addition to 14,577 POS terminals spread all over Egypt and a trading value of EGP 9.08 billion S ince its foundation in 1920, we at Banque Misr have remained committed to effective participation to achieve development in all sectors of the national economy. Furthermore, we are dedicated to facilitating financial services for everyone in the community, underlining our commitment to a sustainable success and in fiscal year 2016/2017. continuous development, which remain at the core of Banque Misr's principles and objectives. Supporting M SMEs Meanwhile, we at Banque Misr have continued to carry out this strategy for development, which places Holding steadfastly to our commitment to providing a sustainable financing channel to support the profitable high emphasis on the importance of creating value for society. During the year, the bank played an active growth of micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), the bank firmly believes in the important role role in financing vital infrastructure, intra-regional trade, and renewable energy projects whilst providing played by MSMEs in the development of the national economy. Thereby, Banque Misr has taken part in several tailored financial solutions for small and medium-sized enterprises and supporting entrepreneurs. This is in initiatives and protocols for several MSME projects, such as Al-Robeky Leather City workshops, the MSMEs addition to Banque Misr's contributions toward achieving sustainable development in the economic, social, industrial complexes, “Mashrouak” (Your Project) program, the New Damietta Furniture City workshops, environmental, cultural, and educational fronts as part of its corporate social responsibility. pharmacists' businesses, etc. The bank continues to provide its robust support to entrepreneurs and conducts periodic follow-ups to determine whether or not they are undertaking conscious decisions and effective procedures 30 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 31 G4-1 G4-23 G4-DMA G4-SO1 G4-1 G4-23 to improve their financial conditions. Banque Misr further provides funding for MSME projects through its the enhancement of dozens of villages in desperate need for branches nationwide to various different industrial, agricultural, and services sectors. This comes in line with development. Banque Misr's deep belief that MSMEs are a critical component of the Egyptian economy. The amount spent on supporting corporate social We at Banque Misr do not just offer funding to the owners of micro, small, and medium business projects, but we responsibility jumped to about EGP 351.4 million in fiscal also provide them with the necessary technical support. Our vision for sustainability incorporates several elements year 2016/2017, compared to EGP 122.58 million in fiscal aimed at providing maximum support to the MSMEs sector. Those elements include standardized restructuring year 2015/2016. This amount surged once again to more than and decentralized lending policies in addition to helping improve the skills of the MSMEs Division staff, who were EGP 535 million by mid-2017/2018. offered training courses to qualify them to meet the expectations of MSME customers. Moreover, the bank has also recruited an additional 150 personnel to join this division. These efforts were reflected in the positive indicators achieved by Banque Misr, as the total financing portfolio for smalland medium-sized projects registered EGP Attracting and Developing 3.6 billion, with a number of clients reaching 60,000 on June 30th, 2017. The bank also provided loans worth EGP Great People: 929 million for micro projects by June 30th, 2017, which then surged to EGP 1.366 billion by December 31st, 2017. By the end of 2017, Banque Misr's MSMEs funding portfolio had doubled, achieving an increase of EGP 3.2 billion E mployees are the most important asset at Banque Misr, and that is why the bank always provides them with all the tools needed to enhance their outstanding performance, i.e. 69.5% growth in the volume of funding MSMEs projects in just six months during the period from June 30th, 2017 until December 31st, 2017. professionalism, loyalty, and dedication in implementing the bank's strategy. Mortgages for Low-income Citizens Therefore, the bank focuses on enhancing employees' satisfaction levels, improving the work environment, and As part of the bank's pioneering role in pushing Egypt's economy forward, Banque Misr announced its participation attracting skillful calibers, in addition to developing employees' in the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) mortgage finance initiative, with the aim of boosting the real estate and management and leadership skills to create future leaders. construction sectors for low, middle, and upper-middle income citizens. The value of the CBE initiative potofolio In this context, Banque Misr offered promotion and training at Banque Misr reached EGP 2.17 billion in December 2017. opportunities for several employees at different levels in the bank, designed to maintain motivation and promote passion. The Making the Bank More Accessible bank aims to boost the technical, administrative, and leadership skills of its employees to qualify them to assume leading In line with the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) initiative to foster greater financial inclusion, and seeking to meet positions in their future careers. In addition, the bank proactively the needs of our customers wherever they are, Banque Misr has expanded its geographical presence to more than 600 implements gender-sensitive recruitment as women now occupy electronically connected local and international branches, compared to 580 the previous year. The bank also plans to 30.43% of the total number of the bank's employees. open 275 new branches over the next few years, boosting its network of branches to around 875 by 2022. Our ultimate The bank also organized several economic seminars and target is to facilitate access to the bank across the country in order to reach all the different social segments. provided several economic reports to keep the staff up-toFurthermore, BM's international presence is in; the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Lebanon, Paris, Germany, date on the recent economic changes and their impacts on the Russia, and China. This is in addition to our established worldwide network of correspondents, and our ongoing financial environment in general, and the banking business in plans to expand our international presence in Italy and South Korea, as well as in some African countries. particular. Social Impact: No One Can Do It Alone: S tressing the fact that no one institution, company, nation, or organization can solve the sustainability challenges we collectively face, Banque Misr's policy depends on and encourages collective efforts. Building a better Ienvironment n conclusion, all people contributing to these results should be proud of their achievement, which is steering the bank, with its great responsibility toward stakeholders, customers, staff, suppliers, the community, and the – toward a process of continual improvement. Banque Misr's ‘Working Together for Prosperity’ is world demands that we work together and combine expertise, networks, influence, and passion toward meaningful solutions. This is also why we at Banque Misr continue to support the principles of the United Nations Global not just a slogan, but it is undoubtedly the way we integrate our business to achieve the optimal norm of customer Compact. We must remind ourselves, daily, not to accept that things have to be the way they are; we have to change satisfaction as well as ensure an added value to our beloved country. things to be the way they should be and set a good example for other institutions to follow. For this, I would like to express our appreciation to the Central Bank of Egypt, the Ministry of Finance, and designated authorities in Egypt for their relentless support of the bank's activities. On behalf of the Board of Banque Misr commits itself to achieving progress in the Egyptian community, directly or indirectly through Banque Directors, I would like to thank the bank's management team and employees for their commitment and dedication Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD). BMFCD was established as a separate entity (non to secure Banque Misr's principles and strategies, as well as our stakeholders for their support and confidence, and for profit organization) managed by a board of trustees to address deep-rooted social, developmental, and health especially to our valued customers for their continued trust. challenges. Sincerely, The bank as well as the foundation continue to play a prominent role in developing and providing assistance to Mohamed Mahmoud El-Etreby society through engaging in several activities to support the development of the community, such as developing slum areas, villages, hospitals, schools, sports centers, in addition to other aspects related to human development. Chairman, The foundation has initiated, as well as executed, a number of activities in line with this objective, contributing to 32 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 33 Financial Highlights for fiscal year 2016/2017 2017 Sustainability Highlights Financial Position (Year to June 30th) Customers’ Deposits (Year to June 30th) SUPPORTING LOCAL INDUSTRY LOWER ENERGY EGP 787 billion More than EGP 532 billion Used 15,000 packing bags for Installed LED lighting, reducing BM's printing materials, made energy consumption by 9% in 2017 787 2017 532.5 from Egyptian cotton and 100% each branch. Egyptian-made materials. 2016 430 2016 341 The bank has presented giveaways 2015 331 2015 290 to its customers; a wooden model of a cell phone amplifier and leather products, which were 100% manufactured by Egyptian raw materials and workforce, in Retail Portfolio (Year to June 30th) Microfinancing (Year to June 30th) line with the state's strategy to support local industry. More than EGP 18 billion EGP 929 million 2017 18.1 2017 929 2016 14.5 2016 328 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT RECYCLING 2015 7.8 Women constitute 30.43% of This year's prints are made out of BM's employees. more than 17 tons of 100% locally made recycled materials. 300 tons of paper were shreded Branches (Year to June 30th) CSR Donations (Year to June 30th) to be recycled. Over 600 local and international EGP 351.35 million branches 2017 600 2017 351.35 IMPROVING WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENT 2016 580 2016 122.58 2015 500 2015 85.56 349,416 training hours to qualify employees to assume leading positions in their future careers 34 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 35 G4-56 G4-56 Our Strategy: Integrity Beconomic, anque Misr carries a mission at the core of its strategy to build on its business and promote effective financial inclusion through solidifying a close connection to the environmental, and social landscape in which we exist and operate. Our integrity relies on open, direct, and honest interactions with everyone, not just our customers and stakeholders. Throughout its 97 years in business, the bank was built with the awareness that it has to adopt sustainable approaches to ensure continuity to its businesses. Those sustainable We: approaches strive to maintain a balance of social, environmental, and economic Communicate openly considerations in all of its decisions. Acknowledge, accept, and learn from our mistakes Our Vision: Our distinctive performance secures us the leadership we deserve. Take risk seriously and manage it prudently Our Mission: To fulfill all of our customers' banking needs excellently while Hold intensely to what we view to be right and ethical maximizing stakeholders' value, inspiring employees' loyalties, and playing a leading role in the prosperity and development of Egypt. Our Values: The bank has ensured that its success is built on infallible standards of integrity especially when it comes to serving its customers. Teamwork, accountability and innovation are also hallmarks in our system of operation; they serve as our guidance when it comes to both our customers and employees. The awareness that our success can only be built on that of our customers and communities ensures that we do business openly, Sense of Belonging directly, and sustainably. We are dedicated to the fulfillment and development of the aspirations of Our Values our community and clients We: Have a sense of ownership in the bank's activities and whole-heartedly partake in its successes while learning from its failures Have a strong sense of responsibility in terms of performance and risks in Accountability relation to both the bank and its clients Assume responsibility toward the economy and society We are always looking to our next step, planning for it, and striving for quality. We: Are accountable to our stakeholders, customers, coworkers, and community Contribute to the economic, social, and environmental development of Egypt Teamwork Our team members are part of a very large family that values and respects every member, regardless of what their roles are. We: Believe the best outcome is achieved when people work together Customer Services Believe that every single employee matters and contributes to our success Believe great teams are built on mutual trust, shared ownership, and We are a customer-oriented business and we work to maintain our accountability relationships with them. Place the team's success ahead of individual success We: Build diverse teams, capable of generating creative ideas and taking balanced decisions Sustain customer satisfaction and trust as our main objective Value every person and respect individual differences in mentality, style, Help our clients fulfill their financial goals culture, ethnicity, and experiences Strive to surpass our customers' expectations 36 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 37 G4-56 Awards and Recognitions: Excellence We aim not only for excellent performance, but we also aim for a Banque Misr has been recognized by various professional institutions for its consistent and strong financial performance as well as its innovative banking products and services. Banque sustainable, consistent performance and results. Misr's persistent support in providing funds to projects across various sectors has also been identified and recognized as one of the key factors of its success by global awarding institutions. We: Add value to stakeholders by prioritizing long-term success over shortThe key awards received for 2017 are as follows: term gains Ensure that discipline and perseverance govern all our actions in order for International Finance Banque Misr has been honored with two prestigious awards, being adjudged the Best CSR Bank in Egypt 2017 and the Best E-Tax Collection Bank in us to garner outstanding results for our customers Work with our clients to help them reach their current goals, while Magazine Egypt 2017 by International Finance Magazine (IFM) of the UK, which is anticipating and planning for their future objectives read in over 185 countries worldwide. Banque Mir has received the Latest Version of the Global Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS 3.2) certification by Control Control Case Case, a leading provider of Compliance, Information Security, and Risk Management Solutions. In recognition of the bank's continuous efforts to improve the quality of service and excellence in all its products and businesses, Banque Misr has Innovation Tatweej received the Gold Medallion for Excellency and Quality and Al Nisr Al Arabi Award for General Management Strategies from Tatweej Academy We acknowledge that innovation and practicality must go hand-in-hand for Excellence Awards in the Arab region. We: London-based Global Banking and Finance Review, one of the largest Produce new ideas and improve our processes and platforms by specialized financial magazines in the world, has awarded Banque Misr as embracing updated and improved methods Global Banking & the Fastest Growing SME Bank in Egypt 2017, in addition to the Fastest Growing Bank for Micro Financing in Egypt 2017. The bank has been Leverage technological innovation Finance Review Magazine awarded this honor in recognition of the high growth rates achieved in 2017 Provide our clients with suitable solutions to their problems in comparison with the previous years, especially with regards to funding SME and Microfinancing. Believe that the application of intelligence, reason, and science has a positive impact on people and their businesses Banque Misr has received the Best Bank Supporting Youth Projects in the Mohammed Bin Arab World award from Mohammed Bin Rashid Establishment for Small Rashid’s Dubai SME and Medium Enterprise (Dubai SME). The bank was recognized for its ongoing efforts in supporting young entrepreneurs involved in MSMEs. According to the Bloomberg's Global Report for the third quarter of 2017, Banque Misr was recognized as the Best Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Bloomberg Arranger in Egypt. In addition, the bank was also named the Second Best Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Arranger across Africa. Banque Misr has been named for the ninth consecutive year as the Best Provider of Money Market Funds and Short-Term Investments in the Middle East 2017, by the New York-based Global Finance, one of the largest specialized financial magazines in the world. Such an award is granted to the Global Finance Magazine best bank across the Middle East and to the bank with the highest degree of excellence in terms of revenue, quality of services provided to customers, market share, competitive prices in comparison with other banks, and in using up-to-date and innovative banking technologies. 38 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 39 G4-6 G4-8 G4-23 G4-16 G4-6 G4-8 G4-16 G4-23 G4-16 Domestic and international presence: BM’s Presence in the UAE: Bandanque Misr's five branches in the UAE are spread across Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Al Ain, Sharjah, and Ras Al Khaimah. The Sharjah branch has been moved to a new location the Abu Dhabi branch was renovated in 2017, to match our corporate identity while being installed with the latest equipment. The bank has tailored a number of banking services to best fit and satisfy the UAE community, especially Egyptian expatriates living there. It offers them a wide range of corporate, retail and treasury banking products, in addition to several state-initiated funds and certificates. The UAE branches also allow them to purchase Belady Deposit Certificates in euros and US dollars in addition to Talaat Harb and Al Qemma Deposit Certificates in Egyptian pounds; both being very high-yielding certificates. In terms of the branches in the UAE, Banque Misr has restructured them, improved the efficiency of their network and developed their IT infrastructure and communication systems, while doubling the UAE branches' paid-in-capital, granting them a subordinated loan to support their capital base. The restructuring successfully enabled these branches to offer comprehensive packages of its various products and services, thus rendering them regional centers for activities in the GCC states. Banque Misr UAE will offer mortgage loans for Egyptian expatriates in the UAE to enable them to book housing units in Egypt using the local currency (EGP); this will provide Egyptian residents in the UAE with services that cover and satisfy all their needs. BM’s Presence in Lebanon: B anque Misr's Board of Directors adopts a market-driven expansion strategy. All branches are electronically connected to facilitate clients' financial interactions whether in branches or ATM network spread nationwide. E stablished in Lebanon in 1929 and located in the heart of Beirut's commercial center and all over the Lebanese region, Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML), offers a variety of distinctive corporate, retail, investments, treasury, and private banking services. The bank has also upgraded its operating procedures, branches' layout, and Due to its strategic locations in different Lebanese cities, BML's network grew rapidly. ATM machines. In addition, all branches are supplied with the most up-to-date The BML network features an extensive ATM network and online banking services; technologies and modern equipment to provide clients with efficient time saving its customer base continues to expand and diversify to encompass a wider range of retail experience. Banque Misr is widely acknowledged as one of the most widespread banking and SME fields. banks in the Middle East and Africa; all of our products and services can be easily Several internal reform measures, including restructuring the senior executive accessed. management and implementing a comprehensive and integrated plan to expand and develop the bank's services and operations to match the latest offered in the global Banque Misr has ensured geographic privilege by owning and adopting branches banking industry, resulted in a growth in BML's total assets by 84.42%, while deposits abroad as BM currently has five branches established in the United Arab Emirates increased by 69.32%. In addition, the loans and advances to customers surged by 162.21% (UAE), one in Paris, a subsidiary in Germany, 20 branches of our subsidiary over the past five years. These major developments were also made possible by increasing BML's paid-in capital, which recorded 120 billion Lebanese liras. Additionally, BML in Lebanon and two representative offices in Russia (Moscow) and China is committed to enhancing its loans portfolio, while supporting its provisions and (Guangzhou). In 2018, BM plans to launch representative offices in Italy (Milan) reserves. and South Korea (Seoul), in addition to some African countries. The bank's network has reached 20 branches in 2017 and is still expanding. Approximately As part of the bank's development strategy that aims to continue providing the two new branches are opened every year; in addition, the bank remains committed to latest financial services to its diverse client base, Banque Misr's senior management applying the latest technologies to increase productivity and improve the quality of its services. team has exerted all possible efforts to develop and enhance the performance of BML established Misr Liban Insurance Brokers S.A.L. in December 2010, to emphasize the bank's international branches. financial services integration especially through bancassurance activities. Misr Liban 40 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 41 G4-6 G4-8 G4-8 G4-23 G4-16 G4-6 G4-8 G4-16 G4-23 Insurance Brokers S.A.L. was created with the aim of developing a comprehensive set allocation of risk capital in the framework of the yearly update to the risk strategy of banking products and services to meet the needs of the banking market in the fields played an important role in ensuring the presence of a strong risk management system. of retail, corporate, treasury, investments and private banking, alongside other financial The bank's continuous marketing activities have positively contributed to the increase services. in letter of credit activities between Egypt and Germany, in addition to the adoption In 2017, Banque Misr Liban opened its representative office in Abidjan, République of several initiatives targeting Germany-based SMEs that work in coordination with de Côte d'Ivoire in West Africa. This representative office (BMLCI) caters to the companies operating in Egypt. Lebanese expatriate community in West Africa and provides full logistical services to Misr Bank Europe GmbH's export finance product offers insurance-covered financing of Lebanese and Egyptian nationals willing to invest in West Africa. In addition, BMLCI export receivables to Egyptian exporters, correspondent banking services to banks in Egypt supports and works closely with the company Egypt Lebanon for Africa (ELA). and the Middle East, along with financing and handling a range of exports from Egypt. The bank's significant increase in deposits in 2013 enabled it to move from the Gamma The bank's ongoing efforts have strongly contributed to a large volume of high-class group to the Beta group (i.e. moving from small banks to medium-sized banks). World assets in syndicated loans and the establishment of a highly liquid financial asset Finance awarded Banque Misr Liban the prize for the best commercial bank in 2012, in portfolio. In turn, this generates revenue that guarantees the continuation of a steady recognition of its outstanding performance. The bank also won The Best Visual award flow of income and an increase in business volume, reflecting positively on the bank's in the same year for its distinctive and unique website. overall financial performance. The growth of BML's business comes in the light of the application of the highest standards of corporate governance, careful adherence to all regulatory requirements and standards, strict risk management guidelines, and a strong financial position. BM’s Presence in France: BML has still shown endurance and looks forward to a promising period of steady growth and continued development for all its activities and services, especially under the leadership of its Board of Directors and with the strength of its qualified senior management team. BML will continue working on upholding its objective of serving its Bon rueanque Misr's Paris branch was inaugurated in 1922 on rue Danielle Casanova, formerly known as rue Neuve-des-Petits-Champs and it was re-inaugurated in 1984 Auber in Paris. customers in the best possible ways. The branch includes Egyptian and French financial experts with a clear mandate to support and promote trade and economic ties between Egypt and Europe. Since the BM’s Presence in Germany: branch is ideally positioned in the Eurozone, it is focused on trade finance and corporate banking. It also aims to provide its clients with tailored solutions while adhering to the highest standards of the industry. Fsubsidiary ollowing Banque Misr's successful experience in international markets, BM's top management decided to open a subsidiary in Frankfurt, Germany in 1992. The was called Misr Bank Europe GmbH. Currently, Banque Misr owns 79.75% The Paris branch also provides retail-banking services to clientele with ties to Egypt. In addition, the branch is currently upgrading its online banking service to better cater to a more modern and demanding clientele. of the subsidiary (69.75% directly and 10% through Banque Du Caire). Misr Bank Europe GmbH is considered the first Egyptian bank in Germany and has € a paid in-capital of 30 million. It also has a full banking license and is a member of BM Representative Offices: the Association of German Banks. Customers' deposits are covered by the association's deposit insurance. The bank earned prominent memberships in a number of local, Arab, and international banking organizations, including the Germany-based Association of Foreign Bis located anque Misr has established representative offices in 2017 as a part of its strategy to further expand into the international market. One of the new representative offices in Guangzhou (the People's Republic of China) and the other one in Moscow Banks, the Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Private Banking (the Russian Federation). Industry's Employers Association, and the German Near and Middle East Association The main business activities of BM representative offices aim to: (NUMOV), along with the Union of Arab Banks in Beirut and the German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Cairo. Establish key relations and liaison activities with state-owned and private banks, financial institutions, companies, organizations and institutions By concentrating on its strength in trade finance and guarantees, the bank was able to successfully master the financial crisis and the long period of low interest rates witnessed Create business opportunities for Banque Misr's branches and units in Egypt, the UAE, over the last few years. Updating the bank's core banking system in 2013 and developing Lebanon, France and Germany, which provide a comprehensive range of products and a new risk management concept also contributed to an enhanced risk awareness. A services including trade finance (letters of credit, letters of guarantee and collections), comprehensive and forward-looking management of risk is an important factor in the payment orders, transfers, corporate credit, etc success of Misr Bank Europe GmbH, which is why it applied a competent risk bearing Strengthen the relations between Banque Misr and its correspondent banks capacity concept and an experienced management. In that regard, the bank's limited Handle market research and analysis 42 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 43 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles The Order of Nile The Order of Nile On September 25th, 1980 AD, a decree to grant the name of Talaat Harb Pasha Granted to late Talaat Harb Pasha, late President Mohamed Anwar al-Sadat hands the Order of the Nile was issued and later came into effect on Dhu al-Qidah 16th, the Order of the Nile to Talaat Harb Pasha's grandchildren on November 15th, 1400 AH, November 15th, 1980 AD. The Order was gifted by Ms. Amal, Talaat 1980 AD during the celebrations that marked 60 years since the establishment of Harb Pasha's granddaughter, to Banque Misr. Banque Misr. 44 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 45 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles The Order of the Nile Holy Kaaba’s Kiswa Piece The Order of the Nile is Egypt's highest state honor awarded for exceptional services to the nation; usually awarded to the President of the Republic and sometimes granted to other Heads of State, whether in their lives or on the anniversaries of their deaths. The medal is made out of pure gold, comprised of golden intertwining square shapes representing three ancient Egyptian symbols. The first is a symbol of protection to keep In 1937, His Majesty King Abdulaziz Al Saud presented the two pieces of the Holy the nation safe. The second symbolizes the prosperity and happiness with which the Nile Kaaba's Kiswa to the leading Egyptian economist Talaat Harb Pasha, in recognition of sustained Ancient Egypt; while the third represents goodness and permanence. the early economic projects Banque Misr and its firms had initiated in Saudi Arabia. Between each square shape, there are flowers made out of gold encrusted with ruby and The two pieces encompass a decorative black brocade cover, embroidered in gold with turquoise. There is also a golden clasp ornament attached to the medal. It is a hexagonal Quranic verses. One of the Kiswa pieces was later added to Banque Misr Museum as a ornament with Pharaonic flowers, turquoise, and ruby. In the middle, there is a basprecious donation made by Ambassador Mohamed Hassona on behalf of Talaat Harb relief picturing the Nile as a symbol for unifying Lower (represented as the papyrus) and Pasha's grandchildren. Upper (represented as the lotus) Egypt. 46 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 47 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Holy Kaaba’s Kiswa Piece Chapter Three How BM Operates It is worth noting that the Kiswa used to be manufactured in Egypt and sent with the Hajj caravan to Saudi Arabia every year through the Mahmal, a richly decorated palanquin carried by a camel. Every year, the old Kiswa is removed, cut into small pieces, and granted by the King of Saudi Arabia to certain public figures. Presenting the two pieces of Kiswa the door and the belt to Talaat Harb Pasha demonstrates the high standing he enjoyed in the Saudi Kingdom at that time. 48 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 49 Board of Directors As of Fiscal Year 2016/2017 Board of Directors As of September 2017 Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Ahmed Abu El Ezz Mr. Akef El Maghraby Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Akef El Maghraby Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Ms. Sahar El-Damati Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Ahmed ElNahas Board Member Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Board Member Dr. Ali El-Saiedi Board Member Mr. Ahmed El-Guindy Mrs. Maha Heba EnayetAlla Board Member Board Member Dr. Riham Moustafa Mr. Mohamed El-Hamamsy Board Member Board Member Mr. Tamer Gadallah Mr. Mohamed Sherif Sharaf Board Member Board Member 50 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 51 Members of Board of Directors As of September 2017 52 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 53 Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby Mr. Akef El Maghraby Chairman Vice Chairman Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby is a prominent banker with more Mr. Akef El Maghraby joined Banque Misr in August than 35 years of experience in the banking field. Prior 2016 as its Vice Chairman. Prior to that, he spent 16 to joining Banque Misr, he was the CEO and Managing years with Citibank. He is responsible for the Lines of Director of Egyptian Gulf Bank from January 2013 to Business, including Corporate, Treasury, Investment, December 2014. SMEs, Retail, Branches, Islamic Financing, and Global Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby began his banking career in Transaction Services and International Business. 1977 with the Arab African International Bank (AAIB), Mr. El Maghraby has held a variety of different positions followed by Crédit International d'Egypte bank. In 1983, throughout his banking career, including Credit Analysis, he joined Misr International Bank (MIBank, currently Corporate Finance, Ratings Advisory, and Corporate Qatar National Bank), where he spent more than 22 years, and Investment Banking. He has worked in and covered and during which he held several senior banking positions several jurisdictions, including Egypt, Bahrain, Saudi and acquired a wide range of experience in different key Arabia, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, areas of banking business. where he led and executed many landmark mergers and acquisitions (M&As), debt and equity capital markets, In September 2005, he joined the Egyptian Arab Land loan markets, and derivatives transactions. Bank as Vice Chairman and Board Member. In 2009, he was appointed as the Managing Director of the Arab He also serves as the Chairman of Misr Bank-Europe Investment Bank. In 2011, Mr. ElEtreby returned to the GmbH Frankfurt and Board Member of Banque Misr Egyptian Arab Land Bank as Chairman. In recognition of Liban S.A.L. (BML). his great achievements, Mr. El-Etreby was appointed as the Mr. El Maghraby holds a bachelor's degree in Accounting Chairman of Banque Misr in January 2015. He also serves and an MBA, both from the American University in as the Chairman of Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML). Cairo. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in Commerce from Ain Shams University in 1976. Other Current Positions: Other Current Positions: Chairman, BM Lease Chairman, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Board Member, Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB) Chairman, the Banking Committee of the American Chamber of Commerce (AmCham) Board Member, Union of Arab Banks Board Member, Cairo Amman Bank Committees: Board Member, Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), Central Bank of Egypt (E, C, V, ALCO, CRC, b2, b7, a5) Board Member, National Investment Bank Board Member, General Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI) Board Member, National Council for Childhood and Motherhood Board Member, Administrative Capital for Urban Development Board Member, Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels (EGOTH) Chairman, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. General Assembly Member, Misr Insurance Holding Company Board Member, Arab Contractors Co. Board Member, Tahya Masr Holding Company for Investment and Development Board Member, Ain Shams University (ASU) Committees: (E, ALCO, CRC) 54 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 55 Ms. Sahar El-Damati Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Ibrahim El-Sayed Vice Chairman Board Member Ms. Sahar El-Damati has banking experience extending for With more than 38 years of experience in the banking and more than 30 years, during which she occupied numerous financial industry, Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Ibrahim Elleading positions in local and international financial Sayed is one of the most prominent, well-seasoned, and institutions, exhibiting her distinguished capabilities in the experienced entrepreneurs and executives in the Middle field. East. Throughout his career, Mr. Montaser has amassed a wealth of knowledge in all areas of lending, investing, Ms. El-Damati began her career in the United States as a and funding. Since November 2017, the Egyptian researcher specialized in the tax policy department at the government assigned him as the Deputy Chairman and International Monetary Fund, before she moved to the the Managing Director of the National Investment World Bank in the financial policy and analysis department. Bank. Moreover, in September 2017, he was appointed as She went on to become a senior credit analyst and marketing the Board Member of Banque Misr. officer at the Commercial International Bank, followed by Prior to his current position, Mr. Montaser was selected a position as the head of credit and portfolio management in August 2013 to be the Executive Vice Chairman of at the Social Fund for Development. Later, she moved to the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), one of the largest the Arab African International Bank, where she headed and most distnguished banks in Egypt. As Vice the risk management department and foreign branches as Chairman of NBE, Mr. Montaser led the day-to-day well as being a member of the Board of Directors, whilst commercial banking departments; such as Corporate & simultaneously teaching banking and credit at the American Syndications, Investment, Foreign Affairs & Treasury University in Cairo and the Egyptian Banking Institute. In as well as Retail and Branches. While directing this addition, she was also a board member of Schwepps Egypt, effort, Mr. Montaser was personally responsible for a and the Egyptian Credit Bureau (I-Score). loan portfolio of over EGP 490 billion. In addition, he oversaw the human resources, customer service, Ms. El-Damati went on to take the position of Chief Risk quality assurance, project management, and researches Officer and member of the Board of Directors at HSBC departments. Prior to undertaking these duties, he for more than 10 years. She then moved on to EmiratesNBD, where she held the positions of Deputy oversaw the bank's Risk, Operations, Audit, IT, and Administrative Support departments. Managing Director, and the Executive Chief Risk Officer, as well as being a member of the Board of Directors. He was also the Executive Board Member and Head of Corporate and Syndicated Loans in 2008, having been responsible for the supervision and management of the direct and indirect credit Additionally, she held the position of Chairman of Dwarf Company, and Board Member of Alcatelportfolio that exceeded EGP 465 billion at the same time. Lucent, as well as a member of the Egyptian-Emirati Business Council. She currently serves as Board Member of Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML). Mr. Montaser also serves as NBE's representative in several corporations in the petroleum, construction, and aviation fields, in addition to NBE 's financial affiliates in Europe and Egypt. Ms. El-Damati received her bachelor's degree in Economics and her MBA from the American University In 1977, Mr. Montaser graduated with a bachelor's degree from the Faculty of Commerce at Ain in Cairo. Shams University. He obtained a diploma in Banking Studies from Ain Shams University in 1998. Other Current Positions: Other Current Positions: Board Member, Heliopolis Company for Housing and Development Board Member, Arab Contractors Company Board Member, Arab Media Center Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Board Member, Agricultural Ramsis Company Board Member, National Air Navigation Services Company, a subsidiary of the Egyptian Holding Professor, American University in Cairo Company for Airports and Air Navigation Board Member, INCOLEASE Board Member, Holding Company for Roads and Bridges Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. General Assembly Member, Chemical Industries Holding Company Board Member, Egypt Aviation Academy Committees: (I, V, E, C, ALCO, CRC, ICCAP, a2, b2, b7, a5, b6, a1, , b1, a9) Committees: (A, R, G, B) 56 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 57 Mr. Ahmed Alaa El-Din Ali El-Guindy Dr. Riham Moustafa Hassan Moustafa Board Member Board Member Mr. Ahmed Alaa El-Din Ali El-Guindy began his Dr. Riham Moustafa Hassan Moustafa is a professor career in research and economics at the World Bank of entrepreneurship who began her career as a Teaching bureau in Cairo in 2002. He continued working Assistant, before becoming an Assistant Professor as a Financial Analyst at EFG-Hermes in 2004 in in the Business Administration Department, at the the Investment Banking Division. He went on to Faculty of Commerce, Helwan University. occupy the position of Vice President of Investment Banking in 2008, before becoming the Managing Dr. Moustafa specializes in Public Policy and Director of Investment Banking from 2012 until Entrepreneurship. In 2015, she earned her PhD in 2016. Public and Urban Policy from the New School During this time, he worked on expanding the University in New York; her dissertation was titled division's regional presence and overseeing the “Evaluating The Institutional Environment for conclusion of several high-profile mergers and Entrepreneurship: A Cross National Study on Arab acquisitions as well as numerous regional initial Countries. public offerings including: Emaar Malls Group, Edita Food Industries, Dubai Parks and Resorts, In 2009, she earned her master's degree in Orascom Construction, Arabian Cement Company, International Studies from the University of Emaar Misr, and Domty. Under his leadership, Connecticut, with a thesis titled “Egyptian Women the investment banking team went on to top the as Entrepreneurs and Leaders. Dr. Moustafa also has Thomson Reuters' MENA Equity Capital Markets another master's degree in Marketing and Strategic list in 2015. Management, with a thesis titled Evaluating the Competitiveness of Textile and Ready-made Garment In June 2016, he became a Founding Partner of TCV Holding for Investment, specializing in Industry in the Light of Trade Liberation Agreements. Her research and teachings providing growth capital to successful and promising Egyptian SMEs. include entrepreneurship, public policy, strategic management (competitive strategies), and management in transitional economies. Mr. El-Guindy received his bachelor's degree in Business Administration and Economics from the American University in Cairo in 2002 and his master's degree in Accounting and Other Current Positions: Finance from the London School of Economics in 2004. Board Member, Economic and Administrative Research Council Other Current Positions: Board Member, Academy of Scientific and Technological Research Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Board Member, Committee for the Development of the Sector of Cultural Affairs and Non Executive Board Member, Raya Contact Center Missions, Ministry of Higher Education. Committees: Committees: (A, R, V) (A, G, I, B) 58 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 59 Mr. Tamer Abdel Aziz Shehata Gadallah Board Member Mr. Tamer Abdel Aziz Shehata Gadallah began his career in the Cabinet Information and Decision Support Center, where he occupied the position of Systems Engineer and Programming Coordinator in 1993. In 1996, Mr. Gadallah joined GigaNet Egypt, where he worked as a Sales Manager for the online business unit. He then moved to Mena Net for Communications, where he held the position of Business Development Manager in 1999, before being formally appointed to the position of General Manager in 2001. Subsequently, Mr. Gadallah joined TE Data as Sales Director in 2004, before heading the Commercial Department in 2005. This was followed by a position as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of TE Data in the period between August 2008 and March 2016. He later held the position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Telecom Egypt from March 2016 to April 2017. Mr. Gadallah received his bachelor's degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Cairo University in 1992. He also completed his MBA degree in Business Administration from Maastricht University in the Netherlands in October 1996. Other Current Positions: Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Board Member, Mwasalat Misr Company Board Member, Eastern Tobacco Company Committees: (I, R, B, G) 60 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 61 Senior Executives As of February 2018 62 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 63 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Effat Ishak Mrs. Maha Heba EnayetAlla Head of Treasury and Correspondent Banking Sector Head of Strategy & Development Mr. Effat Ishak was appointed Head of the Treasury Mrs. Maha Heba EnayetAlla has 34 years of and Correspondent Banking Sector in 2004. diversified experience in the banking sector. She joined Banque Misr in September 2010 and was Mr. Ishak has been working for Banque Misr for appointed as Executive Board Member from January more than 35 years. He was Board Member of Misr 2014 to September 2017. Bank Europe GmbH, the Export Development Bank of Egypt, and the National Navigation After graduating from the American University in Cairo in 1982, she joined Chase National Bank Company. (Currently CIB), where she spent almost 26 years. Moreover, Mr. Ishak is currently Board Member She worked in several departments, mainly Corporate of Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML). Banking, Branch Management, and SME Banking. She currently oversees the following departments: Committees: • Strategy & Change Management (E, V, ALCO, CRC, b2, b7, a5, a8, c9, a3) • Compliance & Corporate Governance • Projects Monitoring & Business Continuity • Business Development & Market Support • Performance Quality Assurance • Government Relations Mrs. EnayetAlla was also chosen by Forbes Middle East as one of the Top 100 Most Powerful Business Women-2017 Her professional experience was complemented by intensive training programs and study tours with renowned international institutions. Other Current Positions: Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Board Member, Holding Company for Tourism and Hotels Committees: (E, I, CRC, ALCO, b2, a1, b5) 64 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 65 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. AbdElRaouf Hussein Mr. Adel Mohamed Fawzy Head of Central Operations Head of Regions and Branches Sector Mr. AbdElRaouf Hussein was appointed as General Mr. Adel Mohamed Fawzy has extensive experience in Manager of Retail Banking Operations in June 2009. the banking industry in Egypt and the Gulf, spanning In February 2017, he was assigned the role of General more than 37 years in total. Manager of Central Operations. He worked for Riyad Bank in Saudi Arabia from 1992 Mr. Hussein has extensive experience spanning over until 1998. Since joining Banque Misr in 1982, Mr. 33 years in the banking and payments businesses, Fawzy held several positions, including Senior Deputy operations, and technology. Prior to joining Banque General Manager of Retail Banking Operations in Misr, he held key positions in a number of leading 2008 and General Manager of West Cairo branches in regional and international banks and institutions, such 2011. as the National Commercial Bank (NCB), Citibank He has served as Head of the Regions and Branches Egypt, and MasterCard International. His roles in Sector since 2013 and CEO of Banque Misr Employees' the past ranged between Operations and Technology Insurance and Pension Fund. Mr. Fawzy is a certified Director, Operations Director, Retail Banking Group lecturer in Egypt and the Gulf. Head, and Cards Business Manager. He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration and a Other Current Positions: diploma in Executive Management. In addition to that, Board Member, Egyptian Takaful Insurance Company he is a certified business operations professional. Committees: (ALCO, FATCA, E, a4, b2, b8, b7, c5, b5) Other Current Positions: Board Member, Fawry Plus Committees: (E, a1, a8, a3, c3) 66 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 67 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Ahmed Ibrahim Mr. Amer Mohamed AlAbbady Head of Remedial and Private Investment Sector Chief Audit Executive Mr. Ahmed Ibrahim was appointed General Manager Mr. Amer Mohamed AlAbbady joined Banque Misr of the Remedial and Private Investment Sector. Prior in 2009 as Chief Audit Executive (CAE). to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Ibrahim was Head of the His prior banking experience included 20 years Recovery Division Risk Group at NSGB Egypt. overseas (1989-2009) with Banque Saudi Fransi (BSF) He has extensive experience, spanning more than 33 headquartered in Riyadh, where he headed the bank's years in the banking industry, covering different areas, Remedial Loans Department, and subsequently took including Retail Banking, Branches and Marketing, charge of its Credit Risk Control Department. Corporate Credit, Credit Risk Assessment, and In 1988, he headed the Credit Department in the Remedial Loans. Alexandria branch of Societe Arabe Internationale de He obtained his bachelor's degree from the Faculty of Banque (SAIB). Commerce at Cairo University in 1984. Mr. AlAbbady commenced his banking career in 1979 with Bank of America NT&SA in Alexandria until Other Current Positions: early 1988, when he left the bank in the position of Board Member, El Salhia for Investment Development Senior Lending Officer. Company During the period from 1998 to 2001, he gained significant academic experience through his exposure to Committees: diverse training programs in Business Administration at the Management Centre Europe (MCE) in Brussels. (E, a9, c6, a5) Committees: (ICAAP) 68 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 69 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Dr. Fatma El-Goully Mr. Farid Zaalouk Chief Corporate Communication Officer Chief Information Officer Dr. Fatma El-Goully was appointed Chief Corporate Mr. Farid Zaalouk was appointed Chief Information Communication Officer at Banque Misr in 2006. Officer in January 2016. Dr. El-Goully has over 20 years of experience in Prior to this appointment, Mr. Zaalouk was IT and marketing, public relations, corporate communication, Communications Consultant, responsible for the and management. bank's technology modernization program. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Dr. El-Goully held He successfully led Banque Misr's unified information several managerial positions in different industries, system transfer scheme in 2003, introduced IP such as pharmaceutical, banking, and communications. Telephone technology to the bank's nationwide She was the former Director of Marketing and branches and units, applied the core banking Corporate Communication for National Societe technology application, FLEXCUBE, across all the Generale and Misr International Bank (MIBank), bank's branches, and oversaw the upgrading of the and Head of Marketing Communication at Novaritis bank's two computer centers. Swiss Company. In 2010, Mr. Zaalouk was certified as a Professional She has experience in leading firms such as Board Member by the Egyptian Institute of Directors Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Raya. (EIoD). He received the Best Innovated Project She has been exposed to diverse training and personal Award in 2000 for building Banque Misr's digital development programs, in addition to earning an MBA infrastructure, the best participant in the management in Business and Marketing Management in 2005, a fundamentals training course from the Central Bank Master of Philosophy in Corporate Communication of Egypt in 1999, and the Innovation Awards for the in 2009, and a Doctorate of Business Administration in 2013; all were from Maastricht School years 1989 and 1993 for contributing to the development of Management, Netherlands. of the bank's business plans. He has also received a Certificate in Consulting Engineering in the field of Information Systems in 2003. Other Current Positions: Moreover, Mr. Zaalouk received a Certificate of Appreciation for outstanding performance in Board Member, Egyptian Media Production City (EMPC) contributing to the SME Automation System Design in 2017. Board Member, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development Mr. Zaalouk has a bachelor's degree in Engineering from Ain Shams University, in 1981. Committees: Other Current Positions: (b2, c4) Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Committees: (E, I, ALCO, a1, b2, a8) 70 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 71 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Hassan Salah El-Din Al-Geziery Mr. Ihab Dorra Head of Legal Affairs Sector Head of Retail Banking Mr. Hassan Salah El-Din Al-Geziery is the Head Mr. Ihab Dorra was appointed as the Head of of Legal Affairs Sector. He joined Banque Misr Retail Banking at Banque Misr in February 2017. He is responsible for leading global performance in 1979. and strategic delivery of a broad range of personal He has about 40 years of proven experience in banking products and services with a focus on new various legal fields. banking technology, innovative and digital banking trends, and online payment and e-banking channels. This is in addition to driving Banque Misr's strategy Other Current Positions: in retail business banking segments to maximize Board Member, Misr Investment Company customer and shareholder value and achieve marketleading business growth. Board Member, Main Development Company Prior to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Dorra was Head of For Economic Zone – North West Gulf of Suez Retail Banking at Bank Audi Egypt where he built the (MDC) platform for a full-fledged retail arm, including Audi Première Service and Branch Model Optimization. Committees: In 2008, Mr. Dorra joined Barclays as Cluster Head, managing a region of 15 branches constituting over (E, a9, a2, b3, b2, a3) 50% of the bank's liabilities portfolio. Mr. Dorra worked in Citibank in 2001 where he spent eight years acquiring different positions ranging from Auto Loan Sales Manager, Auto Loan Product and Sales Manager to Branch Manager and Branch Area Head. Mr. Dorra, who is a Certified Trainer at the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), received a number of trainings and diplomas in Retail Banking, which enriched his area of expertise. He recently received a Banking Diploma from University of Madison in Wisconsin USA in 2016, in addition to holding an MBA from the Operational Unit for Development Assistance (OUDA). Other Current Positions: Board Member, Egyptian Banks Co. for Technological Advancement S.A.E. (EBC) Committees: (ALCO, E, a4, a1, b5, b1) 72 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 73 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Mohamed Hamed Mr. Mohamed Yehia Chief Risk Officer Head of Human Resources and Training Mr. Mohamed Hamed was appointed as Chief Risk Mr. Mohamed Yehia was appointed as Head Officer in January 2015. of Human Resources and Training, with a wide Prior to this, Mr. Hamed held positions such as the experience in talent acquisition, succession, General Manager of Group Head of Islamic Bank performance management, employee relations, and Head of the Central Corporate Department employee learning and development, as well as during the period from 2007 and 2015. compensation and benefits. Before joining Banque Misr, he spent 21 years, Mr. Yehia is responsible for the successful from 1986 until 2007, in Misr International Bank (MIBank) NSGB in a variety of roles, including restructuring of Banque Misr's Human Resources Senior Manager of the Central Remedial and Asset Department's goals and objectives to align with Management Department, Senior Manager of the the bank's business goals and objectives. Corporate Credit Department, Manager of the His extensive experience in managing human Multinational Credit and Investment Department, in addition to various Banking Operational resources extends over more than 38 years, Departments (e.g. letters of guarantee, letters of including 20 years in leadership roles. His credit, cambio, etc). He was also Board Member in distinction in leading human resources enabled El Nasr Casting Company and Air Cairo Company. him to become a strategic business partner. Mr. Hamed is currently Board Member of Misr Bank– Europe GmbH. Committees: (CRC, a2, b3, b4, b2, c5, b7) He has an MBA in Financial Management from City University in Seattle, Washington, USA. Other Current Positions: Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Board Member, Suez Company for Fertilizer Production Committees: (E, A, C, R, V, G, I, ALCO, ICAAP, FATCA, a8, b2, c1, c6) 74 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 75 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Mohamed Younis Mr. Shehab Zidan Head of Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans Head of Global Transaction Banking Mr. Mohamed Younis enjoys over 24 years of Mr. Shehab Zidan joined Banque Misr in October extensive in-depth experience in the banking sector. 2017 as Head of Global Transaction Banking. Mr. He was one of the main founders of Misr International Zidan has extensive experience spanning over 18 years, Bank's (MIBank) credit restructure before its merger whereby he held diversified banking managerial roles with National Societe General Bank. in the Commercial Operation, Financial Institutions, He has wide-ranging experience and a proven Corporate Banking, and Global Transaction Banking track record in corporate banking, with successful sectors. execution and management of landmark transactions (including project finance and structured finance Mr. Zidan commenced his banking career in 2000 transactions) in most of the Egyptian market sectors, with the Commercial International Bank (CIB), including oil and gas, fertilizers, building materials, after which he joined the Arab African International petrochemicals, aviation, and telecommunications. Bank (AAIB) in 2004. From 2007 until 2017, he was working at Barclays. From 2014 to 2017, he was Mr. Younis has headed the Corporate Banking and responsible for establishing the Global Transaction Syndicated Loans department since 2010. Throughout this period, he has built a strong portfolio in almost Service (GTS) platform in Barclays Egypt. every industry, which had a great impact on the bank's Mr. Zidan graduated with a bachelor's degree performance, as he is in charge of managing Banque from the Faculty of Commerce and Business Misr's large corporate performance portfolio, which Administration at Helwan University. He studied has increased by more than 360% since December 2010. Business Administration at the American University This significant performance has been recognized in Cairo in 2000 and he holds an MBA from by Bloomberg's League Tables in which BM was ESLSCA Business School. Mr. Zidan also holds classified as the best Mandated Lead Arranger for Syndicated Loans in the Egyptian market as several professional certificates, including the CDCS from the IFS School of Finance & well as the second best Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Arranger for Syndicated Loans across International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), and the Advanced Commercial Lending from the Africa as of September 2017, in continuation of Banque Misr's achievements and attainment of IFS School of Finance. top rankings on Bloomberg's League Tables since the beginning of 2015. During this period, Banque Misr was awarded Deal of the Year for eight of its banking transactions by various Other current positions: international institutions for the years 2010, 2012, 2015, and 2016. Board Member, BM Lease BM has also been granted three awards by EMEA Finance Magazine, as the Best Syndicated Loans House for the year 2015 and Best Project Finance House in Africa for 2015 and 2016. Committees: Mr. Younis also serves as Board Member as well as Head of the Risk Committee at Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML). (E, ALCO, C, b5, c4) Other Current Positions: Board Member, El Ezz Flat Steel Company Committees: (E, C, c6, ALCO, b2) 76 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 77 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Mr. Sherif Elbehery Mr. Sherif Samy A guib Head of SMEs and Microfinance Chief Financial Officer Mr. Sherif Elbehery is currently the Head of SMEs Mr. Sherif Samy Aguib was appointed as Chief and Microfinance at Banque Misr, a position he has Financial Officer in 2009. Prior to joining Banque held since April 2017. Mr. Elbehery brings a variety Misr in 2009, Mr. Aguib held senior positions in and wealth of expertise to the role, having worked in the fields of Finance, Administration, Inspection, various areas throughout his career, including SMEs, Information Technology, Human Resources, and Retail Banking, Finance, Business Development, and Central Operations. He has more than 40 years of Strategic Capacity Planning. extensive experience in the banking industry. Prior to this post, Mr. Elbehery was the Director of In 1977, he commenced his career at the Egyptian Retail and Business Banking at Barclays Egypt, a role American Bank (now Credit Agricole Egypt), where he held for three years. he worked for 18 years in a variety of roles, including Mr. Elbehery joined Barclays Egypt in 2010 as the his role as Deputy General Manager. Mr. Aguib spent Director of Strategy, Planning, and Marketing and more than eight years in Qatar as Assistant General Corporate Affairs. Prior to that, he was based in Manager at Qatar National Bank (QNB). the UAE Barclays Africa Center, where he spent Later, Mr. Aguib served as General Manager and nearly four years moving between senior roles in the Head of the Financial Sector at Misr International Emerging Markets Center and Russia. Bank (MIBank) (now Qatar National Bank QNB) He assumed a number of positions at Vodafone and for more than two years. He spent three years as an Citigroup, including Head of Business Performance Advisor to the Minister of Finance in the Treasury and Business Manager for Middle East, and North Single Account. He has been exposed to diverse Africa Global Transactional Services, respectively. training programs in Europe, the USA, the Gulf, and Egypt. Mr. Elbehery holds a degree in Business Administration from Ain Shams University, and is a CFA charterholder. Mr. Aguib has a bachelor's degree in Commercial and Administrative Sciences. Other Current Positions: Other Current Positions: Board Member, Egyptian Takaful Insurance Company Board Member, Suez Company for Fertilizer Production Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Committees: Board Member, Misr Alexandria Fund for Financial Investments (E, c1, a4, C, c6, b7) Committees: (A, E, I, ALCO, V, b2, a5, a8, b1, b4, ICAAP) 78 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 79 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Senior Executives as of February 2018 Dr. Suzan F. Hamdy Mr. Tarek Ali Head of the Capital Markets Group Head of Administrative and Engineering Affairs Sector Dr. Suzan F. Hamdy is currently the Head of the Mr. Tarek Ali joined Banque Misr in 2009 as the Capital Markets Group. General Manager of the Administration Department Dr. Hamdy has a career spanning more than 34 years for two years. He then was promoted to his in the banking industry. She began her career at the current position as the Head of Administrative and Credit and Syndications department at the Arab Engineering Affairs Sector since 2011. African International Bank, where she worked in a variety of banking divisions, including Project He has about 35 years of proven experience in various Finance, Remedial Management, Investment Banking, fields. Before joining Banque Misr, Mr. Ali was the Retail Banking, Marketing, Business Development, Head of Supply Chains at Americana Group. He and Foreign Branches. was formerly the Head of the Operations Sector at She was formerly the Chairman of the Nile Fund QuickTel Communications. Company for Development and Investment in the Nile Basin countries. She was also Board Member at the Prior to that, he was the Head of the Purchases and Export Development Bank and several other foreign Materials Department at Magrabi Hospitals. Mr. companies. Ali has spent 15 years in senior roles at Xerox Egypt, In 2015, Dr. Hamdy was chosen among the top 10 growing between the Quality Assurance Manager, bankers in Egypt, and as one of the 50 most influential Administration and Training Manager, Production women in the Egyptian economy in 2016. She was also Manager, until his final role as the Head of the selected as a member of the International Who's Who of Professionals for the year 2009. Materials and Export Department. Moreover, Dr. Hamdy is a member of different business He was the sixth of his colleagues who has a associations, such as the Egyptian Capital Market Association, Fixed Income Association, bachelor's degree in Power from the Faculty of Engineering at Ain Shams University. Egyptian Investment Management Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the British Egyptian Business Association, and the World Studies Future Generation in Finland. Other Current Positions: She had represented Egyptian banks in Visa International Risk Advisors for the Central and Technical Consultant, Misr Investment Company Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (CEMEA) region. She holds bachelor's and master's degrees in Economics from the American University in Cairo. Board Member, Amanco Company Graduating at the age of 17, Hamdy obtained her PhD in Monetary Policy from the University of Board Member, Goldentex Wool Company Hungarian Sciences at the age of 22, to become the youngest university graduate and PhD holder in Egypt and the Middle East. Vice Chairman, Talaat Harb Club Other Current Positions: Committees: Board Member, International Company for Touristic Development; the owner of Conrad Hotel (E, a4, b1, b2, a5) Board Member, Misr Capital Investments S.A.E. Committees: (E, ALCO, V, b2) 80 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 81 G4-33 G4-34 G4-DMA FS9 G4-33 G4-DMA FS9 Board and Executive Committees BM BOARD T he Board of Directors is the principal decision making authority at the bank, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the bank manages risks effectively. The board is accountable to the General Assembly for financial and operational performance. Executive Committee (E) Audit Committee (A) Controls all funding operations, contributions made in the corporate capital, and the bank's credit facilities. Responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process, including the risks and controls in that process. The committee should supplement figures received from the executive management with further information and assurance from both the internal and external auditors. Committee of Informatics (I) Corporate Governance Committee (G) Monitors the offered services, ensuring all needs are being catered to, up to the highest standards, to maximize the bank's return on investments in the field of Ensures strict adherence to the principles of corporate governance, oversees the informatics. strict compliance to all relevant laws and regulations imposed by the Central Bank of Egypt and all other regulatory bodies. Senior Credit Committee (C) Investment Committee (V) Considers the present credit cases, according to the credit endorsement policy. Evaluates and allocates the investment budget on the bank's macro level. High Risk Committee (R) Wages and Benefits Committee (B) Risk taking is an integral part of banking business. The BM strategy should incorporate policies and actions regarding the risks it is willing to take and the means by which it Oversees all relevant staff wages and benefits policies, as well as training and career will manage and mitigate those risks. The High Risk Committee ensures all relevant development requirements, and ensures the availability of effective staff recruitment business risks are identified, that their impact has been properly assessed, and that and retention schemes within approved budgets. there are enough policies and regulations in place to manage all risks effectively. 82 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 83 G4-33 G4-DMA FS9 G4-33 G4-34 G4-DMA FS9 1-Audit Committee: ANewly delivered retail asset and liability products and/or financial schemes BCredit facilities within the authority granted to the committee and in accordance T he committee handles a number of responsibilities that include: AFinancial statements with the bank's credit policy CThe investment strategies and decisions in accordance with the committee's set authorities Studying annual financial statements before presenting them to the Board of DSettlements and/or the rescheduling of remedial loans in accordance with the Directors for approval bank's set policies Ensuring that the bank's Executive Committee periodically reviews the value of EAllocated provisions and reserves in accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt's collateral put up against loans and credit facilities (CBE) regulations and internal policies Studying the Central Bank of Egypt's observations on the bank and its financial The committee ensures the adherence to and enforcement of all CBE regulations and statements following inspections and reporting them to the Board of Directors with legislations. It follows up on the financial results and performance indicators of the recommendations bank on a monthly basis and addresses areas of concern. BInternal audit system The committee approves capital expenditures related to the purchase of new branches, IT systems, and procurement, after being studied and approved by the relevant Reviewing the reports compiled by the Inspection Department, including reports on committees. the sufficiency of the internal audit system at the bank The committee studies and gives recommendation to the modifications of HR policies, Coordinating between the tasks of internal and external auditing and ensuring that incentive schemes, and appraisal systems. there are no obstacles preventing communication between the head of the Inspection Department and auditors It evaluates the bank's performance, competitiveness and brand positioning with regards to the local market and in all countries where Banque Misr has branches and/ Reviewing the procedures adopted by the bank's management to ensure compliance or subsidiaries. with the Central Bank of Egypt's auditing standards and regulations The committee has administrative and financial authorities in accordance with the CCompliance, money laundering and risk management bank's regulations, approved by the Board of Directors. It also has lending authorities in accordance with the approved credit policy. Reviewing reports compiled by the head of compliance at the bank The Board of Directors may delegate additional authorities to the Executive DAuditors Committee when deemed necessary, to facilitate the bank's operations. Providing recommendations to hire auditors, setting their tasks, and reviewing issues related to their resignation or dismissal, in accordance with legal provisions and the Central Auditing Organization law 3-Corporate Governance Committee: Providing counsel on permission to assign auditors to provide services to the bank, rather than reviewing financial statements TADefining clear boundaries of responsibility and accountability in he committee handles a number of responsibilities that include: EInspection Department the bank and ensuring the clarity of the rules relating to the existence of: Reviewing and adopting the annual inspection plan A policy to deal with related parties Effective internal control and risk management systems, and compliance with laws and regulations 2-Executive Committee: A workable policy to replace the different functions The Executive Committee reviews the overall bank strategy, prior to submission to A clear social responsibility policy toward both employees and customers the Board of Directors for approval. The committee reviews and approves: 84 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 85 G4-33 G4-34 G4-DMA FS9 G4-33 G4-DMA FS9 BEnsuring the availability of applicable policies, systems and the means ESetting criteria for regular investment reporting to verify the following: FEnsuring that investment guidelines are adhered to and that procedures are in place The senior management and Board of Director's commitment to the principles of to ensure that portfolios are managed in compliance with investment policies for each governance asset class The application of good practices in the bank, in accordance with the Basel II accord GMonitoring performance in line with the bank's strategy and objectives Staff commitment to the implementation of the banking code of conduct The bank's assessment of the efficiency of governance to its potential customers as part of the process to approve the granting of credit to such customers 6-Senior Credit Committee: The relevant departments indicating the bank's adherence to the application of corporate governance rules, founded by or added to the bank R eviews and approves credit cases in accordance with the bank's credit policy. The Senior Credit Committee approves new credit cases extended to corporate The application of corporate governance rules in emergency situations and crisis borrowers and joins in syndicated loans. management In addition, the committee conducts periodical reviews, in addition to restructuring and boosting existing credit facilities. The committee takes decisions with regards to upgrading or downgrading borrowers 4-Committee of Informatics: based on their obligor risk rating, and channels critical cases to the remedial banking group. P roviding domain expertise, leadership, and guidance to the bank to help it achieve its objectives through: The committee ensures that the bank is safe-guarded, risks are properly mitigated, and collaterals are legally binding, valid, and enforceable. Pricing and fees applied are also AConstant reviewing of the bank's strategies and activities. The committee also given major attention by the committee to ensure a risk-based return. monitors the offered services, ensuring all needs are being catered to, up to the highest standards, to maximize the return on the bank's investments in the field of informatics BFollowing up on the development of the bank's services, the flow of its operations, and the archiving of data, by bridging between the bank's reporting requirements 7-High Risk Committee: and data architecture to ensure that all data models are aligned with the bank's main strategy CManaging the development and distribution of data and reports provided to the A ssisting the Board of Directors in carrying out its roles in relation to the control and supervision of the overall risk management framework at Banque Misr. bank's internal and external customers, along with eliminating risky operations and The committee also follows up on the functions of risk management through: protecting data from potential threats ACompiling reports and following up on compliance to capital strategies, liquidity management, credit and market risks, operational risk, and any other risks the bank may become exposed to 5-Investment Committee: BControlling and supervising the development and evaluation of the general risk management framework in the bank in terms of: credit, investment, market, and A ssisting the Board of Directors in overseeing the investment activities from a strategic perspective. liquidity risk, as well as operational risk, with all required policies, procedures, systems, and tools used by the executive management in the risk control and identification of acceptable risk (risk appetite) for each of the major risks in light of the surrounding The committee focuses on the following areas: environment, as well as current and prospective economic and financial conditions AMacro-economic and market conditions as they pertain to the bank CEnsuring the application of and following up on the related concepts and policies in BThe bank's investment strategy, taking into account the implications of accounting line with the regulatory instructions and governance principles standards, taxation laws, regulatory requirements, and bank policies DAuditing reports that contain the key risks faced by the bank, which covers all COverseeing investment exposures across multi-asset classes credit, investment, market, liquidity, and operational risk and boundaries used DReviewing investment risk levels for each asset class and overall for follow-up allocations (risk exposures), in addition to the standards of the risk management system in terms of acceptable risk percentages and rates 86 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 87 G4-33 G4-DMA FS9 EReviewing the procedures and policies followed for setting the maximum limits Senior Committees on risk and risk concentrations (risk/concentration limits) as well as ensuring that reports illustrate the trends in terms of investments and concentrations, versus unauthorized limits FReviewing the size of the bank's liquidity and making recommendations to the board on the comprehensive framework for liquidity risk, including the results of the different assumptions of stress tests (liquidity stress) GEmphasizing the independence of the General Manager of Risk Management through his/her jurisdiction in directly reporting to the Board of Directors or the Governance bodies: High Risk Committee without any obstacles. Additionally, he/she may not perform any financial or administrative responsibilities that contradict with his/her job as General Manager of the Risk Management system T he committees, as governance bodies, are responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization and ensuring competence and diligence, the effective monitoring of operations, and a sound accountability of the HEnsuring all risk management reports are rated according to: management to the broader organization and its stakeholders. The probability of occurrence of those particular risks The completion of the internal control systems of the bank to manage those risks Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO): Responsible for the formulation of the management strategy for assets and liabilities, 8-Wages and Benefits Committee: as well as specifying the key performance and risk indicators, while taking all the necessary executive decisions to achieve the goals set by these indicators. M anaging the wages and all benefits offered to the bank's staff under their supervision. Technology Committee (a1): The committee is also in charge of: Evaluates all technological issues within the bank's computer and informatics AReviewing the structure and competitiveness of the income and benefits' programs system. offered to the bank's employees to make sure they comply with the bank's strategy to attract and maintain outstanding human resources and to motivate employees to achieve the bank's goals and maintain growth Human Resources High Committee (a2): BMonitoring and evaluating the overall structure of the employees' income and Evaluating the bank's human resources strategies and policies, including wages, benefits through: incentives, appointments, promotions, holidays, training, performance appraisal Studying and proposing fundamental aspects or changes related to the philosophy reports, and employee by-laws and systems. and strategy of the bank's income and benefits Instruction Manuals Committee (a3): Making sure the incentive policies granted to managers do not lead to the acceptance of excessive risk Ensures the bank's compliance with the guidelines and other procedures contained in Periodically reviewing the public policy programs for income and benefits and both new, updated, and amended instruction manuals. presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval Reviewing the long-term policy programs, such as the benefits related to the end of service or healthcare after retirement, ahead of submitting them to the Board of Directors for approval 88 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 89 FATCA Committee (FATCA): Committee for Receiving Assets Owned by Holding Companies' Ensures the bank's compliance with FATCA regulations and the provision of Affiliates (a6): required systems and mechanisms, as well as examining any obstacles to applying Based on the Framework Debt Swap Agreement signed on September 14th, 2009 between Banque Misr, the National Bank of Egypt, and holding companies, those regulations. The committee does not have any financial authorities, and regarding the assets owned by subsidiaries of the holding companies, the committee all recommendations from the committee must be presented to the Executive is responsible for coordinating a collective settlement through exchanging the debts Committee. of lagging public companies for land plots. Branches and Outlets Committee (a4): Committee for Setting Returns on Islamic Transactions (a7): Specifies the requirements of new or alternate branches nationwide, as well as Studies all matters pertaining to the services provided by Banque Misr's Islamic reviewing requests from regions and branches managements to expand branches. branches, and sets the applicable return rates. Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Committee (ICAAP): Foreign Branches Follow-up Committee (a8): Follows up the performance of Banque Misr's branches, subsidiaries, and Responsible for the bank's Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process representative offices abroad, as part of the bank's development strategy, to enhance (ICAAP). The ICAAP was formed as a result of Pillar 2 of the Basel II the performance of its international offices. accords, which targets a better quality of regulatory capital, along with better risk management and supervision. Committee for Restructuring and Change (CRC): The committee is responsible for coordinating and implementing a Responsible for changes, development and restructuring, and mergers processes for all the sectors and branches in the bank. comprehensive vision for all the bank's departments, to implement the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. Settlement Committee (a9): Reviews suggestions for the settlement of client debts or liquidating facilities. Real Estate Divestment Committee (a5): Facilitates a systematic and suitable disposal of unserviceable properties that Administrative Affairs Committee (b1): have been acquired by the bank in stages, to be sold in steps. Reviews the requirements of the bank's various departments, whether furniture, equipment, office supplies, publications, and other requirements, as well as anything related to the bank facilities. 90 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 91 Crisis and Emergency Management Committee (b2): Committee for Interviewing Candidates for Specialized Positions (b8): In light of the exceptional circumstances and instability in the country over the past years, Conducts interviews with candidates seeking positions at specialized departments which have affected its political and economic climate, the committee was formed to address the potential attendant crises and to handle emergency assistance following natural disasters. at Banque Misr. The committee creates and maintains an efficient and integrated structure for preventing and managing incidents. It aims to ensure preparations for crisis situations and develop action plans. International Business Risks Committee (b9): Approves of all limits related to Pre-Settlement Risk (PSR), provided by different Medical Services Committee (b3): business lines and/or the International Business Sector (new grants renewal – Assesses all offers from medical specialists, hospitals, and laboratories, to select increase limits), and credit customers are excluded from this. the most suitable and low-cost services to provide comprehensive medical packages for employees and their families. The committee issues decisions regarding chronic Main Credit Committee (c1): illnesses, and the relevant actions in relation to the type of work. It also follows up on the monthly financial status of the bank's medical service system and decides on Discusses the authorities granted in the credit policy pertinent to the bank's how to ensure a balance between the system's expenses and resources. corporate credit clients. Medical Care Committee (b4): SME Credit Committees (c2): (Three committees) Responsible for providing financial assistance for the treatment of exceptional Responsible for all the credit lines granted to small and medium-sized medical conditions. enterprises. Banking Services Tariff Committee (b5): Committees for the Settlement of Purchased Debts (c3): (Two committees) Responsible for reviewing and amending the fees for the provision of the banking services in Banque Misr. Studies the means for settling the debts of clients with transferred court cases, who have assets amounting to no more than EGP 5 million. Grievances Committee (b6): The first committee is responsible for studying cases relating to Banque Misr's Handles and processes the grievance redressal mechanism of the bank, and is debts and the second committee is responsible for debts transferred from Banque responsible for the resolution of employees' complaints/grievances. Du Caire. Committee for Interviewing Candidates for SeniorLevel Positions (b7): Appointments Committee (c4): Conducts interviews with candidates seeking senior-level positions at Banque Misr Conducts interviews with potential new recruits to the bank. i.e. General Manager and Senior Deputy General Manager positions. 92 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 93 Our Commitment O ur credibility as a leading financial institution rests on our operational integrity and the transparency of the information we provide to our stakeholders. Upholding strong corporate governance, adhering to the highest ethical standards, and effectively managing risk are all vital factors to our Re-interview Committee (c5): continuation as an accountable, transparent, and well-managed financial institution. Banque Misr's adopted policies reflect a strong commitment to Conducts second interviews with applicants who scored less than 70% in their first achieving its objectives and guaranteeing its compliance with the fundamentals interviews, and who are compliant with the bank's terms of service, in light of of sustainability. At BM, we strive to maintain the high standards of service by the deficit in various entities. The second interview is conducted six months from seeking new opportunities to develop our social and working environments. The announcing the results of the first assessment. bank continues to seek social and sustainable development opportunities that have a positive impact on the economy and society. Credit Control Committee (c6): Refers defaulting clients to the department of legal affairs to undertake legal action, and authorizes the declaration of non-performing debt status. OUR VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY Annual Performance Appraisal Committee (c7): INCORPORATES THREE MAIN ASPECTS: Responsible for discussing and endorsing the defects in the annual performance appraisal reports. Highly emphasizes the ethical conduct of our employees inside Central and Non-Central Small Enterprises Financing Committees (c8): The the bank and includes corporate governance, fighting corruption, Responsible for small-sized business financing schemes and products, both in the Economic protection of clients' rights, and respecting stakeholders' interests. This comes in addition to abidance by the rule of law in conventional and Islamic branches. Dimension any decision-making process, and developing a robust governance operating model. Settlement of Retail and Corporate Banking Customers Committee (c9): Considers the debt settlement offered by the Debt Treatment or Retail Banking sectors, whose indebtedness does not exceed EGP 1 million or its equivalent in any The Requires the bank's full respect for the cultural norms, social values, and differences between employees, in addition to engaging other major foreign currency, excluding the marginal returns. Social in projects of high social and/or developmental impact. Dimension The Closely monitoring for any potential harmful impacts on the Environmental environment as a direct or indirect result of any of the bank's Dimension operations, products, services, or resources. 94 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 95 G4-34 G4-56 G4-DMA FS9 G4-PR4 G4-34 G4-56 G4-DMA FS9 G4-PR4 Sustainability aspects are reflected in the bank s -Clients: Ensuring mutual benefits and returns for the bank and its clients, excellent customer service, commitment to information, the confidentiality of accounts, and overall operations through a number of policies: transparency. 1-Governance and Standards -Employees: Guaranteeing fair treatment, suitable and safe working conditions, 2-Code of Conduct commitment to the highest level of professionalism and work ethics, and encouraging employees to participate in the bank's different social and charity activities. 3-Whistleblowing -Goals: Encouraging funding projects that contribute to sustainable development 4-Data Protection and/or environmentally-friendly projects that serve a wider societal segment, 5-Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing including micro projects with high rates of employment, encouraging suppliers to abide by ethical standards and support the rationalization of water/energy/paper 6-Remuneration System consumption, recycling, and the protection of the environment. 7-Risk Management -Community: Adopting influential tools to assist the community's sustainability and avoid unacceptable social practices. Governance and Standards: -Reports and follow-ups: The bank's governance chief submits periodical reports every six months to the bank's Corporate Governance Committee for follow-up to B anque Misr's Board of Directors is committed to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in all its operations. Good corporate governance is crucial to BM's long-term success and sustainability. We believe that ensure the implementation of the bank's sustainability programs and goals, in line with the international governance principles. These reports are also included in the Board of Directors' annual statement. a robust and transparent corporate governance framework is vital to the sustainable success of Banque Misr. BM is run by a dedicated management team that operates within a clear governance framework, aiming to optimize stakeholder value and Banque Misr Code of Conduct: preserve maximum book value as businesses and assets are divested. With the objective of continuously improving compliance measures as a key element in the bank's control system framework, several channels for staff issues or codes of conduct and petitions have been introduced and announced to employees. B M's reputation for integrity is one of its most valuable assets and is guided by the conduct of its directors and employees. BM's Code of Conduct obliges directors and employees to avoid conflict areas involving a material risk of damage to existing or potential clients' interests. They are bound by professional discretion and prohibited Effective corporate governance, in accordance with the highest international standards, from engaging in outside employment. is at the core of our identity and operations. We work to ensure the responsibility, value-driven management, and control of Banque Misr through our system of corporate Employees can only share confidential information if essential for performing a job governance, which includes three key elements: good relationships with stakeholders, function. There were no conflicts of interest from board members during fiscal year performance-based compensations for managers and employees, and transparent 2016/2017. reporting of problems. The bank's board is also committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethics. W histleblowing: Matters relating to internal control and risk management governance, as well as policies and practices concerned with compliance to legal and regulatory requirements, are considered a high priority during the Board of Directors' meetings. O ur staff acts as our army, placed on the front lines to ensure honest and ethical operations are conducted at all times. They take full responsibility in maintaining our corporate reputation. Banque Misr provides regular employee trainings on banking regulations and codes of practice regarding illegal activities, such as bribery, corruption, BM's Five Pillars of Good Governance: money laundering and insider trading, equal opportunities, and privacy of data. Banque The bank works to ensure the implementation of the relevant governance policies through: Misr operates an inclusive compliance disclosure line, through mail, email, and physical interviews, which is available to allow employees to make disclosures when 96 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 97 G4-56 G4-DMA FS9 G4-23 G4-56 G4-DMA FS9 G4-EC1 the normal channels for airing grievances or concerns are unavailable or inappropriate. Banque Misr's anti-money laundering procedures are applied worldwide to all our The compliance disclosure line is available as an outlet for employees' concerns on a business units, irrespective of their location. All our employees and senior managers number of matters, including breaches of law or regulations, allegations of bribery are required to comply with them to prevent the misuse of our name or our products and/or corruption, failure to comply with policies, suspicions of money laundering, and/or services for money laundering purposes. To ensure the application of the best breaches of internal controls and/or fraud, or deliberate error in the financial records. possible compliance practices, BM periodically reviews its strategies and policies on The Regulatory Compliance department is responsible for the operation of the anti-money laundering. compliance disclosure line and the handling of all disclosure cases on the regional and Within the scope of Banque Misr's compliance program, all our employees are international levels. All compliance cases are reviewed and referred for appropriate committed to fully complying with the local and international anti-corruption and investigations. Whistleblowing cases may also be raised directly with senior executives, anti-bribery laws. All our senior managers and employees are strictly banned from line managers, and with the human resources, security, and fraud departments. The bank receiving, accepting, offering, paying, or authorizing any bribe, or engaging in any does not tolerate any risk to its long-standing esteemed reputation and is prepared to other form of corruption. pursue a range of actions and alter outcomes of its business plans to preserve its name, Banque Misr highly values the importance of transparency and integrity in all of its status, identity, and integrity. business dealings, to avoid any improper action or even the emergence of questionable conduct, either from our employees or from any other third party with whom we Data Protection: conduct business. Banque Misr has moreover completed all the procedures for the purchase of the technological applications needed to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) regulations for its branches in Egypt, the UAE, and W e apply comprehensive systems to ensure the appropriate use and protection of all data, particularly that which is related to customers' information. We also implement special procedures to minimize any potential exposure to individuals France. The process was executed through concentrated efforts involving the bank's most experienced staff and top management. or organizations engaged in illegal activities, such as money laundering, terrorism, irresponsible environmental practices, and/or in operations that may involve forced child labor or violate indigenous or global human rights. We apply comprehensive Developing a Transparent Remuneration System: data protection policies, rules, standards, and processes to our day-to-day operations to ensure compliance with all relevant statutory regulations, which may vary considerably from one country to another. Preventative measures and thorough control help prevent T he average monthly income of the bank's top 20 employees in Egypt is EGP 107,983.72. The executive directors' salaries are benchmarked against comparable roles in peer banks. All staff salaries are set according to their professional experiences loss of data and/or violation of data protection regulations. We always investigate and are up to the market's standards. complaints thoroughly. We also provide regular training to raise awareness on data protection among our staff members, to ensure their compliance with regulations. Our The bank's average monthly net income for entry-level employees stands at EGP data protection (Group Data Protection) office coordinates, assesses, and monitors 4,290.64. The average annual cost of employees in terms of wages and benefits rose to practices in this field. It works closely with a network of data protection experts in EGP 227,360 in 2017, up from EGP 100,890 in 2011. the bank. BM remains committed to abiding by the CBE's regulations on payrolls, which stipulate that all bank employees and any third party contractor or service provider must get paid and on time. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing: O ur anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing program provides strong support for the international efforts to combat money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and other criminal acts. We scrutinize clients and current transactions using meticulous procedures and an automated monitoring system. 98 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 99 G4-23 Risk Management Amounts in EGP Thousand Amounts in EGP Thousand I n recent years, local and international markets have been exposed to a variety of financial risks. Therefore, Banque Misr works to support all enterprises, irrespective of their size or type, by providing them with the most credible Jun-17 Jun-17 information and recommendations to enable them to establish a strong framework 1,178,792.00 1,661,180.00 2,075,023.00 2,074,522.00 2,211,240.00 2,556,180.00 3,100,357.00 Jun-16 Jun-16 54,683.00 62,332.00 63,331.00 76,667.00 86,712.00 104,534.00 195,625.00 Jun-15 Jun-15 to manage their financial risks and improve their performance and decisionJun-14 Jun-14 Jun-13 Jun-13 making process, in accordance with compliance requirements. Jun-12 Jun-12 Jun-11 Jun-11 The existence of a successful Risk Management System is essential in enhancing Total salaries and benefits Total salaries and benefits the bank's operations and maximizing the stakeholder's value. As such, we ensure for local branches for foreign branches that risk management is at the core of our business strategies. BM's Audit Committee provides an independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the overall risk management framework and risk governance structure in the bank. The committee reports directly to the Board of Directors. Amounts in EGP Thousand The bank monitors all kinds of business lines to ensure that all risks affecting these operations are properly managed and mitigated. Banque Misr aims to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward, as well as minimize potential Jun-17 Jun-17 adverse effects on the bank's financial performance. 1,233,475.00 2,138,354.00 2,297,952.00 2,660,714.00 3,295,982.00 Jun-16 Jun-16 1,723,512.00 2,151,189.00 12,344.00 12,689.00 14,497.00 Jun-15 Jun-15 12,226.00 12,340.00 Our risk management policies provide highly credible information while 12,535.00 14,110.00 Jun-14 Jun-14 Jun-13 Jun-13 identifying, measuring, controlling and reporting the risks faced by the bank, as Jun-12 Jun-12 Jun-11 Jun-11 well as for setting the adequate limits for acceptable risk levels, and designing the Total salaries and benefits Employees' numbers process to mitigate and monitor this risk. for all branches The Risk Management department reviews and updates the risk management policies, procedures and systems, to ensure that they comply with the Central Bank of Egypt's regulations and address all risks associated with new products, in cooperation with other relevant departments in the bank. Amounts in EGP Thousand Amounts in EGP Thousand Jun-17 Jun-17 Jun-16 Jun-16 Jun-15 Jun-15 Jun-14 Jun-14 100.89 139.62 173.29 171.61 181.10 188.57 227.36 Jun-13 8.41 11.64 14.44 14.30 15.09 15.71 18.95 Jun-13 Jun-12 Jun-12 Jun-11 Jun-11 Average yearly cost per Average monthly cost per employee employee 100 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 10 1 G4-13 G4-14 G4-DMA G4-14 G4-15 G4-DMA G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN23 G4-SO1 BM Service Providers and Suppliers Environment Sustainability Bseekuilding strong relations with a network of suppliers is essential to our services and operations. We select our suppliers according to the highest standards. We in them the qualities we stand for; long-term commitments, loyalty, ethics, and B anque Misr remains committed to achieving strong and sustainable financial returns, taking into consideration respect for the environment and the community within which the bank operates. To meet such targets, BM established a plan to reduce transparency. the carbon footprint within its premises through adopting various initiatives, including: Consequently, Banque Misr reserves the right to verify the suppliers' compliance with the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct. Both the suppliers and their subcontractors are urged to maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance Lowering Energy with the laws and principles specified in the code of conduct. Suppliers are also asked to ensure that their employees and all their direct or indirect subcontractors and agents Consumption acknowledge and adhere to the principles of the code of conduct. If any violation to the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct occurs, the bank has the right to take any action it deems appropriate to address the situation. Rationalization of electricity consumption has become a national duty and we at Banque BM also requires that all its suppliers and their subcontractors and employees involved Misr are fully aware of the importance of contributing to the conservation of energy in the supplying of goods or services to the bank comply with the laws of the country sources through optimal use. Thereby, the bank has followed the state's efforts and and the market. rationalized the use of energy in the management, which consumes between 15% and Privacy and confidentiality are crucial in all our dealings. Suppliers are not allowed to 20% of BM's total electricity loads across its buildings and branches. disclose any private or confidential information without previous authorization from the bank. They are also required to report on actual or suspected cases of disclosure BM has implemented an ambitious strategic plan based on replacing all the existing or loss of any private or confidential information related to Banque Misr, its clients, traditional lighting and air conditioning systems with energy-efficient LED and VRV operations, or other suppliers the bank deals with. technologies. Banque Misr further works to ensure that all its operations, employees, and suppliers adhere to the laws and agreements pertaining to environmental and social risks, The bank has installed LED lighting, reducing energy consumption by around 9% in including the following: each branch throughout fiscal year 2016/2017. By the first quarter of 2018, the bank No child labor: The bank's administration and its suppliers are not allowed— under completed the installation of the LED lighting system in 108 branches and 10 central any circumstances—to employ children. departments. The LED lighting does not generate infrared and ultraviolet radiation, Humane treatment: Suppliers should ensure a workplace free of harsh and/ or and reduces energy consumption by about 75% compared to traditional lighting systems. inhumane treatment. Moreover, the bank also implemented a power generation system through solar cells at No discrimination on the basis of race and religion: Suppliers should ensure a its social building in Banque Misr Club. workplace free of harassment and/or inhumane treatment based on race or religion. In tandem, the bank has also installed VRV air conditioning systems, lowering energy The reduction of resource consumption and emissions: Suppliers are encouraged to consumption by around 22% in each branch. By the end of 2017, the bank also completed use raw materials and natural resources in a responsible manner. The bank exerts all efforts to reduce the consumption of energy and fuel to lower their associated harmful the installation of VRV systems in 80 branches. Furthermore, BM has introduced emissions and encourage the use of environmentally-friendly operations. internal awareness campaigns on the importance of rationalizing energy consumption by Any waste paper that needs to be shredded in the bank is collected, according to using automatic control technologies in switching on and off HVAC air conditioning instructions, and sent to the main shredding chamber in Alexandria. The shredded waste systems, which contributed to reducing energy consumption by around 10% in each paper is pressed in bales, ensuring that there are no solid materials such as wood, metal branch. The bank has contributed EGP 18.3 million to an energy consumption awareness wires, and plastic materials, and that the contents are dry, as a precautionary measure against any flammable materials. campaign, held by the Egyptian Electricity Holding company. Hazardous substances: The bank stresses on the safe handling and disposal of any The bank is also planning to adopt an automated system that includes occupancy sensors hazardous substances. to further lower its consumption of energy and water. Using safe technologies: The bank favors the usage of new, progressive, and environmentally-friendly technologies. 102 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 10 3 G4-14 G4-15 G4-DMA G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN23 G4-SO1 G4-14 G4-15 G4-DMA G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN23 G4-SO1 Reducing Safety Procedures Paper-Use BM also adopted a long-term plan to convert from a paper-based to a paperless internal BM's branches and buildings are fully equipped with advanced technologies for fire detection business environment, encouraging its staff to conduct most of their in-office operations and firefighting systems. As such, the bank started adopting a new firefighting agent, which is online. approved by the Central Bank of Egypt, the Civil Protection Associations, and the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). The new firefighting agent has an excellent fighting effect and The bank is further working to promote double-sided printing of internal memos, documents, is not harmful to environment and human health. The bank is also equipped with firefighting and reports. pumps, automatic fire sprinkles, hose reels, hand fire extinguishers, and trained employees to BM is launching its internet-based banking service soon. This new service aims to decrease face any emergent fire hazards. paper use in offline transactions, and reduce couriered statements, which amount to 80,000 Planning for emergencies and disasters is crucial; that is why we at Banque Misr have developed an per month, to cardholders by around 30% within the next three years. overall plan to ensure the safety of employees, clients, and businesses, which includes guidelines to help evacuate buildings in emergencies. Moreover, BM equipped blue-collar workers on its premises with safety boots, protective masks, and other tools to protect them from any potential harm from exposure to dust or any other risks. Emissions Banque Misr has continued its support for the national campaign to replace old taxis in Egypt to improve air quality, aiming for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and protection Recycling against climate change. The bank has also continued implementing its action guide to develop its branches to provide them with a healthy and environmentally-friendly workplace, where smoking is prohibited inside closed buildings. BM collaborates with various recycling facilities and institutes to secure proper disposal Moreover, Banque Misr has signed a cooperation protocol to finance leather tanneries of wastes in an environmentally-friendly manner. This year, Banque Misr's 2018 calendar recently relocated to Al-Robeky Tannery City at very low interest rates, aiming to train was made from 100% recycled Egyptian raw materials. Egyptian tannery workers on the latest tanning technologies that are more environmentallyThe bank also collects all unused papers for paper shredding, recycling, and re-use. friendly. Around 300 tons of paper were shredded to be recycled during fiscal year 2016/2017. The project aims to relocate the nation's leather tanneries that have been nestled in the heart Banque Misr has produced this year's prints, which amount to more than 17 tons, out of Old Cairo for centuries, in close proximity to the Nile River, which produce a significant of 100% locally made recycled materials, as a step toward supporting local industry and amount of pollution in the city of Cairo. promoting environmental sustainability. Within the same framework, BM has also funded the establishment of New Damietta Furniture City, the largest industrial zone for the furniture industry in the Middle East. The bank has financed the relocation of the workshops to the new city, from old small workshops that are usually clustered in village areas with indoor CO2 concentrations, which lead to localized emissions of harmful solvent-based substances. 10 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 10 5 G4-10 G4-23 G4-10 G4-23 Our People The first channel comprised eight employment fairs that we participated in throughout O ur human capital is our most valuable asset and our strongest tool for achieving and maintaining sustainability. Our work is a people-centered business and our employees' commitment and efforts are our main methods of upholding our prosperity fiscal year 2016/2017. However, we were also keen on having our own employees fill the vacancies within, so the second channel was advertising for 29 different vacancies through announcing 17 internal adverts. The third channel was announcing 49 external and success. Our 97 years of business have taught us that employee engagement leads adverts during the same fiscal year. Finally, the fourth channel was launching two to positive commercial outcomes and improves the business environment, which in credit courses, the Corporate Credit Course (CC5) and SMEs & Islamic Finance turn leads to higher productivity, better talent retention, reduction of absenteeism, an Credit Course, along with several other mini credit courses such as five SMEs Mini overall enhancement in our services, and higher customer satisfaction. Credit courses, and one Islamic Mini Credit course, as well as two Supplementary When it comes to our employees we consider the following: Credit courses. Values: Investing in Our People: O ur employees commit to high standards of conduct at all times; yielding excellence in fulfilling all of our customers' banking needs. We expect our staff B anque Misr designs and implements a number of training programs directed at enhancing the skills and knowledge base of its staff, which has improved performance noticeably. In addition, we have launched the second phase of our to act with full integrity and uphold every value we instill in our operations in the execution of their daily duties. Banque Misr remains focused on human capital and teamwork program, which was developed last year, under the title “Ma’an” (Together, its potential. We aim to empower, and we begin with our employees. We encourage in Arabic); this program is the channel through which we maintain and enhance our professionalism with emphasis on development and training, while also embracing and main goal: to create and develop constant and consistent positivity and team-spirit praising employees for their diversity and its value in corporate culture. among our employees. Since our values shape our behavior and code of conduct, BM's strict regulations ensure In order to ensure that employees understand our terms and conditions from the very that our staff project those values accurately and diligently in all their operations. start, BM began launching an induction program since the start of 2017. This program allows us to welcome our newly hired employees properly, while also serving as a new That said, we also ensure that our employees get the care and attention they need; knowledge management technique. The program covers the employer and employees' especially when there are special talents that require proper development and shaping. rights, as well as terms and conditions of employment to guarantee the effective We ensure that our employees' potential never goes to waste by providing each and integration of employees into our organization. It also aims to increase productivity every one the opportunities needed to learn and increase their competencies; preparing and reduce of short-term staff turnover. them to fill key positions in the future. Not only does BM focus on the newly hired talent, BM has also developed a new Banque Misr also believes in the importance of integrating more youth in the bank. program called Senior Development Track. The program is designed to qualify senior In 2016/2017, the average age of employees in BM went down to 37, from 44 in 2005. management personnel to join the succession program. With all of these programs in place, Banque Misr increased the number of its vocational training sessions. The bank Diversity: offered 22,867 training opportunities, with a total of 349,416 training hours. Bof BM's anque Misr is also committed to respecting the different values and opinions of its employees as part of its commitment to serve a diverse and inclusive society. All employees are encouraged to freely discuss their opinions and concerns. Biases Succession Planning: and/or discriminations of any kind, including those based on gender, age, ethnicity, Future Leaders religion, and disabilities, are met with a zero tolerance policy at Banque Misr. Throughout its history, Banque Misr has always believed in equal opportunities. Diversity is a fundamental value, a strategic business advantage, and a driving force T he bank also took part in the Future Leaders Program organized by the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), helping cultivate a wider range of knowledge in BM's employees through seminars, class discussions, training, study tours, case studies, and for BM's corporate culture. Maintaining a network of diverse employees enables us to demo branch simulations. It built on participants' uniqueness, experience, aspirations, serve our diverse clientele better. and their comprehension of how to apply their knowledge in their bank. Talent Program Recruitment and Selection: In 2016, BM completed the first phase of the Talent Management Project which T he recruitment department in Banque Misr successfully hired 913 selected candidates for vacancies in the last fiscal year. The hiring process was conducted through four channels. trained and developed the skills of the bank's future leaders. The program enabled certain members of staff – who were found to be motivated and with high potential – to generate ideas for improving processes, quality, and service. 106 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 10 7 G4-10 G4-23 G4-HR1 G4-DMA G4-10 G4-23 G4-HR1 G4-DMA The bank also provided them with specialized training courses and adopted a rotation plan in many different departments in BM. Female: 30.43% Additionally, the bank completed the development plan for the first GM successors. As part of the Succession Plan Project, the potential successors were provided with extra courses in skills deemed necessary for the position: personal, interpersonal, managerial, and organizational skills. Employees Employee Turnover: Male: 69.57% B anque Misr's low employee turnover rate reflects a high rate of employee satisfaction. Banque Misr registered an employee turnover rate of 3.99% in fiscal year 2016/2017, mainly comprised of employees who had reached retirement age. Human Rights and Working Welfare: Employees with Special Needs: T he bank and its suppliers are committed to complying with all applicable regulations, as well as with any existing industrial standards, agreements, and/ or guidelines on human rights and the welfare and safety of employees and clients by B anque Misr's sustainability strategy highly emphasizes the importance of integrating all members of society in our bank. We are a by-the-people for-the abiding with the following requirements: people institution and hence we work very hard to integrate all kinds of people, including those with special needs, within our system. No child labor: The bank's administration and its suppliers would never — under any circumstances — consider employing children. The recruitment process takes into consideration the type of disability and the Humane treatment: A workplace that is free of harsh and/or inhumane treatment is candidate's skills and abilities to meet the job's requirements. guaranteed. No discrimination: Harassments of all forms and/or deliberate discrimination on Easing Employees, Financial Burdens: the basis of race, religion, political convictions, gender/sex, or on any other basis are prohibited by the power of law. Health and safety: A safe working environment is guaranteed at all times. A s a gesture of gratitude to our employees who form our work force capital, and to show them that we understand the importance of human resources, the bank launched a new loans package for its employees that includes mortgage Wages and employment benefits: Salaries and employment benefits that satisfy all loans, personal loans, and car loans with facilitated conditions. applicable employment laws are paid on time. Empowering Women: Competitive Benefits for Employees: T he high number of female employees at our institution is an indication of our success in complying with and operating within our values and commitments toward society. In 2017, women constituted 30.43% of the total number of the bank's B anque Misr's appreciation for its employees does not come in the form of words; we express our appreciation by providing our employees with the most competitive benefits packages in terms of wages, salaries, and medical care, which employees. also cover employees' families, transportation facilities, and leisure travel, along Not only do we work on empowering the women of our society, we are also attentive to with a number of other social and sports benefits. their needs and to the delicate balance they maintain between their carers and personal lives. At BM, we reward our employees' high performance levels with competitive pay, benefits, and compensations based on performance. The bank has recently built In 2017, BM offered maternity leave to 345 female employees, along with child care a new wages' structure that is updated annually to keep pace with the changes vacations for 206 others. Offering flexible working hours also supports our commitment in wage levels in the banking sector. The year 2017 recorded an increase in the to the work/family balance that we strive to provide to our employees at Banque Misr. average employee cost to EGP 227,360, up from EGP 188,890 in 2011. 108 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 10 9 G4-10 G4-11 G4-23 G4-LA7 G4-HR1 G4-10 G4-11 G4-23 G4-HR1 Employee Recognition: Leisure Travel: B anque Misr continues to hold regular award celebrations for its distinguished staff members; in recognition of their efforts and to express our gratitude for them. The bank honored employees who held the first positions in competitions O ur employees enjoy benefits that surpass the basic necessities; we offer a 70% discount on many leisure trips designed for our employees, during the summer and winter seasons. Over the years we have found that these trips organized by the Egyptian Banking Institute. reflect positively on their performance and productivity. Their rate of compliance Banque Misr has also adopted many initiatives to reward its best employees for improved and the general disposition of the employees during office hours was their hard work and efforts. noticeably happier as well. The total cost of the leisure trips recorded EGP 15.6 million in fiscal year 2016/2017. Medical Care: Social and Sports Activities: O ur appreciation for our employees does not stop at awards and competitive paychecks, BM also ensures the wellbeing of all its employees through offering comprehensive medical packages for them and their families. The bank contracted with a number of medical specialists, doctors, hospitals, laboratories B uilding and further solidifying our profound belief in the importance of the human element in the bank's strategy, we inaugurated its New Cairo Leisure and Sports Club this year, with the aim of providing a suitable place for employees and pharmacies to cover the vast number of employees working in the bank's to spend quality time with their families. The bank provided all the technical different branches and offices. support needed as well as EGP 100 million to finance the establishment of the The bank uses a medical system that automatically updates to save time and new club. facilitate the process. The cost of employees' medical services, which included We cover our employees holistically, trying as much as possible to maintain their offering special treatments to 173 patients suffering from hepatitis C, netted EGP overall wellbeing. That is why we also encourage physical activities and sports, 172 million for fiscal year 2016/2017. sponsoring tournaments and other activities with a total cost of EGP 4.7 million in Moreover, as a way of showing our care for the wellbeing of our most valuable fiscal year 2016/2017. We take it upon ourselves to organize football tournaments asset, Banque Misr holds periodical seminars aimed at raising awareness among frequently during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, as well as during Easter employees and building healthy organizational culture, based on the principle that holidays, encouraging employees to take part. Other similar tournaments are also prevention is better than cure. The most recent medical seminar conducted by the organized for volleyball, table tennis, chess, basketball, swimming, squash, and bank aimed to build awareness on “Hepatitis C and Prevention”. futsal games. Post-Retirement Benefits: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: O ver the past seven years, employees' post-retirement benefits have climbed from EGP 34 million in 2010 to EGP 38 million in 2011. Furthermore, in W e also respect our employees' rights to join, form, or refrain from joining a labor union without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. We understand that this is a fundamental right granted to any and all employees and accordance with the Egyptian Accounting Standards, Central Bank of Egypt regulations, and a study conducted based on actuarial expertise, benefits surged to we are thusly committed to establishing constructive dialogue with their freely EGP 320 million in 2012, EGP 620 million in 2013, EGP 499 million in 2014, EGP chosen legal representatives. 513 million in 2015, finally reaching EGP 565 million in 2017. Child Labor: Transportation Facilities: B anque Misr adheres to the minimum age provision mentioned in the applicable laws and regulations. The bank strictly prohibits the hiring of individuals less B M is committed to providing an easy and subsidized means of transportation to its employees to increase their productivity and ensure their general wellbeing. than 18 years of age. The bank's prohibition of child labor is consistent with the regulations of the International Labor Organization (ILO) . 11 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 111 G4-DMA G4-EC1 G4-SO1 Community Development S temming from its compatibility with the United Nations Global Compact, with its 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, Banque Misr has always had a strong legacy of giving back. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies at the core of the bank's strategy and its employees' business approach. Through responsible businesses, we at Banque Misr always aim to create value for society and strive for better economic achievement. We contribute positively and constructively through specific projects that are either carried out directly by the bank, or indirectly through Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development, or through partnership with NGOs and development-oriented civil society institutions. We at Banque Misr adopt a philanthropic approach based on preserving the citizens' right to life with dignity through creating financial solutions that are suitable for all social segments and that meet their various needs. As such, we aim to make a positive impact on the welfare of individuals, as well as families' living conditions, and in turn build a prosperous economy for our beloved country. Therefore, Banque Misr sponsored programs and initiatives aimed at financing microsized projects in the neediest villages across the country, in cooperation with NGOs such as; Misr El-Kheir Foundation, Orman Charity Association, and Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID/El Nidaa). This comes within the framework Banque Misr provides craft workshops for women and youth in Upper Egypt, in cooperation with El Nidaa of the state's strategy and the Central Bank of Egypt's initiatives to support small businesses, as essential providers of jobs and economic growth. Studies were conducted to select the neediest villages in Minya and Qena governorates according to the population density and the living conditions. Upcoming phases will cover more areas in need across the country, eventually extending to revenue-generating governorates. Supporting Micro-sized Enterprises in Villages Most in Need Partnership with Misr El-Kheir Banque Misr partnered with Misr El-Kheir Foundation to provide finances worth EGP 17.5 million for a number of micro-sized commercial and craftsmanship projects led by youth and breadwinning women in four cities in Minya governorate; Maghagha, Bani Mazar, Malawi, and al-Adwa. The bank contributed to the implementation of 50 micro-sized projects, 300 women-led businesses, and 500 greenhouses, as well as the cultivation of 200 feddans and the activation of two agricultural associations. Moreover, Banque Misr also provided 300 residents of these cities with technical and craft training. It also provided hotel training for 150 others. Banque Misr provides craft workshops for women and youth in Upper Egypt, in cooperation with El Nidaa 11 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 113 G4-EC1 G4-SO1 Partnership with Orman Association Under the same framework of providing funding opportunities in Upper Egypt, Banque Misr partnered with Orman Charity Association to provide initial funding of about EGP 4 million for four villages in Minya governorate; Ashroba, Abaza, Abgag Al Hatab, and Al Souby. Pursuant to this partnership, the bank offered soft loans of EGP 21,000 for each case in three phases to help finance the launch of micro projects in the four villages. Partnership with El Nidaa to provide Craft Workshops for Women and Youth In cooperation with the UNDP-backed program Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID/El Nidaa), Banque Misr held two craft workshops and trained 100 people at total cost of about EGP 3.244 million. The workshops were designed to provide breadwinning women and youth in Upper Egypt with handicrafts training in the copper craft and kilim industries. Banque Misr provides financial support for Al Asmarat slum-dweller project The workshops aimed at promoting job creation for both women and youth, as well as improving the living conditions in three villages in Qena; El Maana, Al Gazairia, and Sheikh Eissa. Supporting National Economy B anque Misr is considered one of the main pillars for national industrial and economic development. Thereby, the bank has always been keen on upholding its role in supporting the national economy and financing economically viable projects in addition to backing the various industries that advance economic development. Long Live Egypt Fund During fiscal year 2015/2016, Banque Misr contributed EGP 50 million to the Long Live Egypt Fund, which was established by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to financially support the country's development. In addition, during fiscal year 2016/2017, the bank committed EGP 160 million to the fund so as to finance the Al Asmarat slum-dweller project. Aiming to showcase our Banque Misr supports owners of leather tanneries to move to Al-Robeky Tannery City love for the country and engage people in celebrating the country's victories, Banque Misr also secured EGP 1 million to finance this year's celebrations of the October 6th war anniversary. 114 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 115 G4-EC1 G4-SO1 Mashrouak Program Banque Misr participated with the Ministry of Local Development in the Mashrouak (Your Project) program, aiming to provide funding for micro and small projects through the one-window investment system in the 308 local units spread nationwide, in which Banque Misr recorded an 77% penetration rate in 238 units. The total financing portfolio for smalland medium-sized projects registered EGP 3.6 billion, with a number of clients reaching 60,000 on June 30th, 2017. In the same context, the bank provided loans worth EGP 929 million for micro projects by June 30th, 2017, which then surged to EGP 1.366 billion by December 31st, 2017. Al-Robeky Tannery City As part of the country's policies to develop the leather industry in a healthy and clean environment, Al-Robeky City is one of the most high-priority strategic projects. Thereby, Banque Misr provided funding for the small leather tanneries, which relocated to the new city, to purchase lands, machinery, equipment, and all production requirements, as well as for the investors to purchase small and medium-sized workshops Banque Misr supports small craftsmen to purchase their own units in the Damietta Furniture City and commercial and administrative units. The loans were given at very low interest rates, with periods ranging from one year to 10 years, including a two-year grace period. Funding Industrial Parks for MSMEs Banque Misr continued to provide finances to establish industrial complexes for micro, small, and medium enterprises, in cooperation with the Egyptian Industrial Development Authority (IDA), in accordance with two initiatives launched by the Central Bank of Egypt to support MSMEs. The finances were provided at 75% of the total value of each unit, over a period of up to 10 years, with an appropriate grace period of at least one year, starting from the date of unit delivery. The finances come in line with the bank's firm belief in providing social and economic support to boost the national economy, increase national production, create job opportunities for young people, raise living standards, and push development forward. Damietta Furniture City Stemming from Banque Misr's leading role in supporting the Egyptian furniture Banque Misr provided funds for the renovations of the buildings in the historical Korba neighborhood industry and stimulating exports from the sector, the bank provided small craftsmen with the necessary funding to purchase their own units in the new Damietta Furniture City and furnish them with state-of-the-art equipment. 116 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 11 7 G4-EC1 G4-SO1 G4-SO1 Mortgages for Low-income Citizens With a proven significant impact on the national economy, the campaign takes place in line with the government's guidelines and the Central Bank of Egypt's requirements, As part of the bank's pioneering role in pushing Egypt's economy forward, Banque addressing youth, women, and different segments of the society. Misr announced its participation in the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) mortgage finance initiative, with the aim of boosting the real estate and construction sectors for As a result, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs released a press statement, in which it low, middle, and upper-middle income citizens. Thereby, Banque Misr offered longthanked Banque Misr for its significant role in combating illegal emigration. term mortgage financing, through simple procedures, granting 16,203 loans and a loan portfolio of EGP 1.48 billion on June 30th, 2017, which later surged to EGP 2.17 billion in December 2017, Developing Slums and Old Areas Al Asmarat Slum-dweller Project Supporting Egyptian Pharmacists Banque Misr continued to play an active role in supporting the country's pharmaceutical trade activity by providing necessary funding for pharmacists seeking to launch their A iming to catalyze the state efforts to remove and reduce slums through converting them into better housing options, Banque Misr contributed EGP 25 million to provide furnishings and furniture for housing units in the Al Asmarat district, in own enterprises, under the umbrella of Central Bank of Egypt's initiative to support cooperation with the Ministry of Local Development and the Long Live Egypt Fund. small projects, with an interest rate of 5% on loans. Bashayer El Kheir Housing Project Phase III World Youth Forum Banque Misr participated in the third phase of one of the largest state development Stemming from Banque Misr's strong belief in the importance of youth empowerment projects to upgrade informal settlements, Bashayer El Kheir (Good Omens). The as an integral part of the development of the nation, the bank also sponsored the World third phase targets the development of two informal areas, Maawa El Sayadeen Youth Forum, which took place in Sharm El-Sheikh. The bank contributed EGP 20 (Fishermen Shelter) and Nagaa El Arab, located in the west of the Mediterranean city of Alexandria. The project aims to build decent homes that meet the basic needs million to the conference. for the residents of those areas. Banque Misr committed EGP 300 million for three consecutive years. Financial Inclusion Conference The bank contributed EGP 150,000 to sponsor the large charity event that took place Based on Banque Misr's firm belief in the importance of financial planning for the in the Cairo Opera House, to raise funds for Bashayer El Kheir housing project prosperity of the people and the development of the economy, the bank sponsored the phase III. Financial Inclusion Conference in Sharm El-Sheikh, one of the state's largest international economic events in 2017. The bank contributed EGP 10 million to the conference. Funding Renovations of Korba Old Buildings The conference was regarded as a milestone in the government's plan to step up efforts Banque Misr pledged EGP 3 million for the renovation of the facades of the old toward consolidating and disseminating the culture of financial inclusion, with the help buildings in Korba Square surrounding the presidential palace in Heliopolis. of the Central Bank of Egypt's financial inclusion initiative. Developing El Borsa Triangle Talaat Harb Coming Back Campaign The bank also contributed EGP 2 million to the development of El Borsa Triangle from Qasr El Nil Street, one of the largest streets in the downtown Cairo area to Banque Misr launched this year an advertising campaign under the title, “Talaat Harb is Mahmoud Basiuoni Street. Coming Back”. The campaign is designed to finance smalland medium-sized enterprises in Egypt by particularly encouraging the youth to borrow money and start their own New Nozha Pedestrian Bridge businesses. The campaign aims to rebrand small business; it aims to make working in small businesses more alluring while criticizing alternatives such as illegal emigration. In a bid to promote road safety and save lives, Banque Misr contributed EGP 3.7 million to cover the cost of building a pedestrian bridge on the Joseph Tito Axis in New Nozha. 118 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 119 G4-SO1 G4-SO1 Supporting New Valley and Red Sea Governorates Supporting Teacher Training Initiative Banque Misr committed EGP 1.3 million to support the New Valley and Red Sea In affirmation of its corporate social responsibility role, Banque Misr signed a contract governorates. with the Education First Institution, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, Supporting Different Informal Areas to support a project aiming to train 4,500 teachers in 721 experimental language schools across the nation. Banque Misr committed EGP 100 million to projects targeting the development of informal areas in the country, in cooperation with the Financial Affairs Authority of the Educational initiatives constitute one of the key pillars of Banque Misr's corporate Egyptian Armed Forces, social responsibility strategy, stemming from the belief that the experiences of developed countries have proven that the basis of their growth was and continues to be Healthcare and Scientific Research concern for education. The institution aims to support public education in Egypt through enhancing the Supporting Scientific Research on Stem Cell Treatment for Diabetes capacities of teachers in this sector and through supporting outstanding students in all disciplines, in addition to linking civil society organizations and the state with the aim A s strengthening research capacity is one of the most effective and sustainable ways of advancing health and development in developing countries, Banque Misr provided the Urology and Nephrology Center at Mansoura University with EGP 6 million to support of supporting education in Egypt. the center's goals and to finance research on using stem cells for the treatment of diabetes. Building One-stop Shop at Zewail University Supporting Egyptian National Cancer Institute Banque Misr signed a cooperation protocol with Zewail University for the establishment The bank also supported the Egyptian National Cancer Institute with finances worth of a one-stop-shop service center, aiming to streamline the most common student EGP 200,000. services at one convenient location, at a cost of EGP 25 million. Supporting Egyptian Society of Women Health Signing Cooperation Protocol with Ministries of Higher Education and While poverty is an important barrier to positive health outcomes for both men and Planning women, poverty tends to yield a higher burden on women's and girls' health due to, for example, food practices (malnutrition) and the use of unsafe cooking fuels (COPD). Banque Misr also signed a cooperation protocol with the Ministry of Higher Thereby, Banque Misr provided the Egyptian Society of Women's Health with EGP Education and Scientific Research as well as the Ministry of Planning, Follow-Up and 400,000 to support it. Administrative Reform, whereby the bank offered EGP 500 million over three years to Supporting Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation support the country's educational programs and scientific research. Banque Misr continued its support for Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation (MYF), as it Participating in the International Financial Week Activities donated EGP 5 million for critical cases this year. Banque Misr continued to organize tours and seminars during International Financial Week, aimed at spreading the culture of finance among children and young people. Education Funding Renovations of the Historic Talaat Harb Theatre at Ain Shams Funding Illiteracy Programs University S temming from its deep belief in the importance of education in the development of Egyptian society, Banque Misr has been an active founding member in the national project for eliminating illiteracy, having contributed EGP 275,000 to the project during In a bid to promote cultural enrichment for university students, Banque Misr approved EGP 8 million to finance the restoration of the historic Talaat Harb Theatre in Ain fiscal year 2016/2017. It also awarded teachers who provided literacy sessions to the Shams University. highest number of individuals. 120 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 12 1 G4-SO1 Supporting Youth Sports Activities Seeking to provide a good example to other institutions toward building Egypt and developing youth's skills, Banque Misr always seeks to lead youth initiatives toward a brighter future. During 2017, Banque Misr sponsored the Women's International Tennis Championship in Sharm El-Sheikh, in which more than 25 European countries participated. The bank continues to sponsor frequent youth futsal tournaments, as well as chess championships during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, encouraging its employees and their families to participate in them. Training Programs for Entrepreneurs Stemming from Banque Misr's firm belief in the importance of fostering an entrepreneurial culture, the bank has developed a program in cooperation with a consulting firm, aimed Banque Misr Foundation activities to improve the living standards in Hawara Village, Fayoum Governorate, in at providing training for BM clients and investors in Alexandria. The training tackled cooperation with FAODA marketing methodologies and how to set sales strategies, aiming to help entrepreneurs in Egypt launch their own small and medium-sized enterprises. Social Solidarity Supporting Orphans B anque Misr and its Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development continued to play a significant role in social solidarity activities, such as joining the community in celebration of Orphans' Day, which takes place on the first Friday of the month of April. BM holds yearly celebrations for orphans on their day in the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, Minya, Beni Seuf, Luxor, Qena, Aswan, Beheira, and Sharqiya. The bank's employees are encouraged to join the celebrations as volunteers to organize and support the celebrations. Supporting Students in Need Banque Misr donated EGP 500,000 to pay tuition fees for Cairo University students who were unable to meet agreed payment deadlines. Supporting Talaat Harb Retired Employees Association The bank continues to donate to the Talaat Harb Retired Employees Association, as part of its commitment to continue an active and ongoing relationship with retired employees by organizing a number of tours for them. This year, Banque Misr donated EGP 55,000 to the association. Supporting Orman Association Charitable Activities Banque Misr continues its support for Orman Charity Association by offering EGP 20 million this year since the association aims to serve Egyptians from all segments of society, without discrimination on any basis such as gender, religion, or political opinion. Banque Misr Foundation supports handicrafts workshops in Giza and Qena 122 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 12 3 G4-15 G4-DMA G4-SO1 Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development B anque Misr has always had a strong legacy of supporting corporate social responsibility. Therefore, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development was launched as a nonprofit organization in 2007, aiming to contribute to the overall development of the various sectors of society, including education, culture, employment, economy, public health, and environment. It also supports other social solidarity projects through working to strengthen civil society's contribution to the foundation's projects to widen their scope. The foundation is officially registered under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. It further works to offer support to various scientific research centers, schools, universities, and public hospitals. It has also financed a number of social projects either directly or indirectly through non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The foundation accepts donations from inside and outside of Egypt and from all individuals who wish to engage in charity and development opportunities. Contributions to the foundation are delivered to special accounts offered by Banque Misr in all its branches across the country. They can also be mailed directly to the bank's headquarters at 153 Mohamed Farid Street, Banque Misr Tower, Floor 22, Downtown, Cairo, Egypt. The Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the board of trustees of BMFCD, Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby and Dr. Ali El-Saiedi visiting remedial schools in El-Deweika in Manshiyat Naser Stemming from Banque Misr's firm belief in the vital role of the foundation, the bank has set aside an annual amount of its net profit to fund the activities of the foundation. During the period from 2008 to 2017, Banque Misr Foundation actively partook in several developmental activities in coordination with a number of NGOs and universities, to implement different programs in the fields of social development, health, education, effective environmental activities, and the development of the economy. Developing Egyptian Villages Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development joined a group of NGOs and Egyptian universities from 2010 to 2017 in projects to upgrade 72 villages, hamlets, and informal settlements in different parts of Egypt. The foundation's partners included the Masr El Mahrousa Balady Association (MMBA), the Association of Upper Egypt for Education and Development (AUEED), the Association for the Development and Enhancement of Women (ADEW), the Omar Bin Abd El Aziz Association, the Fayoum Agro Organic Development Association (FAODA), and Benha University. The developed villages included: Al Hammas, Al Horayzat Al Gharbia villages, Al Zouk and Juhyna city in southern Sohag Tafnees, Asfoun, and Al-Gharyera villages in the touristic city of Luxor Mit Kenana, Tersa, Karkashanda, Moshtohor, Namoul, Manzala, Kafr Ilwan, Kafr Hasan Saad, and Mit Asem in Toukh City in Qalyubia, on the outskirts of Cairo Remedial classes for students in El-Deweika in Manshiyat Naser 124 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 12 5 G4-15 G4-SO1 G4-15 G4-SO1 Four villages in Menouf City in the Nile Delta governorate of Menoufia Education: Al-Adwa and Al Raghama villages in Kom Ombo, Aswan governorate Hawara Village and Manshiet Demoud Demashkin, Fayoum governorate Supporting Nile University Kardous Village, one of the villages of Sodfa, Asyut Governorate Banque Misr Foundation provided EGP 10.6 million to support Nile University, a Sponsoring three full-service convoys, in cooperation with the Faculty of Agriculture pioneering local non-profit research institution that aims at graduating cadres of highly at Benha University qualified professionals to meet the needs of the community and industrial companies in order to achieve sustainable economic development. It also offered scholarships to 50 In cooperation with the Faculty of Agriculture at Benha University, Banque Misr high-achieving students. Foundation sponsored three full-service convoys, which included the purchase of rabbit breeding batteries, fodders, and breeds, aiming to provide job opportunities for Renovating Schools the youth. The convoys were sent to three villages in Qalyubia, Asyut, and Aswan governorates. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development made sizable contributions to The foundation also worked on improving the quality of life for the residents of the the development and renovation of a number of school classrooms in various Egyptian previously mentioned villages through developing educational and health services cities. there. Banque Misr Foundation implemented 3,500 new economic projects for young The foundation worked on the enhancement of the infrastructure of 45 schools in people and female-headed households in different villages. The projects covered Luxor, Sohag, Aswan, and Menoufia. various sectors, such as breeding cattle and sheep, rabbit farming, sewing, technical and craftsman training for carpentry, plastering, plumbing, maintenance of mobile phones, Opening New Classrooms printers, and computers, as well as electricity, all of which were aimed at enhancing the standard of living for many families. Banque Misr Foundation contributed to improving the educational level of 2,000 students through sponsoring reading classes in Luxor, Sohag and Aswan. The It also sponsored medical convoys to serve approximately 6,000 residents in a number foundation also helped to establish 80 new kindergarten classrooms in Luxor, Sohag, of Egyptian villages, and organized a number of seminars to raise the public's awareness Aswan, and Menoufia. on health, as well as social and economic issues. Renovating Sports Centers Supporting Pottery and Ceramics Industries in Qena,s Gargous Village The foundation renovated and furnished four sports centers for youth in the towns The foundation sponsored a training program designed to support and develop two of Esna in Luxor and Horayzat in Sohag. It had also provided these centers with ceramic factories in Gargous Village in Qena governorate, in cooperation with a educational equipment. number of global specialists in the ceramics industry as well as international renowned designers. The training program aimed to preserve this special craft by helping devise Training Young People new and different designs to keep pace with the developments in the ceramics industry. The foundation provided 1,100 training workshops for youth in the fields of sales, Developing Slums accounting, customer services, working with people with special needs, secretarial work, graphics, maintenance of appliances, running small projects, and other fields. It also Banque Misr Foundation has taken part in improving the living conditions in informal helped some trainees to find suitable job opportunities. The foundation also provided settlements in several areas; Kom Ghorab in Old Cairo, El Basateen, Arab al-Maadi, technical training for approximately 800 young people in Luxor, Sohag, Menoufia, and El-Deweika in Manshiyat Naser. It has contributed to launching remedial classes Fayoum, and Aswan, in addition to offering them job opportunities and support for for students, literacy classes for women, and vocational training courses, carrying their small projects. out small projects for youth and female breadwinners, as well as sponsoring medical convoys and human resources programs. Providing Scholarship Opportunities The foundation also sponsored launching sewing, leather, carpet, and kheyameya tapestry (patchwork) workshops in addition to supporting Al-Manarat project that Acting upon its belief in the importance of science and supporting the new generation seeks to take care of orphans and single mothers for the fifth consecutive year. of scientists, Banque Misr Foundation signed a cooperation agreement with Egypt's 126 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 12 7 G4-15 G4-SO1 Nile University for Science and Technology to finance educational scholarships for 50 undergraduate students in different specializations, along with five graduate students, at a total cost of EGP 10.9 million. Furnishing Seven Computer Labs in Damietta Banque Misr Foundation provided the needed furnishings for the computer labs in seven schools in the Damietta governorate. Sponsoring Cairo University Technology Transfer Competition The competition is considered a comprehensive theoretical and scientific educational program for Cairo University students. It aims to encourage teaching students the missing step in the educational system, which is how to transfer, employ, market, and practically apply the knowledge they have gained at university. This is achieved through changing the educational culture toward entrepreneurship and business management, and bridging the gap between the university and the industry. The competition also includes creating an incubator for the university's work, which would have its own program that aims to sponsor selected projects in order to allow them to reach the execution and marketing stage. It is not simply limited to handing out prizes to the three winning teams at a celebration at the university. The foundation sponsored the second and third phases of the competition, to allow the three winning teams' projects to materialize into existing businesses. Banque Misr provided financial support to develop an intensive care unit in Minya University Hospital Supporting Healthcare Projects: Developing Hospitals and Medical Units T he foundation provides financial support to a number of hospitals, along with other medical centers. The support was directed toward the purchase of new equipment and enhancing their medical services. The foundation also contributed to the development of 38 medical units through the provision of appliances and medical needs for the universities and public hospitals. Supporting Universities and Public Health Facilities with Health Devices and Equipment Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development provided financial support totaling about EGP 32.5 million to equip several university and governmental medical units in various governorates during fiscal year 2016/2017. Banque Misr Foundation sponsors several medical convoys to serve approximately 6,000 residents in a number of Egyptian villages 128 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 12 9 G4-15 G4-SO1 G4-15 G4-SO1 The foundation contributed EGP 8.9 million and then EGP 5.1 million for neonatal Open Heart Surgery Project intensive care units in the New Children's Hospital at Ain Sham University during the fiscal year 2016/2017. It also allocated EGP 10 million for the general surgery and The foundation contributed EGP 495,000 to bear the surgery costs for a number of orthopedics department at Benha University Hospitals. patients who were unable to pay, in coordination with Abu El-Rish Children's Japanese In addition, the foundation arranged EGP 2.8 million for the emergency and intensive Hospital. care department at Beni Suef University Hospitals and EGP 5 million for the child care Eye Surgery Project operations at Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation. Banque Misr Foundation provided the Faculty of Medicine in Aswan University with In cooperation with the Research Institute of Ophthalmology, Banque Misr foundation stress exercise electrocardiogram, dynamic ECG holter monitor, and blood pressure provided EGP 500,000 to cover the eye surgery costs for a number of patients who were machines worth EGP 300,000. unable to pay. It also secured about EGP 320,000 for the operation rooms at El-Sahel Teaching Hospital and about EGP 70,000 to develop stress exercise electrocardiogram machines Annual Medical Convoys for the fitness and rehabilitation unit and Cairo University Hospitals. In cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine at Ain Shams University, Banque Misr For the second consecutive year, Banque Misr Foundation undertook the nursing costs, Foundation sponsored the convoys that traveled to the villages of Beni Suef and Fayoum amounting to EGP 2.2 million annually, for the Intensive Care Unit in Ain Shams governorates. The convoys included providing medical check-ups and treatment as well University Surgery Hospital. It also covered the nursing costs, amounting to EGP 1.2 as referral of patients in need of surgeries. million annually, for the Intensive Care Unit in Abu El-Rish Children's Japanese Hospital. The Right to Vision for All and Combating Blindness Project in Fayoum Social Solidarity – Phases II and III Supporting Orphans Banque Misr Foundation provided EGP 525,000 to cover the surgery and treatment costs of a number of patients who were unable to pay. Burn Treatment Project – Phase II O rphans are considered among the neediest segments of society, requiring both educational, psychological, and social care to help them integrate into society and overcome the conditions of orphanhood and the loss of their families. The activities undertaken in the realm of social solidarity, carried out through the bank's Zakat The foundation secured EGP 300,000 to cover the surgery and treatment costs of a account, vary, including: number of patients who were unable to pay. -Providing orphans' requirements for holidays and the academic year Hepatitis C Treatment Project -Supporting orphaned children and breadwinning women -Warmth in Winter Campaign, which is carried out in the Upper Egyptian governorates The foundation allocated EGP 610,000 to cover the treatment costs of a number of adults and children with hepatitis C who were unable to pay. Supporting Students in Need Cochlear Implant in Children Project The foundation subsidized tuition fees for 400 students in South Valley University and 50 more in Asyut University. It also sponsored scholarships for 86 students in three Banque Misr Foundation secured EGP 300,000 to cover the treatment costs for a schools in Asyut governorate. number of patients who were unable to pay, in cooperation with Faculty of Medicine, Fayoum University. 130 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 1 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Historical Books Historical Books In 1798, France's Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte ordered a large-scale project The book offers a comprehensive scientific description of every form of life across to publish all the recorded findings of the scientists, scholars, and artists who Egypt. A rare copy of the 13-volume book, which was published in Paris in 1826, was had accompanied him on his expedition to Egypt. All of these documents were gifted by Talaat Harb Pasha's family to Banque Misr Museum. collected into a huge luxury edition, under the title Description de l’Égypte. 132 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 3 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Historical Books Historical Books Égypte is a book written in French and issued upon an order by King Fouad in 1932, The book was published in Geneva, Switzerland and a special copy no. 94 that was consisting of textual and visual descriptions of Egypt's governorates. In 220 pages, the gifted to Banque Misr. Historians believe that this book has the same historical value book explores Pharaonic, Ptolemaic, Roman, and Coptic antiquities, as well as Islamic of Description de l'Égypte. monuments, depicted with some 338 rare photographs. 134 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 5 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Historical Books Historical Books Cento Tavole del Codice Resta consists of a collection of about 100 original drawings chiefly made by Italy's most renowned painters during the period between the 14th and 18th centuries. The book, gifted by the late Talaat Harb Pasha's family to Banque Misr, is rare copy no. 1195 and was published by Biblioteca Ambrosiana, a historic Banque Misr le Caire is a book written in French and issued during the reign of King library in Milan. Farouk I. It explores the story of Banque Misr and its first days, illustrated with some photographs of its headquarters, local and regional branches, companies, and In 2008, the book was restored in cooperation with the Restoration Center at the its board of directors between 1920 AD and 1937 AD. The book was published by National Library and Archives of Egypt. Since then, the 220-page book has taken KAPP IMPRIMERIE. the forefront of Banque Misr Museum's exhibits. 136 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 7 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Historical Books Chapter Four Our Activities Les Mosques du Caire consists of a collection of 247 rare photographs of Cairo's historic mosques, as well as Quran and theology schools, built between 876 AD and 1824 AD. 138 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 13 9 G4-12 G4-13 G4-12 G4-13 Technology Information Systems I n light of Bnaque Misr's belief in technology as the key driver for enhanced and improved service delivery to its customers, it has incorporated state-of-the-art technology to maximize the value of those services. The bank has leveraged its B anque Misr did not stop at that stage; the bank has continued and maintains the ongoing development and upgrading of information systems that contribute to providing various banking services to a wide range of customer segments. We aim information technology for efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of banking to offer our customers maximum convenience to the extent of our abilities, and services. Thus, the bank continuously keeps its technology up to date to ensure that that is why the bank is about to introduce internet banking services, to save our all inputs to the system are complete and accurate and all transactions are valid and valued customers' time and money. Customers' operations and banking transactions properly authorized. will all be handled online at their convenience, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, It also ensures that services continue to run smoothly while systems are improved to offering them multi-platform support. With internet banking, customers can pay keep up with requirements, trends and innovations. To serve this vision, the bank's their bills, transfer money, and check their account balance. At the same time, we Information Technology division provides technological solutions and services that will not compromise them; the service guarantees maximum security. focus on improving customer experience while maintaining an optimum return on investment as well as closely monitoring cyber threats and data privacy. A range of FLEXCUBE, Banque Misr's core banking system, is being upgraded in three technological solutions and services was recently added to the bank's branches. phases. Phases one and two have been successfully completed; the system is now capable of offering easy adaptability to market needs while also enabling Information Technology Infrastructure: the bank to improve overall operational efficiency. The newly-upgraded core banking system provides a unified processing environment for corporate, retail, T he bank's Information Technology division is a key player in the bank's operation. IT has been a major contributor in aligning people, processes, and technologies, which has led to a major transformation in the bank's mode of operation. The division and investment banking operations. The core banking system also offers effective control and risk management, thus delivering improved performance and reliable customer service. is responsible for developing the bank's IT strategy and delivering all related services to employees and customers as well. The bank has been working on an ambitious Electronic Content Management The bank has undertaken several transformational initiatives through investing in project to automate the workflow of a number of business processes by innovation and the latest technology. One of the bank's significant achievements was automatically routing documents through defined approval pipelines; a testament signing a major agreement (ULA) with Oracle Company to maintain a cost reduction to Banque Misr's commitment to deliver excellence when it comes to its customer policy. From licensing and support perspectives, a complex IT landscape, growing service and work environment. Almost finalized, the first phase of the project demands on continuity, and increasing cyber threats are constant challenges. Thus, covers business processes such as clearing incoming checks, requests for external to ensure that BM's intended private cloud and server virtualization creation would transfers, and non-cash investment funds. This project is expected to lead to not be compromised, new technologies were introduced at the main data center and several advantages; reduced business processing times, increased productivity, and disaster recovery sites. This technology consolidates multiple virtual servers on a an efficient process for distributing and sharing information. Finally, workflow single physical machine, leading to a considerable reduction in the number of servers automation will deliver measurable improvements in customer service and and bringing with it the benefits of reduced floor space and power consumption costs, operational efficiency. improved server availability, business continuity, and load balancing capabilities that reflect a better customer experience. Business Continuity Middleware software was also introduced, which linked between separate banking applications and enabled applications to access functionality and data from each other's systems, as well. The connectivity greatly helped and increased the efficiency of our operations. In addition, the connectivity yielded several other benefits including A ll disaster recovery site services are now finalized and a disaster recovery plan has already been introduced as well; these measures are taken to safeguard better business continuity for all banking services. This is in addition to the reducing costs, and capturing new business opportunities. The initial utilization of the full interruption tests that were carried out to help us find the shortest system middleware platform enabled seamless integration between the bank's core banking restoration times, which have also been introduced to ensure this continuity. system and the internet banking services. 14 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 141 G4-DMA FS11 G4-SO1 G4-DMA FS8 FS11 Banque Misr's vast experience and key performance in leading landmark Corporate Banking transactions across diverse sectors within tight deadlines enabled it to conclude 10 new syndicated loans throughout 2017, with a total finance volume of EGP 32.9 A key concept of sustainability and supporting manpower is corporate social responsibility (CSR), which Banque Misr continues to ensure and implement in all its financing schemes, incorporating both social and environmental sustainability billion. The largest transaction made in the market from July 1st, 2016 to June 30th, 2017; BM had underwritten a total of EGP 14.3 billion, retaining EGP 4.9 billion from it. standards into the assessment phases. When we lend, we choose large-scale projects that can prove high economic and/or Financing Environmentally-Friendly Projects: social impact, along with environmentally-friendly ones. Financing National Projects: O ne of our main goals has always been the preservation of the environment in Egypt, to promote environmentally-friendly sustainable development. As such, Banque Misr seeks to support economic projects in all fields, particularly those that serve a wider societal segment, preserve the environment, and combat T he bank continues to play a leading role in financing large-scale national projects that significantly contribute to Egypt's economic development as well, particularly in the petroleum, energy, pollution. The bank provides financial support for large-scale projects of economic and/or social impact by offering the most appropriate funding schemes in the electricity, gas, telecommunication, aviation, form of soft loans with competitive returns, aiming to serve the highest number of tourism, and construction sectors. As a result, projects. Moreover, Banque Misr runs extensive the bank's total loans portfolio climbed to Total Loans Portfolio check-ups on all projects to ensure that they EGP 179 billion, growing by about 40% during comply with the Ministry of Environment's New Solar the fiscal year 2016/2017. Such a significant EGP 179 billion regulations. Energy Projects leap compared to the prevailing market rates In fiscal year 2016/2017, the bank's Corporate Preserve Environment was due to the diversification strategy pursued Banking and Syndicated Loans Department & Combat Pollution by the bank. Moreover, total recognized arranged a syndicated loan worth around EGP commissions surged to EGP 2.3 billion during fiscal year 2016/2017, recording a 951 million for a multinational company. The 76% growth. Out of this, the total recognized commissions in the department's loan aimed to finance the establishment of new scope of work reached EGP 1 billion, recording a 24% growth during fiscal year solar energy projects in Benban city, located near Aswan, as part of the second phase 2016/2017. of the Egyptian feed-in-tariff program. Banque Misr acted as initial mandated lead Banque Misr has received various accolades for its high position among banks in arranger, facility agent, bookrunner, and security agent. Moreover, BM has been Egypt and the Middle East and for its longstanding expertise in leading landmark appointed as the onshore agent on behalf of the project's foreign financiers and is financing transactions among different sectors within very tight time frames. The responsible for all onshore securities. bank led, arranged, and underwrote the majority of the largest transactions carried out in the market over the past decade. Delivering Excellence in Corporate Banking: In spite of the prevailing political and economic conditions in the region, the Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans Department managed to maintain an adequate credit rating portfolio. Concentration levels of the granted facilities within the portfolio's W orking and upholding our excellent standards in every operation has garnered us multiple awards from major global financial institutions. According to Bloomberg's League Tables on Global Syndicated Loans for the third quarter of sectors were compiled by June 30th, 2017 with the concentration percentages, according 2017, Banque Misr succeeded in: to the approved credit policies from the bank's Board of Directors. Other efforts were also carried out to expand facilities across promising sectors, in an attempt to Ranking first as the best Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Arranger in Egypt. further reduce concentration percentages within the portfolio. Ranking as the second best Bookrunner and Mandated Lead Arranger across BM's Corporate Banking/Acquisition Finance team comprises a team of highly Africa. qualified bankers who make our bank one of the leaders in the Egyptian and regional In addition, Banque Misr was also ranked amongst the top 20 financial institutions markets. This team is dedicated to offering creative financial packages, satisfying for Syndicated Loans Bookrunners across the Middle East and North Africa. The and exceeding our clients' expectations. bank was ranked among the top Egyptian banks according to Bloomberg's list of 14 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 14 3 G4-DMA FS11 FS6 FS7 the top 20 banks during 2017 in marketing and arranging syndicated loans, and in funding projects across the Middle East and North Africa. Retail Banking BM was also granted by IJ Global in March 2017 the Best Transport Deal of the Year in MENA for 2016: Limak Egypt's expansion project for Cairo International Airport Terminal 2. B M never settles when it comes to meeting and exceeding clients' aspirations, which is why the bank continues to provide the highest safety and quality measures possible, through a wide range of creative products and services. Banque Misr's ATMs now Moreover, EMEA Finance awarded Banque Misr the Best House in Syndicated have new features included, in addition to their traditional cash withdrawal, deposit, Loans & Project Finance in Africa for the second consecutive year. In addition, and foreign exchange services. The new services, EMEA also awarded four transactions financed by Banque Misr in collaboration which were launched in cooperation with Fawry, with other banks in June 2017: an e-payment solutions company, include money Limak Egypt's expansion project for Cairo International Airport Terminal 2 transfers between different parties without payment cards, bill payments, donations, I-score Retail Banking Portfolio Best Transport Deal of the Year in MENA for 2016. inquiries, and various subscription fees. The Banque Misr's deal for Etisalat Misr, in collaboration with other banks, was value of bill payments collected throughout the EGP 18.1 billion announced as the Best Telecommunication Deal in Africa in July 2017. lifetime of the service totaled EGP 233 million in December 2017. 24.8% y-o-y Growth Arab Contractors, as the Best Infrastructure Deal in Africa, Europe, and MENA. Housing Fund as the Best Social Development Deal in Africa. Enhancing Service Level: Since our human resources are our most valuable asset, we conducted three training courses in cooperation with the largest accounting and credit institutions that ended with remarkable success during the years 2009, 2011, 2014, and 2016. More E nhancing our service level does not only come in the form of technological advancement. Banque Misr constantly tries to reach customers wherever they are. Recently the bank launched a new line of personal loans without requiring than 139 analysts successfully graduated from the courses (first batch: 43, second salary transfers to facilitate the process for clients who are working in various batch: 31, third batch: 32, fourth batch: 33), giving them the opportunity to join the sectors, such as governmental institutions, banks (both public and private), oil and corporate credit, risk, and investment departments. petrochemical industries, telecommunications, business owners, and professionals (doctors, pharmacists, engineers, etc). In addition, to cater further to all of our Stemming from our belief in the importance of integrating more highly-qualified clients, Banque Misr offers a diverse range of specialized loans supported by different youth in the bank, we organized the fifth credit course during fiscal year 2016/2017. financing programs, providing our clients with many competitive advantages. Loan Thirty-two candidates managed to pass all the required perquisites and final tests, programs include car loans, real estate financing, finishing and refurbishing loans, out of the 1,600 candidates who only passed the preliminary tests. loans for durable goods, and tourism loans. Moreover, BM is planning to launch education loans in order to serve students in schools, universities, institutes as well as academic certificates, as an attempt to further encourage more Egyptians to invest in education. Offering even more flexibility, the bank allows clients to provide any available evidence of income, such as their salary slip or a bank statement. The bank's personal loans have special features such as a competitive interest rate, with a maximum loan amount of E-payment Services up to EGP 1 million and a maximum period of up to 120 months. EGP 16 billion Banque Misr has also improved its e-payment services and features by enabling its customers to pay for social insurance in addition to tax and other customs, activating this e-payment feature in 326 branches distributed across Egypt, collecting over EGP 16 billion in fiscal year 2016/2017. Corporate Payment Services (CPS), which allow our customers to pay taxes, tariffs, social insurance, and other government dues from their offices, were enabled in our branches 14 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 14 5 FS6 FS7 FS6 FS7 as well. Continuously developing our services and focusing on making our clients' Financial Inclusion: lives easier has led to Banque Misr ranking first in government payment services and customs tariffs. Moreover, with 14,577 POS terminals by December 2017 and a trading value of EGP 9.08 billion during fiscal year 2016/2017, BM came in first place in terms A s part of our sustainability strategy and objectives, Banque Misr has been aiming to turn Egypt into a cashless society. Thus, Banque Misr currently occupies 48% of the total market share in automating governmental workers' salaries through its of merchant outlets with 16,413 locations ATM network. The bank has maintained first place for the last 12 consecutive years nationwide as of December 2017. in this field. The bank was also ranked second in terms of the volume of issued outstanding e-payment Automated Salaries Automated salaries amounted to a total of EGP 55.09 billion in fiscal year 2016/2017, cards, which have reached 5.35 million on June distributed to 3.15 million cards for both the public and private sectors, in addition to 58,000 accounts. 30th, 2017, and then grew to 5.97 million by December 2017. As part of the bank's strategy EGP 55.09 billion Furthering our objectives of transforming Egyptian society into a cashless one, in promoting e-commerce and tourism, BM Banque Misr launched the BM Wallet service in February 2017, aiming to boost introduced the Dynamic Currency Conversion financial inclusion by offering all banking customers and walk-in customers with a (DCC) system, which is a financial service mobile payment application, which facilitates their lives with a variety of services. that allows credit card-holders to get the cost of their transactions in any foreign The service allows users to instantly transfer money to other wallet holders, pay country converted to their home currency at the point of sale. their bills, receive international remittances in the safest and most convenient Launching BMVIP Service: method, and send as well as receive money 24/7 directly from their mobile phones anywhere in the world. S temming from the bank's keenness to provide comprehensive services to meet our customers' expectations and requirements, BMVIP was recently launched to meet a certain segment of customers. Furthermore, Banque Misr's firm belief in the importance of financial planning for the prosperity of the people and the development of the economy has led us to work on ingraining the concept of saving and BMVIP is a brand-new vision for various banking solutions aimed at reducing investing. Thus, the bank has participated in VIP clients' time and effort. The service has been launched in cooperation with the Central Bank of Egypt's initiative, “Ashan CBE Mortgage MasterCard to offer customers exclusive products and services that satisfy all Bokra” (For Tomorrow in Arabic), with the their needs. In line with providing service excellence, BMVIP service presents aim of spreading financial awareness among Initiative MasterCard World and World Elite debit cards with numerous benefits for the the youth with educational bulletins and bank first time in Egypt. tours. In this respect, the bank has also reached EGP 2.17 billion BMVIP falls nothing short of excellence. The service guarantees its clients a unique out to youth by holding several symposiums experience, with a team of dedicated relationship managers and communication and organizing school trips to BM's different channels dedicated especially to the service, such as BMVIP's 19888 call center, branches and to the museum of Mohamed Talaat Harb, the bank's founder. text messages, and e-mail. BMVIP clients are also guaranteed further luxuries in their interactions with us. Supporting Home Ownership: They have custom BMVIP Lounges located in distinctive locations, so that they can enjoy their privacy. They also receive special rates of return on their VIP accounts with an ascending daily interest posting, according to the account balance. In addition, they are exempted from checkbook issuance fees and some other banking B anque Misr believes that the best way to support the safety of the bank's financial system, and to widen and enhance its services and outlook is to include new segments of society. The bank further seeks to strengthen its positive impact on the tariffs. overall economic activity of the country, as it has already increased the amount of BMVIP clients are provided with a free membership to both local and international people's savings and investments, ensuring the mobilization of financial resources concierge services, travel arrangements (hotel reservation, airline ticketing, airport through official channels. This in turn positively reflects on the economy, increasing reception, and hotel delivery), reservations to theaters, cinemas, cultural events, its growth rates and decreasing poverty and unemployment rates. dining, health, and beauty centers, shopping and gift selection (available in Cairo BM also took part in the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) initiative offering long-term and Alexandria), free membership to Lounge Key for VIP lounges at airports, more services provided to them by Banque Misr (government services, postal services, car loans to low, middle, and upper middle-income housing projects. These projects are rental, emergency road), and many discounts and benefits in a number of restaurants, considered very promising for the banking sector because they are highly encouraged hotels and services. and supported by the government. These projects manage to attract new local and foreign investments, which is why the government supports and encourages their establishment. 14 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 14 7 G4-SO1 FS6 FS7 FS6 FS7 The CBE announced that it allocated EGP 20 billion instead of EGP 10 billion in February 2014 to finance low, middle, and upper middle-income citizens so SMEs and Microfinance that they could buy houses at a low yearly interest rate of 5% to 10.5%. BM has so far contributed EGP 4 billion to the CBE's initiative. The value of the CBE initiative portfolio at Banque Misr reached EGP 1.48 billion on June 30th, 2017, later increasing to EGP 2.17 billion in December 2017. This marked a surge from W e at Banque Misr believe that sustainable economic development cannot occur without empowering small and medium enterprises. SMEs have been the focus of the bank since its inception, providing all the necessary support to develop businesses, EGP 574 million in June 2016, marking an EGP 907 million increase and a growth encourage employment, reduce poverty, and achieve social development and economic of 158%. growth. With the largest network of branches in Supporting Local Community Projects: Egypt, Banque Misr ensures accessibility to all segments of society, catering to all entrepreneurship and start-up needs. Supporting and encouraging SME Portfolio I n collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, BM joined the national campaign to replace old taxis in Egypt, as a means of improving the transportation sector economic and social development in every possible and minimizing the pollution caused by the old taxi vehicles, which negatively way, Banque Misr actively provides SMEs with multiple financing programs and services. This is EGP 4.5 billion impacted tourism and the community in general. consolidated through a wide range of products aiming Supporting Customers and Data Protection to finance SMEs with short-term working capital, long-term investment opportunities, and the expansion of financing units. In order for the bank to sustain its profits while maintaining the highest degree We believe financing SMEs has a major social impact, in addition to being a solid of customer satisfaction possible, the bank works on providing and updating its business opportunity. As such, Banque Misr has underwritten loans to more than 5,000 wide range of products and services. Banque Misr was ranked the number one microfinancing customers every month. Delivering on our promise, Banque Misr has Egyptian bank to meet the requirements of PCI DSS compliant systems; ensuring provided about EGP 929 million in funding to more than 60,000 clients. During 2017, its clients' security from any possible e-piracy risks. The bank has also held the Banque Misr's SMEs portfolio increased to record EGP 4.5 billion, having provided top position in Egypt for 12 consecutive years in terms of automating government funding to 29,000 new customers worth EGP 1.3 billion. Banque Misr's funding accounts workers' salaries, while also maintaining its number one ranking with regards to for more than 50% of the portfolio for the “Mashrouak” initiative with the Ministry the total number of operations conducted through the Debit Card Scheme and of Local Development, alongside four other banks, since the launch of the initiative in Shared Cash Network, “123”. April 2015. Updating its systems with the latest technologies in internet banking, BM is expected to launch improved, more secure and convenient internet banking Training and Development Opportunities for Clients: services within 2018. The new service will considerably decrease paper use in offline transactions. Gaining Strong Foothold: I n addition to the provision of a comprehensive range of financial services, we also encourage SMEs to adopt sustainable business practices in order for them to grow and develop self-reliance. We consistently provide our SME clients with development programs, business advice, and support through training workshops in collaboration with B anque Misr is currently the leader of electronic delivery channels and operates the largest network of branches, ATMs and point of sales (POS) terminals across Egypt. In line with its development strategy, the bank has opened new multiple local and multinational entities, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. branches throughout the country and expanded its sophisticated network of These workshops come in line with our vision that development training is a major ATMs, reaching a total of 2,154 machines as of December 2017. requirement for effective financial inclusion, as it teaches enterprises and enables them to make sound business decisions, deal with day-to-day financial complexities, and The value of the retail-banking portfolio at Banque Misr recorded EGP 18.1 take effective action to improve their financial situations, welfare, and avoid financial billion on June 30th, 2017, surging from EGP 14.5 billion in the same period of distress. The bank is conducting ongoing research and studies, and aligning forces with 2016, marking a EGP 3.6 billion increase and a growth of 24.8%. BM acquires local and global professionals to get the latest up-to-date products, programs, channels, 48% of the market of governmental employees' salary transfers. It also serves and services needed to further enhance our capabilities in keeping with a dynamic on1,634 public and private companies on employees' salary transfers. going changing environment. 14 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 14 9 G4-23 Capital Markets Group in the Middle East for the years 2008, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, and Best Provider of Short-Term Investments/Money Market Funds in the Middle East for the B anque Misr's Capital Markets Group aims to maintain the bank's leading position in Egypt, targeting the continuous dependability that is associated with Banque Misr as the most obvious choice for retail and corporate banking years 2016 and 2017. Portfolio Management in the field of financial management and specialized investment services. At the same time, the group also focuses on The Capital Markets Group actively manages and monitors Banque Misr's creating favorable value for the bank's various proprietary trading equity and fixed income, local and international portfolios, stakeholders. In fiscal year 2016/2017, EGP Capital Markets as well as managing the bank's investments in the mutual funds of other banks. 6.9 billion of total revenues generated from Total Revenues the group's activities, marking a year-on-year Equity Participation and Direct Investments increase of EGP 4.8 billion, which accounts EGP 6.9 billion for a 222.8% growth. 222.8% y-o-y growth Banque Misr was created with the purpose of supporting all efforts exerted to develop the Egyptian economy and continues to fulfill its purpose, acting as Accordingly, the compound annual growth one of the largest and most active private equity investors in Egypt with direct rate (CAGR) generated from the group shareholding in companies across a number of vital economic sectors. activities' income over the past five years stood at 44%, whereas the fair value reserve of assets managed by the group reached EGP 8.5 billion on June 30 th, 2017, Holding a diversified direct equity portfolio throughout different sectors, compared to EGP 3.3 billion the previous year, marking a 158% growth. including tourism and services, construction and housing, agriculture and food, IT and communications among others; the bank's Capital Markets Group holds Pool of Expertise: equity stakes in 158 companies, with a total capitalization of EGP 427 billion as of June 30th, 2017. A diversified group of in-house experts are entrusted by the Capital Markets Group to lead and provide a wide spectrum of integrated financial services, including managing the proprietary, listed equities and bonds portfolio of the The bank injected EGP 11.6 billion into the capital structure of six companies within its direct equity portfolio, as an endeavor to solidify them. Meanwhile, the capital gains realized from the divestment bank. They are also equipped to offer corporate advisory and transaction banking of equity stakes in some companies amounted businesses (trustees and securities services), sales and security trading, and to EGP 64 million in 2016/2017, while on distribution of diversified mutual funds. the other hand, the gains of foreign exchange Equity Stakes transactions amounted to EGP 2.7 billion on in 158 Companies T he Capital Markets Services: June 30th, 2017. with a Total Cap. of Mutual Funds Investment Banking Services EGP 427 billion E stablished in 1994, Banque Misr's Mutual Funds business is one of the largest and oldest in the Middle East, and the bank currently manages eight mutual funds. Moreover, the bank has a diversified range of mutual fund types that include Stemming from Banque Misr's leading role in supporting the Egyptian economy, the bank plays a vital role in supporting the debt instruments in the market, while also Money Market Funds, Balanced Funds, Equity Funds, Capital Guaranteed Funds funding the state's investments and activating its efforts to offer a one-stop-shop and Islamic Funds. These funds are specialized to cater to clients' need, whether for investors. on the individual or corporate levels. Working within a holistic and detailed framework in the Egyptian state, Banque In recognition of the bank’s continuous efforts to offer the best and most advanced Misr is a foundational player both on the macro and microeconomic levels. The services to all its esteemed clients, the leading financial advisory, Global Finance Capital Markets Group also provides companies, institutions, and the government named Banque Misr as Best Provider of Money Market Funds in Africa and the with a wide range of comprehensive and innovative financial services to enable them Middle East for the years 2009 and 2010, Best Provider of Money Market Funds to achieve their financial goals and implement their short and long-term plans. 15 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 151 G4-23 Capital Market Group's services in that domain also encompass mergers and acquisitions, transitions, bonds (both corporate and securitized), privatization Correspondent Network and Treasury deals, initial public offerings (IPOs), and divestitures, as well as acting as a financial consultancy for corporate restructuring. Correspondent Network: Since our institution thrives on integration and cooperation as a whole, Capital Markets Group also works alongside different industries to help develop and deliver strategic W e not only aim to lead the market in Egypt, we are also working to gain a significant standing abroad. With an extensive Short-Term Loans and and fully integrated financial solutions to our Promoting and network of around 297 correspondent banks Business Operations clients' most challenging issues. Guaranteeing covering 59 countries, Banque Misr can easily The group is also active on both the Equity ensure a smooth flow of business between Over $639 million Capital Markets (ECM) and the Debt Four Securitized clients and their counterparts around the globe. Capital Markets (DCM), fulfilling Banque Bond Issuances Our worldwide presence through foreign branches, subsidiaries, and correspondent banks has enabled us to provide the most Misr's role in transactions and focusing on Worth EGP 2.4 billion efficient services to our customers, to meet both their current and future needs. originating, structuring, pricing, executing, underwriting, and fundraising basic fixed In cooperation with our correspondent banks, we managed to provide funding sources income securities. By relying primarily on for foreign currency through short-term loans and business operations funding our large underwriting capabilities and widely distributed network, we also offer schemes exceeding $639 million for fiscal year 2016/2017. securitized products for our corporate and institutional clients. The bank has Furthermore, we backed the government and private institutions when they were promoted and guaranteed four securitized bond issuances during the year, totaling importing strategic goods such as petroleum and food goods. The bank has also EGP 2.4 billion, of which the bank's, share underwritten was EGP 1.2 billion. raised a further $300 million from global syndicated and bilateral term loans in its favor. Real Estate Services Treasury: The Capital Markets Group team is also responsible for managing the bank 's real estate assets portfolio, which means they are responsible for the purchasing and selling of different kinds of real estate properties on behalf of our customers. The team also works on conducting real estate marketing auctions, as well as T he Treasury Department is one of our key departments; it holds a very important role within our banking system because it is the provider of sufficient liquidity, which is crucial to the performance of any bank or financial institution. The constant availability promoting industrial and touristic projects. of cash allows the bank to cater to its clients' and corporate customers' immediate financing needs. Our Treasury Department also The bank generated capital gains of EGP 479 million from the sale of its nonworks on ensuring a continuous flow of liquidity earning assets during fiscal year 2016/2017, compared to EGP 1.2 billion a year earlier. by effectively investing any liquidity surplus in Global Syndicated and the best and safest available methods to achieve Bilateral Term Loans high returns with low risk. Moreover, it provides Custody and Trustees Services practical solutions through different financial $300 million engineering tools. It also helps finance public debt Banque Misr's Capital Markets Group custodian offers a range of services to by playing an active role with the primary dealers, meet customers' every need and objective. The group provides services such as the as well as in the secondary market. purchasing and selling of securities, subscribing in public offered shares and bonds on behalf of customers, as well as issuing account statements, collecting securities As a leading institution in the country, our bank was one of the best banks in providing coupons, and offering all corporate actions for individual and institutional clients adequate liquidity, which had a positive impact on the national economy, boosting alongside sub-custodian services. its performance during difficult circumstances. Banque Misr played a vital role in 15 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 15 3 helping the economy to overcome several financial and political crises, including the Islamic Banking 2008 global financial crisis and Egypt's 2011 popular uprising which ousted the state's former president and was followed by a long period of economic recession and a sharp drop in the country's strategic foreign reserves and currency value. I n line with its namesake, Banque Misr's Islamic banking unit adopts a sustainable framework built on the Islamic fundamental principles of accountability, morality, Islamic banking business, capacities, and a result-based approach to In the context of the bank's commitment to facilitating the mobilization of imported Foreign-Currency Letters hedge against any contagion risks. goods and essential services, Banque Misr allocated foreign-currency letters of credit of Credit and Documents A Focus on Customer Experience: and documents against payment for importing $3.4 billion goods worth around $3.4 billion during fiscal year 2016/2017, in addition to a currency exchange service that recorded $2.1 billion. T aking into consideration our diverse society and client base, BM was the first public bank to establish branches devoted entirely to Islamic transactions, providing banking, financial, and trading activities in line with the rules of the Islamic Offering Creative Solutions: Shariah. The funds of such branches are Credit Portfolio separated from others at Banque Misr; the T he Treasury Department's multiple responsibilities include having our team of professionals work to offer value-creating ideas, innovative application of cutting-edge technology, and deep industry experience to our clients, helping branches that handle the Islamic transactions are supervised by the Shariah Committee, EGP 5.7 billion them stay well ahead of the curve. Our bank is one of the first banks to invest which encompasses uniquely qualified in innovative structural products that fall under the Credit Derivatives division professors of Al Azhar and Dar Al-Ifta. through international transactions room, credit linked note (CLN) and first to BM has maintained its status as a leading Shariah compliant bank in Egypt through default (FTD), which contributed to the bank's profits. combining its unique heritage and tradition while at the same time adopting The dollar loans between banks on the local market are considered an important modern banking techniques underscored by technology and innovation. component in any successful free exchange rate system, which is why we were also All our special branches for Islamic finance utilize advanced computer systems the first to join the Dollar Interbank mechanism, established in 2004. The interbank in dollars also ensures that the foreign exchange market in Egypt functions properly, to provide innovative banking services to keep up with other banks in Egypt and as it is already battling difficult political and economic conditions. abroad. This has led to our acknowledgment as pioneers in the development of the Islamic financial industry in Egypt; BM offers Islamic banking services through Contributing further to the government's efforts to stabilize the economy, the a network of 37 branches and offices across Egypt. With respect to the Islamic bank purchased treasury bills and government banking sector, the credit portfolio directed to this sector rose to EGP 5.7 billion securities with an average balance of treasury bills, bonds and money market assets of EGP Currency Exchange on June 30th, 2017, up from EGP 3.9 billion on June 30th of the previous year. th 256.6 billion on June 30 , 2017, marking a 30% Service Living Up to Customers Expectations: increase compared to the closing figures of June 30th, 2016, and achieving a total revenue of EGP $2.1 billion 40.9 billion. Banque Misr's Money Market Desk also T o accommodate customers' needs, the bank teamed up with one of the biggest Egyptian insurance companies, Egyptian Life Takaful Company, to launch bancassurance service. Bancassurance provides a variety of insurance and investment introduced new investment tools for the dollar and euro treasury bills, which products throughout BM's Islamic branches, including life insurance products, successfully provided high liquidity and high returns. Notably, BM's treasury bills € portfolio reached $3.336 billion and 200 million respectively by the end of June which are fully integrated in the bank's range of savings and investment products. Additionally, banks can earn additional revenue by launching bancassurance 2017. services to their clients at the same time. 15 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 15 5 Committed to the principles of Islamic Shariah to the maximum, Banque Misr Supporting the National Economy: has integrated those principles in its retail activity. The bank's Islamic retail package continued to use the Islamic Murabaha concept to finance some clients' pilgrimage and tourism visits in addition to some alternative W ith deep devotion to consolidating and reinforcing the national economy, the Islamic banking sector led, during fiscal year 2016/2017, a consortium of Egyptian banks to finance the following sectors: products, such as Education Murabaha. The Islamic Banking Unit, “Kenana”, offers a IBuilding materials sector: through a Mudarbah financial facility of EGP 300 diverse range of products, including Islamic Portfolio of the million, in addition to providing a bridge finance of EGP 150 million for four credit cards, Auto Murabaha, and Durable Government Treasury Bills steel plants in Beni Suef, Alexandria, Port Said, and Ain Sokhna. Murabaha, according to the Islamic concept EGP 10.3 billion IIReal estate development sector by participating in the following projects: of Murabaha. • Cooperating with financial leasing companies, through the first Islamic syndicated Islamic concepts were integrated down to the financial facility created between a bank and a financial leasing company, with a core. Even credit cards are now Shariah-compliant. The bank issued the Shariahtotal amount of EGP 450 million in the form of Musharakah to finance a mega compliant Kenana Islamic credit card based on Murabaha through the Islamic real estate development project. Wekala concept. In addition, BM launched an emergency cash withdrawal option for the Kenana Islamic credit card. • Leading a consortium of Egyptian banks to provide a bridge finance of EGP 900 million with a share of EGP 500 million in the form of Musharakah to construct Furthermore, with the aim of meeting various customers' needs, we developed two residential and commercial compounds in New Cairo with an initial expected a new type of investment products named “The Islamic Treasury Products” in cost of about EGP 18.50 billion. It is planned that the project will be developed collaboration with the Islamic banking sector and under the provisions of Islamic through five phases with an expected total construction period of 7.5 years starting Shariah. In terms of bank portfolio for the government treasury bills, BM in 2018. We are also participating in building the Egyptian economy and national succeeded in achieving EGP 10.3 billion by the end of June 2017, compared to EGP projects in fiscal year 2016/2017 such as: 9.5 billion by the end of June 2016. Bridges and roads, with total financial limits of EGP 600 million The bank finances, under Islamic provisions, smalland medium-sized enterprises, i.e. any enterprise with annual sales revenues worth up to EGP 200 million, Land reclamation, with total financial limits of $15 million and EGP 130 million according to the Central Bank of Egypt's definition. In line with Banque Misr's Egypt's New Administrative Capital, with total financial limits of EGP 100 million initiative to finance the SMEs sector, the bank also offers other microfinancing The Islamic sector was granted numerous awards during the past few years, products. including: Islamic banking has seven products: Micro Financing Murabaha, Small Financing IFN Dubai Awards for Al Sharqiya Sugar Manufacturing Infrastructure & Murabaha, Small Financing Murabaha (checklist), Medical Equipment and Project Finance Deal of the Year 2014 Machinery Financing Murabaha, Factory Machinery and Equipment Financing Murabaha, Private School and University Financing Murabaha, and Transportation The IJ Global Award for MENA Metals & Mining: Ain Sokhna Steel Plant for Business Activity Financing Murabaha. Deal of the Year 2015 We are also innovating new products for small and medium enterprises in order to enhance the SMEs portfolio and support the country's strategic objective and BM's national role in boosting the Egyptian economy. These new products include SMEs Financing Murabaha for Working Capital for Companies and Factories up to EGP 5 million, and Small Financing Murabaha for Working Capital up to EGP 2 million. 15 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 157 Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Banque Misr Museum Collectibles Talaat Harb Pasha’s Resignation Talaat Harb Pasha’s Resignation In 1939, in the wake of the World War II, people rushed to withdraw their savings from the banks including Banque Misr, which was entrusted with the Egyptian funds at that time. Such acts did not pose any significant threats to the financial position of Banque Misr. However, the real threats started when the Egyptian Postal Savings Fund, upon the then government's directives, began to withdraw all its savings from Banque Misr, which adversely affected the bank's cash flow. That was when Talaat Harb Pasha applied for a loan from the National Bank of Egypt (acting as the Central Bank at that time) to save Banque Misr's position, but the British governor turned down his request. As a result, Talaat Harb Pasha resorted to then Minister of Finance Hussein Serry Pasha, asking for help. Serry Pasha agreed on one condition, that Talaat Harb should leave Banque Misr for good, giving him three days to make up his mind. Talat Harab did not take much time to make his decision and he immediately chose the survival of Banque Misr and left the bank with his famous unforgettable phrase: “May thousands of Talaat Harb begone, so Banque Misr can continue.” 15 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 15 9 Chapter Five Our Financial Performance 16 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 161 Message From T he Chairman Moreover, Banque Misr's net loans The bank continued updating its Islamic and advances to customers have risen banking unit, which is fully compliant Our institution strongly believes that to about EGP 179.137 billion, marking with the principles of Islamic Shariah, outstanding financial results are the best a year-on-year rise of EGP 51.2 billion, to widen the bank's investment activities testimony to the hard work and commitment representing 12.56% of the total loans and in its Islamic branches, which reached a made by the board members and all our advances to customers in the Egyptianvolume of EGP 5.7 billion in 2017. employees, and as such, I am immensely banking sector. Non-performing loans (NPLs) stood at 3.71% only of the total The bank's portfolio of treasury bills in pleased to place before you Banque Misr's dollars recorded $3.31 billion, marking distinguished performance for fiscal year loans and advances to customers. a decline of 1.2% compared to last year. 2016/2017. We are extremely proud of our In keeping with the Central Bank of Egypt's Similarly, the bank's treasury bills in employees who have exerted all efforts to enable the bank to continue generating regulations, the NPLs coverage ratio and capital adequacy ratio recorded 115.52% € euros have amounted to 175 million. In addition, the bank also provides competitive returns; ours is an exceptional and 15.11%, respectively. Moreover, the investment services through expanding institution with an extraordinary heritage bank's diversified funds are meant to meet in central depository and trading and a promising future. different corporate needs, both in the public services, along with custodial, and trustee and private sectors. Our Corporate Banking While witnessing a period of profound services. The bank's Capital Markets and Syndicated Loans portfolio has reached political and economic change around the EGP 142 billion, registering a 39% growth Group manages eight mutual funds world, our bank has maintained its steadfast on June 30th, 2017. dedicated to supporting the Egyptian dedication to our clients, community and capital market and catering to different country. We can easily say that 2017 was Furthermore, our financial results also client needs. It also offers merger and another breakthrough year for Banque Misr. revealed that we have achieved a huge leap; acquisitions operations, both corporate Customers' deposits registered an increase of our net interest income has registered close and securitized bonds, privatization approximately EGP 191 billion, amounting to to EGP 15.5 billion, reflecting a year-on-year deals, initial public offerings (IPOs), over EGP 532 billion, compared to EGP 341 increase of EGP 4.2 billion. The net profit divestitures, in addition to acting as also increased to EGP 8.2 billion, that is a financial advisory for corporate billion at the end of fiscal year 2015/2016, after deducting the bank's paid income tax restructuring. and thus marking a 56% growth. The bank of EGP 5.9 billion. Shareholders' equity currently accounts for 17.6% of the Egyptian more than doubled to record approximately The Capital Markets Group has banking sector's total customer deposits. EGP 65 billion. generated more than EGP 6.9 billion in The bank's total assets recorded a total of total revenues (included EGP 1.1 billion Banque Misr has also provided different EGP 787 billion at the end of fiscal year revaluation differences and EGP 2.66 financing schemes covering various economic 2016/2017, compared to EGP 430 billion needs. The value of the retail banking portfolio, billion gains from foreign currencies) the previous year, marking a EGP 357 including the Islamic retail portfolio at Banque during fiscal year 2016/2017, compared billion increase, in other words an 83% Misr, surged to EGP 18.1 billion on June 30th, to EGP 2.1 billion in the previous year, growth. 2017, marking a 24.8% growth rate. marking a leap of 222.8%. 16 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 16 3 Wahid Abd ElGhaffar Sameh Saad Mohamed Abd El-megeed Financial Statements Baker Tilly Wahid Abdel Ghaffar & CO. Accountability State Authority (ASA) FOR THE YEAR ENDED – JUNE 30 , 2017 th Public Accountants and consultants AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BANQUE MISR FOR THE YEAR ENDED June 30th, 2017 Translation of Auditor's Report Originally Issued in Arabic To: The Shareholders' of Banque Misr (S.A.E.) Contents Page Auditors' Report 165 We have audited the financial statements of Banque Misr (S.A.E) as of and for the year ended June 30th, 2017 from which the accompanying summarized separate financial Separate Balance Sheet 166 statements were derived in accordance with Egyptian Standards on Auditing and in Separate Income Statement 167 the light of provision of applicable Egyptian laws and regulations. In our report dated February 4th, 2018 we expressed an unqualified opinion on the bank's financial Separate Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 168 statements as of June 30th, 2017 from which the accompanying summarized separate financial statements were derived. Summarized Separate Statement of Cash Flows 170 In our opinion, the accompanying summarized separate financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the financial statements from which they Summarized Notes to the Separate Financial Statements 172 were derived as of and for the year ended June 30th, 2017. For the better understanding of the bank's financial position as of June 30th, 2017 and the results of its operations for the year then ended, and the scope of our audit, the summarized separate financial statements should be read in conjunction with the bank's completed financial statements as of June 30th, 2017 and our audit report thereon. 16 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 16 5 G4-17 G4-17 Summary of Banque Misr’s separate financial statements extracted from Banque Misr Banque Misr’s financial statements for the year ending on June 30th, 2017 Separate Income Statement Separate balance sheet as of June 30th, 2017 For the financial year ending on June 30th, 2017 Translated from Arabic Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP Thousands Amounts in EGP Thousands Note no June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Note no June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Assets Cash and balances with central banks 28,562,842 23,097,741 Interest on loans and similar income 54,889,952 32,583,821 Due from banks 286,437,010 52,532,597 Interest on deposits and similar expense )39,343,416( )21,260,161( Treasury bills 111,219,953 72,047,855 Financial assets held for trading (5) 4,213,138 2,212,211 Net interest income 15,546,536 11,323,660 Loans and advances to banks (6) 608,629 434,897 Fee and commission income 3,481,638 2,231,641 Loans and advances to customers (7) 179,137,131 127,946,188 Fee and commission expense )200,240( )66,410( Financial investments Net fee and commission income 3,281,398 2,165,231 Available for sale investments (8) 37,163,514 130,801,137 Dividend income 652,727 465,341 Investments held to maturity (8) 99,041,285 496,186 Net trading income 600,160 106,992 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 17,299,797 4,224,966 Intangible assets 542 Gains from financial investments 2,633,684 279,452 Other assets 21,941,241 15,437,862 Impairment charge for credit losses )1,268,857( )331,592( Property, Plant, and Equipment 1,318,525 971,917 Administrative expenses )6,078,953( )4,381,362( Total Assets 786,943,607 430,203,557 Other operating income (expenses) )1,267,111( 562,318 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Profit before income tax 14,099,584 10,190,040 Liabilities Due to banks 141,821,870 41,775,462 Income tax (expense( )5,922,634( )4,683,184( Customers' deposits (9) 532,462,756 341,306,939 Net Profit for the year 8,176,950 5,506,856 Other loans (10) 29,862,619 8,997,510 Other liabilities 13,023,009 7,976,603 Earnings per share (EGP/Share) 2.53 1.69 )15( Other provisions (11) 1,210,032 927,655 Deferred tax liabilities 798,154 415,704 Post-retirement benefits liabilities (12) 2,819,973 2,217,231 Total Liabilities 721,998,413 403,617,104 Shareholders' Equity Paid in capital (13) 15,000,000 15,000,000 Reserves (14) 41,768,244 6,079,597 Retained earnings 8,176,950 5,506,856 Total shareholders' equity 64,945,194 26,586,453 Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 786,943,607 430,203,557 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments Liabilities for letters of guarantee, letters of credit and 67,176,707 25,760,044 other commitments The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 16 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 167 Banque Misr Separate Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity For the financial year ending on June 30th, 2017 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP Thousands Differences between nominal F.S Banking Paid in Legal General Capital Fair Value Special Supportive value and Translation Retained Note no Risks Total Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve fair value of Difference Earnings Reserve subordinated Reserve Deposits Balance as of July 1st, 2015 15,000,000 43,077 3,278,043 6,927 590,402 42,878 122,823 4,181,917 23,266,067 Dividends paid (1,075,000) (1,075,000) Transferred to Reserves 394,452 327,262 237,396 277,448 1,870,359 (3,106,917) Foreign currency translation differences 253,956 253,956 Net change in fair value of available for sale (1,365,426) (1,365,426) investments (net of tax) Net profit for the year 5,506,856 5,506,856 Balance as of June 30th, 2016 13,14 15,000,000 437,529 327,262 237,396 1,912,617 6,927 867,850 1,913,237 376,779 5,506,856 26,586,453 Balance as of July 1st, 2016 15,000,000 437,529 327,262 237,396 1,912,617 6,927 867,850 1,913,237 376,779 5,506,856 26,586,453 Dividends Paid (1,337,500) (1,337,500) Transferred To Reserves 477,613 348,345 730,726 815,070 1,797,602 (4,169,356) Net change in fair value of available for sale 5,140,114 5,140,114 investments (net of tax) Foreign currency translation differences 1,095,773 1,095,773 Additions 25,283,404 25,283,404 Net profit of the year 8,176,950 8,176,950 Balance as of June 30th, 2017 13,14 15,000,000 915,142 675,607 968,122 7,052,731 6,927 1,682,920 3,710,839 25,283,404 1,472,552 8,176,950 64,945,194 16 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 16 9 G4-17 G4-17 Banque Misr Banque Misr Summarized Separate Statement of Cash Flows Summarized Statement of Approved Separate Profit Appropriation For the financial year ending on June 30th, 2017 For the financial year ending on June 30th,2017 According to the General Assembly Decision on March 11th, 2018 Translated from Arabic Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP Thousands Amounts in EGP Thousands June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Net cash flows provided from operating activities 151,040,220 38,825,608 Net Profit for the year 8,176,950 5,506,856 Net cash (used in) investing activities (844,386) (21,136,195) Add (Deduct) Net cash provided from financing activities 47,276,461 4,318,561 Losses (Gains) on sale of property, plant, and equipment transferred to 127,458 (730,726) capital reserve Net increase ( decrease ) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 197,472,295 22,007,974 General banking risk reserve (852,863) (815,070) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 51,743,182 29,735,208 Net Distributable Profit 7,451,545 3,961,060 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 249,215,477 51,743,182 Distributed as follows Cash and cash equivalents are represented in: Legal Reserve 830,441 477,613 Cash and balances with central banks 28,562,842 23,097,741 General Reserve 662,110 348,345 Due from banks 286,437,010 52,532,597 Supportive Reserve 3,868,237 1,797,602 Treasury bills 111,219,953 72,047,855 State Share in Profit 1,494,858 900,000 Balances with central banks (within the mandatory reserve percentage ) (20,464,662) (18,624,689) Employees' Share in Profit 595,899 437,500 Due from banks (more than three months maturity) (53,179,690) (5,441,120) Total Distributable Profit 7,451,545 3,961,060 Treasury bills and other government securities (more than three months maturity) (103,359,976) (71,869,202) Cash and cash equivalents 249,215,477 51,743,182 17 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 17 1 BANQUE MISR S.A.E Net Trading Income. (Case of held-for-trading financial assets). Other operating revenues (expenses) for the remaining items. th Summarized notes to the separate financial statements for the year ended June 30 , 2017 Changes in the fair value of investments in debt instruments, which represent 1General Information monetary financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies and classified as available for sale assets are analyzed into valuation differences resulting from changes Banque Misr (S.A.E.) was established on April 3rd, 1920 as a commercial bank. The in the amortized cost of the instrument, differences resulting from changes in the head office is located at 151, Mohamed Farid Street, Cairo. applicable exchange rates and differences resulting from changes in the fair value of The bank carries out corporate, retail and investment banking in addition to Islamic the instrument. banking through 588 branches in Arab Republic of Egypt, five branches in U.A.E. and Valuation differences resulting from changes in the amortized cost are recognized one branch in City of Paris in the French republic. The number of employees at the and reported in the income statement in interest income, whereas differences resulting balance sheet date is 14,497 employees. from changes in foreign exchange rates are recognized and reported in ‘other operating These financial statements were approved by the general assembly meeting on revenues (expenses)'. The remaining differences resulting from changes in fair value March 11th, 2018. are deferred in equity and accumulated in the ‘revaluation reserve of available-for-sale investments'. 2Summary of Accounting Policies Valuation differences arising on the measurement of non-monetary items at fair The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial value include gains or losses resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied in all years used to translate those items. Total fair value changes arising on the measurement of presented unless stated otherwise. equity instruments classified as at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in the income statement, whereas total fair value changes arising on the measurement A. Basis of Preparation of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognized These separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Egyptian directly in equity in the ‘revaluation reserve of available-for-sale investments'. financial accounting standards issued in 2006 and their amendments and in accordance B/3 Foreign Branches with the Central Bank of Egypt's regulations approved by the Board of Directors on December 16th, 2008 under the historical cost, as modified by the revaluation of For the purpose of translation into the Egyptian pound, assets and liabilities of foreign financial assets held for trading and available for sale investments. According to the branches are translated using the closing rate at the balance sheet date while items of bank's statute, the financial year begins on July 1st and ends on June 30th and the financial income and expense are translated into the Egyptian pound at the rates prevailing at statements are presented close to the nearest thousand pounds. the dates of the transactions or average rates of exchange where these are approximate to actual rates. Resulting valuation differences are recognized as (foreign currency B. Foreign Currency Translation valuation differences) under the equity caption. Also, valuation differences resulting B/1 Functional and Presentation Currency from valuation of net investment in foreign branches, loans, financial instruments in foreign currency for net investment hedge for that item retained to equity caption. The separate financial statements are presented in Egyptian pound. Items included These valuation differences are recognized as (other operating income (loss)) in the in the financial statements of each of the bank's foreign branches are measured using income statement when these net investments are disposed. their functional currency, being the basic currency of the economic environment in which the foreign branch operates. C. Revenue recognition B/2 Transaction and Balances in Foreign Currencies C/1 Interest Income and Expense Each branch maintains its accounting records in its functional currency and transactions Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified in other currencies are recorded during the financial year using the prevailing exchange as held-for-trading or designated at fair value are recognized in ‘Interest income' and rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in ‘Interest expense' in the income statement using the effective interest method. foreign currencies are retranslated on the balance sheet date at the prevailing exchange The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the rates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement and translation of contract that represents an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs such transactions and balances are recognized in the income statement and reported and all other premiums or discounts. under the following items: 172 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 173 C/2 Fee and Commission Income G. Impairment of Financial Assets Fees charged for servicing a loan or facility that is measured at amortized cost are G/1 Financial Assets Carried at Amortized Cost recognized as revenue as the service is provided. The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a Fees and commissions on non-performing or impaired loans or receivables cease to be financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of recognized as income and are rather recorded off balance sheet. These are recognized financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective as revenue, on a cash basis, only when interest income on those loans is recognized evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial in profit and loss. At that time, fees and commissions that represent an integral part recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on of the effective interest rate of a financial asset are treated as an adjustment to the the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that effective interest rate of that financial asset. can be reliably estimated. Fees are recognized on the debt instruments that are measured at fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition and syndicated loan fees received by the bank If the bank determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an are recognized when the syndication has been completed and the bank does not hold individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset any portion of it or holds a part at the same effective interest rate used for the other in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively participants' portions. assesses them for impairment according to historical default ratios. Fees and commissions resulting from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation If the bank determines that objective evidence of financial asset impairment exists for of, a transaction for a third party – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of shares assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognized on completion is or continues to be recognized, these assets are not included in a collective assessment of the underlying transaction in the income statement. of impairment. Administrative and other services fees are recognized as income on a time proportionate If the bank determines that there is not an impairment loss based on the previous basis over the lifetime of the service. study, the asset is added to the group. Fees charged for custodian services provided over long periods are recognized as The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying income over the period during which the service is rendered. amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit C/3 Dividends Income losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an Dividends are recognized in the income statement when the right to collect it is declared. allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement. D. Treasury Bills G/2 Available-for-sale Investments Treasury bills are recorded at par value while discount (un-earned interest) is included The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that in Credit Balances and Other Liabilities. Treasury bills are presented on the balance sheet net of unearned interest. a financial asset or a group of financial assets classified under available for sale is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, a significant E. Purchase and resale agreements and Sale and repurchase agreements or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase (repos) are determining whether the assets are impaired. The decrease is considered significant reclassified in the financial statements and deducted from treasury bills balance. when it becomes 10% of the cost of book value of the financial instrument and the Securities borrowed or purchased subject to a commitment to resell them (reverse decrease is considered extended if it continues for a period of more than nine months. repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and added to treasury bills balance. If the aforementioned evidence becomes available then the accumulated loss is to be The difference between purchase and resale price is treated as interest and accrued over posted from the equity and disclosed at the income statement. Impairment losses the life of the agreements using the effective interest method. recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument F. Loans and advances to banks and customers classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in profit or loss, the payments that are not quoted in an active market. impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. 174 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 175 H. Financial Assets Held-for-Trading which the bank usually has an ownership share of more than half of their voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired principally for the convertible are considered in assessing whether the bank has the ability to control the purpose of selling in the near future or if it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial entity. Associates are entities over which Banque Misr exercises significant influence instruments that are managed together for short-term profit taking. Financial assets directly or indirectly, but without exercising control. Generally, the bank owns held for trading are measured at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. recognized in the income statement. The purchase method is used to account for the acquisitions of subsidiaries by the I. Available for Sale Investments bank. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, or/and asset Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either given or/and equity instruments issued and loans assumed at the date of exchange, plus designated as available for sale or do not fit into any other category of financial assets. cost directly attributable to the acquisition. Net assets including contingent liabilities Available for sale investments are measured at fair value. Unrealized holding gains assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the and losses are included in a separate component of equity until the financial asset is acquisition date, irrespective of the minority interest. The excess of acquisition cost sold or impaired. At this time, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in over the bank's share fair value in the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the equity is recognized in the income statement. acquisition cost is less than the fair value of the net assets, the difference is recognized directly in the income statement under the item “Other operating income (expenses)”. J. Held to Maturity Investments Accounting for subsidiaries and associates in these separate financial statements is Investments held-to-maturity are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or recorded by using cost method. According to this method, investments recorded at determinable payments and fixed maturities that the bank management has the positive cost of acquisition, including goodwill if any and impairment losses, are deducted. intent and ability to hold to maturity. Dividends are recorded in the separate income statement when they are declared and the bank's right to collect them has been established. Debt investments held to maturity are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which represents the nominal value of bonds plus the premium or L. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting minus the discount. The premium is amortized by deduction on the income statement or the discount is amortized by addition to the income statement on (interest on loans Derivatives are recognized initially, and subsequently, at fair value. Fair values of and similar income) item by using the effective interest rate method. Thus, the nominal exchange traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market price. Fair value of over– value and the nominal recoverable value become the same on the maturity date. the–counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques. including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models. Derivatives are classified as assets when The same method of valuation is used if the bonds have been purchased from the stock their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. market with amount higher or lower than the nominal value (taking into consideration deducting the implicit interest that may be a part of acquisition cost from the period M. Intangible Assets prior to the acquisition date that the seller did not receive). Intangible Assets represent the cost of acquiring computer software and the licenses In case of bonds purchased in foreign currency, these are valued using the prevailing of using it. Intangible assets appear with historical cost after deducting accumulated exchange rates and the inclusion of valuation differences in the income statement amortization and provision of impairment losses. Intangible Assets are amortized by in other operating revenues (expenses) prior to conducting adjustments relating to straight-line method and using amortization rate from 25% to 100%. premium, discount, or determined impairment losses. N. Fixed Assets and Depreciation Banque Misr mutual funds certificates, which the bank is required by law to hold until Fixed assets are recorded at historical cost minus depreciation and impairment losses. fund liquidation, are included in held to maturity investments according to Central Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate Bank of Egypt rules and are measured at cost. Any decrease in redemption value below their residual values over estimated useful lives, as follows: cost is recognized as impairment in the income statement. Impairment loss previously recognized is reversed in case of subsequent increase. The reversal cannot result in it Buildings and constructions 5% Vehicles From 20% To 25% carrying value greater than original cost. Equipment 12.5% Furniture From 10% To 100% K. Investments in Subsidiaries and Associates IT equipment From 25% To 100% Fixtures From 12.5% To 33.5% Subsidiaries are entities (including special purpose entities) over which Banque Misr exercises direct or indirect control over their financial and operating policies and in 176 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 17 7 O. Cash and Cash Equivalents When a provision is wholly or partially no longer required, it is reversed through profit or loss under other operating income (expenses). For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances due from Central Bank of Egypt, current accounts with banks, and treasury Provisions are measured at the present value of the expected required expenditures to bills maturing within three months from the acquisition date. settle obligations after one year from financial statement date using the appropriate rate in accordance with the terms of settlement ignoring the tax effect which reflects P. Post-retirement Benefits Liabilities the time value of money. If the settlement term is less than one year, the estimated Banque Misr granted its employees who work in local branches some benefits after value of obligation is calculated. they retired. These benefits are considered among other benefits that have been charged R. Income Tax to expenses through employees' years of service and recognized in the liabilities according to the Egyptian Accounting Standards prevailing in 2006 and the Central Income tax on the profit or loss for the year and deferred tax are recognized in the Bank of Egypt regulations prevailing in 2008. income statement except for income tax relating to items of equity that are recognized directly in equity. Liabilities resulting from specified system benefits which employees have obtained at the end of financial year are calculated on the basis of the present value of expected Income tax is recognized based on net taxable profit using the tax rates applicable at future cash flows by the actuarial using “projected unit credit method “which contains the date of the balance sheet in addition to tax adjustments for previous years. assumptions related to population sciences, employees turn over, interest rate, and Deferred taxes arising from temporary time differences between the book value of inflation rate. assets and liabilities are recognized in accordance with the principles of accounting and These benefits are: value according to the foundations of the tax. This determines the value of deferred tax on the expected manner of realizing or settling the values of assets and liabilities, Post-retirement benefit (loyalty benefit) which is granted to employees at the end of using tax rates applicable at the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets of the their service to honor their role in serving the bank. It is granted to employees who bank are recognized when there is likelihood to achieve profits subject to tax in the retired or completed their fixed-term contract with comprehensive monthly rewards. future to be possible through to use that asset, and reducing the value of deferred tax It is paid according to regulatory rules. assets with part of that to come from tax benefits expected during the following years. It amounts to 12 times the gross annual salary (without allowances), at up to a maximum In the case of expected high benefit tax, deferred tax assets will increase within the of EGP 500,000 or 100 times the basic monthly salary on July 1st, 2016. limits of the above reduced. The bank bore healthcare benefits for retirees and their unemployed spouses. Such 3Financial Risk Management benefits are conditional on the employee's continuation in service until the age of The bank's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities retirement and the completion of minimum period of service. involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of some degree of risk or Banque Misr granted its employees in the UAE branches post-retirement benefit combination of risks. Taking risk is core to the financial business, and the operational according to UAE labor law with a maximum of 24 times of last basic salary. risks are an inevitable consequence of being in business. The bank's aim is therefore to Moreover, according to the directives from the Banque de France, employees in the achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse Paris office are provided benefits of up to six times the basic monthly salary, depending effects on the bank's financial performance. And the most important types of financial on the period of service. risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and other operating risks. Also market risk includes exchange rate risk, rate of return risk, and other prices risks. Q. Other Provisions The bank's risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze these risks, Other provisions are recognized when the bank has present legal or constructive to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to obligations as a result of past events; where it is more likely than not that a transfer limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information systems. The bank regularly of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, estimated. products and emerging best practice. In case of similar obligations, the related cash outflow should be determined in order Risk management is carried out by a risk department under policies approved by the to settle these obligations as a group. The provision is recognized even in case of Board of Directors. The risk department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks minor probability that cash outflow will occur for an item of these obligations. in close co-operation with the bank's operating units. In addition, the risk department is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment. 178 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 17 9 Capital Management A. Impairment of Loans and Advances Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored periodically by the The bank reviews its loans and advances portfolio, at least on a quarterly basis to bank's management through employing techniques based on the guidelines developed assess impairment. The bank uses its discretionary judgment in determining whether it is necessary to recognize impairment loss in the income statement. This requires it to by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The required data is submitted to identify any reliable evidence indicating measurable decline in the expected future cash the Central Bank of Egypt on a quarterly basis. flows from the loan portfolio before identifying any decline for each individual loan. The Central Bank of Egypt requires the following: This evidence includes data indicating negative change in the ability of a portfolio of borrowers to repay the bank, or local and economic circumstances related to default. Maintaining EGP 500 million as a minimum requirement for the issued and paid-in On scheduling future cash flows, the management uses estimates based on previous capital. experience related to impairment of assets with similar credit risks. Such experience refers to impairment similar to that of the portfolio in question. The methods and Maintaining a minimum level of capital adequacy ratio of 10%, calculated as the ratio assumptions used in estimating both the amount and timing of the future cash flows between total value of the capital elements, and the risk-weighted average of the bank's are reviewed on a regular basis to minimize any discrepancy between the estimated loss assets and contingent liabilities. and actual loss based on expertise. Overseas branches are subject to the supervision rules regulating banking business in B. Impairment of Available for-sale Equity Investments countries where they operate. The bank determines that available-for-sale equity investments are impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost. This The bank has complied with all local capital requirements and in countries where its determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgment. In making this overseas branches work during the last two years. The board meeting of the Central judgment, the bank evaluates among other factors, the normal volatility in share price. Bank of Egypt held on December 18th, 2012 decided to approve the instructions of In addition, impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of a deterioration minimum capital adequacy in the context of applying Basel II. The following table in the financial health of the investee, operational and financing cash flows, industry and sector performance and changes in technology. summarizes the components of tier one capital, subordinated capital, and capital adequacy ratio for the financial statements of the bank as of June 30th, 2017 and 5Financial Assets Held for Trading Translated from Arabic compared against the previous year according to CBE regulations issued on the Basel Amounts in EGP Thousands II applications: June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Debt instruments Capital Other debt securities 4,029,485 2,126,616 Tier 1 Capital 42,436,566 14,747,544 Total debt instruments 4,029,485 2,126,616 Tier 2 Capital 19,634,092 4,169,058 Equity instruments Total Capital 62,070,658 18,916,602 Local shares 174,788 79,761 Total risk weighted assets and contingent liabilities 410,699,666 243,802,352 Mutual fund certificates 8,865 5,834 Capital adequacy ratio 15.11% 7.76% Total equity instruments 183,653 85,595 The Financial Leverage Ratio according to the financial statements of the bank as of Total financial assets held for trading 4,213,138 2,212,211 June 30th, 2017 is 4.31% 6Loans and Advances to Banks Translated from Arabic 4Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments Amounts in EGP Thousands The bank makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually Term loans 631,890 446,707 evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations Deduct : provision for loan losses (23,261) (11,810) of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and available Total 608,629 434,897 information. 18 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 18 1 7Loans and Advances to Customers Analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for individuals: Amounts in EGP Thousands Item Individual June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Overdrafts Credit Cards Personal Loans Mortgages Total (1)Retail Overdraft 1,377,529 1,528,415 June 30th, 2017 81,485 2,810 340,191 32,876 457,362 Credit card loans 319,739 223,609 th June 30 , 2016 98,433 959 69,498 8,382 177,272 Personal loans 18,045,181 13,522,069 Mortgage loans 1,904,617 806,935 Total retail 21,647,066 16,081,028 Analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for corporates:(2)Corporate Loans (including loans to small businesses) Item Corporate Overdraft 51,782,362 27,485,571 Syndicated Direct loans 86,427,114 68,790,992 Overdrafts Direct Loans Other Loans Total Loans Syndicated loans 25,156,175 18,488,837 June 30th, 2017 2,033,485 1,434,012 3,121,687 711,014 7,300,198 Other loans 2,138,813 1,882,278 th June 30 , 2016 2,075,579 1,005,124 1,312,149 76,671 4,469,523 Total Corporate 165,504,464 116,647,678 Total loans and advances to customers (1+2) 187,151,530 132,728,706 Deduct: provision for loan losses (7,757,560) (4,646,795) 8Financial Investments Deduct: unearned discount and interest in suspense (256,839) (135,723) Amounts in EGP Thousands Net loans and advances to customers 179,137,131 127,946,188 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Gross loans distributed to: (A) Available for sale investments Current 55,266,487 42,263,784 Debt instruments Listed 2,917,100 109,699,162 Non-Current 131,885,043 90,464,922 Equity instruments Listed 10,098,810 7,963,292 187,151,530 132,728,706 Debt instruments Unlisted 16,281,990 8,780,000 Impairment from Loans Provision for Customers Equity instruments Unlisted 7,865,614 4,358,683 Total available for sale investments (1) 37,163,514 130,801,137 Movement analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for customers B) Held to maturity investment Amounts in EGP Thousands Debt instruments Listed 98,756,416 137,007 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Debt instruments Unlisted 71,384 71,384 NonPerforming Total NonPerforming Total Equity instruments Unlisted 213,485 287,795 Performing Loans Performing Loans Loans Loans Total held to maturity investments (2) 99,041,285 496,186 Balance at beginning of the year 3,509,005 1,137,790 4,646,795 4,032,813 976,317 5,009,130 Total financial investments (1+2) 136,204,799 131,297,323 Transfers 7,258 2,921 10,179 Current 13,389,342 38,260,399 Charge (release)of Non-current 122,815,457 93,036,924 1,088,572 (8,474) 1,080,098 264,742 69,588 334,330 impairment from loans Total financial investments (1+2) 136,204,799 131,297,323 Recoveries of loans previously 830,109 830,109 423,498 423,498 written off Foreign currency revaluation 1,227,099 680,046 1,907,145 166,605 91,885 258,490 differences Write-offs during the year (716,766) (716,766) (1,378,653) (1,378,653) Balance at the end of the year 5,945,277 1,812,283 7,757,560 3,509,005 1,137,790 4,646,795 18 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 18 3 The following table analyzes movements on financial investments during the year: 10Other Loans Amounts in EGP Thousands Available for sale Held to maturity investments investments Matured Balance Balance as Beginning balance on July 1st, 2016 130,801,137 496,186 Items Interest Rate Through as at at June 30th, Additions 21,970,964 20,800,645 Current Year June 30th 2016 2017 Deductions (41,091,053) (11,261,159) Denmark International Development Transfers (89,470,835) 88,993,259 Loan of Egyptian Holding Co. Silos and Storage Nil 4,349 4,349 6,196 Revaluation differences resulting from monetary foreign currency assets 9,531,288 Fayoum Gains ( losses) from fair value difference 5,522,564 Denmark International Development Impairment charges (100,551) 12,354 Loan of Egyptian Holding Co. Silos and Storage Nil 25,577 25,578 24,667 Balance at end of year June 30th, 2017 37,163,514 99,041,285 Qena / Menia / Beni Sweif Silos Complex Beginning balance on July 1st, 2015 109,334,663 363,914 Contract for the development of poultry 4% 108 Addition 46,130,742 169,509 CBE Local Supportive Loan Nil 1,569,445 Deduction (24,489,041) (30,801) CBE Local Supportive Loan (Five years) Nil 896,003 Transfers Subordinated Deposit Nil 9,716,596 Translation differences resulting from monetary foreign currency assets 1,323,374 Long-term loans for financing SMEsfuture step 7% 17,000 Gains (losses) from fair value difference (1,198,836) Impairment charges (299,765) (6,436) Social fund loans-Bright Future 8.50% 16,875 25,313 42,188 Balance at end of year June 30 , 2016 th 130,801,137 496,186 Long-term loans – Egyptian Company for 10.25% 2,806 14,778 16,111 Refinancing 9Customers,’Deposits Social fund loans Enterprise Development Project 8.50% 10,000 20,000 30,000 Amounts in EGP Thousands Social fund loans Agriculture projects support 8.50% 28,000 61,000 89,000 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Social fund loans Bedaia SMEs Loan 8.50% 7,500 18,750 26,250 Demand deposits 62,460,003 39,738,025 Social fund loans Bedayti 7.75% 40,000 300,074 Call and time deposits 112,623,696 59,637,162 with 3,994,900 Long-term loans from foreign banks 13,658,780 interest Saving certificates 218,758,023 127,076,600 with 6,017,401 2,285,642 Saving deposits 130,341,148 104,867,796 Short-term loans from foreign banks 6,017,401 interest Other deposits 8,279,886 9,987,356 Total Other Loans 29,862,619 8,997,510 Total 532,462,756 341,306,939 Current 6,152,508 2,384,719 Non-current 23,710,111 6,612,791 Corporate deposits 155,189,486 92,004,225 Retail deposits 377,273,270 249,302,714 Total Other Loans 29,862,619 8,997,510 Total 532,462,756 341,306,939 Non-interest bearing balances 70,739,889 22,081,166 Variable interest rate balances 135,344,770 141,078,651 Fixed interest rate balances 326,378,097 178,147,122 Total 532,462,756 341,306,939 Current 393,919,650 230,139,149 Non-current 138,543,106 111,167,790 Total 532,462,756 341,306,939 18 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 18 5 11-Other Provisions 14Reserves Amounts in EGP Thousands According to the bank's statute, 10% of net profit is to be credited to legal reserve. June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Crediting legal reserve ceases when its balance reaches 100% of the paid-in capital. Provision for legal claims and taxes 683,810 569,078 According to the Central Bank of Egypt regulations, the use of special reserves Provision for contingent liabilities 513,250 348,952 balances is prohibited except with the Central Bank's approval. Other 12,972 9,625 Amounts in EGP Thousands Total 1,210,032 927,655 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Legal reserve 915,142 437,529 General reserve 675,607 327,262 12-Post-retirement Benefits Liabilities Capital reserve 968,122 237,396 Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Supportive reserve 3,710,839 1,913,237 June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Fair value reserve 7,052,731 1,912,617 Post-retirement medical benefits 2,294,877 1,989,352 Special reserve 6,927 6,927 End of service benefits 525,096 227,879 General banking risk reserve 1,682,920 867,850 Total 2,819,973 2,217,231 Financial statements translation differences reserve 1,472,552 376,779 Amounts recognized in the income statement Differences between nominal value and fair value of subordinated deposits 25,283,404 Total reserves 41,768,244 6,079,597 Liabilities for post-retirement medical benefits 426,589 539,820 Liabilities for end of service benefits 132,672 67,788 Balances at the end of the year 559,261 607,608 15Earnings per share The main actuarial assumptions used by the bank are outlined below June 30th, 2017 June 30th, 2016 Net profit attributable to the shareholder (EGP thousand) (1) 7,581,051 5,069,356 Discount rate 16.25% 11% Divided by weighted average number of shares (thousands of shares) (2) 3,000,000 3,000,000 Long-term inflation rate 12.5% 8% Earnings per share (EGP) (1:2) 2.53 1.69 13Paid-in capital and reserves 16Comparative figures A. Authorized Capital Comparative figures were reclassified for the year ending on June 30th, 2016, to be nd Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22 , 2015, the consistent with current year presentation. authorized capital has been increased from EGP 15 billion to EGP 30 billion. B. Issued and Paid-in Capital Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22nd, 2015, the paidin capital has been increased by EGP 3.6 billion through capitalization of reserves. Accordingly, the issued and paid-in capital reached EGP 15 billion divided into 3 billion shares totally owned by the state with par value of EGP 5 per share. This increase was registered in the Central Bank of Egypt's (CBE) banks records and was published in the official gazette on April 12th, 2015 and registered in the commercial registry on April 15th, 2015. 18 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 18 7 Banque Misr Branch Directory Banque Misr Egypt Head Office Dubai Branch Banque Misr Liban-Lebanon Banque Misr Paris France Branches Address: 151 Mohamed Farid St., Address: City Center Tower, Ground Address: 9 Rue Auber, 75009 Paris France Downtown Cairo floor, Street 27, Port Saeed, Deira. • Riad El Solh • Chtoura Tel: 0033 (1) 44 94 32 31 / 0033 (1) 44 94 32 32 Tel: 002 (02) 23912172/029 P.O.Box: 1502 Dubai U.A.E • Ashrafieh • Hammana Fax: 0033 (1) 42 66 59 78 / 0033 (1) 44 94 32 67 Fax: 002 (02) 23908464/23925768 Tel: 00971 (4) 2715175 Website: www.banquemisr.fr • Ras Beirut • Jounieh Website: www.banquemisr.com Fax: 00971 (4) 2714071 Email: euromisr@banquemisr.fr Call Center: 19888 Website: www.banquemisr.ae • Furn El Chebak • Nabatieh Email: BM19888@banquemisr.com • Noueiry • Saida • Cornich El Mazraa • Tyr • Chiyah • Tripoli Banque Misr UAE Sharjah Branch Regional office • Verdun • West Bekaa Banque Misr Guangzhou Rep. • Zalka • Dora Office China Address: City Center Tower, Third floor, Address: Crystal Plaza, Tower 3, Corniche • Aley • Zahleh Address: Unit 10, 24th Floor, Chow Tai Fook Street 27, Port Saeed, Deira. Buhaira. (CTF) Finance Center, 6 Zhujiang East P.O.Box: 1502, Dubai – UAE P.O.Box: 254 Sharjah – U.A.E. Address: Head Office Riad El Solh Street, Road, Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Tel: 00971 (4) 2715175 Tel: 00971 (6) 5484401 BML Building, Downtown Guangzhou. Fax: 00971 (4) 2720156 Fax: 00971 (6) 5484410 P.O.Box: 7–11 BeirutLebanon P.O.Box: 510623 Website: www.banquemisr.ae Website: www.banquemisr.ae Tel: 00961 (1) 987777 / 00961 (1) 986666 / Tel: 0086 (20) 37392584 / 0086 (20) 87578806 Call Center: 00971 (2) 6522722 00961 (1) 964222 Fax: 0086 (20) 37392764 Email: custservice@gulf-banquemisr.ae Fax:00961 (1) 964296 / 00961 (1) 964223 Email: GuangzhouRepOffice@banquemisr.com Website: www.bml.com.lb Email: mail@bml.com.lb Abu Dhabi Branch Al Ain Branch Address: Khalifa Street Deena Bulding, Address: Al Ain Main Street, Al Asalya P.O.Box: 533 Abu DhabiU.A.E Building, Behind Al Sheikha Salama Banque Misr Moscow Rep. Tel: 00971 (2) 6522702 Mosque. Office Russia Fax: 00971 (2) 6274464 P.O.Box: 59232 Al Ain U.A.E Address: 25th Floor, Vostok Tower, 12, Website: www.banquemisr.ae Tel: 00971 (3) 7511104 Presnenskaya Emb., Moscow, 123317, Fax: 00971 (3) 7514334 Russian Federation. Website: www.banquemisr.ae Tel: 007 (495) 7972898 Fax: 007 (495) 7972899 Ras AL Khaima Branch Misr Bank Europe GmbH Germany Email: MoscowRepOffice@banquemisr. com Address: Red Crescent Building, El Sadaf Address: Neue Mainzer st., 82, D-60311 Square. Frankfurt am Main. P.O.Box: 618 Ras AL Khaima U.A.E Tel: 0049 (69) 29974402 Tel: 00971 (7) 2339219 Fax: 0049 (69) 29974414 Fax: 00971 (7) 2339316 Website: www.misr.de Website: www.banquemisr.ae Email: info@misr.de 18 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7 18 9 G4-31 Contact Information Your feedback on BM Annual Sustainability report is appreciated. For questions about this report, or more information on BM sustainability, please contact: Mobile: (+2) 01001050587 Telephone: (+202) 223977832 E-mail: fatma.elgoully@banquemisr.com Dr. Fatma El Goully General Manager of Corporate Communication For more information, kindly visit our website www.banquemisr.com 19 0 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Report 20 16/20 1 7
