Strategy Report Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Re-imagining Global Agriculture Strategy Report Olam International Annual Report 2017 olamgroup.com Our vision To be the most differentiated and valuable global agri-business by 2040. Our governing objective To maximise long-term intrinsic value for our continuing shareholders. This report is the first on our journey to develop a new model of reporting that provides insight into how we create value over the long-term. We aim to communicate how we identify, develop, preserve and deploy strategic assets in line with our company’s purpose. A separate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report is available on our website at olamgroup.com. Contents About this report 1 Group CEO Review This Annual Report has 3 chapters. These can be read independently; however, for the purpose of compliance they 20 Our Business Model are intended to be viewed as a single document. 22 Highlights 29 Our Purpose in Action 36 Group COO Review Strategy Report 68 Human Capital This chapter offers narrative about our 72 Social Capital performance, strategy and market factors. 77 Natural Capital It can be read independently as an Executive Summary or as part of the full report. 83 Intellectual Capital 86 Intangible Capital (Brand) 87 Manufactured Capital 89 Risk Management 92 Stakeholder Engagement Governance Report 94 General Information This section of the report gives detailed information about our rigorous governance framework and those responsible for ensuring it is followed. Shareholder information is also Front cover image: held within this chapter. Olam Palm Gabon team uses Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to capture geo-referenced aerial images for analysis in Geographic Information System (GIS). Benefits include monitoring and detection of illegal activity in Financial Report High Conservation Value Areas, fast Our figures and respective notes are enclosed assessment of palm growth condition and within this chapter. It should be read in early warning of agronomical abnormalities, conjunction with the Strategy Report to give a precise water management plans, accurate balanced account of internal and external factors. asset inventory and infrastructure planning. Read more on olamgroup.com Olam at a glance About Olam Our Purpose Established in 1989, Olam is today a leading global In 2017, we updated our purpose to 'Re-imagining agri-business operating from seed to shelf, supplying Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly'. It is our food and industrial raw materials to over 22,000 ambitious mission to drive transformation in our sector. customers worldwide. Our team of 72,0001 employees That we will do so in an ethical, socially responsible and across 66 countries has built leadership positions in environmentally sustainable manner is a given in the several of our 18 platforms, including cocoa, coffee, world of Olam. There are 3 outcomes we intend to edible nuts, spices, rice and cotton. We source from achieve through our Purpose: i) Prosperous farmers 4.7 million farmers and their communities. We are and farming systems; ii) Thriving communities; and listed on the Singapore Exchange (SGX) and are iii) Re-generation of the living world. among the top 30 primary listed companies by market capitalisation. 1. Employees includes full-time, seasonal, contract and temporary workers How we win Our success has and always will come from innovating our business model 'The Olam Way' to achieve the unexpected. We have built deep industry expertise, distinctive capabilities and differentiated our business sufficiently to ensure profitable growth. 1 2 3 4 5 6 A focus on niche Defensible niche A unique African A model to Differentiated A uniquely commodities and strategies in footprint and out-origin our value-added shaped businesses with mainstream operating competition solutions and portfolio leadership commodity capability services positions categories to customers Our Capitals We focus on 7 Capitals to drive long-term value creation: Financial Human Social Natural Intellectual Intangible Manufactured Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Page 37 Page 68 Page 72 Page 77 Page 83 Page 86 Page 87 Results We generated record cash flows and further strengthened our balance sheet by reducing We successfully delivered on our key priorities for 2017 our gearing. as part of our 2016-2018 Strategic Plan, closing the year These results were achieved on a combination of with a strong set of results. pursuing growth in prioritised platforms, working to Our earnings for the year grew significantly and our turn around underperforming businesses and nurturing returns also improved. gestating assets. Financial Highlights Operational Volume PATMI Enlarged share capital and PATMI stronger balance sheet • Share capital up approximately 22.5 M MT S$581 M S$432 M +56.3% +65.3% S$585.5 million from +18.6% warrants exercise • Higher retained earnings • Reduced gearing 1.46X (2016: 1.99X) EBITDA Free Cash Flow Gearing Improved dividends • Board of Directors recommends S$1,328 M S$1,020 M 1.46X +10.4% Positive FCFE from 1.99X final dividend of 4.0 cents per share • Higher total dividend of 7.5 cents per share for 2017 (2016: 6.0 cents) Where we operate We operate in the upstream1, midstream2, and downstream3 parts of the agriculture value chain. This selective integration enables us to take advantage of our assets, competencies and expertise to take greater control from seed to shelf of our value chain and to capture excess returns. Our Value Chain Olam's heritage lies in the origination and traditional supply chain management, sourcing agricultural ingredients and raw materials for our global customers in the food and beverage, textile, wood, rubber, and related industries. Selective Upstream Supply chain Selective mid/downstream Edible Nuts, Spices and Edible Nuts ​ ​ ​ ​ Vegetable Ingredients Spices and Vegetable Ingredients Confectionery and Cocoa ​ ​ ​ ​ Beverage Ingredients Coffee Food Staples and Dairy ​ ​ Packaged Foods Grains and Animal Feed Edible Oils Rice Sugar and Sweeteners Packaged Foods Industrial Raw Materials, Cotton ​ ​ Ag Logistics and Wood Products Rubber Infrastructure Fertiliser Gabon Special Economic Zone* Commodity ​ ​ Risk Management Solutions, Volatility ​ ​ Trading and Asset Management Financial Services Trade and Structured Finance 1. Upstream: plantations, concessions and farms 2. Midstream: value-added processing and manufacturing 3. Downstream: consumer franchise and distribution infrastructure in African markets * GSEZ including ports and infrastructure Read more on our business model on page 20 olamgroup.com Group CEO review Re-imagining Global Agriculture In 2017, we defined our new purpose, ‘Re-imagining Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly,’ which has now become our cause and sets the theme for this annual report. olamgroup.com 1 Sunny Verghese Co-Founder and Group CEO Group CEO review Innovating and evolving our business model, ‘The Olam Way.’ 2017 was a year marked by profound political and economic changes around the world. Key developments in areas including global trade, financial and capital markets, environment and climate change, geo-political contexts, and consolidation in the agri-sector continued unabated through the course of the year. olamgroup.com 3 Group CEO review continued “The progress made in all our businesses during the year, both in financial terms as well as our positive impact on people and planet, is proof that our commitment to maximising value and purpose concurrently is the right balance.” Overview including better pricing power, more customer stickiness, and a larger share of our customers’ wallet. At the same 2017 was a year marked by profound political and time, we have also positively impacted the communities economic changes around the world. Key developments where we operate and reduced our negative impacts on in areas including global trade, financial and capital the environment. Specific examples of these sustainability markets, environment and climate change, geo-political initiatives are detailed in the review of the various contexts, and consolidation in the agri-sector continued reporting segments (see pages 46 to 66) as well as the unabated through the course of the year. I am pleased reporting on the various Capitals (see pages 68 to 88). to report that against this challenging backdrop, We believe that putting sustainability at the heart of Olam’s clear and differentiated strategy, coupled with key our business is fundamental to our strategy of building initiatives that we undertook to accelerate the delivery of a business that is more consistent, sustainable long-term value to both our continuing shareholders and and enduring. other key stakeholders yielded outstanding results. In this regard, we believe that Olam must become We grew top line in terms of both sales volume and sales more innovative and find new ways of doing things to revenue by 56.3% and 27.6% respectively, improved better manage our impact on the 9 Planetary Boundaries1, bottom line with reported PATMI and Operational PATMI and help achieve the 17 UN Sustainable Development growing by 65.3% and 18.6% respectively, enhanced Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG Goal 2 “End hunger, returns with ROE improving by 290 basis points to 9.0%, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and and EBITDA / Invested Capital improving by 40 basis promote sustainable agriculture.” As a company, and points to 8.2%, delivered record free cash flows of S$1.5 indeed as part of the larger agri-sector, we need to find billion in FCFF and S$1.02 billion in FCFE, and materially ways of producing more of the right kind of food using reduced net gearing from 1.99x as at end-December fewer resources in terms of land, water, farm inputs and 2016 to 1.46x as at end-December 2017. elimination of waste to meet the rapidly growing global We also continued to invest for the future with gross demand for food, feed, fibre and fuel. At Olam, we capex expenditure of S$970.6 million in 2017 largely in have recognised these challenges and have taken our prioritised platforms. Nearly 24.7% or S$3.9 billion concrete measures (as explained in the later sections of our total invested capital of S$15.8 billion as of of this report) to address them so that we, and our 31 December 2017 is still gestating or only partially stakeholders, can continue to responsibly and profitably contributing at this stage, laying a strong foundation grow in the future. for future profitable growth from these gestating investments. We have thus balanced both the Key industry trends and Olam’s response short-term and long-term well. Trade and Contestability of Global Output In addition to investing selectively in a configuration The new US Administration, which focused on tax reform, of upstream (plantation), midstream (manufacturing) regulation and immigration issues in its first year in office, and supply chain assets, our progress in delivering has now turned its attention to trade policy with potentially these results is also a function of continually making serious consequences for the global economy. important investments to build our capabilities, In addition to the adverse impact of the US people and systems. Administration’s immigration policy on the availability While we are pleased with these results and outcomes, of farm workers, recent US trade actions including we are prouder still that we have achieved this profitable withdrawing from the TPP, re-negotiating NAFTA, growth in a more consistent, responsible and sustainable re-negotiation of the Korea-US Free Trade Agreement, way. The progress made in all our businesses during the tariffs on solar panels and washing machines, tariffs year, both in financial terms as well as our positive impact on steel and aluminium, the USTR’s investigation of on people and planet, is proof that our commitment to China’s industrial policies and technology transfer maximising value and purpose concurrently is the right practices, and its recent launch of a WTO challenge balance. Our sustainability initiatives in 2017 across our against India over its export subsidies, have all been various businesses have offered us tangible benefits, actions that have amplified uncertainty around global trade. 1. Stockholm Resilience Centre 4 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 “In order to better navigate these trade issues, Olam is focused on staying diversified across key producing countries for the various commodities we supply. As a rule of portfolio selection, we participate in 80-90% of the countries that produce a given commodity.” The reaction of China on imposing counter measures participation in the domestic trade flows beyond our on US sorghum imports, and the threatened retaliatory traditional focus on export trade flows in countries action by the European Union, have all increased the like China, India, USA, Mexico, Europe etc. We also odds of a potential trade war. The Canadian solar contribute to advocacy that would help keep global companies have since filed a lawsuit over these tariffs markets more free and open, free from tariffs and and the European Union along with China, Taiwan and non-tariff trade barriers. Korea have claimed compensation for these solar tariffs from the USA. This global tit-for-tat on trade Demand drivers issues could disrupt many supply chains around the Growing world population will continue to drive world. As far as the agri-sector is concerned, we growth in food, feed, fibre and fuel demand. believe targeted agricultural sector reciprocal tariffs The current world population of 7.4 billion is expected (including on USA corn, soybean, rice, sorghum, dairy to reach 8.3 to 8.5 billion by 2030 and 9.5 to 9.7 billion and cotton exports) could be the most likely counter by 2050 under a medium fertility scenario2. Growth measures adopted by countries like China against in the global middle class population estimated at these US trade moves because it is relatively more 3 billion in 2015 (doubling from 1.5 billion in 2010) is easy to accurately size the retaliation as required in expected to rise to 4 billion by 2021, with China and these agri-commodities and also because agriIndia alone accounting for a significant portion of that commodity products are easier to substitute away growth. Calorie consumption per capita is expected from. The top 3 importers of US agricultural products, to increase 20% as populations in these developing collectively accounting for 42% or US$58.7 billion economies transition from low income to middle worth of ag exports in 2017 are Canada, China and income status3. Changes in dietary habits and shift Mexico, with China alone accounting for more than in food consumption patterns from food staples and 30% (US$14.9 billion in value) and Mexico accounting carbohydrates to protein and fat-based diets will for 13% of all US ag exports1. Additionally, because also drive increased demand for food and feed raw these agricultural products come from rural districts materials. Increasing diversion of crops into biofuel in the USA which are more likely to have voted for the manufacturing is also a new driver of demand. All of Republican Administration and Republicans in these demand side drivers will combine to increase Congress, China, European Union, Mexico and demand for crops between 60% (on a calorific value other countries believe that tariffs on agriculture could basis) to 100% (on a total crop production basis) potentially apply more political pressure on the US by 20504. Administration. These developments could potentially New market trends on the growth of functional foods, shrink the role of the USA as a global ag supplier the aversion to artificial ingredients, the imposition of and allow its global customers to diversify away from sugar sweetened beverage tax (e.g. in Mexico, South US ag exports. Africa, United Kingdom, Singapore, Malaysia etc.), All of these measures and counter measures would fatty food tax (e.g. in Hungary), calorie information result in reduced contestability of global output (global menu labelling, mandated dieting classes GDP that is free from tariffs, non-tariff trade barriers, (the ‘Metabo Law’ in Japan requires overweight and other forms of protection), slow down global trade individuals to go to dieting classes), vending machine and consequently pose a significant headwind for standards, the trend towards natural and organic, economic growth. single origin produce, traceability to the farm, going In order to better navigate these trade issues, Olam is local, slow food movement, ethical eating, importance focused on staying diversified across key producing of trust and transparency in the supply chain, eating countries for the various commodities we supply. on the go, on demand grocery and household delivery, As a rule of portfolio selection, we participate in pre-portioned meal kits and eating as a social 80-90% of the countries that produce a given experience are all beginning to revolutionise food commodity. In addition, we are also increasing our consumption habits. New innovations to personalise diet planning and nutrition based on genetic makeup, 1. US Department of Agriculture; BCA research gut bacteria, metabolism rates and body type along 2. UN Development with tech-enabled personalised meal planning are 3. Pew Trust gaining traction in some markets. 4. World Resources Institute olamgroup.com 5 Group CEO review continued From fork back to farm: helping customers meet consumer trends Across the world, certain consumer trends in food are increasingly impacting our customers’ businesses. We can classify these trends into 4 main categories, namely, quality, responsible sourcing, reliability and innovation. Food safety is non-negotiable and sustainability is becoming a pre-requisite as many customers have to meet their own 2020 sustainability commitments. While there are still challenges over the cost of sustainable production, there is a strong opportunity to secure larger volume contracts. All these present new opportunities for Olam to differentiate and lead. Trend How Olam is positioned Premiumisation • Meeting and exceeding customers’ expectations for consistent quality and food-safe products through the diligent application of quality assurance and compliance • Consumers are beginning to prioritise by programmes, and a ‘right first time’ culture. spending more on things that matter most • Through our 4.7 million farmer network, we have unrivalled connection to farmers and to them and cut back on the rest. we are helping them to improve both their quality of production as well as increase • More emphasis being placed on quality as their yields. well as functional ingredients. • Our sourcing footprint means we can supply high end single origin ingredients • Suppliers can capture value and secure (e.g. cocoa, coffee). pricing premiums by differentiating their • Our integrated supply chains help maintain quality aspects (e.g. flavour). offerings with value-added solutions that reflect these important consumer trends. • Our investment in research (e.g. improving genetics by producing better quality seeds/ planting material). • We have made significant investments in mid-downstream processing. • Our continuing investments in innovation centres across the world for tailored products. Ethical living • Advancing sustainability throughout our operations from plantation to processing based on our ethos of Growing Responsibly. • Increasing attention paid towards ethical • Long-standing and highly regarded sustainability programmes offering support to sourcing and ethical eating. farmers on commercial, social and environmental issues. More than 360,000 in • Social entrepreneurship is increasing among Olam Livelihood Charter (OLC) initiatives alone. younger generations. • New Olam Farmer Information System (OFIS) offers unparalleled insights at farmer • More companies advocating ethics as a level for more targeted impact programmes. competitive differentiator. • Instilling standards in indirect sourcing through Olam Supplier Code and industry partnerships. • Committed to international standards e.g. RSPO etc. • Strong programmes with certifiers recognised by consumers (e.g. Rainforest Alliance). • CR&S1 10 material areas, specific goals and sustainability annual reporting, commitment to implementing the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Healthy living • Delivered 68 billion servings of fortified foods in 2017. • With the largest portfolio of Edible Nuts including significant Olam owned plantations, • Concerns over obesity and food sensitivity are we help our customers maximise the healthy snacking opportunity. making health a primary purchasing criteria. • Olam Cocoa has innovated several ‘no sodium added’ dark cocoa powders, as well as • Options such as meat substitutes, and natural cocoa powders (processed without alkalising agents) for clean labelling. healthy snacks (e.g. nuts and seeds) are gaining traction. • Olam SVI’s extensive spice portfolio and recipe development capability means customers can create appetising products without sodium or artificial flavours. • Preference for ‘clean label’ (recognisable ingredients and natural ingredients. • The breadth of our portfolio and capability means we can offer ‘healthy crops’, provide fortification and find solutions. • Our investment in PureCircle plays directly to many of these health trends. Connected consumers • Through our sustainability reporting and direct engagement, we aim for transparency with our customers as well as other stakeholders, addressing issues as they arise while • Increasing connectivity allows consumers to also seeking to improve wider understanding of issues in the agri-complex. experience and interact with digital content. • The launch of our AtSource offering which is Olam’s purpose led platform to drive the • Demand for greater transparency amplified as delivery and purchase of more sustainable and traceable agricultural products, is a news is proliferated through social media. major initiative that provides transparency to our customers across multiple KPIs that • The customer journey weaves a brand into the are relevant to them. entire consumption experience, providing • We support customers with specific case histories and other relevant information to value before, during and after the purchase. provide to their end consumers and bring their brand story to life. 1. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 6 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Supply side trends, fragile ecosystems, natural indigenous people and the impact on these and social capital impacts communities and their traditional livelihoods, are all key social risks associated with modern agriculture. Natural Capital impacts In addition, rising production cost, workforce shortage, On the supply side however, constraints on the availability and ageing farmers pose significant additional risk in of both arable land and water is likely to create the agricultural value chain. growing imbalances between supply and demand for Nutritional challenges, with over 815 million people still agricultural crops. Fragile ecological systems will going to bed hungry every day (undernutrition), over exacerbate these supply side constraints. Agriculture, nutrition issues with increasingly more people obese Forestry, and Other Land Use accounts for nearly 25% than underweight, coupled with nearly 2 billion people of the world’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions1. suffering from various forms of malnutrition arising from Agriculture also accounts for 71% of all fresh water micronutrient and vitamin deficiencies, the high withdrawals2. Nearly 1 million square miles of tropical prevalence of stunting and wasting amongst young forest land could potentially be lost due to conversion children in developing countries, have all combined to of forests to food and feed production. Increasing increase the incidence of chronic diseases and the demand for deforestation-free products from key attendant pressures on global health systems to treat stakeholders is growing. We have significantly these adverse health impacts arising from a broken exceeded the planetary boundary on biosphere global food system. integrity or biodiversity by losing more than 1,000 species for every million species year today, Olam’s response compared to the boundary condition of not losing more At a societal level, in addition to now supporting than 10 species for every million species year3. As a 363,000 smallholder farmers under the result, wild animal populations have roughly halved Olam Livelihood Charter, our teams continue to play since 1970 and fragile ecosystems worldwide have their part in trying to prevent disease in communities been impacted by human activities. Clearly, around our operations. Over 20,000 people in Africa businesses cannot function if ecosystems are benefitted from HIV/AIDS sensitisation, awareness degraded or out of balance, as they provide many and testing as part of these efforts. The scale of ill invisible but essential services, including regulation health in some communities such as those around of the climate and water cycle, air quality and flood our forestry concessions in Republic of Congo mean protection. Demand for additional water for irrigation a far greater response is required than any one is estimated to increase by nearly 28% by 2015, while company can manage alone. Multi-stakeholder agriculture is estimated to contribute to more than 30% partnerships as described under Goal 17 of the UN of all fresh water pollution4. Part of this pollution is Sustainable Development Goals must take even contributed by nitrogen and phosphate loading as we greater precedence. In this regard, we stepped up become more input intensive in our farming activities our collaboration initiatives in 2017 and forged to boost productivity. China today uses nearly 2.5 times relationships, partnerships and alliances with NGOs more fertiliser per hectare as compared to Germany5. and civil society, development agencies, multi-laterals The consequence is that 80% of all Chinese surface and customers including: Asian Development Bank water (rivers and lakes) and underground aquifers are (ADB), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Business polluted, in terms of their biological oxygen demand Sustainable Development Commission, Climate Smart levels (according to WHO). Agriculture (CSA), Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), Costco, Food & In addition, nearly US$1 trillion of economic losses are Agriculture Organisation (FAO), Food Reform for sustained, as more than one third of all food produced Sustainability and Health (FReSH), Global in the world that is intended for human consumption is Agribusiness Alliance (GAA), Global Coffee Platform, lost or wasted at the point of production in developing International Finance Corporation (IFC), High countries and at the point of consumption in the Conservation Value Resource Network (HCV), Mars, developed regions6. Mastercard Foundation, Nestlé, Sustainable Rice Social Capital impacts Platform (SRP), The Nature Conservancy, The Forests Dialogue, The Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale The significant impacts of agriculture on social capital, Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), University of California (UC including health and safety of workers given the use of Davis), Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), World chemicals, machinery and the working environment, Business Council for Sustainable Development forced labour including child labour issues (given that (WBCSD), World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) and World 60% of child labour worldwide is in the agricultural Resources Institute (WRI), amongst others. sector), forced resettlement of communities including 1. IPCC 5. World Bank 2. World Development Indicators 6. Champions 12.3 3. Stockholm Resilience Centre 7. World Food Programme 4. UN Water olamgroup.com 7 Group CEO review continued We have zero tolerance for lack of adherence to any employees, in particular increasing and better balancing human rights violations and insist that the dignity of others the number of women in senior management positions is respected in our operations both across our direct and in the company. While we can point to historical legacy indirect supply chains. We are committed to and work reasons for up-country positions in tough emerging/ hard to ensure that the 10 principles of the UN Global frontier markets mostly being held by men, we know Compact are upheld. A new cross commodity Fair we can and must do better to tap valuable skills by Employment Policy will be issued later this year to supporting and encouraging women to consider reinforce our efforts in this regard. We have more work to a broader range of roles within Olam and fulfil do to ensure greater levels of diversity amongst our their potential. We must produce more food using fewer resources In the past, our agricultural systems have coped Understanding and addressing the other planetary with population surges and shifting dietary habits. boundaries is equally critical. For example, the threat However, given climate change impacts, water to biodiversity, the loss of which “reduces every form constraints and other Planetary Boundaries, this of ecological resilience.” Currently we lose over 1,000 becomes a far more difficult challenge going forward. species per million per year and yet the boundary is The Planetary Boundaries framework as developed just 10 species per year. Some of these species that by the Stockholm Resilience Centre and a group of could go extinct may include pollinators which are a earth system and environmental scientists, sets out vital resource for cross-pollinating flowering plants precautionary boundaries for 9 critical processes of with a global aggregate production value in excess human driven environmental change. Together, the of US$300 billion. Olam is already spending over Planetary Boundaries quantify a safe operating space $8 million a year to ensure that we can secure enough within which we can live well, thus providing us a bees to pollinate our almond orchards (read more on dashboard for global sustainability. Beyond these page 35). Species decline is not only a threat to the boundaries, we could potentially face the possibility biodiversity of our planet, it is a very real financial risk. of disruptive, catastrophic or large-scale changes in More and more countries have already implemented Earth system functioning, leading to significant risks to an Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and/or imposed societies and economies worldwide. a Carbon Tax. World Bank’s report on ‘State and Of these 9 Planetary Boundaries, 4 boundaries Trends of Carbon Pricing 2016’ indicates that already (including climate change, loss of biodiversity, 40 countries at the national level and an additional overload in the nitrogen and phosphorus biogeochemical 24 regions at the sub-national level have adopted ETS cycles and land use change) have already been or Carbon Taxes. While today, mother nature’s back transgressed. We are seeing the impact of this on office is not set up to issue us the invoices for crop production, water availability etc. The FAO the services that we derive from nature to produce the explains: “Until about 2030, global warming is goods that we deliver to our customers, it is only to be expected to lead to both gains and losses in the expected that governments will increasingly assess productivity of crops, livestock, fisheries and forestry, whether natural resources are being used efficiently depending on places and conditions. Beyond 2030, and economically, and what price companies are the negative impacts of climate change on agricultural paying to society for the use of natural capital and yields will become increasingly severe in all regions.” eco-system services that benefit all of us. FAO cites a report by Rosenzweig et al 2013 which states: “The impact on yields by the year 2100 under high emission climate scenarios will range between -20 and -45 percent for maize, between -5 and -50 percent for wheat, between -20 and -30 percent for rice, and between -30 and -60 percent for soybean.” Resolving this would be a critical determinant to achieving the level of crop production required to feed the world in the future. 8 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 ‘The company closest to the farmer’: Maximising our USP We must also face up to the fact that while we have predicts net farm income will decline 8.3 percent in over-stepped these planetary boundaries, we have also 2018, dropping US$5.4 billion to US$59.5 billion. If not adhered to key social capital boundaries that we realised, 2018 net farm income would be the lowest need to have a sustainable supply chain. For example, since 2002 and net cash farm income would be at its Leeds University recently issued research which lowest level since 2009/2010. It is not surprising then “quantifies the national resource use associated with that the average age of farmers and ranchers is 58 achieving a good life” for over 150 countries. It found as the younger generation rejects farming as a viable that. “No country in the world currently meets the basic livelihood and that farmer suicide in the face of needs of its citizens at a globally sustainable level of unrelenting pressures is of growing concern, including resource use.” It is a grim reality that many of those Africa, China, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, etc. producing and providing our food and fibre are also the All of these factors make it imperative that we go same people who are going to bed hungry every day, beyond our best efforts to date. We must truly besides living below other key social indicators. re-imagine and transform the global food, feed and Even in developed nations, farmers are struggling. fibre systems so we can create prosperous farms and Many commodity prices remain below the cost of farming systems; build thriving rural communities and production. The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) achieve re-generation of the living world. Innovation in agriculture long wingspan drones on the farms and other digital The existing levers to increasing farm yields and solutions are fundamentally transforming agricultural productivity, including acreage expansion, higher fertiliser production landscapes. application rates, increased crop protection application At Olam, we have both significant direct farming and rates, farm equipment size and horse power, adoption plantation exposure with 2.4 million hectares of farming, of GMO seed, etc. has more or less run its course. plantations and forestry footprint, growing 26 different In addition, inflation in cost of production and farm wage crops, large out-grower or contract growing programmes growth, have put severe pressure on margins at the farm in addition to third party sourcing from smallholder level. We need new productivity breakthroughs to sustain farmers and agents. We need to therefore be at the top of global agriculture. our game in terms of leveraging technology to produce Fortunately, rapid innovation in agriculture, including crops more efficiently and sustainably. Today, we are at precision farming techniques, vertical farming, urban the leading edge of building smart farms and ‘Farm of the farming, development of alternative proteins and high Future’ to ultimately increase productivity, reduce tech food, advanced genetics, using IoT1 sensors to costs and enhance sustainability of our supply chains. improve irrigation efficiencies, cloud seeding, waste Some of the key initiatives on how we are leveraging packaging solutions, blockchain for food traceability and technology (many of which were adopted by us in 2017) trust, robotic harvesting, widespread use of micro and to achieve this across our farming and plantation operations are shown below: Our Smart Farm Initiatives Precision Weather Farm Advanced biotech Farm automation agriculture foecasting management • Multiple collaborations with research agencies: • Tools mechanisation of harvesting • Drones for aerial imagery and analysis across all • Real-time weather monitoring for system i. NUS for oil palm • Robotic harvesting • Mobile applications for molecular breeding • Vertebrate Pest Detect our tree crop plantations assessment and for drought stress, nutrient prediction. Distributed soil sampling, pest and ii. C SIRO for even and Deter System to warn deficiency, Chlorophyll weather stations across disease monitoring, ripening of oil elephants away in Gabon bands and canopy the plantation supervisor field vists palm fruits (through sense and structure and height monitoring, enhancing iii.CIRAD for pests and deter nodes) • Radar data for rainfall plantation worker disease control • IOT/sensor solutions monitoring productivity and recording iv. T  LL (multiple projects) eg. improving irrigation consumption of spare efficiencies (different use parts in Australia almonds cases across Australia, Gabon and USA) • Sensors on bees for detecting flight patterns • Variable rate applicators and pollination – SMART tractors effectiveness • Fertigation 1. Internet of Things olamgroup.com 9 Group CEO review continued Clear and Differentiated Strategy I had described our current strategy in detail in the CEO Review of 2015 and 2016 which is summarised here: In 2017 we completed the second year of our 2016-2018 Strategic Plan. We have now entered the last year of this plan (2018). There was no change to our strategy in 2017. Our strategy is centred around a strong core, namely Our Strategy: Focused, differentiated supply chain management of agricultural raw materials and defensible and food ingredients (origination, logistics, trading and risk management) and then selectively integrating across 1. Focused on niche commodities and niche the value chain, including upstream (plantations and businesses with global leadership positions farming), midstream (manufacturing and processing) (e.g. Edible Nuts, Cocoa, Coffee, Spices & and downstream (packaged foods distribution). In line Vegetable Ingredients, Cotton, Rice, Packaged with our strategic plan in 2017, we continued to pursue Foods & Rubber) growth in our prioritised platforms, worked to turnaround underperforming businesses, and nurtured our gestating 2. Adopt defensible niche strategies in assets to start contributing. As described in the overview mainstream commodity categories section of this review and in the following Group COO (e.g. Grains: Africa Milling and asset light Review (see pages 37 to 66) these initiatives have yielded destination trading; Animal Feeds; Key strong results. emerging markets in Africa and Asia; Sugar: In the second half of 2018, we will embark on our next Indonesia Refining, India Milling; Palm: 2 3 year strategic plan exercise for the two 3-year leadership in West Africa) periods 2019-2021 & 2022-2024. This new strategic plan will be communicated in early 2019 once it is approved 3. Unique African footprint and operating by our Board. capabilities: Direct presence in 25 countries in Africa Our clear and differentiated strategy in terms of where we participate and how we win in our industry, has 4. Out-origin our competition: Buying directly helped us achieve more consistent, sustainable and from growers and village level agents profitable growth over the current plan period. We are at the farmgate or the lowest level of focused on the agri-complex but broadly diversified within aggregation possible it. We have built market leading positions in our prioritised platforms (Edible Nuts, Cocoa, Grains, Coffee and Animal Feed, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients and Cotton) and 5. Provide value-added solutions and services strategic niche positions in a number of other adjacent to customers: Traceability guarantees, products, markets and value chain segments (Palm, sustainable and certified raw materials, vendor Rubber, Wood Products, Packaged Foods Business and managed inventory solutions, risk management Ag Logistics in Africa, Rice in Asia and Africa, Sugar solutions and proprietary market intelligence Milling and Refining in Asia, Dairy farming in Russia and Uruguay etc.). 6. Uniquely shaped portfolio: Selective and diversified participation across products, geographies and value chain Visit to Australian almond orchard. 10 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 2016-2018 Portfolio Strategy Organised into 4 clusters Cluster 1 Cluster 2 Cluster 3 Cluster 4 Business units in attractive markets Strategic BUs in Small size of Non-Core where Olam has a strong position attractive profits but high restructure/ markets, returns, Deconsolidate 1A 1B 1C gestating, accretive to • Fertilisers • Edible • Coffee • SVI1 model to be portfolio • GSEZ4 Nuts • Cotton proven • Rice • Cocoa • PFB2 • Wood • Grains • Palm • Sugar and • Rubber Sweeteners • Dairy • CFS3 Accelerate Ensure minimum investments Prove model Deconsolidate/ profit size and to achieve before scaling Monetise high returns leadership Prioritise Africa, focus as a separate vertical Leverage Africa Supply Food Participate Invest in Africa as a Globally Staples and in African Agri-Logistics Competitive Ingredients Consumer Infrastructure Supply Source into Africa Story African agriPalm and Rubber Grains PFB infrastructure Successfully execute Expand milling in Double down on (warehouses, Palm and Rubber Nigeria (M&A) and Nigeria, Ghana and silos, ports) upstream plantation other African other parts of West expansion and countries: enter Africa and drive selective midstream Animal Feed profitability investments Rice Edible Nuts, Cocoa, Maintain position in Coffee, Cotton, SVI Africa Continue to expand most attractive Dairy and Sugar Africa-based sourcing Distribution and midstream processing 1. Spices and Vegetable Ingredients 2. Packaged Food Business 3. Commodity Financial Services 4. Gabon Special Economic Zone olamgroup.com 11 Group CEO review continued Evolution of Olam’s Business Model: Olam 2.0 shows that in 1975, 83% of the S&P 500 companies market value was explained by their tangible assets and In my CEO Review for 2015, I had described in detail only 17% by their intangible assets, whereas in 2015 only Olam’s business model which we call ‘The Olam Way’. 16% of the S&P 500 market value was determined by its ‘The Olam Way’ forms the basis for the way we lead, tangible assets and 84% was explained by their organise, compete, grow and succeed in the marketplace. intangible assets. We compete on the basis of this business model and like other winning business models, we expect ours to To create value over the long-term, it has become achieve the unexpected, by helping us realise our Vision increasingly clear that organisations need to actively of ‘becoming the most differentiated and valuable global manage a broader set of drivers beyond Financial and agribusiness by 2040’. Economic Capital (equity, debt, tangible assets) that includes Manufactured Capital (the stock of the ‘The Olam Way’ has 12 elements that together deliver 4 company’s factories, farms, equipment, etc.), Intellectual objectives for us: i) Setting the direction for the company; Capital (R&D, patents, copyrights, knowhow, ii) Defining where to play and how to win; iii) Knowing organisational systems and processes, etc.), Intangible who we are; and iv) Aligning the organisation to deliver Capital (brand, reputation, know-how etc.), Human our strategy. Capital (motivation and engagement of its employees, The current ‘Olam Way’ version Olam 1.0 has served us attrition rates, capability development, culture, spirit, well for the last 28 years. The many changes and actions capacity to innovate, etc.), Social Capital (relationship initiated over the course of the last 2 years is likely to between the company and all its stakeholders including result in Olam becoming by the end of 2018, a very communities, government relations, customers and other different company from the Olam of 3 years ago. We now supply chain partners) and Natural Capital (including the have an extensive upstream farming and plantation company’s carbon, water, waste footprint and the cost of footprint; our midstream manufacturing footprint has these externalities). However, these broader set of grown 10-fold during this period, we are recognised as long-term drivers and different forms of Capital that drive being leaders in sustainability, and our farmer/supplier long-term value are not universally assessed in current and customer networks/engagement have given us a reporting frameworks, even though they drive a significant global edge in many of our products. All these initiatives portion of today’s market value. and changes combined together has resulted in Olam 1.0 There is a significant and increasing disconnect between evolving into Olam 2.0. This is an evolutionary rather than today’s reporting formats and the drivers of long-term a revolutionary change. value for a few specific reasons: i) accounting profit and We have a broad consensus within the company for the shareholder returns are disconnected because need and importance of keeping ‘The Olam Way’ accounting profit is quick to recognise the short-term dynamic and treating it as an active and living document changes in revenues and costs, but does not account for to be continually refined and strengthened so that it is the value likely to be derived from investments made for always fit for purpose. As our business changes, ‘The the long term. For example, at Olam (as described in the Olam Way’ will continue to evolve with it. Olam 2.0 is this earlier sections of this review) we have invested first major evolution of ‘The Olam Way’. significantly in sustainability, digitalisation and capability We have identified 6 key priorities in Olam 2.0 that will building initiatives, all of which will decrease our help us stay ahead and make Olam future ready: i) Focus accounting profits, however it does not reflect the on drivers of long-term value; ii) Put sustainability at the potential value that will be created from these heart of our business; iii) Build operational excellence as investments; ii) we often measure and report what is easy a core competency; iv) Lead industry’s digital disruption rather than what is right, for example, inadequate and transformation; v) Enhance our culture, values and reporting on intangibles; iii) the failure of companies to spirit; and vi) Realign and renew our organisation to address idiosyncratic Environmental, Social and execute our strategy. Governance (ESG) tail risks, which if materialised, diminishes future cash flows and increases the cost of 1 Focus on drivers of long-term value capital; and iv) the timelines mismatch by co-mingling operating cost with different forms of long-term, gestating Research by Ocean Tomo LLC (one of the world’s capital investments, which confuses the understanding of leading Intellectual Capital Valuation, Management and how well an organisation is investing to maintain or Advisory Services firm) done on the S&P 500 companies enhance its long-term competitive advantage. for the last 45 year period shows that the market value of This is why we at Olam have now begun to value these these companies over time is explained less by the value broad set of drivers and measure the various forms of of their tangible assets and is increasingly determined capital that drive long-term value for the company. more by the value of their intangible assets. The study 1. Please also see our GRI report on olamgroup.com. 12 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 This Annual Report is the first in our journey to develop a new model of reporting that provides insight into how we create value over the long-term. It aims to communicate how we identify, invest in, develop, preserve and deploy key strategic assets including the various forms of Capital described above in line with our company’s purpose to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. ‘The Olam Way’: Evolving from Olam 1.0 to Olam 2.0 ‘The Olam Way’ is our unique business model that forms the basis for the way we lead, organise, compete, grow and succeed in the marketplace. ‘The Olam Way’ has 12 elements that together deliver 4 objectives: 4 objectives 12 elements 1. Setting 1. Our governing objective the direction 2. Our purpose/cause 3. Vision/strategic intent 4. Defining the opportunity 2. Defining where to 5. Our portfolio strategy play and how to win 6. Our core competency 7. Our competitive strategy 8. Our growth strategy 3. Knowing who we are and 9. Our spirit/our belief what we stand for 10. Shared values and culture 4. Aligning the organisation 11. Engaging our people to execute our strategy 12. Creating alignment The many changes initiated over the course of the last 2 years has transformed Olam. Today, we are the world’s largest planter, have significantly grown our midstream footprint, have become leaders in sustainability and our farmer/supplier and customer networks have given us a global edge. All these initiatives and changes combined together have resulted in Olam 1.0 evolving into Olam 2.0. We have identified 6 priorities in Olam 2.0 that will help us stay ahead and make us future ready: 1 2 3 4 5 6 Focus on Put Build Lead industry’s Enhance our Realign our drivers of sustainability operational digital disruption culture, values organisation long-term value at the heart of excellence and and spirit our business as a core transformation competency olamgroup.com 13 Group CEO review continued Put sustainability at the heart of our Our refreshed Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 2 business (CR&S) Framework To this end, we refreshed our global CR&S framework in At Olam, we have now firmly put sustainability at the heart 2017 to integrate our new purpose with our 10 new of our business with 5 specific objectives in mind: i) it is Material Areas, and the UN SDGs that these key material the ‘right’ thing to do; ii) help increase agricultural areas will impact. We have also now mapped and aligned production within the Planetary Boundaries, iii) to create our Material Areas (our focus areas) to the 9 Planetary differentiation and build competitive advantage; iv) to Boundaries. In this exercise we added certain Material drive long-term value creation by reducing the risk to Areas that were missing from the Planetary Boundaries future cash flows because of an idiosyncratic ESG tail risk framework and removed certain other overlapping areas. and by reducing the cost of capital because of a higher Most importantly, we have now fully aligned our Purpose, ESG orientation; and v) to inspire our employees by the Material Areas, Planetary Boundaries and the UN providing them meaning to their work. SDGs in a coherent manner in our new CR&S Framework Ensuring Olam grows responsibly has been a core tenet described on page 15. of how we have done business at Olam for several years Achieving our new purpose is important for our and indeed ‘Growing Responsibly’ has been our Core shareholders, customers, farmers, Board, management Purpose since 2012. In 2017, we decided to refresh our and our 72,000 employees across the world. Core Purpose. A good Purpose must answer 2 questions: 1) What are we on fire about? Why do we come to work every day? What is our Cause? What is the big problem that we are trying to solve?; and 2) How do we conduct “ We go beyond considering ESG our business? In order to answer the first set of questions above, we need to understand the problem that we are all factors… We actively seek out trying to solve for in our industry. opportunities that provide As described under the Social Capital and Natural Capital impacts sections, on pages 72 to 82, agriculture sustainable solutions for a faces the immense challenge of producing enough food and fibre for 9.5 billion people by 2050, while alleviating growing global population.” poverty, providing employment and decent livelihood opportunities in rural areas, while at the same time Temasek Holdings conserving natural habitats and biodiversity. (Olam’s Strategic Partner and major shareholder, Unsustainable conversion or over exploitation of forests 53.8% stake in Olam) and other natural habitats for food, feed, fibre and fuel, and other related purposes, threaten our natural life support systems including, soil, air, water, all living things In this context, we ramped up external stakeholder and the global climate with serious implication for future engagement in 2017, notably related to our palm and generations. A response based mainly on doing less rubber operations, on definitions of deforestation and harm or focusing efforts to eliminate unacceptable how the ‘trade off’ between alleviating abject poverty in practices such as deforestation at the scale of individual agriculturally deficient areas while protecting vital natural farms, or on incremental improvements by companies capital can be managed. representing a small fraction of the supply chain, will not As a key part of our outreach, the Gabon team welcomed be enough to meet these challenges. Instead, we need to more than 50 NGOs and governmental, finance and ‘Re-imagine Global Agriculture’, shifting away from multi-lateral agency stakeholders to our operations as destructive resource extraction and towards achieving part of The Forests Dialogue to discuss the challenges a net positive impact at scale based on the creation facing this highly forested nation. In parallel, we are and restoration of natural and social capital within working extensively to halt smallholder encroachment living landscapes. That is why we have embraced into forests. We have created large set asides (around ‘Re-imagining Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly’ 50% of the total concession area) of High Conservation as our new purpose in 2017. Value areas in our palm and rubber plantations, and are Re-imagining global agriculture : Growing Responsibly protecting these areas at our cost and responsibility. What are we on fire about? How do we conduct Olam Cocoa was also a founding member of the Cocoa & our business? Forests Initiative launched by The Prince of Wales’ Re-imagining Global Agriculture Growing Responsibly International Sustainability Unit, working in partnership What do we want to achieve? with the World Cocoa Foundation and IDH the Sustainable Trade Initiative. Prosperous farms Thriving Re-generation and farming systems communities of the living world 14 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Our CR&S Framework Our purpose Re-imagining Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly Outcomes Prosperous farmers Thriving Re-generation of and farming systems communities the living world Material Areas & SDGs Economic Opportunity Safe & Decent Education & Skills Health & Nutrition Diversity & Inclusion Climate Action Healthy EcoHealthy Soils Water Reduced Waste work systems Enablers Policies Enablers Health & Safety Quality & Food Safety Labour Living Landscapes Standards Olam Livelihood Charter Farmers Plantations Olam Plantations, Concessions & Farms Code Suppliers Supplier Code Factories & worksites QEHS Standards Launching Olam AtSource: Delivering our The AtSource digital platform makes sustainability sustainability vision tracking and reporting easy. For example, customers can access maps and product journeys, environmental As part of our Purpose to ‘Re-imagine Global Agriculture’ footprints, socio-economic metrics and tailored impact we have launched Olam AtSource, our purpose-led stories. Customers and Olam can also use the data to platform to drive purchase and delivery of more sustainable inform decision-making to compare performance and agricultural products and ingredients with our customers. progress between farmer groups, develop more precise, Delivered through an accessible digital portal, AtSource and therefore efficient, sustainability programmes with provides traceability through our supply chain, assurance, base line data and better understand impacts and make data and farmer narratives of real on-the-ground impact of adjustments e.g. use renewables versus fossil fuels. our sustainability initiatives. It connects customers to the source of their supply, empowering our customers to have AtSource is Olam’s commitment to a more transparent and end-to-end sustainable supply chains, helping them to sustainable agricultural products supply from the grass differentiate with their customers. In essence, it embeds roots up. the ‘Olam Sustainability Chip’ in our products and services. “When making decisions on loans AtSource products are available in 3 tiers tailored to supporting our customers ‘unique sustainability journeys. and investment proposals, we These 3 tiers provide a pathway for progression across consider not only economic factors, 4 key dimensions: traceability level (e.g. country, farmer group, farm); footprint and impact information; types of but impacts to the environment and sustainability initiative; and type of verification or assurance. Performance and impact are then tracked across 12 core society as well.” sustainability topics including health and safety, food safety and quality, labour practices, diversity and inclusion Sustainability Framework, Mitsubishi Corporation (these 4 topics cover the people dimension), climate (Olam’s Strategic Partner and major shareholder, change, water use, forest protection and ecosystems and 17.5% stake in Olam) soil health (these 4 topics cover the planet or environment dimension) and economic viability, education, health and well-being, and nutrition and food security (these 4 topic cover the farmer livelihoods/social dimension). olamgroup.com 15 Group CEO review continued AtSource products are available in 3 tiers, supporting unique customer sustainability journeys. Infinity: Collaboration with customers to achieve transformational net-positive impact at community or landscape level Plus: Traceable and sustainable supply chains with on the ground initiatives and granular reporting, 3rd party verified Entry level: Transparency and reassurance of Olam’s efforts to offer responsible supply A user-friendly digital platform provides rich, easy-to-access customer sustainability reporting. • The platform delivers product journey maps, • Customers can view tailored sustainability narratives environmental footprints and key socio-economic and farmer stories specific to the impact in their metrics from Olam’s supply chains. product’s supply chains. 16 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Build Operational Excellence as This initiative resulted in a significant reduction in working 3 a Core Competency capital employed in 2017 of S$1.24 billion; ii) we set up a Cost Efficiency Task Force (CETF) to In order to successfully execute our strategy, we have target significant cost savings across 8 cost drivers in acquired critical new competencies in plantation a sustained cost management program over the next management, trading, operational excellence, 4 years; digitalisation and sustainability, further developing our competitive advantage. iii) identified key idiosyncratic drivers that drive variability of performance and minimise performance variance from We are now focused on building an Olam Operational plan. Given the inherent cyclicality and volatility in our Excellence Management System which we believe will industry, this discipline is very important to reduce be a critical capability to drive superior performance in performance variability; and a consistent way for the company. With this in mind, we took 4 major initiatives in 2017: iv) developed a more effective governance system including an integrated business assurance system, an i) we set up a Capital Productivity Task Force (CPTF) to enterprise risk management system, strengthened the improve capital productivity and efficiency by focusing on market and legal compliance functions, strengthened our building better project management execution capability. anti-bribery and corruption (ABC Policy) and developed a Our aim is to make sure that our capital projects are new CR&S Framework. We believe that by developing on-budget and on-time and focused on optimising Operational Excellence as a new core competency it will working capital and reducing our cash-to-cash cycle time. help us reduce error, increase speed, free up bandwidth, compound our learning and increase the predictability of our performance. Investing in building new capabilities New competencies Operational World’s World’s Digitalisation Sustainability excellence best trader best planter Existing Origination, Supplier/ Mergers and Capital Stakeholder competencies Logistics, Customer Acquisitions, Structure Management Processing and Networks, Talent Innovation Trading Plantation and Management, Manufacturing Risk Assets Management Cocoa processing plant in Singapore. olamgroup.com 17 Group CEO review continued Lead industry’s digital disruption and developed and tested a number of solutions for different 4 transformation parts of our business across 3 buckets in 2017: i) Olam Direct; ii) Olam Inside; and iii) Olam Forward. Our goal is Digitalisation is disrupting and transforming almost every to digitise our highest value supply chains end-to-end, sector in today’s world and fundamentally changing the both to drive cost efficiencies and capture additional way we live and do business. Digital disruptions are value across the supply chain. happening at both ends of our value chain. At the back In 2017, we rolled out 10 digital initiatives including Olam end, we have the rise of platforms affecting origination Direct, Customer Service Portal, a Small and Medium (eg. Online Agri marketplaces) while at the front end, tech Business e-Commerce Portal, Drone Image Analytics, giants are crossing over into new business verticals Walk the Field mobile app, Digital Warehouse, Transact (Amazon is a good example of this changing landscape and Trace, Digital Procurement, Paperless Trade, Electric with their purchase of Whole Foods). Motors Condition Monitoring, and Dryer Optimisation. As outlined in my CEO Review for 2016, we embarked on We have seen promising results in many of these pilots the digital transformation of our business in 2016 and that we rolled out in 2017 as shown below: Olam’s Digitalisation Journey: We have seen promising results in 2017 Olam Direct (Disruptive) Olam Inside (Disruptive) Olam Forward (Transformative) 5,000+ 3 Cost effective customer portal launched for US SVI, deploying to 3 other 1% Dryer performance in Vietnam coffee improved to increase production Farmers have transacted directly BUs by 2Q18 yield by up to 1% with Olam Cocoa in Indonesia Olam Direct Digital traceability 35 motor sensors for successfully launched in Medan predictive maintenance launched on Arabica, leading to installed in Asia (Dairy, Google Playstore new business from Coffee, SVI, Edible Nuts, major customers Sugar, Cocoa) Poised to rollout Synchronous Olam Digital warehouse to Olam Coffee in Inside roadmap to successfully Central America rollout end-to-end implemented in digitised supply chains Medan (Arabica) and Qui Nhon (Cashew) In addition, we are also pursuing the creation of an Key questions that we are asking in an extensive bottom industry leading platform or marketplace that helps up survey relate to which parts of our current culture connect millions of farmers directly with Olam with fair should be preserved and which should we drop. and transparent price discovery while at the same time To reinforce our culture, we have updated our HR vision source their farm inputs and secure microfinance, to “Building a high-performing and inspired workforce.” insurance, etc. from different vendors and service providers. We are envisaging this to comprise a simple Attracting, retaining and inspiring our talent remains a key and usable mobile app for farmers to sell their produce focus for us. Upskilling national talent and creating rural on this platform, and for all of the other service providers communities where people want to live is essential. As we to participate in this marketplace. grow and scale our business, we need to make sure that our teams are better connected and to this end, we have 5 Enhance our Culture, Values and Spirit stepped up our investments in social media and digital tools to better connect our team and encourage them to Over the years, our 6 values and the everyday behaviours collaborate more. that institutionalise these values in the company have Specific initiatives are also being taken to institutionalise helped us build a distinctive culture, shaping how we the ‘Founder’s Mentality’ which underpins the spirit of the work and setting the standards for what it means to be company. This includes a focus on attracting, retaining part of Olam. We have always competed on the basis of and developing talent through the Global Future Leaders the organisational advantage that this unique culture has programme at entry level and investing in the new Olam provided us. We are currently in the process of reviewing Learning Academy. our existing values to see how they should be refreshed to remain relevant in Olam 2.0 and our evolving priorities. 18 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 We need to refresh our current values and culture for Olam 2.0 Current values Olam 2.0 values How should our values change? • Bottom-up survey to get input from organisation • Currently shortlisting some ideas Entrepreneurship Stretch and Partnerships Ambition Living Operational Agile sustainably Excellence Mindset Mutual Respect Integrity Ownership and Teamwork Realign and Renew our organisation to I close this review with a sense of gratitude and pride 6 about Olam’s 72,000 strong team worldwide. During my execute our strategy frequent visits to our operations across our 66 countries, We believe that Olam 2.0 will catalyse and re-energise I see many of them in action and am always astounded our employees and our leadership team. They are by their capabilities, commitment, discretionary effort, inspired by our new Purpose. We are also taking steps to character, experience and insights. I cannot emphasise renew our top management teams, reviewing our current how honoured I am to work at Olam and with all my fellow structure, and re-examining the role of the centre in employees. I thank our shareholders for their continuing decision making. We want to build on the success of our support and their endorsement of our strategy to focus Communities of Practice ‘CoPs’ (on Upstream, Trading, on creating long term value and putting sustainability at Customer Engagement & Founder’s Mentality) and Task the heart of our business. I would also like to thank our Forces (Sustainability, DTF1, CETF2, CPTF3 and Integrated Board for their guidance, trust in the management and Reporting). These COPs and Task Forces have enhanced leadership team and our people, and their contribution collaboration across the company and in many cases, in helping us build a more consistent, sustainable have come up with game changing solutions that will and profitable company. I also thank all our partners, serve the company well going forward. including our farmers, other suppliers, customers and key service providers, bankers and creditors, in contributing One of the disappointments in 2017 was the dip in our to our success. employee engagement scores. Reasons vary but certainly volatile trading conditions and cost and capital We have a strong business and a bright future. I am efficiency drives add pressure to teams. Based on the confident that we will deliver on our new Purpose of engagement survey results, we are working on 5 areas to ‘Re-imagining Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly’. enhance engagement within our talent pool: i) Employer brand; ii) Career opportunities; iii) Learning and development; iv) Rewards and recognition; and v) Collaboration. These 6 key priorities in Olam 2.0 will help us stay ahead and be future ready. While executing Olam 2.0 will have its challenges, these changes are highly energising and inspiring to our employees. These changes will be at the Sunny Verghese heart of enabling Olam to continue being an enduring, Co-Founder and Group CEO successful and responsible business. We believe that Olam 2.0 will help us change the company, and change our sector for the better. 2017 was an energising year for all of us at Olam, one that simultaneously offered both continuity and change continuity with regard to our strategy, and change with regard to our evolving business model. 1. Digital Task Force 2. Cost Efficiency Task Force 3. Capital Productivity Task Force olamgroup.com 19 Our business model Where we participate and the value we create across our 7 Capitals. Resources and relationships we depend on What we do Financial Capital Selective What sets us apart The investments we make, We have expanded upstream where we see the assets we build and the upstream the grower having an increasing share of the value we derive for our • Perennial tree crops profit pool. These are also areas where we can shareholders • Broadacre row crops build a significant cost advantage resulting in • Dairy farming attractive returns. Social Capital • Forest concessions Our vision is to be the ‘world’s best planter’ and The relationships we forge we are applying the highest standards in and nurture with suppliers sustainable development with the aim of creating as well as communities ‘net positive impacts’ for Olam, communities and where we operate the living world. Natural Capital The land, water, biodiversity and other ecosystem Supply chain What sets us apart services for crops to grow The breadth and depth of our origins and our • Global origination and sourcing closeness to farmgate: in 28 years we have built Human Capital an enviable network of farmers and cooperatives, • Primary processing The talent, skills, dedication working with them on the ground to improve yields, • Inland and marine quality and incomes. This is coupled with expert and inspiration of our logistics teams, skilled in logistics, risk management and workforce, and our responsibility to keep • Merchandising securing supplies for customers. them safe • Trading • Value-added solutions Intellectual Capital • Risk management The knowledge and IP that we create and use to keep us ahead Selective mid/ What sets us apart Intangible Capital We have invested in processing facilities around The trust in our brand and downstream the world that are close to source and close to our reputation which helps • Value added customers, supporting with R&D and backed by establish multiple manufacturing market insights. stakeholder partnerships • Branding and Our Packaged Foods Business in Africa stems distribution (Africa) from the strength of our unique capabilities Manufactured Capital related to the management of food supply chains The equipment, tools and and the common distribution network that we infrastructure to create our have built over nearly 3 decades for related products and services commodities across the continent. safely and sustainably 20 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 The value we The value we are created in FY2017 creating long-term Financial 17.9% An enduring business where profits and Purpose are aligned increase in market cap value delivering strong returns between 2016 and 2017 for shareholders 25.3% Social Sustainable supplies for increase in tangible book value customers from prosperous farmers boosting rural 363,000 economies smallholders supported in the Natural Olam Livelihood Charter A re-generated living world that is able to support the 101,000 needs of the future within Planetary Boundaries hectares protected as High Conservation Value Human 22% An inspired and high-performing workforce that is re-imagining the agri sector for the better improvement on irrigation and process water intensity (own operations) Intellectual A talented and agile business 237,000 finding solutions for customers and the sector hours of training for employees Intangible 40 A reputable partner of choice to those who can help scale programmes and achieve partnerships in the Olam our vision Livelihood Charter alone Manufactured S$970.6m Safe products from safe environments total gross cash capex olamgroup.com 21 Our financial and performance highlights Volume Sales volume by segment (’000 Metric Tonnes) Industrial Raw Materials,  Edible Nuts, Spices and Ag Logistics and Vegetable Ingredients Infrastructure 1,691.5 1,870.2 7.5% 8.3% Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients 2,063.6 9.2% Food Staples and Packaged Foods 22,534.6 16,909.3 (2016: 14,415.8) 75.0% Sourcing volume by region (’000 Metric Tonnes)  mericas A  Asia, Australia 25.2% and Middle East 26.2% 22,534.6 (2016: 14,415.8) E  urope Africa 36.1% 12.5% 22 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Revenue By segment (S$ million) Industrial Raw Materials,  Edible Nuts, Spices and Ag Logistics and Vegetable Ingredients Infrastructure 4,492.0 3,876.6 17.1% 14.7% Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients 8,136.8 Food Staples and Packaged Foods 26,272.5 31.0% 9,767.1 (2016: 20,587.0) 37.2% By region (S$ million) A  mericas  Asia, Australia 18.4% and Middle East 37.3% 26,272.5 (2016: 20,587.0) E  urope 25.8% Africa 18.5% olamgroup.com 23 Our financial and performance highlights continued Invested capital and EBITDA By business segment (S$ million) 15,832.4 1,327.9 100 3,603.9 438.4 80 5,347.0 327.7 60 40 4,678.3 359.7 20 2,104.9 197.3 98.3 4.8 0 Invested capital EBITDA By value chain segment (S$ million) 15,832.4 1,327.9 100 3,915.4 188.3 80 5,803.8 450.9 60 40 6,113.2 688.7 20 0 Invested capital EBITDA Edible Nuts, Spices and Food Staples and Commodity Financial Services Upstream Vegetable Ingredients Packaged Foods Supply chain Confectionery and Industrial Raw Materials, Midstream and downstream Beverage Ingredients Ag Logistics and Infrastructure 24 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 For the 12 months ended 31 December S$ million 2017 2016 % Change Profit and Loss Statement Sales Volume (’000 Metric Tonnes) 22,534.6 14,415.8 56.3 Sales Revenue 26,272.5 20,587.0 27.6 Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)* 1,327.9 1,202.8 10.4 Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT)* 947.2 849.3 11.5 Profit Before Tax* 630.8 433.4 45.6 Profit After Tax and Minority Interest 580.7 351.3 65.3 Operational Profit After Tax and Minority Interest* 431.5 363.8 18.6 Per Share Earnings Per Share basic (cents) 18.6 11.5 61.4 Operational Earnings Per Share basic (cents)* 13.3 11.5 15.7 Net Asset Value Per Share (cents) 200.1 190.8 4.8 Net Dividend Per Share (cents)^ 7.5 6.0 25.0 Balance Sheet Total Assets 22,298.5 23,468.9 (5.0) Total Invested Capital 15,832.4 16,649.0 (4.9) Total Debt 11,587.9 13,670.5 (15.2) Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,986.4 2,144.1 (7.4) Shareholders’ Equity 6,443.6 5,398.3 19.4 Cash Flow Operating Cash Flow Before Interest and Tax 1,369.2 1,243.5 10.1 Net Operating Cash Flow After Changes in Working Capital and Tax 2,203.9 1,015.8 117.0 Free Cash Flow to Firm 1,484.4 (418.1) N.M. Free Cash Flow to Equity 1,020.4 (765.8) N.M. Ratios Net Debt to Equity (times)** 1.46 1.99 (0.53) Net Debt to Equity (times) adjusted for liquid assets** 0.51 0.73 (0.22) Return on Beginning-of-period Equity (%)** 9.0 6.1 2.9 Return on Average Equity (%)** 8.5 5.8 2.7 Return on Invested Capital (%) 5.4 4.0 1.8 EBITDA on Average Invested Capital (%) 8.2 7.8 0.4 Interest Coverage (times)# 2.2 2.0 0.2 * Excludes exceptional items ^ Proposed final dividend of 4.0 cents for 2017 is subject to shareholders’ approval at the 23rd Annual General Meeting. ** Before Fair Value Adjustment Reserves # EBIT on total interest expense olamgroup.com 25 Our financial and performance highlights continued Sales volume Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (‘000 Metric Tonnes) (S$ million) 2013 15,542.1 2013 1,199.9 2014 14,021.9 2014 1,129.0 Restated Restated 2015 12,506.7 2015 1,085.2 Restated Restated 2016 14,415.8 2016 1,202.8 2017 22,534.6 2017 1,327.9 1,657.7 1,527.2 1,549.2 1,569.7 1,691.5 346.7 360.5 393.5 331.8 438.4 1,592.8 1,437.1 1,689.5 1,687.5 2,063.6 268.5 275.6 284.0 407.2 327.7 10,450.7 9,356.4 7,904.9 9,496.1 16,909.3 378.2 295.2 212.1 330.2 359.7 1,840.9 1,701.2 1,363.1 1,662.5 1,870.2 218.6 215.6 185.1 135.2 197.3 (12.1) (17.9) 10.6 (1.6) 4.8 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated Sales Revenue Invested Capital (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 20,040.0 2013 11,412.2 2014 19,771.9 2014 11,560.7 Restated Restated 2015 19,052.6 2015 14,374.7 Restated Restated 2016 20,587.0 2016 16,649.0 2017 26,272.5 2017 15,832.4 3,465.0 3,692.3 4,227.2 3,981.1 4,492.0 3,610.0 3,363.6 3,463.0 3,642.7 3,603.9 4,968.0 5,721.8 6,859.6 7,711.0 8,136.8 2,346.6 3,246.9 5,680.9 6,109.5 5,347.0 7,406.1 7,187.3 5,391.2 6,110.8 9,767.1 3,612.8 3,075.1 3,230.6 4,522.1 4,678.3 4,199.5 3,170.6 2,574.6 2,784.1 3,876.6 1,839.4 1,872.0 1,917.5 2,220.9 2,104.9 1.4 (0.1) 0 0 0 3.4 3.2 82.6 153.8 98.3 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated Restated Restated Edible Nuts, Spices and Confectionery and Food Staples and Industrial Raw Commodity Financial Vegetable Ingredients Beverage Ingredients Packaged Foods Materials, Services Ag Logistics and Infrastructure Profit After Tax and Minority Interest Operational Profit After Tax and Minority Interest (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 345.8 2013 343.9 2014 597.2 2014 294.3 Restated Restated 2015 (114.9) 2015 295.6 Restated Restated 2016 351.3 2016 363.8 2017 580.7 2017 431.5 Operational Profit After Tax and Minority Interest is Profit After Tax and Minority Interest excluding exceptional items 26 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Earnings Per Share Return On Equity (cents) (%) 25 24.0 25 20 18.6 20 13.7 15.2 15 11.0 11.5 13.3 15 13.6 9.3 11.5 6.5 9.0 10 10 6.4 6.5 7.2 5 5 6.1 0 0 -5 -5 (3.0) (5.2) -10 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 -10 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated Restated Restated Earnings Per Share (cents) Return on Beginning-of-period equity Operational Earnings Per Share (cents) Return on Beginning-of-period equity excluding exceptional items Net Asset Value Per Share Shareholders’ Equity (cents) (S$ million) 2013 153.9 2013 3,759.7 2014 167.3 2014 4,171.5 Restated Restated 2015 179.7 2015 5,079.1 Restated Restated 2016 190.8 2016 5,398.3 2017 200.1 2017 6,443.6 Number of Customers Top 25 Customers’ Share of Total Sales Revenue (%) 2013 13,600 2013 21.0 2014 13,800 2014 23.0 Restated Restated 2015 16,200 2015 17.0 Restated Restated 2016 22,900 2016 13.0 2017 22,000 2017 15.1 Figures for 2013-2014 are computed based on 30 June year-end basis Figures for 2013-2014 are computed based on 30 June year-end basis olamgroup.com 27 Onion harvest in Imperial Valley, California. Our Purpose Re-imagining global agriculture Prosperous farmers and farming systems Re-thinking how people and companies Thriving are financially rewarded to make the communities agricultural sector attractive and viable Revitalising communities who Page 30 depend on agricultural systems so that people live well Our purpose in action: Innovating supply chains to Page 32 benefit farmers and Olam Our purpose in action: Helping communities to thrive by reviving cotton growing in Côte d’Ivoire Re-generation of the living world Re-generating ecosystems, soils and water to create landscapes where industrial agriculture, smallholders and other rural commerce co-exist with nature Page 34 Our purpose in action: Creating hedgerows for bees in California olamgroup.com 29 Kurniadi, is a 38-year old farmer: “ In early 2000, I began to cultivate cocoa on my farm. However, during the past few years I realised that my cocoa farm was not productive because of pests and disease. “ While thinking about changing from cocoa to another crop, I heard from a friend who said there is a company that wanted to buy cocoa beans directly from farmers. And if the news was true indeed that farmers can get a better price, then this sounded too good to be true. “ I attended one of the socialisation events. Olam Indonesia was announcing direct purchasing from the farmers under a programme called Olam Direct. From the socialisation I started to learn about cocoa bean quality. The Olam Direct programme not only enables the purchase of beans manually but also through an online bean-selling android application. Cool! Unfortunately, I still had my old phone, but as I had registered with the Olam Direct programme, I got information about the cocoa bean price every day by SMS. “ I was very satisfied with the price I got for my beans in the first transaction. Recently I purchased a new phone, and I was embarrassed because I could not operate a smartphone. However, after training from the Olam Direct field staff, I conducted my first successful online transaction. “ With Olam Direct, I am excited to take more care of my cocoa trees, and I will think a thousand times before I decide to shift to a different crop.” Our Purpose in action: Prosperous farmers and farming systems INNOVATING SUPPLY CHAINS TO BENEFIT FARMERS AND OLAM​ One of the many challenges for crops like coffee and cocoa is the sheer number of small-scale farmers living in very remote regions with limited infrastructure. Collecting directly from each farmer, and proper handling Practices are also issued. Farmers can now make more of the crop, are labour and time intensive. This is why informed decisions for the harvesting and sale of their intermediaries have established themselves, buying from cocoa, thereby improving their livelihoods. A field force farmers in a certain area and then selling to the next and toll-free helpline help farmers feel at ease intermediary so the crop gradually moves from farm to downloading and transacting on the app. port. Reducing the number of transactions can provide Olam is also building partnerships with telecom service better value to the farmer, as well as increasing the providers to improve digital penetration in upcountry areas efficiency of the supply chain. It also means that Olam is and with banks to open accounts for the farmers, bringing paying a higher price. financial inclusion, as well as reducing the cost and risks Designed by the Digital Olam team, Olam Direct is an for high-volume transactions. Furthermore, the app industry-leading tech platform that will help connect immediately connects the Olam Cocoa logistics teams millions of farmers directly with Olam to ensure a fair and who can co-ordinate collection and warehousing more transparent sourcing process and improve traceability. efficiently. We now intend to take our innovations and The app was launched to cocoa farmers in August in apply them to other farmers both in Indonesia and Wiyono village, Lampung Province, Indonesia, where they elsewhere; continuing to increase the value of farming, learned how to check the cocoa price online, indicate improving livelihoods and further re-imagination of the intent and transact with Olam. Tips on Good Agricultural supply chain. 5,000 farmers registered by end of 2017 olamgroup.com 31 “ Africa accounts for about 5% of global cotton production and, in our view, holds the highest agronomic potential for growth in the cotton sector through deeper farmer engagement, deploying better agronomic practices and the use of higher quality agri-inputs, thereby improving yields and bringing down production costs. Close cooperation among industry participants, pro-active and enabling policies, synergistic efforts across the supply chain and an engaged and committed government have shown the power of multiple stakeholders pulling in one direction to deliver sustainable benefits for all.” Ashok Hegde Managing Director and Olam Cotton CEO Our Purpose in action: Thriving communities HELPING COMMUNITIES THRIVE BY REVIVING COTTON GROWING IN CÔTE D’IVOIRE Olam subsidiary SECO1 acquired its first ginnery in 2008, when the country was recovering from civil war lasting from 2002 to 2007. Before the unrest, Côte d’Ivoire was among West Africa’s main cotton producers but during the crisis production slumped dramatically. Against this backdrop, SECO’s ginning model and support awareness of food crop production and nutrition. Another of partners Compaci and GIZ, galvanised cotton farmers programme focuses on business skills, especially for and addressed agricultural, financial and social issues to young people. By taking a long-term approach that revive cotton production, secure smallholders’ livelihoods, addresses commercial, social and environmental and increase food security. needs, SECO has helped impoverished communities From first engaging 3,000 farmers in 2008, SECO is today to re-imagine an agricultural future for themselves. working with 16,600 farmers to plant 64,500 ha of cotton. Learnings contributed to the Olam Livelihood Charter, Yields have increased from 625kg to over 1,000kg/ha. and, in January 2017, SECO was featured in a film from As a result, SECO has commissioned a new gin in Ferke. the Business Sustainable Development Commission Socially, the programme has improved literacy and and Economist Films. Previously it had featured in a numeracy, provided dedicated training for women, book by Conor Woodman2 as a positive example of supporting them to achieve financial access and improve inclusive business. 16,600 farmers to plant 64,500 ha of cotton 1. Société d’Exploitation Cotonnière Olam 2. Unfair Trade published 2012 olamgroup.com 33 “ This farm really serves as a great model for what can be done. Olam has been able to adopt all of these great practices that really improve the biodiversity of the farm and make it better for pollinators.” Jessa Kay Cruz Senior Pollinator Conservation Specialist, Xerces Society Our Purpose in action: Re-generation of the living world CREATING HEDGEROWS FOR BEES IN CALIFORNIA Olam is the second largest grower of almonds globally and the only supplier with orchards in both hemispheres (Australia and California), meaning we can provide a year-round fresh supply to customers. In California, the team works with various experts, in areas Larry Hanson, Olam Director of Agricultural Research & spanning water management, soil health and biodiversity. Development, has also been working with Project Apis m Bees are critical, and in January they are transported to which provides mustard seed mixes for floral diversity. These California to pollinate the almond orchards of more than are sown on Olam’s land on the research farm outside 6,800 farmers. Hanford to promote healthy bee colonies. Just like In 2017, we required around 680 million bees for our humans, bees are better able to deal with stressors if extensive orchards, costing US$3 million, so it’s important properly nourished, better able to fend off pests and that we provide the best incentive for the bees to stay, parasites and cope with pesticides and transportation stress. rather than fly elsewhere! It’s also important that they Healthier bees mean stronger hives and better pollination. are productive, which means they need to be healthy. Other measures to protect bees and other pollinators include In 2014, with General Mills and Xerces Society for avoiding the use of any insecticides during the pollination Invertebrate Conservation, the almonds team created period and applying tree fungicide only at night when bees are almost 10 kilometres of flowering hedgerows so that bees not active1. More widely, Olam promotes Integrated Pest and other pollinators can get the varied diet they need, Management (IPM) techniques – these include 'threshold' as well as attracting bees naturally. spraying, which adapts pesticide use according to bug levels in individual fields, and using natural methods to deter pests, In an interview in 2017, Jessa Kay Cruz, senior pollinator such as planting maize as a border crop. conservation specialist for the Xerces Society said of the Olam orchard: “This farm really serves as a great model Better management practices, smarter use of technology, for what can be done. Olam has been able to adopt all of and restoring natural capital in and around our orchards, these great practices that really improve the biodiversity of plantations and farms, can help protect biodiversity the farm and make it better for pollinators.” and enable the natural process to supply ecosystem services. This is at the heart of our vision to re-imagine global agriculture. 10 kilometres of flowering hedgerows 1. We have made a commitment to limit our use of WHO Class IA and IB chemicals to exceptional circumstances where no alternatives are available, and have implemented a control plan for rarely used Class II chemicals including neonicotinoids olamgroup.com 35 A. Shekhar, Executive Director and Group COO Group COO’s review Improved +56.3% operational Volume performance +10.4% EBITDA Most of our business segments delivered strong performance during +65.3% the year, with Edible Nuts, Cotton, PATMI Ag Logistics and Infrastructure being stand-out performers. This, together with our focus on divesting non-core assets, lowering capital expenditures and optimising our working capital enabled us to deliver strong cash flows. olamgroup.com 37 Group COO’s review continued Olam reported a strong financial and operating performance in 2017. We posted a 65.3% increase in Without these exceptional items, PATMI to S$580.7 million (2016: S$351.3 million). This was driven by Key highlights Operational PATMI grew by a healthy 18.6% to S$431.5 million (2016: exceptional gains from divestments, S$363.8 million). an improved operating performance +18.6% Sales volume was up by a robust and lower taxes after adjusting for 56.3% as compared with 2016 as higher depreciation and amortisation, we saw volume growth across all and net finance charges. segments, within which the Grains Operational PATMI We booked a net exceptional gain of and Edible Oils platforms were the S$149.2 million for 2017 and this most significant contributors during S$1,020 M came mainly from the S$121.2 million 2017. Revenue growth was more gain from the partial divestment of modest at 27.6%, due to changes 50.0% interest in Far East Agri Pte. in product mix as well as lower Ltd. (FEA), the sugar refinery commodity prices. business in Indonesia, as well as Free Cash Flow Our operating performance, in terms S$34.2 million gain from the sale of of Earnings Before Interest, Tax, farmland assets in the USA, which 1.46X Depreciation and Amortisation was partially offset by the S$6.2 (EBITDA), grew 10.4% or S$125.1 million cost provision made for the million higher year-on-year to wage settlement agreement in the S$1.3 billion. Most of our business USA for the Spices and Vegetable Gearing segments posted an increase in their Ingredients platform. The prior year EBITDAs, with growth led by Edible 2016 had a net exceptional loss of Nuts, Spices and Vegetable S$12.5 million, which was due to the buyback of high coupon bonds. Financial performance (S$ million) 2017 2016 % Change Volume (’000 MT) 22,534.6 14,415.8 56.3 Revenue 26,272.5 20,587.0 27.6 Net gain/(loss) in fair value of biological assets (15.3) 14.1 N.M. EBITDA 1,327.9 1,202.8 10.4 Depreciation and amortisation (380.7) (353.5) 7.7 Net finance costs (465.6) (403.5) 15.4 Taxation (79.2) (94.3) (16.0) Exceptional items 149.2 (12.5) N.M. PAT 551.6 339.1 62.7 PATMI 580.7 351.3 65.3 Operational PATMI 431.5 363.8 18.6 38 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Ingredients, followed by Industrial Raw Materials, Ag More importantly, the growth in EBITDA was achieved on Logistics and Infrastructure, Food Staples and Packaged a reduced invested capital base compared to 2016 and Foods, and Commodity Financial Services (CFS). therefore we were able to lift the EBITDA on average Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients achieved invested capital return from 7.8% to 8.2% in 2017. a 32.1% growth in EBITDA from S$331.8 million in 2016 to Invested capital came down by 4.9% from S$16.6 billion S$438.4 million in 2017. Industrial Raw Materials, Ag in 2016 to S$15.8 billion in 2017 and this was mainly a Logistics and Infrastructure reported a 45.9% increase in result of a 13.0% reduction in working capital deployed, EBITDA from S$135.2 million to S$197.3 million while despite our higher volume (56.3%) and revenue growth Food Staples and Packaged Foods was up 8.9% from (27.6%). While most of the reduction in working capital S$330.2 million to S$359.7 million. CFS turned in a was aided by lower commodity prices, a significant positive EBITDA of S$4.8 million against a loss of S$1.6 part of the reduction was on account of various million in the previous year. The improvement in EBITDA working capital optimisation initiatives undertaken helped offset lower contribution from the Confectionery across businesses. and Beverage Ingredients segment which was down We continued our targeted fixed capital investments 19.5% from S$407.2 million to S$327.7 million. in prioritised platforms to complete our committed (Segmental performance will be discussed in greater investments and extract full value from our upstream detail on pages 46 to 66.) and midstream assets. Net capital expenditures (Capex) outflow was lower on account of the capital release from divestments. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Invested Depreciation and Amortisation capital (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 1,200 2013 11,412 2014 1,129 2014 11,561 Restated Restated 2015 1,085 2015 14,375 Restated Restated 2016 1,203 2016 16,649 +10.4% -4.9% 2017 1,328 2017 15,832 EBITDA/IC (%) 10.8 9.8 8.4 7.8 8.2 Working capital 5,840 6,017 7,653 8,853 7,705 Fixed capital 5,572 5,544 6,722 7,796 8,128 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated olamgroup.com 39 Group COO’s review continued Strategic Plan Progress We also made significant progress in turning around underperforming businesses and ensuring gestating We made very good progress in the execution of our businesses reach full potential: 2016-2018 Strategic Plan. In fact, Olam met most of its key priorities set for 2017, as set out in the Plan. We • Dairy farming in Uruguay continued to report improved delivered improved Operational PATMI and EBITDA/IC financial and operating results year-on-year; for 2017, as well as positive Free Cash Flow to Firm • The rice farming business in Nigeria has completed its (FCFF) of S$1,484.4 million and Free Cash Flow to Equity restructuring and started to report better results from (FCFE) of S$1,020.4 million by end-2017 – which is a the second half of 2017; record achievement by our Group. We executed on the • Restructuring is underway to address cost structures following initiatives to release cash and improve cash and product mix strategies at Olam Tomato Processors flow generation: in the USA; and • Associated company GSEZ sold 25.0% stake in its • Packaged Foods restarted production of juices and subsidiary company GSEZ Mineral Port to Meridiam in beverages in Q3 2017 in its new factory. (Production September 2017 and also sold concession rights to of juices and beverages had ceased in April 2016 operate the new Owendo International Port in Gabon to following a fire incident.) A refreshed strategy, which Bolloré Group in October 2017. Post these transactions, addresses issues such as product differentiation, GSEZ repaid its shareholder loan of €66.0 million branding, distribution and cost optimisation, was (approximately S$104.0 million) to Olam in the second implemented during the year. half of 2017. Even as we focused on improving our capital efficiencies • We sold 5,100 acres (approximately 2,100 hectares) of and cash generation, we have not sacrificed our long edible nuts farmland assets in California, USA, to term growth objectives across our 6 prioritised platforms. Farmland Partners Inc. for a cash consideration of The growth initiatives in 2017 included the following: US$110.0 million in December 2017. In addition to the • Edible Nuts: Expansion of acreage in almond, walnut cash release, a net gain of US$25.0 million (S$34.2 and pistachio in the USA and Australia; million) was booked as exceptional income in 2017. • Spices and Vegetable Ingredients: Upstream pepper • We divested 50.0% stake in FEA, which owns sugar farming in Vietnam and Brazil; refining company PT Dharmapala Usaha Sukses, to Mitr Phol for US$100.0 million as part of our strategic • Cocoa: New powder facility in the USA; partnership agreement with the company to enter into • Coffee: Expansion of soluble coffee capacity in Vietnam sugar milling in Indonesia. The transaction resulted in a and Spain and continued investments in coffee one-time gain of US$88.5 million (S$121.2 million) plantations in Laos, Zambia, Tanzania and Brazil; based on the written down carrying value of the assets • Grains: Expansion of wheat milling capacity in Ghana for 2017. and Nigeria; construction of animal feed mills and • We also set up 2 task forces to improve cost and hatchery in Nigeria; and capital efficiency: While we have focused on making • Cotton: Continued investments in integrated cotton investments in prioritised platforms, we have been ginning in Africa. looking at working capital optimisation initiatives to extract more cost and capital efficiencies across all our operations. Peanuts processing in USA. Our processing volumes Animal Feed, Nigeria: The country’s largest integrated were higher in 2017 on full-year consolidation of animal feed mill, poultry breeding farm and hatchery volumes from Brooks Peanut Company. was commissioned in September. 40 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Summary of financial and operating results Uses of funds Balance sheet analysis In 2017, our total assets amounted to S$18.2 billion, (S$ million) which comprised S$8.6 billion of fixed assets, S$7.3 2016 19,304.7 billion of working capital and S$2.0 billion of cash. These were funded by S$6.6 billion of equity, S$4.7 billion of 2017 18,208.9 short-term debt and S$6.9 billion of long-term debt. Our Fixed capital 8,169.5 8,633.2 equity position improved by S$777.3 million mainly due to Working capital 8,517.7 7,280.3 Cash 2,144.0 1,986.4 the exercise of warrants and higher retained earnings. Others 473.5 309.0 Compared with 2016, our overall balance sheet shrank 2016 2017 by S$1.1 billion as working capital fell with lower inventory levels and lower commodity prices during 2017. Fixed capital went up by S$463.7 million primarily due to the Capex we made over the past year. As mentioned, working capital came down significantly Source of funds with reduced stock levels and lower commodity prices. Overall cycle time came down from 150 days in 2016 (S$ million) to 97 days in 2017. The change in product mix, lower 2016 19,304.7 commodity prices and working capital optimisation initiatives taken to improve inventory management helped 2017 18,208.9 reduce overall inventory days. Reduced supplier Long term debt 7,687.5 6,927.7 advances and receivables days also contributed to Short term debt 5,983.0 4,660.2 Non-controlling interests 235.9 177.4 a shorter cash conversion cycle. Equity and reserves 5,797.1 6,574.4 Fair value reserve (398.8) (130.8) 2016 2017 “ Extracting cost and capital efficiencies will be a continuous focus, while we pursue Cash-to-cash cycle profitable growth.” (Days) 2016 150 2017 97 Pepper plantation in Brazil. Along with our plantation Coffee plantation in Laos. We also have plantations in in Vietnam, we can serve markets all year round. Brazil, Tanzania and Zambia to diversify our upstream presence across regions. olamgroup.com 41 Group COO’s review continued Cash flow analysis S$ million 2017 2016 Change Operating Cash Flow (before Interest & Tax) 1,369.2 1,243.5 125.7 Changes in Working Capital 834.7 (227.7) 1,062.4 Net Operating Cash Flow 2,203.9 1,015.8 1,188.1 Tax paid (82.1) (48.4) (33.7) Capex/Investments (637.4) (1,385.5) 748.1 Free Cash Flow to Firm (FCFF) 1,484.4 (418.1) 1,902.5 Net interest paid (464.0) (347.7) (116.3) Free Cash Flow to Equity (FCFE) 1,020.4 (765.8) 1,786.2 From the positive trajectory achieved in 2016, we continued to show higher net operating cash flow in 2017, which rose by a strong S$1,188.1 million to S$2,203.9 million versus S$1,015.8 million in 2016. This was on both counts of increased operating cash flow and significant reduction in working capital. Gross Capex came down to S$970.6 million in 2017. With the divestments of non-core assets, net Capex amounted to S$637.4 million, or S$748.1 million lower than in 2016, which then led to positive FCFF and FCFE in 2017. Year-on-year 2015 2014 S$ million 2017 2016 Change Restated Restated 2013 Operating Cash flow (before Interest & Tax) 1,369.2 1,243.5 125.7 1,150.8 1,148.3 1,144.9 Changes in Working Capital 834.7 (227.7) 1,062.4 (995.9) (766.2) (98.2) Net Operating Cash Flow 2,203.9 1,015.8 1,188.1 154.9 382.1 1,046.7 Net interest paid (464.0) (347.7) (116.3) (478.4) (411.5) (485.0) Tax paid (82.1) (48.4) (33.7) (127.8) (65.6) (64.3) Cash from divestments 333.2 32.0 301.2 249.8 468.4 95.6 Free Cash Flow before Capex/Investments 1,991.0 651.7 1,339.3 (201.5) 373.4 593.1 Capex/Investments (970.6) (1,417.5) 446.9 (2,339.4) (455.7) (913.2) Free Cash Flow to Equity (FCFE) 1,020.4 (765.8) 1,786.2 (2,540.9) (82.3) (320.1) Comparing our 2017 cash flow results against the previous years, we see a strong trajectory of positive Free Cash Flow before Capex and investments since 2016, which underscores our ability to finance continued growth. Reducing debt, gearing S$ million 2017 2016 Change Gross debt 11,587.9 13,670.5 (2,082.6) Less: Cash 1,986.4 2,144.0 (157.6) Net debt 9,601.5 11,526.5 (1,925.0) Less: Readily marketable inventory 4,539.6 5,909.2 (1,369.6) Less: Secured receivables 1,714.8 1,381.4 333.4 Adjusted net debt 3,347.1 4,235.9 (888.8) Equity (before FV adj reserves) 6,574.4 5,797.1 777.3 Net Debt / Equity (Basic) 1.46 1.99 (0.53) Net Debt / Equity (Adjusted) 0.51 0.73 (0.22) Compared to a year ago, we reduced net debt by S$1,925.0 million as a result of significantly lower working capital, lower gross Capex, cash from divestments and the conversion of warrants into equity. As a result, net gearing in 2017 came down to 1.46 times as compared to 1.99 times at the end of 2016. Adjusting for readily marketable inventory (RMI) and secured trade receivables, our net gearing would be 0.51 times as compared with 2016 at 0.73 times. 42 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Liquidity We remain comfortable in our liquidity position with total of S$16.8 billion in available liquidity as at end-2017, including unutilised bank lines of S$8.5 billion, to meet our working capital and Capex needs. (S$ million as at 31 December 2017) 8,501 16,742 11,588 1,715 4,540 1,986 Cash and short-term RMI* Secured Unutilised Available Total fixed deposits receivables bank lines liquidity borrowings Short-term debt 4,660 Long-term debt 6,928 * Readily Marketable Inventory Refinancing and diversifying sources of funding Net finance costs increased from S$403.5 million in 2016 to S$465.6 million in 2017. This was due to higher benchmark interest rates, partially offset by higher interest income on deposits. Nevertheless, we took every opportunity to lock-in favourable borrowing rates to refinance near-term liabilities while ensuring we are on target of covering 25.0% to 35.0% of working capital needs through medium and long term sources of funds. Refinancing in 2017 Date Description Tenor Effective Coupon 2 March US$300.0 million senior notes 5-year due 2022 4.40% 31 March ¥5.7 billion (US$50.0 million) 5-year due 2022 3.78% (US$ post-swap) 18 May ¥6.0 billion (US$54.0 million) 5-year due 2022 3.67% (US$ post-swap) 16 June US$170.0 million private placement 5-year due 2022 3.73% 4 July S$300.0 million subordinated perpetual securities 5-year due 2022 5.50% 6 July First Europe RCF – US$400.0 million 1-year due 2018 US$300.0 million 2-year due 2019 US$300.0 million 3-year due 2020 17 July ¥25.0 billion (US$222.0 million) term loan 3-year due 2020 – 28 July US$160.0 million RCF 1-year due 2018 – US$120.0 million RCF 2-year due 2019 US$120.0 million RCF 3-year due 2020 31 July S$50.0 million (tap on S$300.0 million perpetuals) 5-year due 2022 5.43% 22 August US$50.0 million private placement 5-year due 2022 3.65% 4 September Redeemed S$235.8 million perpetual – – capital securities 20 September ¥8.0 billion (US$72.0 million) senior notes 5-year due 2022 3.64% (US$ post-swap) 13 October US$583.3 million RCF 1-year due 2018 – US$583.3 million RCF 2-year due 2019 US$583.3 million RCF 3-year due 2020 olamgroup.com 43 Group COO’s review continued Borrowing mix “ We further diversified our funding (%) sources while bringing down our net debt. As a result of the recent warrant conversion, we boosted 2016 2017 Bilateral banking lines Bank syndication 21.6 44.2 30.9 26.4 our equity position, giving us Debt capital markets 34.2 42.7 additional headroom for growth.” 2016 2017 Segmental review and analysis Segment Sales Volume ('000 MT) Revenue EBITDA Invested Capital (IC) EBITDA/IC (%) S$ million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients 1,691.5 1,569.7 4,492.0 3,981.1 438.4 331.8 3,603.9 3,642.7 12.1 9.3 Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients 2,063.6 1,687.5 8,136.8 7,711.0 327.7 407.2 5,347.0 6,109.5 5.7 6.9 Food Staples and Packaged Foods 16,909.3 9,496.1 9,767.1 6,110.8 359.7 330.2 4,678.3 4,522.1 7.8 8.5 Food Category 20,664.4 12,753.3 22,395.9 17,802.9 1,125.8 1,069.2 13,629.2 14,274.3 8.1 8.0 Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure 1,870.2 1,662.5 3,876.6 2,784.1 197.3 135.2 2,104.9 2,220.9 9.1 6.5 Commodity Financial Services (CFS) N.A. N.A. – – 4.8 (1.6) 98.3 153.8 3.8 (1.4) Non-Food Category 1,870.2 1,662.5 3,876.6 2,784.1 202.1 133.6 2,203.2 2,374.7 8.8 6.1 Total 22,534.6 14,415.8 26,272.5 20,587.0 1,327.9 1,202.8 15,832.4 16,649.0 8.2 7.8 Note: IC excludes: (a) Gabon Fertiliser Project (31-Dec-17: S$248.0 million, 31-Dec-16: S$224.8 million); and (b) Long Term Investment (31-Dec-17: S$257.5 million, 31-Dec-16: S$148.4 million) Olam employees inspecting cotton crop with key growers Rusmolco’s seed plant gets certified seed breeding farm in Queensland, Australia. We partner with growers to status from Russian agricultural centre for dairy feed crops. ensure throughput volumes for our gins and with land With a capacity of over 20,000 MT seeds per year, the owners to lease and operate cotton farms. plant is also certified to sell seeds to other businesses. 44 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Cashew farmer in Nigeria. Group COO’s review continued Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients The Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients segment achieved a year-on-year volume growth of 7.8% in 2017. The increase came mainly from higher volumes in Edible Invested capital in the segment declined slightly by Nuts, particularly cashew, almonds and sesame, as well S$38.8 million as compared with 2016. This was a as spices. The tomato processing industry in the USA combination of a decrease in fixed capital on account continued to suffer from the global supply glut and weak of the sale of edible nuts farmland assets in the USA demand necessitating restructuring measures to address and an increase in working capital due to higher prices, cost and product mix issues. especially in cashew and almonds. Revenues grew 12.8% mainly on higher volumes, as EBITDA on average invested capital (EBITDA/IC) for the well as higher almond and cashew prices compared segment therefore improved from 9.3% in 2016 to 12.1% with 2016. in 2017. EBITDA grew by 32.1% as Edible Nuts performed strongly in 2017 as compared with 2016 when its contribution was impacted by depressed almond prices. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Invested capital Depreciation and Amortisation (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 347 2013 3,610 2014 361 2014 3,364 Restated Restated 2015 394 2015 3,463 Restated Restated 2016 332 2016 3,643 +32.1% -1.1% 2017 438 2017 3,604 EBITDA/IC (%) 10.4 10.3 11.5 9.3 12.1 Working capital 1,850 1,587 1,415 1,421 1,608 Fixed capital 1,760 1,777 2,048 2,222 1,996 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 46 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 2017 Products Volume • Almonds • • Cashews Hazelnuts 1,691.5 • Peanuts (‘000 Metric Tonnes) • Pistachios • Sesame Revenue • Walnuts • Capsicums 4,492.0 • Chillies • Cumin (S$ million) • Curry powder • Other spices EBITDA • Paprika • Pepper 438.4 • Turmeric • Garlic (S$ million) • Onions • Tomatoes Invested Capital • Beans (including pulses, lentils and peas) 3,603.9 (S$ million) Above: Checking the quality of walnuts in the USA. Right: Pepper sampling in a lab in Vietnam. olamgroup.com 47 Group COO’s review continued Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients – Capitals snapshot Manufactured: Investing in sesame processing “ During the cocoa sector decline, the N’Zi technology for enhanced food safety region was badly affected, but Olam has • Olam Edible Nuts acquired Ahenk, a leading Turkish producer of tahini paste made from sesame used in helped by promoting cashew nuts here. By Asian, Middle Eastern and European cuisines. Further doing so, it breathed new life into Dimbokro, investment in highly advanced technology to upgrade the plant delivers desired ‘ultra-white’ sesame reducing and assisted the Government in providing the use of processing agents. jobs, thus enabling people to work and Natural: Managing extreme weather events and financially take care of themselves. Such restoring Natural Capital in California positive impact lifted the population out • California continued to experience extreme weather of poverty and gave hope to the whole events. Floods, wildfires, depletion of underground aquifers and record temperatures impacted region. Olam has greatly fostered the water availability and quality in Olam Spices economic and social development of & Vegetable Ingredients (SVI) agri operations. Dimbokro.” • In 2017, SVI increased its commitment to the California Water Action Collaborative (CWAC), co-chairing CWAC's Metrics Committee. Working with The Pacific Institute, SVI is helping to develop a framework to measure the impacts of projects such as meadow and wetland restoration, groundwater recharge and infrastructure improvements. • In 2018, SVI will look to further support Sierra Nevada headwaters and meadow restoration projects through CWAC and, in partnership with the US Forest Foundation and others, to increase awareness of the importance of California's water resources. Social: Processing export crops in origin shows farmers a ready market and creates wider jobs • In the town of Dimbokro in Côte d'Ivoire, Olam's investment in cashew processing over the past 13 years has created 900 full-time and seasonal jobs, many held by women. Dimbokro Prefect, M. N'Guessa Obouo Jacques, sums up the impact: Cashew processing requires delicate peeling.​Many such jobs are still held by women in Dimbokro, Côte d’lvoire. Olam Livelihood Charter – addressing continuing smallholder issues of low yields, skills, and access to finance, health and education Training in Model farms/ % Women Good Agricultural demo plots / Change farmers in Practices farmer field Crop Farmers from 2016 2017 (farmers) schools Traceability​ Cashew 63,460​ (2%)​ 29%​ 19,800​ 20​ 78%​ Hazelnut 4,830​ 97%​ 4%​ 2,870 2​ 100%​ Chilli 740​ 9%​ 0​ 740​ 10​ 100%​ 48 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Manufactured: Upgrading and expanding peanut • The FLA noted in its 2016 assessment report that the capacity for improved food and employee safety political turmoil and clashes in Kurdish-populated South Eastern Turkey may have caused an increase in child • Olam Peanuts in the USA has undertaken phased labour – some workers stated they had no choice but to investments to upgrade the standards of acquired work in the hazelnut harvest with their children to earn shelling plants (McCleskey Mills and Brooks Peanut money. The FLA noted that in spite of company Company), strengthening Environmental, Health and attempts (Olam Progida plus 2 other companies in the Safety, and Sustainability factors. This included monitoring programme) to reduce child labour, a total infrastructure upgrades at both the Smithville and of 99 child workers were detected within the seasonal Rochelle facilities in Georgia, and at the Olam-owned workforce as well as within the local and family buying points. Improvements were also made in farmer workforce. Olam Progida has since doubled its stock handling, drying, and hauling, contributing sustainability team and developed further social significantly to increased processing of peanuts. projects with NGOs, local authorities and the • During the major expansion of warehouse and International Labor Organization (ILO). Under the cleaning/drying capacity for peanuts in Argentina, Olam Livelihood Charter the sustainability team managers gave more than 40 'Tool Box Talks' over trained 2,870 farmers specifically on labour issues. 50 training hours. During 90,000 man hours the team • Additional outreach includes: Awareness raising had neither Accidents nor Near-Misses, but did spot training for local authorities as well as labour and address 12 Unsafe Acts. contractors and teachers. Training is also given to the migrant workers on issues such as gender equality, Social: Olam SVI supports development of industry child labour and financial literacy. standards for spices • See www.fairlabor.org for the 2016 assessment • SVI participated as a member of the Sustainable Spices (2017 to be published later in 2018). Initiative Steering Committee which is developing standards and monitoring protocols for the world’s spices and herbs supply chain. Member companies, Burcu Kugu Bolak, Project Director at FLA's including SVI, commit to source spices in accordance Turkey Office, comments: with the standards by 2020. “Together with the Fair Labor Association (FLA), Intellectual and Human: Olam SVI supports Olam pursues a multi-stakeholder approach to resolving systemic violations in the social domain research and students of the hazelnut supply chain. This has boosted the • SVI supports the Jordan School of Agriculture Sensory sustainability of Olam’s operations since 2014 while Lab at Fresno State University, USA, through a 10-year contributing to improving human rights throughout research grant, among other initiatives. their supply chains.” • In 2017, SVI participated in The Wonderful Company’s education programme in California which provides a 4-year curriculum to students in Ag Business, Ag Mechanics, and Agri Science Tracks, enabling them to receive an Associate’s Degree when they graduate high school. As part of this programme, SVI provided training to more than 75 students in a career workshop in December 2017 and will provide students job shadowing and internship opportunities. Social: Continued focus on labour issues, yield and traceability in hazelnuts • 400,000 farmers in Turkey grow 70% of the world’s hazelnuts. At harvest, farmers rely on a migrant workforce estimated as high as 1.5 million people. This brings challenges, including child labour and In 2017 Olam Progida in Turkey launched a project wage issues. Olam Progida works with customers, with the Foundation for the Support of Women’s competitors and the Fair Labor Association (FLA) to Work (KEDV) called “Empowering Women and improve working conditions, as well as help farmers Children at Hazelnut Harvest.” Along with other improve yields, which in turn can boost labour wages. Olam Progida sustainability programmes, this will help to reduce child and forced labour in the hazelnut harvest. 1. The results of Independent Assessments for August 2017 are not yet published olamgroup.com 49 Group COO’s review continued Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients The Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients segment posted a healthy volume growth of 22.3% with contributions from Cocoa and Coffee. However, revenue growth was modest at 5.5% as the Invested capital in this segment fell by a substantial volume growth was mostly offset by lower prices for both S$762.5 million as compared with 2016. This was coffee and cocoa. mainly on account of lower working capital following EBITDA declined 19.5% in 2017 due to a significantly targeted optimisation initiatives as well as lower lower contribution from Coffee. While it had a good first cocoa and coffee prices from a year ago. half, tougher market conditions and short crop across EBITDA/IC for the segment declined marginally from major origins in the latter half of the year adversely 6.9% in 2016 to 5.7% in 2017. impacted its overall EBITDA in 2017. In cocoa, the processing business performed well throughout the year, while the supply chain and products trading businesses, which faced margin compression in the first nine months of the year, saw margins stabilise in Q4 2017. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Invested capital Depreciation and Amortisation (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 269 2013 2,347 2014 276 2014 3,247 Restated Restated 2015 284 2015 5,681 Restated Restated 2016 407 2016 6,110 -19.5% -12.5% 2017 328 2017 5,347 EBITDA/IC (%) 12.6 9.9 6.4 6.9 5.7 Working capital 1,855 2,745 4,330 4,569 3,819 Fixed capital 491 501 1,351 1,541 1,528 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 50 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Products 2017 • Cocoa Volume • Coffee 2,063.6 (‘000 Metric Tonnes) Revenue 8,136.8 (S$ million) EBITDA 327.7 (S$ million) Invested Capital 5,347.0 (S$ million) Top: Coffee picking in Tanzania. Above: Cocoa processing plant in Singapore. Right: Coffee cupping in Vietnam. olamgroup.com 51 Group COO’s review continued Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients – Capitals snapshot Manufactured and Intellectual: Cocoa Innovation of deforestation in the Peruvian Amazon.” However, Centre for customers in USA “no direct link between Olam Peru and deforestation in the Peruvian coffee sector could be identified”. • An Innovation Centre in Willowbrook, Illinois was • The report highlighted the preventive steps taken by opened by Olam Cocoa to complement centres in Olam Peru which include: Brazil, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain and the UK. It assists customers in the refinement and reformulation • Direct procurement sustainability programmes (over of recipes and product development across beverages, 1,300 farmers) with reforestation and training in Good cereals, confectionery, dairy, bakery, and ice cream. Agricultural Practices to improve yields, which in turn A new cocoa product brand for the North American help to prevent farmers encroaching into fertile forest and Asia Pacific markets, Huysman, was also • Assembled a core set of intermediary suppliers who launched. commit to upholding the Olam Supplier Code • Promotion of third-party verification and certification Intellectual and Human: Koog aan de Zaan in the schemes in indirect procurement (70% is certified). Netherlands becomes European Cocoa hub Olam agronomists and field staff train smallholders • Under the centralisation strategy to make the deZaan in Good Agricultural Practices to get the certificates. factory complex the European hub of the cocoa • We also explained how a company needs to be in business, staff in other locations were offered role the supply chain in order to change it; focusing on continuation and relocation support. The consolidation remediation and education if smallholders are found to underpins the goal of improved cross-functional be carrying out poor practices rather than necessarily communication and development opportunities by removing them immediately from the supply chain. increasing access to the manufacturing facilities for the Read more about our approach in the Natural Capital business’s premium deZaan cocoa brand, onsite R&D section and in the Olam Living Landscapes Policy at teams and learning centre. olamgroup.com Manufactured and Natural: Coffee processing facility Natural and Social: Rainforest Alliance-Olam Cocoa inaugurated in Peru; reducing deforestation risk partnership in Ghana • Objective of the 4-year project is to conserve the cocoa • Called 'El Exito' ('Success'), the new facility in the forest landscape in the corridor around the Sui River, industrial township of Lurin, south of Lima, will broaden Suhuma, Tano Ehuro and Tano Suhien and Santomang reach and market share, processing green coffee Forest Reserves, sustaining the agricultural livelihoods procured from buying points around the country. of the communities. Reflecting the landscape approach • In Peru the supply chain is very fragmented, with taken in the joint Juabeso-Bia project which produced 223,000 farming families producing coffee over about the world’s first verified Climate Friendly Cocoa, the 380,000 ha. This makes it difficult for exporters to buy partnership will work with the Ghana Cocoa Board and significant volumes directly, and relying on many the Forestry Commission to demonstrate how intermediaries. Farmers struggle with yields due partnerships with civil society, government, local to lack of training, access to quality seedlings or communities and the private sector can deliver degraded soil. transformational change and achieve self-governing • In August, a Chain Reaction Research report from the and multi-actor collaboration at the landscape level. consortium of NGOs Aidenvironment, Climate Advisers • Committed to halting deforestation in cocoa supply and Profundo, stated that Olam faces reputational risk chains globally, with a goal of 100% sustainable because “Coffee has been identified as a major driver volumes in its direct supply chain by 2020, Olam Olam Livelihood Charter – addressing continuing smallholder issues of low yields, skills, and access to finance, health and education No. of farmers benefiting from Total Total % increase climate mitigation Total women hectares GPS Crop Certified farmers from 2016 activities farmers mapped farms Cocoa 95% 184,880​ 42%​ 63,400​ 13%​ 203,000​ Coffee 75% 35,720​ 24%​ 11,340 21%​ 14,750​ 52 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Cocoa is also a founding member of the Cocoa & Top challenges facing the field officers: Forests Initiative announced in March, the first • No existing or weak and ineffective organisation at collective industry commitment specifically to end farmer level, hence needing to help organise farmer deforestation and forest degradation. At the UN Climate groups (facilitates training, coffee collection etc). Talks (COP23) in November, Olam Cocoa CEO Gerard • Slow take-up of improved practices by farmers A. Manley welcomed plans put forward by the (e.g. through low capacity, risk aversity). Governments of Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, upon whom the management and proactive protection of forests • Difficult to access villages in rainy season. must depend. Examples of training: • With other industry players, Olam Cocoa responded to • Pest and disease management using appropriate mix allegations made in an NGO cocoa sector report1 and of cultivated, biological and chemical methods. Guardian article that cocoa grown in national parks in Côte d’Ivoire had entered various company supply • Soil management, especially: composting of coffee chains. We acknowledged that one instance was pulp and other material available on farm and in the identified but that extensive sustainability efforts were household; combined compost production and pig in place to dissuade smallholders from deforestation. raising; chemical fertiliser calculation and application. These include: • 113,000 Ivoirian and Ghanian cocoa farmers in Olam Continuous efforts in tackling child labour Livelihood Charter programmes to improve yield from current land. recognised by Fair Labor Association in 2016 • Almost 42,000 farms in the 2 countries mapped on cocoa audit, published November 2017 the Olam Farmer Information System for 2017 alone. “Every year since 2013, the Fair Labor Association • Over 16,200 individual farm management plans (FLA) has conducted Independent External generated by end of December for tailored support. Monitoring (IEM) of a sample of Olam’s cocoa • Almost 581,000 leguminous shade tree seedlings supply chain in Côte d’Ivoire. According to distributed in global programmes where required. information provided by Olam, the company had successfully traced 90 percent of its cocoa supply Social: Unlocking value for Laos coffee farmers chain in Côte d’Ivoire by the end of 2016, • An Olam Livelihood Charter programme with Jacobs representing about 82,500 producers grouped into Douwe Egberts and IDH-The Sustainable Trade 185 cooperatives. In 2016, the FLA focused its IEM Initiative supports more than 1,700 coffee farmers visits on three cooperatives that had never been near the certified Olam plantation. assessed before and that were located in various cocoa-producing areas…” Top challenges facing the farmers: “For these 2016 assessments, the FLA’s key • Lack of agronomic/economic capacity to improve findings compared to 2015 show progress on five of coffee production given degrading acidic soils the nine code areas monitored by the FLA, and increasing pressure from pest and disease. specifically harassment or abuse, forced labour, • Land tenure system does not support intensification child labour, freedom of association, and hours of of production. work. However, there is also continued need for • Lack of access to finance for farmers, lack of sustainable improvement on code areas such as financial literacy, high default risk on loans. employment relationship; non-discrimination; health, safety, and environment; and compensation.” “Comparing the 2015 and 2016 worker demographic profiles shows a decrease in the employment of child family workers in the assessed cocoa producing farms. In 2015, monitors encountered six family child workers representing about two percent of the total workforce. In 2016, assessors met no child workers at all in the visited area at the time of the visits. Assessors visited different communities in 2016 than they visited in 2015, but stated that the decrease nonetheless indicates progress in reducing child labor.” Source: FLA Independent external monitoring of Mr. Chern Meunluang, head of the KM 15 village farmer Olam’s cocoa supply chain in Côte d’Ivoire: 2016 group in the Paksong District, Laos, highlighting guidance www.fairlabor.org for the coffee growers. 1. Mighty Earth – Dark Secrets olamgroup.com 53 Group COO’s review continued Food Staples and Packaged Foods The Food Staples and Packaged Foods segment delivered volume growth of 78.1% in 2017. This growth was led by a significant increase in trading Notwithstanding the stabilisation of the Naira, the volumes for Grains and also supported by an increase in Packaged Foods business did not see a commensurate Edible Oils, Rice and Dairy trading volumes. Driven by pick-up in margins. the higher volumes, revenues increased by 59.8% during Compared with 2016, overall invested capital went up the period. by S$156.2 million owing to the growth in fixed capital. EBITDA grew 8.9% in 2017 as compared with 2016. Fixed capital increased due to the construction of animal The Grains and Animal Feed platform benefited from feed mills and hatchery in Nigeria, expansion of wheat the increase in wheat milling volumes and margins in milling capacity in Ghana and Nigeria, and continued West Africa, and the commencement of the animal feed investments in palm plantations and milling in Gabon. business in Nigeria. This was partially offset by the lower Working capital was reduced due to the optimisation contribution from the trading business which faced strong initiatives undertaken and lower commodity prices. headwinds especially in the last quarter of 2017. The Rice Given the increase in invested capital, EBITDA/IC for the origination, distribution and trading business continued to segment came down from 8.5% in 2016 to 7.8% in 2017. perform well and farming operations in Nigeria turned positive. Dairy supply chain continued to perform well while upstream farming operating results in Russia and Uruguay recorded a strong improvement. In Edible Oils, while the refining business did better this year, overall EBITDA came down due to lower trading margins. The contribution from Sugar trading was also lower. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Invested capital Depreciation and Amortisation (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 378 2013 3,613 2014 295 2014 3,075 Restated Restated 2015 212 2015 3,231 Restated Restated 2016 330 2016 4,522 +8.9% +3.5% 2017 360 2017 4,678 EBITDA/IC (%) 10.4 8.8 6.7 8.5 7.8 Working capital 1,088 709 915 1,498 1,131 Fixed capital 2,525 2,366 2,316 3,024 3,547 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 54 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Products 2017 • Dairy Volume • Edible Oils • Grains and Animal Feed 16,909.3 • Packaged (‘000 Metric Tonnes) Foods • Rice Revenue • Sugar 9,767.1 (S$ million) EBITDA 359.7 (S$ million) Invested Capital 4,678.3 (S$ million) November saw the launch of Pure Bliss’ third biscuit range from subsidiary OK Foods in Nigeria. In Ghana Olam Nutrifoods Ltd invested US$8.3 million to double capacity for biscuits, strengthening its position as the number one biscuit producer with a market share of 49%. Above: Animal Feed facilities in Nigeria. Right: Biscuit factory in Ghana. olamgroup.com 55 Group COO’s review continued Food Staples and Packaged Foods – Capitals snapshot Social: Sugar JV opens opportunities for farmers Human: Skills transfer to Gabonese palm workers • The investment by Mitr Phol Sugar Corporation in • Olam Palm Gabon (OPG) employs around 7,700 Far East Agri, which operates a sugar refinery in Gabonese nationals to work on plantations. While Indonesia, combines Mitr Phol’s strong milling expertise current management roles are filled primarily by expat with Olam’s farmgate, sourcing and manufacturing Malaysian and Indonesian palm industry experts, a capabilities to better cater to the growing demand for Nationalisation Policy led by the OPG Training and sugar in Indonesia. Development team will ensure that Gabonese nationals • Far East will explore the development of a green-field fill many of the roles by 2025. sugar milling facility in East Java, which in 2020 will • The GRAINE smallholder programme which supports source 1.2 million MT of cane from farmers. national food security through industrial agricultural skills transfer and investment under the SOTRADER JV1 Social: Packaged Foods Business continues to support launched a broad public consultation on its learnings nutrition needs in West Africa with fortified foods since its inception 2 years ago. A number of • Olam is taking measures to improve nutrition among recommendations were made to recalibrate the consumers in Africa. As well as mandatory fortification programme and embrace non-GRAINE cooperatives. of products such as flour and edible oils, this included Human: Livestock management protocols and training 98 million servings of Milky Magic biscuits and 821.5 million servings of Tasty Tom tomato paste in Ghana contributes to Uruguay dairy performance and 16.8 million servings of FreshYo yogurt in Nigeria. • Olam Uruguay completed 11,466 hours of employee training, with a focus on strengthening operating Manufactured and Social: Animal Feeds facilities procedures, safety across operations, and technical inaugurated in Nigeria training in relation to various work processes. • With a combined investment of US$150 million, the • Individual cow productivity achieved the highest levels poultry feed mill and day-old-chick facilities in Kaduna compared to previous years. The improvement derives State, together with the integrated poultry and fish from better body condition of the herd at calving. feed mill at Ilorin, were inaugurated by Nigerian Livestock management protocols implemented during President Buhari. 2016 significantly reduced livestock mortality and • To further stimulate and support the market, the team is continued to prove successful during 2017. improving the availability of expert support to farmers. Natural: Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) impacts for Internships are being offered to 100 veterinary, aquaculture and agronomy graduates who will receive Dairy and Rice hands-on learning opportunities over a 2-year period. • Methane has at least 28 times the global warming • Local sourcing of raw materials such as soybeans, corn potential of carbon dioxide2. In Dairy, the Cool Farm and cassava for the animal feed is estimated to Tool is helping to establish a baseline of GHG positively impact more than 300,000 smallholder crop emissions 72% of Uruguay Dairy GHG emissions farmers. Production requires maize as an input and are from enteric fermentation the cow's digestive there was some confusion when it was reported that process. Reduction is a key factor of the CR&S Dairy Olam had imported GM maize for human consumption. strategy being developed in 2018. The maize was imported for animal feed due to a poor • With the Better Rice Initiative Asia, development local harvest. agency GIZ, Bayer and the Thai Rice Department, Olam Rice has increased its pilot programme to reduce Human: Crown Flour Mills (CFM) invests in local talent methane growing farmer outreach from 70 farmers in • CFM has been running a graduate training programme, 2016 to more than 1,000 in 2017. The programme has providing on-the-job training for Nigerians, many of produced the world's first verified sustainable rice. whom have now taken up roles previously held by • Olam Rice is now aiming to improve the livelihoods of expats. Also in 2017, CFM sponsored 2 millers from 36,000 farmers in Southeast Asia with GIZ under the Nigeria and Senegal for a 1-year residential programme Market-Oriented Smallholder Value Chain (MSVC) by at the Central Food Technology Research Institute – 2021. In addition, Olam remains the only private a renowned training school for millers. company partner of the Thai Government’s Nationally • Also in Nigeria, the country team responded in full Appropriate (GHG) Mitigation Action (NAMA). following a request by the Senate Joint Committee on Customs, Excise, and Tariff and Marine Transport to many international and national companies regarding import payments. The team presented all documents and continues to engage with the Senate. 1. 51% Republic of Gabon and 49% Olam 2. http://www.wri.org/dev/path/united-states/reducing-methane-emissions 56 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Balancing Social and Natural Capital needs in olamgroup.com. Mighty Earth recognised the highly forested nations employment opportunities and investment in social infrastructure provided by Olam and the efforts taken Olam’s palm oil business was involved in a widerto protect High Conservation Areas; but also reaching debate about sustainable agricultural expressed reservations about the biodiversity and development in the highly forested nations of West and climate impacts, and potential human rights impacts, Central Africa, following a campaign by the NGO of large scale plantation agriculture as a basis for the Mighty Earth in 2016 targeting our plantations in renewal of Gabon’s rural economy. Gabon and our palm trading business. In October Olam Palm Gabon invited The Forests Recognising that opinions are highly polarised Dialogue, a Yale-based programme which promotes regarding the potential for plantations to drive economic multi-stakeholder discussions on forest issues, to and social development in developing countries whilst co-host a Dialogue in Gabon. This was attended by protecting critically important rainforests, we initiated a more than 50 stakeholders, including international and process of increased transparency, both to create national NGOs such as WWF, TNC, Forest Peoples space for a multi-stakeholder effort to find common Programme, WRI, BrainForest and Mighty Earth, as ground for responsible development in countries like well as industry, government, inter-governmental Gabon, and to inform international stakeholders of the organisations. The Dialogue helped develop a complex process we have followed to develop some of roadmap and national plan of action which is being the world’s most sustainable plantations. taken up by a Gabonese multi-stakeholder group. To that end, Olam and Mighty Earth signed an At the end of 2017, Olam’s Bilala oil palm mill and agreement in February 2017 committing both parties plantation was certified by RSPO, taking the overall on a number of points. We agreed to a moratorium on certified area managed by Olam to 55,400 ha. further development of palm and rubber in Gabon to give time for stakeholders to develop further specific On third party trading, more than 80% of crude palm criteria for sustainable agriculture in countries where oil and palm kernel oil volumes were successfully most of the land is covered by forests. We also traced using GPS co-ordinates, against a target of updated our Palm Policy to provide more clarity for our 50% with roadmap metrics now available on a palm suppliers on our No Deforestation, No Peat and No dashboard on olamgroup.com. Exploitation sourcing requirements. The London Zoological Society (ZSL) ranks Olam 7th We invited Mighty Earth to visit our plantations, the out of 50 against its Sustainability Policy Transparency neighbouring villages and the High Conservation Value Toolkit with a score of 77.9%. Responses to Mighty areas we actively protect (72,000 ha inside our Earth, Greenpeace and other NGOs on palm-related concessions), and meet with national NGOs and other matters can be found on olamgroup.com. stakeholders. A joint update on the visit is available on Olam’s palm plantations in Gabon are undertaken through a Joint Venture with the Republic of Gabon. We are committed to 100% RSPO certification by 2021. 3. https://www.spott.org/palm-oil/ olamgroup.com 57 Group COO’s review continued Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure The Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure volumes grew 12.5% in 2017 with growth mainly from Cotton. Revenues increased by 39.2% on the back of higher Invested capital declined by S$116.0 million compared sales volumes. with a year ago, as inventory optimisation initiatives The segment achieved a strong EBITDA growth of brought down working capital. Fixed capital was up 45.9% with higher contribution from Cotton and GSEZ slightly with investments in upstream Rubber plantations following the commissioning of new ports and the partial in Gabon and integrated ginning operations in sale of port concession rights in Gabon in Q4 2017. Côte d’Ivoire. This was partly offset by lower contribution from Wood As a result of the strong EBITDA growth on reduced Products, which was impacted by weak demand and invested capital, EBITDA/IC margin expanded from lower margins. 6.5% in 2016 to 9.1% in 2017. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Invested capital Depreciation and Amortisation (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 219 2013 1,839 2014 216 2014 1,872 Restated Restated 2015 185 2015 1,918 Restated Restated 2016 135 2016 2,221 +45.9% -5.2% 2017 197 2017 2,105 EBITDA/IC (%) 10.8 11.6 9.8 6.5 9.1 Working capital 1,044 974 912 1,213 1,050 Fixed capital 796 898 1,006 1,008 1,055 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 58 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Products 2017 • Cotton Volume • Fertiliser • • Rubber Wood Products 1,870.2 (‘000 Metric Tonnes) Services • Gabon Special Revenue Economic • GSEZ Mineral 3,876.6 Port (S$ million) • GSEZ General Cargo Port • GSEZ Utilities EBITDA Infrastructure 197.3 (S$ million) Invested Capital 2,104.9 (S$ million) Above: Uploading cotton bales in Australia. Right: GSEZ general cargo port in Gabon. olamgroup.com 59 Group COO’s review continued Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure – Capitals snapshot Manufactured: Owendo International Port, Gabon Human: Constant focus on safety in rubber plantations • Managed by Gabon Special Economic Zone (GSEZ) • A stringent Health & Safety mindset is a relatively new SA1, the new multi-purpose port will become a leading concept to workers in the Gabon rubber and palm export-import thoroughfare for West and Central Africa. plantations who come from the surrounding villages. With 2 berths and palm oil tanks, fuel storage and grain Constant vigilance and awareness training are silos, it can handle the loading and unloading of several required. Tragically, one fatality was recorded at the bulk cargo Panamax vessels simultaneously. The Bitam rubber plantation due to transportation. A trainer technology, innovation and sustainability vision behind dedicated to providing defensive driving courses and the construction were recognised by the Africa implementing road safety management has been Investments Forum & Awards with GSEZ winning the recruited. A revised road policy is reinforced by set best African project in the Port and Airport speed limits, speed limiters on Olam and contractor Infrastructure category. vehicles, random speed checks and alcohol screening, and more road safety signage. Manufactured: Australia Cotton team unlocks Financial Capital with Joint Ventures, and invests in construction Social: Linking communities to financial and • A Joint Venture between subsidiary Queensland Cotton healthcare services and Rural Funds Management (RFM) marks the entry • Rubber processing subsidiary SAIC (Société Agrointo upstream cotton growing in Australia. Lynora Industrielle de la Comoe) in Côte d’Ivoire is helping Downs currently has over 740 ha of irrigated cotton, smallholders access bank loans. Banks were hesitant 1,200 ha of dryland cotton, as well as hectarage for as most crop payments were made by processors in wheat and chickpea crop rotation. Irrigation water is cash, and transactions could not be tracked. With SAIC sourced from natural overland flow and stored in ‘cells’. helping to maintain accounts in microfinance All cotton will be ginned at Olam’s Moura Gin. cooperatives, banks are now able to estimate the • On 1 March 2017, Queensland Cotton and Evolution required transaction, enabling farmers to secure loans. Ginning commenced a new venture for the joint Over the course of 2016 and 2017, more than 2,000 operation of the Mungindi Gin. Evolution has significant rubber growers working with SAIC gained their first cotton growers, bringing deep local knowledge as well bank accounts, encouraging farmer loyalty. as cotton volumes. • In the Republic of Congo, subsidiary Congolaise • New 24/7 warehousing facilities at the Dalby and Cecil Industrielle des Bois (CIB) successfully renewed FSC® Plains Gin sites have a combined footprint of over certification2 for 1.3 million hectares (ha). The team is 20,000 m2 and can store 150,000 bales. The expansion working towards certification of the most recent leverages existing assets, removes reliance on external concession of 671,000 ha. handlers, and offers existing staff development opportunities. This initiative is expected to deliver significant bale storage and handling cost savings, and create a highly efficient Gin to Port supply chain. Intellectual: Increasing the long-term economic value of rubber trees through new tool • A new precision, mechanised rubber tapping tool is being developed by Olam in collaboration with Mechanovation Sdn Bhd and Detroit Engineered Products that will automate the delicate process to release latex without damaging the tree. Using a cambium sensor it reduces reliance on highly-skilled labour while simultaneously increasing productivity. The hospital run by CIB in Republic of Congo treats both employees and communities living in the forest concessions. 1. Joint Venture between Olam, Republic of Gabon and Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) 40.5:38.5:21 2. Licence numbers: CIB Kabo FSC-C128941; CIB Pokola FSCC014998: CIB Loundoungo FSC C104637 60 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 • CIB is the largest employer in the region (994 people), and the only major provider of healthcare across approximately 20,000 km² with 58,000 people, the vast majority living in poor villages or as semi-nomadic tribes. CIB operates a 42 bed hospital and another 36 beds across 4 rural clinics. Both chronic and infectious diseases are rife in this area and, in 2017, over 21,500 patients were treated who were not CIB employees. • In 2016, the CIB doctor, with an NGO healthcare project, travelled to a remote group of villages, previously only accessible by canoe, along a road just built by CIB at the villages’ request. During this trip, the medical team treated many children for malaria and malnutrition. The CIB medical team returned a few weeks later and many more children and adults were treated by the medical team with some being evacuated to the CIB hospital. Tragically, there were still many deaths. • In August 2017, two Congolese NGOs (OCDH and RENAPAC) issued a report stating that the road building itself had caused an increase in malaria, which in turn caused high child mortality. • To investigate the allegations CIB requested advice from the NGO The Malaria Consortium. On their Rubber tapping in Côte d’Ivoire. recommendation an independent tropical disease specialist was commissioned. The report findings show: Natural: Supporting development of a Sustainable • While malaria is endemic in the region it was not the Natural Rubber Standard to reduce deforestation single or main cause of death • Similar to other smallholder crops, rubber is also facing • The final cause was split mainly between dysentery, questions on deforestation, community and labour rights. malaria, pneumonia and measles As yet, there is no industrywide platform for stakeholders • The road was assessed to have not made a relevant addressing these issues and therefore there lacks a impact on the breeding of malarial mosquitoes due to common understanding of “sustainable rubber.” the surrounding marsh (flooded forest) landscape • Olam has been working with major tyre manufacturers, which provided enormous permanent breeding producers and civil society like the Sustainable ground potential for the mosquitos. Agriculture Network (SAN), Global Witness, Birdlife • These villages are affected by immense poverty, International, Rainforest Alliance, Proforest and others malnutrition and many negative social factors, on a white paper to develop a Sustainable Natural facilitating the spread of deadly diseases. The deep, Rubber Standard. A risk-based rather than rule based systemic healthcare issues underpinning this tragedy certification approach is recommended. The NGO cannot be solved by any one party acting alone and it Nepcon explains: “It allows the greatest level of effort will require a renewed focus on effective delivery of to be placed on the areas with the highest risks. healthcare for the region. In this, CIB will continue to A conventional approach to certification, on the other work with the Government, national and international hand, requires effort to be put into all the listed NGOs, and experts to find a durable solution to help requirements, no matter whether they pose a significant communities living in the forest. risk to company in question or not. A risk-based approach would ultimately make certification viable for smallholders and small-scale farmers. It would enable certification to drive positive changes in areas where there is need for change, without exposing smallholders to the high costs of a conventional certification process.” olamgroup.com 61 Group COO’s review continued Commodity Financial Services The CFS business reported an EBITDA of S$4.8 million in 2017 compared to a loss of S$1.6 million previously. This improvement in earnings came largely from the funds business and from the Trade and Structured 2017 Finance business that generates incremental yield by EBITDA utilising Olam’s underlying agri-business trade flows. Invested capital in this segment eased by S$55.5 million 4.8 to S$98.3 million; most of it was deployed in the (S$ million) funds business. Capitals snapshot Invested Capital Increasing Intellectual and Human Capital • Quantitative Funds augmented its trading capability, 98.3 adding 2 traders with significant experience. (S$ million) The business also further strengthened governance around trading solutions through a strong technology team based in Singapore. • Commodity Fund completed the absorption and integration of Volatility Trading business within its fold during 2017. The business has placed a team of traders and analysts in China to increase trading. • Risk Management Solutions (RMS) strengthened its marketing and sales team with a diverse talent pool and is in the process of developing a digital interface for its customers. Quantitative Funds augmented its trading capability, adding 2 traders with significant experience. 62 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Value chain review and analysis S$3.9 billion of total investments already made are expected to give incremental earnings over time. Overview Sales Volume ('000 MT) Revenue EBITDA Invested Capital (IC) EBITDA/IC (%) S$ million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Upstream 584.6 455.6 1,707.2 798.4 188.3 79.2 3,915.4 3,764.4 4.9 2.3 Supply Chain 17,089.3 9,863.1 15,208.7 10,496.2 450.9 503.5 5,803.8 6,537.5 7.3 8.8 Mid/Downstream 4,860.7 4,097.1 9,356.6 9,292.4 688.7 620.1 6,113.2 6,347.1 11.1 9.7 Total 22,534.6 14,415.8 26,272.5 20,587.0 1,327.9 1,202.8 15,832.4 16,649.0 8.2 7.8 Note: IC excludes: (a) Gabon Fertiliser Project (31-Dec-17: S$248.0 million, 31-Dec-16: S$224.8 million); and (b) Long Term Investment (31-Dec-17: S$257.5 million, 31-Dec-16: S$148.4 million) In the Upstream segment, while fully contributing (mature) businesses such as almonds met targeted returns, other fully contributing businesses like Dairy and Rice farming had not yet reached full potential in terms of earnings expectations due to underperformance in previous years, although these had shown positive trajectory in 2017. This led to an EBITDA/IC return of 7.8% against our target of 15-18%. A total of S$1.8 billion of invested capital is still gestating (not yielding any EBITDA) or partly contributing (not fully mature). Gestating businesses, such as the Coffee and Rubber plantations, are expected to move into the partly contributing stage as they grow, while partly contributing ones, mainly the palm plantations in Gabon, are expected to become fully contributing as they reach full maturity. EBITDA/IC for the Supply Chain segment was dragged down by the underperformance in Coffee and Cocoa to 7.3% in 2017 (2016: 8.8%) even as working capital optimisation initiatives helped reduce overall invested capital deployed by 11.2% from a year ago. In the Mid/Downstream segment, a total of S$4.1 billion of invested capital were in fully contributing assets and these include the wheat milling businesses in West Africa, the Edible Oils refining and distribution business in Mozambique as well as the GSEZ investments in ports, which came onstream in 2017. These yielded an EBITDA/IC return of 12.4%, which is below target as the result was impacted by the underperformance in the tomato processing and Packaged Foods businesses. Some S$2.1 billion of invested capital was partly contributing as these businesses had not reached steady-state levels of production. All in all, S$3.9 billion of total investments already made are either gestating or partly contributing, which means these investments are expected to give incremental earnings over time as they grow to full potential. Gestation mix 15.8 0.3 2.1 2.1 3.6 4.1 4.1 5.8 11.9 0.3 2.1 1.5 1.5 Invested Capital 2.0 2.0 (S$ billion) Upstream Total Supply Chain Mid/Downstream Total Olam Total Invested EBITDA/ Invested EBITDA/ Invested EBITDA/ capital IC (%) capital IC (%) capital IC (%) (S$ billion) (S$ billion) (S$ billion) Gestating 0.3 (0.5) – – – – Partly contributing 1.5 2.8 – – 2.1 9.5 Fully contributing 2.0 7.8 5.8 7.3 4.1 12.4 Total 3.8 4.9 5.8 7.3 6.2 11.1 EBITDA/IC target EBITDA/IC target EBITDA/IC target at steady state: at steady state: at steady state: 15-18% 10-13% 13-16% olamgroup.com 63 Group COO’s review continued Upstream The Upstream segment registered a year-on-year volume growth of 28.3% in 2017 mainly coming from Almonds with increased acreage and better yields achieved in Dairy and Grains farming in Russia as well as in Rice farming in Nigeria. Revenue grew by a significant 113.8% on higher volumes and higher Almond prices. EBITDA also showed a substantial growth of 137.8% on account of stronger almond performance, backed by a positive EBITDA achieved by Rusmolco for its Dairy and Grains farming operations, and by Rice farming in Nigeria. Invested capital in the segment was up by S$151.0 million from the end of last year, mainly on the net increase in fixed capital, which grew as continued investments in Palm and Rubber plantations was offset by the sale of Edible Nuts farmland assets in the USA. Meanwhile, the working capital optimisation initiatives helped reduce working capital deployed. As a result of a strong improvement in EBITDA, EBITDA/ IC increased from 2.3% in 2016 to 4.9% in 2017. “ EBITDA showed a substantial growth of 137.8%.” Rice farm in Nigeria. EBITDA Invested capital (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 209 2013 2,708 2014 205 2014 2,830 Restated Restated 2015 155 2015 3,075 Restated Restated 2016 79 2016 3,764 +137.8% +4.0% 2017 188 2017 3,915 EBITDA/IC (%) 8.2 6.6 5.2 2.3 4.9 Working capital 323 304 359 481 429 Fixed capital 2,385 2,526 2,716 3,283 3,487 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 64 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Supply Chain The Supply Chain segment recorded a 73.3% volume increase in 2017 as the year saw trading volumes in Grains, Edible Oils, Rice, Dairy, Cotton and Cashew grow significantly compared with 2016. Revenue was up 44.9% on higher volumes, moderated by lower commodity prices. EBITDA however declined 10.4% largely because of reduced contribution from Coffee supply chain. Cocoa bean trading and Sugar trading, which did not perform as well as 2016, also contributed to the decline. Invested capital in the segment was off 2016 levels by a significant S$733.7 million due to positive effects from the working capital optimisation programme and lower prices. This resulted in an overall lower EBITDA/IC of 7.3% in 2017 compared with 8.8% in 2016. “ The Supply Chain segment recorded a 73.3% volume increase in 2017.” Unloading pulses in Australia. EBITDA Invested capital (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 700 2013 4,842 2014 609 2014 4,936 Restated Restated 2015 600 2015 4,852 Restated Restated 2016 504 2016 6,538 -10.4% -11.2% 2017 451 2017 5,804 EBITDA/IC (%) 13.9 12.5 12.3 8.8 7.3 Working capital 4,157 4,397 4,230 5,750 4,914 Fixed capital 685 540 622 788 890 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated olamgroup.com 65 Group COO’s review continued Mid/Downstream The Mid/Downstream segment had a healthy volume growth of 18.6% in 2017. The growth in volumes was mainly coming from the Grains and Animal Feed platform, the Peanut business in the USA and cashew processing operations in Vietnam. Wheat milling capacity in Nigeria and Ghana increased during the year which led to higher milling volumes. The Animal Feed business in Nigeria also started contributing in 2017. Peanut volumes in the USA were higher on full-year consolidation of volumes from Brooks Peanut Company. Despite larger sales volumes, revenues were flat due to lower prices across most products, including cocoa, tomatoes, dehydrates and sugar. EBITDA was higher by 11.1% in 2017 compared with 2016. This was primarily on account of the improvement in wheat milling in West Africa, full-year consolidation of results from Brooks and strong contribution from GSEZ after its commissioning of new ports and partial sale of port concession rights. These improvements were offset by lower results from tomato processing and the Packaged Foods Business in Nigeria. Invested capital was lower by S$233.9 million in 2017, largely arising from the reduction in working capital. This was due to optimisation initiatives for cocoa as well as the lower prices of tomatoes and dehydrates. The increase in EBITDA on lower invested capital lifted EBITDA/IC from 9.7% in 2016 to 11.1% in 2017. “ EBITDA was higher by 11.1% in 2017 compared with 2016.” Cashew processing in Vietnam. EBITDA Invested capital (S$ million) (S$ million) 2013 291 2013 3,863 2014 315 2014 3,794 Restated Restated 2015 330 2015 6,448 Restated Restated 2016 620 2016 6,347 +11.1% -3.7% 2017 689 2017 6,113 EBITDA/IC (%) 8.2 8.2 6.5 9.7 11.1 Working capital 1,361 1,317 3,064 2,622 2,362 Fixed capital 2,502 2,477 3,385 3,725 3,751 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Restated Restated 66 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Community water pump in Côte d’Ivoire. Human Capital Our people are the architects of our future. Their skills, knowledge and competencies underpin our customer offering and the impact we have on all other Capitals.​ Fulfilling our vision to be the most differentiated and Management approach valuable agri-business by 2040 depends on our workforce of 72,000 people, many in emerging markets. Build an inspired and high performing organisation Through our values and culture, we have attracted • Develop a satisfied, engaged and inspired talent base: leaders with vision, inventiveness and entrepreneurialism, identify organisational factors and enable leadership but we recognise that we need to invest further in Human to identify their purpose to align with Olam’s Purpose. Capital to establish the inspired and high performing • Institutionalise ‘The Olam Way’: our blueprint for workforce we need. success has been our capability for organisational Methodologies for calculating Human Capital impacts learning, identifying what has worked well – and the vary between degrees of qualitative and quantitative manner in which we can replicate it. Given the fastanalysis, typically looking at overall people strategy, paced nature and diversification of our businesses, salary and benefits costs, training costs, engagement there is renewed focus on ensuring everything has the levels and cost of attrition. As we advance our model, unmistakable Olam signature. we are looking at how it can be clear and unambiguous, • Leadership and capability development: success is minimising subjective judgement; allowing for year-onnot through business acumen alone but by inspiring a year comparison and aiding decision-making. team towards a higher sense of purpose and standards of success. This is combined with concerted effort in Human Capital – desired outcomes deepening organisational capabilities in the areas of • All employees and contractors stay safe and healthy Trading, Plantations, Operational Excellence, Digital, • High calibre talent base with capabilities for growth and Sustainability. It includes a drive to up-skill • Good employee retention, especially for critical roles nationals in emerging markets through localisation strategies, such as in-house training and mentor • Regarded as a fair and competitive employer programmes, as well as partnerships with national • Inspired workforce contributing to all Capitals colleges and globally renowned universities. • Employment rights are protected at all Olam work sites • Managing performance and rewards: institutionalising and there are no human rights violations a performance management process that is employee• Minimal conflicts/strikes centric and future focused to transform the company. • Leaders advance industry and sector initiatives Human Capital FY17 vs FY16 FY17 FY16 comparison 40,500 full-time employees 35,000 employees 31,600 seasonal, contract or temporary workers (includes reclassification 34,700 workers of some workers to full-time) Primary workforce: 70% men and 30% women 74% men, 26% women 33% of primary workforce employees covered by collective bargaining 30% agreements 89% of women return to work after maternity leave​ 89%​ 150 managers hired from local communities 90 managers Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate in Processing reduced by 26% to 0.31 0.43 8,700 employees trained specifically on human rights 2,700 employees 42 grievances about labour practices filed and 51 resolved in the period 60 filed, 36 resolved (includes from previous year) 68 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Safety and Human Rights Women GROW in Olam • Vision of a Zero Harm Culture: unrelenting drive to • Olam employees launched a women’s resource group improve safety through ‘An Even Safer Olam’ campaign. in 2013 with the name GROW (Globally Reaching Olam • Commitment to human rights as guided by the UN Women) which now extends from the USA to Africa. Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact, GROW gives the organisation the tools and resources and the International Labour Organisation. This needed to support women in the workplace and boost includes compliance with relevant laws and the number of women in leadership. international agreements covering wages, working • To address issues relevant to working women today, hours and conditions, freedom of association, collective GROW offers mentoring programmes and education bargaining, and discrimination. A company-wide Fair symposiums on topics ranging from professional Employment Policy is due to be launched in 2018. growth to work-life balance issues with clear goals for • Grievance mechanisms and whistle-blower rights professional development. A keynote speaker series accessible to all employees without retribution as brings in notable female leaders to share their outlined in the Olam Code of Conduct. experiences about what has worked for them. GROW is • Regular and open engagement with unions and not limited to helping women within the organisation; worker committees. the network also holds sport activities as well as social • Advancing health, wellness and nutrition for the events to raise awareness for local women’s non-profit workforce, especially in upstream operations in and charity organisations. emerging markets. Challenges and influencing factors in 2017 • Downward pressure on commodity prices coupled with cost efficiency drives can impact teams. Reduced scores were seen in 2017 in employee engagement. The launch of our new purpose – ‘Re-imagining Global Agriculture: Growing Responsibly’ – is a critical facet of improving engagement. We are also now starting to measure engagement more formally across all employees. • Embedding a safety culture in emerging markets where there is less focus culturally on safe behaviour – for example, driving within the speed limit, wearing of seat belts. Tragically, 7 fatalities occured in 2017 primarily through transportation-related incidents. Other causes included incorrect wearing of safety equipment and supervision issues. All incidents were assessed and corrective actions immediately undertaken. In 2017, Olam moved to its new headquarters with a dedicated Learning Academy and library. Spotlight on training in Trading In 2017 the Trading Community of Practice focused scenarios, followed by review and analysis. Each on building superior capability for proprietary traders. trader is also assigned to a mentor over a 3-month The in-house training module for junior traders was period with assignments which must be successfully designed by chief traders with the Head of Learning completed before passing to the next stage. For senior and Development. Taking Olam specific case studies, traders, there is renewed focus on behavioural aspects the training sessions are interactive and based on – attitude, risk taking, efficiencies, analysis etc. A ‘light’ discussion and sharing. One module involves a live programme is aimed at those who support traders in simulation with traders taking positions on different Finance and Risk functions. olamgroup.com 69 Human Capital continued Spotlight on future leaders Eleven MBA graduates were recruited from across the workshops, and even time at the trading desks. world for the Olam Future Leaders Programme and For me, the most exciting was gaining a first-hand given the opportunity to be exposed to numerous experience of what it is like to be a coffee trader. aspects of Olam’s business. By establishing networks “The next step in my learning process will take me to and relationships they will be in a strong position to the Netherlands, where I will be working at the Cocoa follow a career path for the next 3-5 years. Future processing factory in Koog aan de Zaan, after which Leader Sander Clevers gives an insight into training: I will learn about the marketing and trade of our Edible “Our second stint was in Vietnam at Olam’s pepper Nuts commodities at the trading office in Rotterdam. plantation. We gained knowledge of the processes of “This opportunity is the best that I could have hoped planning and preparing the land, enriching the soil, for to jumpstart my career. It has taken me places and maintaining a good relationship with the local I would never have imagined or seen. The Future community. I was not only enriched in the knowledge Leaders Programme fast tracks my learning curve required for my profession but also in other aspects of and personal development. I would recommend Vietnam as we soaked in the culture and cuisine. this programme to anyone who is driven, adventurous “Back in Singapore we gained further knowledge and interested in pursuing a career in agriabout the aspects of corporate management. This commodity business.” module consists of finance lectures, risk management Our shared values Our 6 values and everyday behaviours build a distinctive culture, shaping how we work, and set the standard for what it means to be part of Olam: Entrepreneurship Stretch and Ambition Partnerships We dare to dream Our passion for doing more We strive to develop positive and long-term relationships with our partners Mutual Respect and Teamwork Integrity Ownership We treat each other the way We stay true to what we believe, We take responsibility as we want to be treated say and do if we were the founders of the business 70 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Spotlight on living wages At the coffee plantations in Tanzania (Aviv) and increasing a salary can be more cost-effective and Zambia (NCCL), Olam employs over 1,300 workers achieve more focused impact. from the surrounding villages and many more at At Aviv, for instance, we have helped workers enroll harvest. Whilst this has brought economic and skills in the Community Health Fund. This covers basic benefits, the team is exploring whether the legal minimum medical expenses for the worker plus 5 family wage could also be considered a ‘living wage.’ dependents for one year. Equally, we are giving A study using the Anker methodology showed a gap, workers guidance on how to grow more nutritious so the plantations are looking at ways to reduce it food in their smallholdings; as well as improving within the parameters of business viability. Indeed, in health and sanitation in the villages through various absolute terms, simply raising wages is often not the activities related to the Alliance for Water Stewardship solution. Improving living conditions rather than just (AWS) Standard. Relevant HR, CR&S and MATS1 material area goals and progress Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives ​ 2020 target ​ 2017 achievement ​ 2020 target Goal: Good health and wellbeing (Material area: Livelihoods – some overlap with Labour) Ensuring provision of 100% of Olam’s direct Incorporated WASH into upstream Behind target access to health, water and operations are compliant Community of Practice for sanitation infrastructure, with the Olam WASH implementation. as a minimum, meets the Standard. For processing plants in FY18 Olam WASH Standard • Formalise Olam WASH Standard ​ ​ • Prepare implementation plan ​ Goal: Zero-harm workplace (Material area: Labour) Eliminate serious incidents Reduce LTIFR to 0.3 LTIFR (YTD) was reduced to 0.31 at Ahead of target in Olam processing the Tier 1 plants, which is a 26% operations (50% reduction reduction. ​ from 2015 actual). ​ ​ Reduce LTIFR in OlamPrimary focus in 2017 continued to Behind target managed plantations, be in Olam-managed plantations, concessions and farms concessions and farms. by 50% from baseline Recalculated baseline based on ​ determined in 2016. ​ business change. ​ Sustain health and safety All locations routinely Tier 1 plants in full compliance with On target behaviour change report unsafe acts and Olam Imperative 3 Reporting, programme unsafe conditions, and Recording, Review and Compliance near misses. Checklist. Some key Tier 2 and Tier 3 sites starting to report following implementation of Safety ​ ​ programme. ​ Goal: Respect for workers’ rights (Material area: Labour) Olam complies with ILO No moderate or severe Identified 5 breaches related to Behind target principles breaches of compliance non-payment of over-time. reported or observed Also identified issues around in audits. documentation quality, safety ​ ​ training and controls. ​ Diversity strategies 100% of businesses with Fair employment policy to launch On target are implemented >100 employees to have a in 2018 documented and reported ​ diversity strategy. ​ ​ 1. Manufacturing & Technical Services olamgroup.com 71 Social Capital Creating social value is at the heart of our business model, minimising risks and opening up partnership opportunities. Given our dependence on 4.76 million farmers, the vast Social Capital – desired outcomes majority being smallholders in emerging markets, the • Farmers and associated agri-industries are prosperous definition of Social Capital by the OECD as “networks and stay in business together with shared norms, values and understandings • Young people see farming and related activities as a that facilitate co-operation within or among groups” is viable career, ensuring long-term security of supply particularly resonant. Much of our focus therefore is on lifting smallholders out of poverty. To secure the crops for • Women farmers in emerging markets are empowered, customers tomorrow, we must help rural communities to boosting production and quality thrive today. In turn, this delivers economic value for the • Farmers are healthy and educated commercially, countries where we operate. reaching their production potential • Risks such as child labour are minimised and Large-scale farmers also face many challenges. Often 3rd mitigated, protecting reputation or 4th generation family farms, they have grown through hard work, perseverance and sacrifice. While Olam’s • Communities around Olam operations see the extensive farmgate experience means we are well-placed company as a positive force and people want to work to support farmers from America to Zimbabwe, we must for us work in partnership to achieve the scale of transformational • Governments see Olam contributing to supporting change required in the agricultural sector. society and the economy, and welcome growth • Stakeholders see Olam as a reliable and trusted Currently, there is no single methodology to put a implementation partner, opening opportunities to financial value on all elements identified under Social scale up initiatives Capital creation. So, as a ‘stepping stone’, we are measuring the investments we make in social • Stakeholders understand our business and the external infrastructure and impacts on livelihoods. challenges we face. Social Capital FY17 vs FY16 FY17 FY16 comparison S$82,098(‘000) in tax paid globally (Olam Group) S$48,420 (‘000)​ S$652,171(‘000) in salaries and employee benefits (Olam Group)​ S$571,963 (‘000)​ 4.76 million farmer suppliers (5,600 large-scale and 4.33 million 4.752 million small-scale) 363,000 farmers in the Olam Livelihood Charter (OLC) 302,500 49 OLC programmes in 21 countries 44 programmes in 19 countries 61,500 women farmers in the OLC 55,200 women farmers 40 partnerships under the OLC alone 30 partnerships 250,000 people in Africa reached under the Healthy Living Campaign Reached 190,000 Supporting 10 postgraduate scholarships for Catalysing Change in Africa 10 scholarships​ at Harvard Business School, Lee Kuan Yew University, London School of Economics and Political Science, and INSEAD​ 72 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 7th year of the Olam Livelihood Charter (OLC) The OLC is Olam’s award-winning programme “Olam knows well the wide array of actors in these providing holistic economic, social and environmental countries’ agricultural value chains, as finding support to smallholder farmers, and reassurance to sustainable ways to work with them is at the core of its customers. Since 2011, we have gradually increased operations. With Olam, CGAP will be mapping these the number of farmers embraced in Africa, Asia and enterprises’ and end-users’ profiles in several South America to just under 363,000. agricultural value chains. We will use this information to Over 1,000 sustainability experts work with facilitate dialogue with partners in the finance and communities all year round, fulfilling the Charter’s 8 telecom sectors to propose new business model Principles: provision of finance; improved yield; good concepts that could deliver greater service value to labour practices; market access; quality; traceability; smallholder families and rural businesses. social investment and reduced environmental impact. “Our partnership in Africa was the result of conversations that started at a conference in Vietnam. Partnering for financial inclusion Following a proposal in July, it took a little while to get In Africa, smallholders do not tend to have bank going as the CR&S team had to get the buy in from the accounts, so payment has typically been in cash business unit teams on the ground but Olam is forward which makes saving and transaction traceability looking and open to experimentation. We’re pleased harder. In Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, Olam is working with the progress so far.” with the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) housed at the World Bank to help improve the take-up Emilio Hernandez of Digital Financial Services. Even when smallholders Senior Financial Sector Specialist CGAP have a mobile phone, cash transactions are still preferred due to a lack of mobile money agents nearby and merchants that accept e-money. CGAP is now working with Olam to identify new agent and merchant models with rural partners: Women cocoa farmers in an OLC programme in Indonesia learn how to graft to improve yields.​ olamgroup.com 73 Social Capital continued Management approach • In own operations assess social risks, and adhere to Free Prior and Informed Consent procedures. Ensure • Pursue 2020 Goals laid out under CR&S, MATS and 1 the development and implementation of a Social HR material areas – Livelihoods, Food Security and Management Plan, incorporating a continual Nutrition, and Labour2 improvement loop • Put integrity, openness and fair play at the heart of all • Expect adherence to human rights across supply relationships. Be proactive when issues arise chains (‘No Exploitation’) as per UN Declaration • Uphold all laws, including compliance and securities on Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental laws, bribery and corruption Principles and Rights and Work, and UN Global • Help to catalyse food crop production in areas where Compact we operate for domestic food security • Participate in Private and Public partnerships to enable • Expand the Olam Livelihood Charter programme, initiatives to scale up and replicate. promoting holistic long-term support tackling economic, social and environmental issues • Promote gender empowerment • Encourage good health and well-being through better nutrition e.g. via crop diversification, healthy foods, and through access to safe water and sanitation Relevant CR&S material area goals and progress Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives ​ 2020 target ​ 2017 achievement ​ 2020 target Goal: Economic opportunity and inclusion (Material area: Livelihoods) Smallholder farmers are Bring 1 million hectares under 867,000 ha managed by On target supported through the the OLC with an estimated 363,000 smallholders (up from Olam Livelihood Charter 500,000 farmers. 671,800 ha managed by (OLC) principles ​ ​ 302,550 smallholders)​ ​ Suppliers comply with the 100% of priority products 70% (up from 58%) of priority On target Olam Supplier Code covered by the Supplier Code: products ​ cashew, cocoa, coffee, cotton, ​ hazelnut, palm and rubber. ​ ​ Women are economically Support 100,000 women to Total women empowered in On target empowered within our access economic opportunities, Olam’s supply chains: supply chain including female farmers, 13,300 in primary workforce processors, distributors, and workers supported or employed 61,500 OLC female farmers by Olam. Total = 74,800 (Total does not include women in secondary (seasonal) workforce e.g. cashew, coffee) ​ ​​ ​ Elimination No breaches in compliance FLA identified issues of child Behind target of child labour reported or observed in audits. labour in the hazelnut supply chain – see Edible Nuts segment. No breaches were identified by the FLA in the ​ ​ cocoa monitoring. ​ 1. Manufacturing and Technical Services. 2. Material areas for FY17. New Material Areas agreed for FY18. See Group CEO Review. 74 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Examples of challenges and influencing • Speed of transformational change – while we see factors in 2017 improvements in farmer livelihoods and communities in programmes of 2 years or more, many are still • Low commodity prices for crops such as coffee, cocoa classified as living in poverty. Issues inhibiting the and rubber impact farmer livelihoods. Large-scale process include mastering new agricultural practices, farmers are also facing economic challenges culture, literacy etc • Weather e.g. drought in Tanzania, Brazil and India, • Increasing scale of support – how to reach (physically affected smallholder cashew, coffee and sugar farmers and financially) smallholders • Infrastructure issues are slowly improving in emerging • Challenge of balancing social development (particularly markets, especially mobile coverage; but access to extreme poverty) with protecting Natural Capital water and electricity hamper efforts to lift farmers out • Challenge of all stakeholders agreeing where corporate of poverty. In Sub-Saharan Africa, 609 million people responsibility starts and stops (e.g. origins where (6 out of 10) do not have access to electricity, and in Olam is providing healthcare education and other South Asia, 343 million people do not have access social infrastructure) to electricity.1 • Tensions between driving short-term cost efficiencies and long-term investment in programmes. School girls in a Nigerian sesame community: Under the Olam Livelihood Charter, social needs are supported, such as school infrastructure. This helps to reduce the risk of child labour and enable rural communities to thrive. 1. World Bank State of Electricity Access Report 2017 olamgroup.com 75 Social Capital continued Relevant CR&S material area goals and progress Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives ​ 2020 target ​ 2017 achievement ​ 2020 target Goal: Economic opportunity and inclusion (Material area: Livelihoods) Continued People have improved 750,000 beneficiaries, including 363,000 farmers have benefited On target livelihood potential through an estimated 500,000 from livelihood support through (once wider enhanced skills, economic smallholders, plus other the OLC. impact resources and beneficiaries of capacity‑ 11,800 villagers in palm and methodology infrastructure building, cooperative support, rubber Social Contracts, and or agreed) school support, access to benefitting from employment. finance, producer goods, and economic infrastructure 2,600 farmers under GRAINE initiatives. programme in Gabon active in crop production. Aviv in Tanzania provided employment and social investment to 4 villages of 2,064 households = approx. 8,250 people based on around 4 people per household. NCCL in Zambia provided employment and social infrastructure including a school and clinic, positively impacting over 30 villages – benefiting approx. 16,620 people (based ​ ​ on 4 people per household). ​ Goal: Good health and wellbeing (Material area: Livelihoods – some overlap with Labour) People have improved Olam Healthy Living Campaign Reached 250,000 people On target health and wellbeing positively impacting on 250,000 in Africa: people, including community 63,202 direct beneficiaries (e.g. beneficiaries of health, water HIV/AIDS sensitisation, and sanitation infrastructure, diagnosis and testing = 20,900 health education campaigns, people; malaria sensitisation HIV testing, health check-ups, and screening = 24,300) access to insurance initiatives, and similar services. Indirect beneficiaries due to construction / renovation of borehole and latrine facilities ​ ​ in communities in Africa. ​ Goal: Food security and nutrition (Material area: Food Security) Workers are educated Conduct nutrition education or Many businesses undertaking On target on, and can access, access initiatives for the initiatives locally on health and nutritious foods workplace for 100% of target well-being. Assessing further businesses, to be determined in for consideration and ​ the Standard. ​ implementation in FY18.​ ​ Increased availability Produce 40 billion servings of 68 billion servings of fortified Exceeded target​ of micronutrient micronutrient fortified foods. foods in Africa, including yogurt fortified foods drinks, oil, flour, tomato paste, ​ ​ milk, biscuits etc. ​ 76 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Natural Capital “The erosion of Natural Capital poses threats to continued national and global prosperity, yet political and economic systems are unprepared for responding to that risk.”1​ As detailed in our new Living Landscapes Policy profits of 44% for utilities and 116% for food and (developed in 2018), our ambitious vision is to be a net beverage companies; hence our focus on water positive company which means adopting principles to put stewardship3. back more into food and fibre systems than we take out While there is currently no standardised methodology for – critical if we are to feed an extra 2 billion people by putting a value on the earth’s ecosystem services, our 2050. We are committed to aligning our goals with approach is being informed by the Task Force of Climate internationally agreed science-based targets which Related Disclosures (TCFD), Impact Valuation includes operating within Planetary Boundaries and Roundtable (IVR), membership of the Natural Capital reducing our contribution to the 13% of Greenhouse Gas Coalition, and The Prince’s Accounting for Sustainability emissions contributed by farms globally2. Project (A4S). We are using Life Cycle Assessment Accounting for the current and potential financial value of methodology to calculate the related environmental Natural Capital is critical for future-proofing our business. impact linked to the production of commodities, using For example, a 2017 study on potential impacts of water the indicators most material to our business: Climate risks on business profits revealed that if the full costs of Change, Water Depletion and Land Use. We are already water availability and water quality impairment had to be making considerable progress. absorbed, this would equate to a decline in average Natural Capital FY17 vs FY16 For more detail, see our GRI report at olamgroup.com FY17 FY16 comparison 22.53 million MT product volume from 12.4 million hectares (ha) land 14.4 MT product volume from (owned and third party managed) 9.74 million ha 2.46 million ha managed by Olam directly; 0.86 ha under OLC farmers; 2.41 million managed by Olam; 9 million ha under other third party suppliers​ 0.67 million under OLC; 6.67 million under third parties​ Protection of 101,000 ha of High Conservation Value land (coffee, palm 84,700 ha​ and rubber) 1.14 tonnes CO2e per metric tonne (MT) of product produced from Olam21% increase managed concessions, plantations and farms 0.21 tonnes CO2e per MT of product produced from Olam processing 20% improvement CDP reporting: Climate change = B-; Water = B; Forests3 = AClimate Change decreased from B to B-; Water improved from Bto B; Forests improved from B to A-; Total value chain water intensity: 3,587m3 per MT product 17% improvement 70% Supplier Code coverage of priority volumes (cocoa, coffee, cotton, 58% coverage​ cashew, hazels, palm and rubber) 1. Green Economy Coalition 2. World Resources Institute 3. Trucost olamgroup.com 77 Natural Capital continued Minimising Natural Capital impacts • Be clear on unacceptable practices; particularly – desired outcomes No HCV, No HCS & No Peat (see Living Landscapes Policy) • Impacts from agriculture on climate, water, forests and • Increase levels of biodiversity to improve pollination other resources stay within Planetary Boundaries and minimise chemical pesticides (employ Integrated • Profitable and sustainable orchards, plantations and Pest Management techniques. Limit to exceptional farms for Olam and our third-party suppliers circumstances the use of WHO Class 1A and • The living world and ecosystem services are Class 1B pesticides) regenerated for long-term food security and • Ensure judicious use of inorganic fertilisers and commercial volumes promote organic composting • Better crop resilience in the face of climate change • Actively engage with stakeholders, particularly when • Equitable use of reso urces at a landscape level assessing Natural Capital trade-offs when creating avoiding societal risks. financial and social value • Collaborate in sector initiatives for scale e.g. co-chair Approach overall the Climate Smart Agriculture working group under the • Pursue 2020 CR&S goals for identified material areas World Business Council for Sustainable Development. under Natural Capital: Climate Change, Land, Water1 Vision is to make 50% more nutritious food available • Follow and implement Policies, Codes and Standards and reduce agricultural emissions by 50% by 2030 applicable to Olam-owned and third party operations • Invest in research and development (Living Landscapes Policy; Plantations, Concessions • Support development of Natural Capital accounting and Farms Code; Supplier Code; and specific protocols. Standards and Operating Procedures) • Aim to achieve maximum productivity with minimum impact (e.g. more crop per drop) • Incorporate climate, water and soil risks into Enterprise Risk Management procedures. Spotlight on soil “Soils are a key natural capital asset yet their valuation is often overlooked. The most prominent economic value that soils deliver is in the range of functions that support crop growth and food production. Additionally, agricultural soils are intrinsically linked with multiple positive and negative impact drivers including GHG emissions, water pollution, and flood/drought mitigation. Lancaster University are pleased to be working with Olam on a Natural Environment Research Council funded project to address the need for soil natural capital guidance in the agri-food sector by mapping the evidence chain between soil natural assets and benefits derived. This will help realise the comprehensive valuation of soils needed to create sustainable and resilient agri-food value chains.” Dr Jess Davies Lecturer in Sustainability, Pentland Centre for Sustainability in Business, Lancaster Environment Centre Collecting water samples directly from the California almond orchard drip lines to test for overall water quality. 1. Material Areas for FY17. New Material Areas agreed for FY18. See Group CEO Review. 78 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Owned operations • Select and manage land responsibly, in such a way as to maintain or enhance critical habitats, regenerate the natural capital of soil, water and ecosystems; and store carbon • Implement international standards and codes where applicable, including RSPO, FSC®, PEFC, SRP, AWS and IFC Performance Standards 100,000 OLC smallholders trained in climate • Require Environmental Impact Assessments, including mitigation practices HCV assessments verified to international norms • Establish integrated water resource management and encourage water stewardship where appropriate • Increase the efficiency of all resources used including soil, fuel, energy, water and land • Increase the proportion of renewable and non-fossil fuels and energy and utilise by-products for energy. 712,000 shade tree seedlings distributed to For third party operations OLC farmers • Progress actions to end deforestation across smallholder supply chains as per the Olam Living Landscapes Policy • Work with customers, partners and other third parties, maximise farmgate presence to train suppliers on requirements and address underlying factors required to eliminate these practices from supply chains – e.g. poverty • If unacceptable practices are reported, assess the extent and nature of non-compliance and establish a time-bound plan to address the issue and, where necessary, remediate material negative impacts of non-compliance. We will disengage from suppliers who are unable to demonstrate positive steps to eliminate unacceptable practices in a time-bound manner • Harness technology – e.g. Olam Farmer Information System to map individual farmer suppliers and buying stations, and identify hot spots • Put in place viable monitoring and evaluation procedures with audits, spot checks, and satellite monitoring. Challenges and influencing factors in 2017 • A year of extreme weather events – third hottest year on record1 with reduced water availability for many farmers • Lack of globally agreed definitions for complex issues like deforestation • Ongoing issues of pests and disease • Limited leverage to prevent suppliers in smallholder supply chains from encroaching into forests, under continuing pressure to increase agricultural income • Attendance, capacity issues and uptake of training by smallholders – requires repeated training, model farms • Resource limitations to verify on-the-ground compliance with Olam Supplier Code and product policies in highly fragmented third party supply chains. Reliance on satellite technology and industry initiatives • Need to decouple business growth from GHG emissions through science-based targets. Sesame farmer in Nigeria. 1. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. olamgroup.com 79 Natural Capital continued Supporting Science-Based Targets “By 2050, we aspire to be carbon In 2016, Olam signed up to the Science-Based positive in operations, requiring Targets Initiative which seeks to increase the number of companies reducing their Greenhouse a 5% emissions reduction Gas (GHG) emissions. This is to ensure alignment to a 2 degree Celsius global warming scenario, per year from 2031 – 2050.” and companies should pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius. At the beginning of 2018 we submitted these targets to the Initiative and are awaiting their feedback. As part of this process, during 2017 we undertook a review and set ourselves stretch targets to reduce GHGs by 50% by 2030 both in our own operations and in our supply chain. This requires a reduction of 3.85% per year. By 2050, we aspire to be carbon positive in operations, requiring a 5% emissions reduction per year from 2031 – 2050. We are developing stretch targets for our supply chain. We are also exploring how to set similar operational targets for water by reviewing global regions at risk of water stress and agriculture-linked pollution. Olam Living Landscapes Policy – seeking net positive impact In 2017, we consulted widely with experts and civil our net-positive contribution includes thousands of society on a forest policy to cover all commodities in jobs, social infrastructure, High Conservation Value Olam’s portfolio. We concluded that a Policy based areas and anti-poaching enforcement, and net positive narrowly on unacceptable land use management climate impact.1 practices will not be sufficient to meet the challenges Going forward, each Olam business will take a riskof deforestation and ecosystem degradation. based approach to establish strategies and plans As part of our ambition to re-imagine global agriculture appropriate to our role in growing, sourcing, processing we have therefore adopted a Living Landscapes and trading each crop and commodity. Time-bound Policy. We aim to deliver a triple positive impact in the commitments are incorporated into the Policy (2018 and places where we work to create and sustain living 2020). To ensure successful application of this Policy landscapes, where profitable farms and plantations, group-wide we will develop and implement a suitable thriving rural communities, and healthy ecosystems process to monitor compliance with the Policy. Reporting coexist. For example, around our plantations in Gabon on progress will begin in the FY18 Annual Report. See olamgroup.com for more detail. 1. High Carbon Stock Science Study Group. Independent Technical Report 2015. 80 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Relevant CR&S material area goals and progress Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives ​ 2020 target ​ 2017 achievement ​ 2020 target Goal: Reduced greenhouse gas emissions (Material area: Climate change) Increased energy During FY17, developing Science-based targets On target​ efficiency science-based targets for total submitted. FY17 to be used as Olam GHG emissions from new baseline.​ which the 2020 metric will be ​ determined. ​ ​ Avoided GHG emissions All Olam farms, plantations and GHG emissions for all Tier 1 On target​ Tier 1 facilities to have sites are monitored on a implemented their 2020 GHG monthly basis. Revised reduction plans: reduction plans to be 1. Operational efficiency developed in FY17 in line with science-based targets. 2. Avoid High Carbon Stocks for land development Coffee implemented 3. Climate-Smart Agricultural performance scorecard. All practices. other BUs developing scorecard as part of CR&S ​ ​ strategies. ​ Increased share of 25% of energy derived from Share of renewable and On target​ renewable energy renewable and biomass biomass sources stand at 16%. sources at Olam’s Tier 1 Plan for achieving 25% share facilities (from 2015 baseline – of renewable and biomass 15%). energy sources will be prepared ​ ​ in 2018. ​ Goal: Reduced greenhouse gas emissions (Material area: Climate change) Reduced agricultural Implement the Olam 2020 Climate-Smart Agriculture On target​ vulnerability to climate Climate-Smart Agriculture measures incorporated into risks for OLC farmers (CSA) Programme. OLC principles of Environment, and Olam-managed Resilience impact to be Social Investment and Improved plantations, concessions launched in FY17 as part of Yield. and farms WBCSD CSA programme. CSA measures incorporated into Olam Plantations, ​ ​ Concessions and Farms Code. ​ Goal: Sustainable development and use of land-based ecosystems (Material area: Land) Protection of ecosystems, 100% of Olam-managed Due Diligence, Environmental On target high carbon stock forests, plantations, concessions and and Social Impact Assessments and high conservation farms to have implemented their (ESIA) completed for all value forests Land Management Plan. plantations currently in operation. Living Landscapes Policy developed. Participation in Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 and Cocoa & Forests Initiative on ​ ​ deforestation-free production. ​ 1. World Resources Institute olamgroup.com 81 Natural Capital continued Relevant CR&S material area goals and progress Continued Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives ​ 2020 target ​ 2017 achievement ​ 2020 target Goal: Sustainable development and use of land-based ecosystems (Material area: Land) Continued No community based 100% of Olam-managed Addressing historic claim at On target conflict on Olam-managed plantations, concessions and Laos coffee plantation. plantations, concessions farms to have implemented their All grievances on plantations in and farms FPIC process and their Social Gabon in process or resolved Action Plan. – see Grievance log on olamgroup.com for detail. (As of February 2017 anonymous ​ ​ claims can also be submitted.)​ ​ Reduce indirect land 100% of third party supplier All priority products are working On target impacts from third-party volume complies with the with suppliers to implement the farmers and suppliers Supplier Code based on a Supplier Code. prioritised product approach. 70% of priority product volumes Priority products: cashew, procured by origins in FY17 are cocoa, coffee, cotton, hazelnut, covered by the Code. ​ palm, rubber. ​ ​ Goal: Sustainable use of water resources (Material area: Water) Increased water use New science-based water Science-based targets have On target​ efficiency in Olam’s direct targets for 2020 to be been developed based on operations developed in 2017. water risk assessments. Improvement plans to be ​ ​ created during FY18.​ ​ ​ 10% reduction in process water Water consumption intensities Exceeded target​ intensity in Olam Tier 1 factories for Tier 1 facilities are monitored from 2013 baseline which was on a monthly basis. 3.1 m3 (tonne). FY17 = 2.24 m3 (tonne) a 28% ​ ​ improvement on FY13. ​ Increased water 100% of priority supply chains Assessed water risk of OLC On target​ use efficiency in priority to have Water Resource programmes, training over supply chains Management plans. 141,390 smallholders on sustainable water management ​ ​ activities. ​ ​ 1. World Bank State of Electricity Access Report 2017 82 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Intellectual Capital If we are to truly re-imagine the global agri-sector then Intellectual Capital must be prized and nurtured across our entire business from the farm, through trading, to logistics and processing. This is made possible by the skills and competencies ground experience of our talent base, particularly in the inherent in our Human Capital, as well as dedication to tough-terrain emerging markets where they have grown talent attraction and retention. But we must also recognise highly profitable businesses. Through the ‘The Olam that as the world continues to experience rapid changes Way’, we have carefully applied our Intellectual Capital to driven by technology, the farms and factories of the future build a highly defensible business where we have a may not look like those of today and that new skills, unique participation portfolio. competencies and Intellectual Capital will be required. Intellectual Capital – desired outcomes Intellectual Capital is defined by the International Integrated Reporting Council as organisational, • Consistently out-perform the sector through strategy knowledge-based intangibles including intellectual and innovation property, such as patents, copyrights, software; • Partner of choice for customers through differentiation organisational capital such as tacit knowledge, systems • Agile business to maximise emerging trends and adapt and protocols; and intangibles associated with brand and to rapidly changing business environment reputation – we have extracted the latter as a separate • Sustainable sourcing scaled much more quickly capital given its importance. At this stage we are still • Brand equity and reputation grows considering impact accounting methodologies over and • Inspired employees strive for more above financial reporting. • Employer of choice A critical contributing factor to our Intellectual Capital • Become trusted implementation partner for has been our focused strategy and differentiated customers, NGOs, development finance institutions, business model, coupled with the strength and on-thegovernments etc. Supporting Intellectual Capital The Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security 2017 “Winning the Olam Prize was an honour. It’s great to see that private sector companies like Olam are supporting research that could positively impact the lives of farms in Senegal. The Prize money will help us build awareness of our durum wheat discovery so that more farmers are able to adapt to a changing climate while also boosting their incomes and creating an additional source of food.” Dr Filippo Bassi ICARDA Dr Filippo Bassi (third from left) and team from the International Centre for Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA). They won the Olam Prize for Innovation in Food Security in 2017 for using non-GM molecular breeding techniques to develop a set of durum wheat varieties that can withstand constant 35-40 degree heat along the savannah of the Senegal River basin. The break-through could potentially boost the income for 1 million farming families. Intellectual Capital created FY17 FY17 ​ 2 new R&D / Innovation Centres (USA and Gabon) ​ 3 patents granted (57 pending) ​ Olam AtSource product development ​ Over 50 information technology initiatives started ​ US$50,000 prize for Innovation in Food Security award granted to ICARDA team​ ​ olamgroup.com 83 Intellectual Capital continued Management approach Of critical importance is how technology can drive the pace of change so badly required among smallholder • Identify and focus on long-term drivers of intrinsic value supply chains. With more than 4 million farmers in our • Follow the Olam Way 2.0 (see Group CEO Review) indirect sourcing network, very few companies have the • Support and strengthen governance, and risk systems same number of touch points through which to cascade and processes to enable Intellectual Capital to grow change. The DTF identified 4 key areas: responsibly. Equally improve operational excellence and project management processes • Increasing the opportunity to sell directly to Olam rather than having to go through intermediaries (see the • Live values of being a disruptor and entrepreneur while Olam Direct story on page 30) assessing and monitoring risk exposures within risk appetite and tolerance • Improving yields through crop analysis and best practice guidance • Advance digital across the business to enable better integrated thinking through sharper and more holistic/ • Empowering farmers by creating a conducive integrated analysis environment for the exchange of information – now possible with just a mobile phone if the right • Listen to stakeholders, apply learnings infrastructure is in place • Continuously invest in growing the knowledge of • Improving farmers’ access to technology, particularly employees (new Olam Learning Academy) through through mobile phones which in turn can bring access internal programmes and external experts to wider banking services and financial inclusion. • Invest in Research and Development for new products and sustainable solutions Challenges include: • Drive Communities of Practice to achieve respective • Culture: success of digitalisation requires a big ask of visions through enhanced competencies (e.g. World’s all stakeholders in terms of being open amid change Best Planter, World’s Best Trader) and being receptive to new ideas • Develop partnerships with research institutions and • Infrastructure development: requires working closely other expert organisations to expand Intellectual with Telecoms suppliers and governments need to Capital base. These include Agropolis Foundation, invest in the infrastructure base. Even SMS networks CSIRO, Center for Land-Based Learning, ICARDA, are good enough as a starting link to many services. Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, University of • Through collaboration we can increase the pace of California, Davies and many more change – and potentially have wider economic benefits • Ensure employees uphold the Olam Code of Conduct as local hotbeds of tech savvy communities establish which stipulates protection of Olam’s Intellectual themselves and come up with even more solutions. Property and equally that Olam will respect the Intellectual Property rights of third parties From smart phones to Smart Farms • Explore additional methodologies to better account for • We are developing an autonomous technology called Intellectual Capital, especially Olam’s intellectual Vertebrate Pest Detection and Deter System (VPDad) contribution in partnerships. for detecting and sustainably deterring animals like elephants from destroying crops. It is being developed Challenges and influencing factors in 2017 in collaboration with the Commonwealth Scientific and • New skill-sets increasingly required – e.g. data Industrial Research Organization of Australia (CSIRO). analysts, application developers The technology uses several reactive ‘sense-and-deter’ • The major challenges facing the sector, particularly for nodes that emit sounds and lights, warning animals Natural and Social Capital impacts, require much away from plantations without harm. greater pre-competitive collaboration which must be • AgriPal, a mobile app, is being developed to capture carefully managed to protect Intellectual Capital real-time data on the ground to monitor worker • Increasing cyber security threats productivity, crop production and quality, as well as nutrient and palm stress, enabling fast response. • Upgrading legacy systems for improved operational excellence. • The LeBamba Analytical Services Laboratory (LASL) in Gabon was constructed as a strategic move to further Using digital to re-imagine agriculture for enhance our Research and Development capabilities. smallholders It is planned to be the most state-of-the-art R&D centre in Africa. Phase 1 includes the analytical lab – water, Digitalisation was identified as a vision enabler so the fertiliser, soil and nutrients, tissue culture lab and Digital Task Force was established in 2017. Together with sections of seed production, breeding, agronomy and IT, it supports the business to realise disruptive ideas and precision agriculture. operational efficiencies, offering new revenue streams and cost savings through automation, e-commerce and sustainable sourcing. 84 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 From AtSource Olam smart phones to SmartIntellectual – harnessing Farms Capital from across the business Our Core Purpose • Manually checking of Re-imagining the progress of Global Agriculture individual oil •OnTo the principle better manage of transparency: hundreds of workers in plantations opens palmup the across trees valuable opportunity thousands to createis highly of hectares @ AgriPal captures real-time datamaterial, to monitor worker • Collating data and KPIs that are relevant differentiated time intensive. Intellectual Capitalcaptured Using images for Olam.by an productivity, crop production and quality, also and verifiable in order to track and guide Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), By embedding sustainability in our commercial the Olam Digital assessing sustainability moisture,for soilinitiatives temperature, nutrients different products in and Team developed technology to feed activities, refining our social and environmental these images to plant stress. many origins Other benefits include reduced fuel a Drone Imaging Platform powered policies, and developing our data management by Olam costs for supervisors who are no longer travelling • Footprinting our products with auditable methods Analytics. The capabilities, UAVs we are evolving ourtobusiness are able monitor model plantation to across the plantations day in, day out. • Packaging the key information for our customers operations capture value.at the same time every month or year and • To date there has been no analytical laboratory in a compelling and easily accessible way make proactive decisions based on the results of the in Africa that can provide reliable analysis with In Image 2017, weAnalytics. to develop started Benefits AtSource, include a major detection of illegal • Communicating both the challenges and consistent results and within acceptable cost innovation in sustainable product delivery activity in High Conservation Value Areas, which accurate opportunities of Olam’s complex world. structures. As part of the Olam Gabon Centre of enables Olamand crop count andyield our customers estimation,toandtrack product early warningon a path from responsible sourcing through of agronomical abnormalities difficult to spot in to a net OnExcellence programme, the principle of systemic theimpact: LeBamba Analytical Services Laboratory (LASL)1 was opened – Africa’s 58,000impact positive on people ha of planted and planet (see page 16). oil palm. • Generating understanding a detailedresearch of the most state-of-the-art and development For • The Olam, the development Vertebrate Pest Detectionof AtSource and Deter hassystem generated sustainability dimensions of our supply centre. Phase 1 of the Centre of Excellence chains to includes and disseminated (VPDaD), sustainability developed knowledge in cooperation from top to with the catalyse partnerships with customers and with the analytical lab – water, fertiliser, soil and nutrient other bottom of our organisation, Commonwealth Scientificacross 4 net positive and Industrial Research partners to achieve our goals. testing, a tissue culture lab, and sections on seed principles, Organizationand by its nature(CSIRO), of Australia and expansion consists of other into products Onproduction, the principlebreeding, agronomy and precision of regenerative action: several will continue reactive to do so: sense-and-deter nodes that emit agriculture. sounds and lights scaring elephants and other • Promoting a systematic focus across our Oncreatures the principle awayoffrommateriality: plantations without harm. AtSource products on key management practices • Understanding the expectations of stakeholders in that contribute to incremental improvements sustainable supply chains (e.g. peers, customers in performance. and civil society) • Creating a framework for producing net positive • Understanding the evolving global sustainability products, which contribute to prosperous farmers, standards in our sector thriving communities and healthy ecosystems in • Assessing how Olam can build a competitive living landscapes. advantage through differentiated sustainable AtSource has also helped Olam to upgrade our products contributing to positive impacts beyond capability to use digital technology to enhance compliance at farm level and at scale. transparency, inform decision-making and support collaboration with partners. Olam Farmer Information System – detailed mapping of smallholders Individual smallholder farms in remote rural regions By end of 2017 can now be GPS mapped and surveyed via an • Implemented across 23 countries with 162,500 Android app with the uploaded data harnessed to farmers registered provide tailored support for smallholders and more • 93,300 farms mapped in detail precise details to customers who need to make critical choices about financial interventions, such as agri• Aiming to reach 500,000 Olam farmers by 2020. training, school or healthcare infrastructure. • For cooperatives and farmer groups: commercial management services to better manage stock, creditor and debtor levels • For smallholders: detailed farm mapping for more tailored support including individual farm management plans, text advice and mobile payment wallets • For customers: improved transparency and intervention insight to reduce supply chain risk and improve funding efficiency. Cocoa farmer in Nigeria being shown how to use Olam Farmer Information System. olamgroup.com 85 Intangible Capital (Brand) In the very broadest sense, a brand is the focus for all the expectations and opinions held by customers, employees and other stakeholders about an organisation and its products and services. In 2017 Brand Finance ranked Olam 19th out of 100 Intangible Capital impacts in 2017 include: Singapore companies in its Brand Strength Index, giving • Appointment of CEO Sunny Verghese as Chair of the an A-rating. Aside from financial performance, other World Business Council for Sustainable Development factors contributing to Olam’s brand equity include: • Multiple Awards: • Emerging market insights, especially in Africa, after • SIAS Singapore Corporate Governance Award – 28 years of operating in developing countries Best Company in Consumer Staples • Unique farmgate presence to support improved • Top 20 company in Singapore Corporate practices and gain farmer loyalty Governance and Transparency Index (SGTI) • Leadership in sustainability • IR Society UK – Award for ‘Most effective integration • The Olam Way business model of sustainability into corporate communications’ 2017 International category • Our brands, particularly in the Packaged Foods Business and Olam Cocoa. • Singapore Apex Corporate Responsibility Awards (Global Compact Network Singapore) – Corporate Intangible Capital – desired outcomes Sustainability Award – Large Organisation • Brand equity increases • Ethical Corporation Responsible Business – OFIS • Known for being a responsible company Highly Commended Most Sustainable Innovation • Reduced cost of capital due to lower risk • ASEAN Business Awards – Runner Up Inclusive • Stakeholders feel comfortable partnering with us Business • Employees are proud to work for us. • Corporate & Financial Awards – Bronze for Best Printed Report – International category Management approach • CDP Awards – Best performance across • Robust systems and processes to minimise risks and programmes (Hong Kong and South East reputational threats (see page 84), summarised in the Asia region) Olam Code of Conduct • APEDA (India) Export Award (bronze) • Extensive direct stakeholder engagement and • Agreement with the NGO Mighty Earth regarding transparent approach on issues deforestation definitions and allegations • Consistent corporate communication that helps • As per our Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and stakeholders understand our business and the Corruption (ABC) Policy, we reinforced the importance challenges we face of ABC with employee training commencing in • Multiple leadership positions on industry platforms and December 2017 reaching 3,500 people and continuing associations including World Cocoa Foundation, RSPO, into 2018. Sustainable Rice Platform etc • Emphasis on Anti-Corruption and Bribery policies, as well as whistle-blowing procedures. Challenges and influencing factors in 2017 • NGO reports on deforestation in smallholder supply chains (see Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients, page 50) • Traditional and social media landscape is less discerning in some countries regarding veracity of statements • Constantly evolving reporting standards (note: in addition to this report, Olam has also submitted Olam Progıda in Turkey won 2 awards: An Efficiency Prize a separate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report from the Ministry of Science, Industry & Technology, and see olamgroup.com). a prize from the NGO ‘Kalder’. 86 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Manufactured Capital Investment in warehousing, road infrastructure, processing and other assets are essential to deliver quality products reliably to our customers around the world. This can impact on financial capital in the short term but Challenges and influencing factors in 2017 is essential for generating longer-term value. New • Requirement to reduce fixed capital intensity during developments must be undertaken in line with Social and agri-sector down cycle Natural Capital principles and regulations, reducing • Increased demands from customers for reduced negative impacts wherever possible. environmental footprints in manufacturing and logistics Manufactured capital – desired outcomes • Continuing to integrate acquisition sites. • Safe foods for customers and consumers Improvements across supply chains • Safe workplaces, machinery and transportation • Australia Almonds introduced new Weed Seeking • Globally competitive farming, processing and logistics Technology using infra-red cameras to sense the capabilities aligned to commercial objectives presence of weeds which then activate the sprayers, • Procurement efficiencies and economies of scale only applying herbicides in areas where weeds are • Capturing additional value through quality and present. This technology reduces chemical spraying by innovation. 28% reducing impacts on financial and natural capital. • As part of its continuous improvement programme, Approach Olam Cocoa initiated the replacement of a number of • Continuous improvement and upgrade initiatives to legacy systems to improve visibility, efficiency and drive capital productivity and cost efficiency procedures between major locations across Europe, • Vertical integration between crop production and the Americas, Africa and Asia. This will support its processing for quality, safety and cost advantages strategy of being a global integrated supplier and • FSSC 22000 or BRC certification for food processing sector leader in traceable and sustainable cocoa. • Ongoing investment in farming and manufacturing • The Monapo cashew processing unit in Mozambique technologies and equipment introduced 70% mechanisation in shelling and 100% • Replacement of manual systems by maximising mechanisation in sorting and grading, but without technology for improved accuracy, real time knowledge human and social capital trade off. It maintained its and efficiencies e.g. barcode driven plant maintenance workforce of over 1,500 casual workers by assigning app through SAP for maintenance, spares inventory them to other sections within the processing factory. and verification of fixed assets. Mechanisation has increased efficiencies and doubled production in the factory with plans to upgrade the entire facility to 100% mechanisation. Manufactured Capital FY17 vs FY16 FY17 FY16 comparison Supporting offices and networks in 66 countries 70​ Supporting 143 primary and 67 secondary 135 primary and 69 secondary processing plants (reclassification)​ New Animal Feed facilities in Nigeria​ ​ 4 cargo vessels chartered ​ 2 new Innovation Centres​ ​ New Olam International Headquarters in Singapore​ ​ olamgroup.com 87 Manufactured Capital continued • 4 cargo vessels are now chartered by Olam Chartering under a Joint Venture company called Stamford Manufacturing Operations and Procurement Panasia1. The ships will help to hedge against short Transformation programme freight positions and being relatively new are lower on sulphur and fuel emissions. Manufacturing Operations and Procurement plays a key role in supporting Olam’s vision. Four key • 1 new food processing site achieved certification in value drivers support the business agenda and 2017 – Nutrifoods Biscuits (Ghana) became the first deliver value: (i) Achieving Safety, Health, Quality biscuits manufacturing facility in West Africa to be & Supporting Sustainability (SHQ&S) leadership FSSC certified. 72% of relevant food processing (ii) Enabling business growth (iii) Driving capital facilities are now FSSC 2200 or BRC certified. productivity & (iv) Improving cost efficiencies. Factory of the Future We have instituted a transformation programme, The Digital Task Force and Manufacturing and Technical centred on establishing an Olam operating model in Services (MATS) function collaborated to see how tech manufacturing operations and procurement and can be applied to improve quality, consistency, machine achieving global excellence. The journey to efficiency and cost reduction. Projects included: best-in-class will follow an integrated roadmap Yield improvement through Internet of Things (IOT) and across several key initiatives and help achieve data analytics: For example, avoiding over-drying in excellence in these 4 value drivers. Strategic processing by optimising moisture. roadmaps are being developed for all areas and the theme for 2018 will be focused on laying the Production loss reduction through predictive foundations and building superior capabilities. capabilities: Motor breakdowns can be avoided using SMART sensors which help in predicting failure using IOT and data analytics. In the Malaysia Dairy plant, SMART sensors were installed on critical motors, helping to prevent breakdown and production loss. Ensuring electrical system (transformer) reliability through condition monitoring: Transformers are critical elements of the electrical system in manufacturing units. The SMART sensor provides visibility with respect to the health of the transformer thereby ensuring reliable power supply throughout the year. 1. 49% Olam Martial Gention joined Olam in 2017 as the new Global Head of Manufacturing & Technical Services Relevant CR&S material area goals and progress Outlook for 2016 – 2020 objectives 2020 target 2016 achievement 2020 target Goal: Safe and reliable foods for our customers Food processing facilities 100% of relevant processing Percentage of certified plants On target meet international quality facilities to be FSSC 22000 has increased from 82% to 84% and food safety standards or BRC certified. based on the number of sites as considered for FY16. However, following reclassification, the number of relevant sites has now increased from 57 to 67, making the percentage of certified plants 72%. The remaining sites should achieve certification over the next 2 years. 88 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Risk Management Olam has a rigorous risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and impact of risks, and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate impact.​ The process identifies risks from a top-down strategic • Risk limits are set as part of the annual budgeting perspective and a bottom-up business perspective. cycle, which are presented to the Board for approval. Overall responsibility to monitor and assess risk lies with These limits – outright, basis, structure, arbitrage and Olam’s independent risk function (Risk Office). Value-at-Risk (VaR) as well as credit and counterparty We take a holistic approach to enterprise-wide risk, limits – are set based on various factors such as risk monitoring across each value-chain step and a wide versus return, volatility of past earnings, adherence to range of both quantifiable and non-quantifiable risks. limits and maximum loss limits derived from scenario and stress-testing. The number of years in business, Risk Governance Structure strength of the management team, prevailing market conditions and the macro-economic outlook are • Olam has an institutionalised process in the also considered. governance of risk management matters: our Chief Risk & Compliance Officer (CRCO) is a member of the • The CRCO is mandated to allocate the risk capital Executive Committee and reports to both the CEO and across businesses considering the competitive the Chair of the Board Risk Committee (BRC), which position, trading and market conditions and the track comprises the Executive and Non-Executive Directors. record of each business. Performance is continuously monitored, and risk capital allocation is recalibrated • The BRC is also supported by the Executive Risk where necessary. The assigned limits are set at all Committee (ERC). The ERC comprises key executives levels of hierarchy within the structure, i.e. at businessfrom the senior management team who support the risk unit level, value-chain step level and at profit-centre governance process by promoting risk culture, approving level, as well as any other limits the Risk Office large exposures and mediating large breaches. deems appropriate. • The Risk Office reports to the CRCO and is responsible for identifying, assessing, measuring and monitoring risks, to provide Olam’s senior management and the Board with assurance that all the risks borne are within our risk tolerance. The Risk Office is responsible for risk monitoring and control on an independent basis and undertakes regular stress-testing of the company’s portfolio. Olam Risk Architecture Development Olam Risk Policy Risk Appetite Alignment to strategy 3 Year Strategic Plan Annual Risk and P&L Budgets Risk aggregation and Enterprise Risk Scorecard Group Risk Dashboard Risk Reporting & Stress monitoring (51 Risk Events) (16 Risk Events) Testing Qualitative assessments of Quantitive downside calculation Monitoring of limit adherence risk impact and likelihood and stress test olamgroup.com 89 Risk Management continued Enterprise Risk Management Olam’s Enterprise Risk Management framework defines 51 individual risks across 11 categories. Of the 51 risks, 16 are evaluated on a quantitative basis and represented in the company’s Group Risk Dashboard (GRD), the output of which is presented to the BRC each quarter. This report allows segmental analysis of earnings sensitivity for 12 of the 16 quantifiable risks at Cluster level, business unit level and at the value-chain step level and the remaining four at the company level. The Enterprise Risk Scorecard (ERS) is the result of an assessment of each of the 51 risks for likelihood of occurrence and impact. Each risk is evaluated for each Business Unit both on an inherent and residual basis using a traffic-light system of red-amber-green. Inherent risks are the threats that an activity poses in the absence of any mitigating factors in place; residual risks are those that remain after mitigations are considered. The ERS is also presented to the BRC on a quarterly basis which, in conjunction with the GRD assists the Board with (i) examining the effectiveness of the Olam’s risk management plans, systems, processes and procedures and (ii) reviewing company-wide risk policies, guidelines and limits, as well as risk exposure and risk treatment plans. The Board is responsible for approving the overall risk capital of the company at the start of the financial year. Risk capital, expressed as a percentage of the equity capital of the company, refers to the maximum potential loss if all the trading risks across all product-types and geographic regions materialise at the same time. Key controls and mitigations How Olam is positioned Trading risks Trading risks are controlled by regular monitoring of positions using industry-standard metrics. The annual risk budgeting process defines position and risk metric limits to control exposures. Olam hedges price risk on the world’s commodities exchanges, both through derivatives and tendering. Operational risks Field operating control and primary sourcing infrastructure are in place in every country where Olam operates. Our credit/counterparty rating system defines credit limits and controls, promoting fragmentation of credit exposure on short tenors. Insurance is taken to provide inventory cover as well as credit defaults. Currency risks Olam operates in many geographies and is therefore exposed to many different currencies. G7 currency hedging is performed by a centralised Treasury function and local currency limits in the origins and destinations are assigned to accommodate operational requirements. Agricultural risks We aim for transparency with stakeholders, addressing issues as they arise but also seeking to improve wider understanding of issues in agri-complex – we make information available Political & Sovereign risks We have a deep-seated presence in many countries of operation, built over many years, and have consequently gained substantial knowledge of local practices. We maintain global political risk and terrorism risk insurance. Regulatory & Compliance risks The Market Compliance Office is a global function whose primary role is to ensure that Olam is fully compliant within all external regulation. Capital Structure & Financing risks Olam has a strong base of long-term shareholders. We maintain strong banking relationships providing committed banking lines, thereby assuring good liquidity. Natural Perils Olam maintains insurance cover against risk of natural disasters, such as flood, fire, earthquake and storms. Other risks Succession plans are in place to provide a second line of leadership from with the Company’s Operating Committee and Management Committee. The Group employs IT security experts, as well as having in place IT cybersecurity infrastructure. Strategic risks All strategic risks are overseen by the offices of the CEO and COO, and by the Executive Committee. 90 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 The oversight of each of the 51 risks is divided among the 5 Board Committees (Risk Committee, Audit Committee, Capital & Investment Committee, Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Committee and Human Resources & Compensation Committee). Human Resources Capital & Investment Corporate Responsibility & Compensation Risk Committee Audit Committee Committee & Sustainability Committee Committee Trading risks: Operational Risks: Operational Risks: Reputational Risks: Other Risks: • Price Risk • Stock Risk • Project Execution Risk • Social Risk • Key Person Risks • Basis Risk • Quality Risk • Asset Utilisation Risk – Labour • Structure Risk • Fraud Risk • Social Risk Capital Structure – Livelihoods • Arbitrage Risk • Systems and Controls and Financing • Social Risk • Derivative Risk Failure Risk Risks: – Food Safety • Liquidity Risk Regulatory Risks: • Interest Rate Risk • Environmental Risk Operational Risks: • Bribery/Corruption • Funding Liquidity/ – Land • Credit Risk Risk Margin Call Risk • Environmental Risk • Counterparty Risk • Other Regulatory Risk • Credit Metrics Risk – Water • Currency Risks • Transfer Pricing Risk • Activist Investor Risk • Environmental Risk • Taxation Risk • Short Seller Attack – Climate Change • Transactional Currency Risk Risk • Environmental Risk Political and Cybersecurity and – Food Security Sovereign Risks: Other Risks: Currency Risks: • Health and Safety • Cybersecurity Risk • Translational Risk • Duty, Tariff and Export/Import Ban • IT Risk Currency Risk Agricultural Risks: • Asset Nationalisation Risk • Weather Risk • Selective Discrimination Risk • Pests and • Forced Abandonment Risk Diseases Risk • Terrorism/Kidnapping Risk • Agronomy/GAP Regulatory Risks: (Good Agricultural Practices) Risk • Market Compliance Risk Natural Perils Risks: • Fire Risk • Flood Risk • Earthquake Risk • Hurricane/Typhoon/Storm Risk Board – Strategic Risk Assessment Risk Measurement Market Compliance Controls • Olam continually upgrades our risk measurement • One of Olam’s key priorities is to comply with the highest methodology in line with industry best practices. We standards of business conduct. The Market Compliance focus on the measurement of quantity, dollar value, Office (MCO) is responsible for ensuring regulatory diversified VaR and stress testing to determine potential compliance for the derivative trading units. The MCO impact of adverse market events on the books. Analysis carries out regular trader training courses to ensure of return drivers provides a clear attribution of returns familiarity with prevailing exchange rules globally and against risk and allows an independent flagging of ensures that all new hires are comprehensively trained in outsized or undesired risk. Olam’s Trading Compliance Manual. • The VaR methodology calculates the potential loss arising from the commodity price, credit, counterparty Risk Training and Communication and currency risks to which it is exposed. • Olam has laid out risk policies that guide newcomers on • Market risk (i.e. commodity price risk and currency risk) the risks they will be required to manage and the risk VaR is calculated over a one-day time horizon with a systems that require timely and accurate reporting. The 95% confidence level for each product in the portfolio. Risk Office frequently presents to the Olam’s most senior Credit and counterparty risk VaR may be computed by management bodies, the purpose of which is to enable applying default rates (based on counterparty ratings) the continual reinforcement of the control environment and underlying commodity volatilities as appropriate. and alignment of risk culture and awareness across the company. From time to time, the Risk Office publishes advisories on pertinent matters to raise awareness and to promote industry best practices. olamgroup.com 91 Engaging stakeholders to re-imagine agriculture Olam has a vast global network of stakeholders: customers, farmer suppliers and their communities, investors, employees, NGOs, financiers, foundations, trade bodies, industry platforms and governments. Business units, functions and country teams interact with them every day. As an agricultural company, how we manage social and We recognised that we needed to better align our environmental issues are common questions from across material areas with the 9 planetary boundaries, as well as the stakeholder spectrum. We have a dedicated consider the Capitals under integrated reporting. In Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) addition, we must also consider the targets of the UN Function, as well as sustainability experts embedded in Sustainable Development Goals, the UN Global Compact, businesses across the world. Achieving our CR&S stakeholder priorities, reporting standards such as the ambition to be a net positive company requires the Global Reporting Initiative and, of course, individual support of stakeholders in strategic alliances and Business Unit priorities. The learnings and stakeholder partnerships to catalyse system change together. feedback from the development of Olam AtSource and We consult on a regular basis on policy consultation, (e.g. the Olam Landscapes Policy have also had considerable the Living Landscapes Policy), on implementation of High influence. See the Group CEO Review for an overview of Conservation Value (HCV) and Free Prior & Informed new CR&S framework with 10 Material Areas which were Consent Procedures (FPIC), through stakeholder events, developed in 2018. or in response to reports and questions. By listening and Reporting against the current 7 Material Area goals and discussing issues together we share understanding of our targets are listed under the Relevant Capitals as follows: business, learn, and often find opportunities for • Social: Livelihoods, Food Security partnerships. • Natural: Land, Water, and Climate Change The vast majority of our stakeholders want to achieve the • Human: Labour same outcomes as Olam – profitable farms and farming • Manufactured: Food Safety (owned by Manufacturing systems, thriving rural communities and regeneration of & Technical Services) the living world – even if we don’t always necessarily agree on the exact way forward. Throughout this Additional CR&S priorities during 2018 report we have aimed to transparently cover notable • Olam Supplier Code: train Business Units on new engagements and stakeholder concerns in the last year. topics, implement revised risk-based processes and (See Confectionery and Beverage ingredients pages embed AtSource supply chain assessment across 50 to 53; Food Staples and Packaged Foods pages businesses 54 to 57 and Industrial Raw Materials pages 58 to 61.) • Olam Plantations, Concessions and Farms Code: A tabular overview of our stakeholder engagement is review to include new material areas, develop/ available in our 2017 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) implement action plans and report on progress report on olamgroup.com. • Olam Landscapes Policy: establish advisory group, In 2017, we also undertook more detailed mapping and continue to assess deforestation risk for priority prioritisation of our stakeholders at an international and products and regions, mapping high risk suppliers national level, to understand how we could better • Accelerate impact of Business Unit-wise CR&S communicate and manage relationships. This activity will strategies with 2030 targets and milestones be continued in 2018, working with individual Business Units, Countries and Functions. Sustainability Strategy and Materiality During 2017 we began a review of the over-arching sustainability strategy. This was brought into sharper focus with the launch of the new purpose: Re-imagining Global Agriculture : Growing Responsibly. 92 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Mapping SDG targets material to Olam’s business As part of the CR&S strategy refresh, and analysis of our current material areas, we have also reviewed the specific targets of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Of the 167 targets, we identified around 55 (allowing for some overlaps) that are material to our business to a greater or lesser degree. We have then assessed them against our ability to influence the target as well as stakeholder priority. We have also started to look at the targets in terms of identifying opportunities to innovate and lead. This process will feed into our continuing work on our refreshed CR&S framework for 2018 onwards. Our Global Reporting Initiative report on olamgroup.com also gives insight and analysis of our material areas grouped according to the appropriate GRI topic. Issue is important but others have Issue is important to Olam and we can Issue is important to Olam, we can Issue is important to stakeholders greater influence than Olam, influence target. Key priority for influence delivery of target, but is but Olam has less influence to deliver stakeholders see issue as lower stakeholders : second tier of priority for stakeholders the target priority for Olam 1.2 Reduce poverty 3.3 End epidemics 1.2. Eradicate extreme poverty 1.3 Implement social protection 1.5 Resilience to shocks 3.6 Reduce traffic accidents 4.1 Ensure free education 2.c Functioning of food commodity markets 2.3 Farmer productivity 6.3 Improve water quality 6.b Community engagement 4.2 Access to early childhood on WASH development 2.4 Sustainable agriculture 8.2 Increase economic 8.6 Reduce youth 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure productivity unemployment 4.4 Increase enterprise skills 8.10 Financial Services 10.1 Income growth 10.7 Facilitate for all responsible migration 5.A Ensure women’s economic 12.4 Management of 12.3 Reduce food loss 13.3 Capacity for climate participation chemical use response 6.1 Access to water 13.a Climate change mitigation ​ 15.9 Eco-system values in govt. planning 6.2 Access to sanitation 14.1 Prevent land marine ​ 15.a Finance for eco-system pollution from activities conservation 6.4 Water use efficiency 15.3 Combat desertification ​ 15.b Finance sustainable forest and sustainable withdrawal management 7.3 Improve energy efficiency 15.5 Reduce loss of biodiversity ​ 17.1 Strengthen tax capacity 8.1 Sustain per capita 15.7 Protect flora and fauna ​ 17.3 Financial resources economic growth for development 8.7 Eradicate forced labour 17.7 Access to ​ 17.5 Investment environmental technology promotion regimes 8.8 Promote labour rights ​ ​ 17.9 Capacity building for and safety national sustainable development 12.2 Sustainable natural resource ​ ​ 17.14 Policies for sustainable use development 12.6 Corporate ​ ​ 17.15 Policies for poverty sustainability reporting eradication 13.1 Strengthen resilience ​ ​ 17.18 Capacity building to natural disasters for data 15.1 Conserve/restore eco​ ​ ​ systems 15.2 Protection of forests ​ ​ ​ 16.2 End violence ​ ​ ​ against children 16.5 Reduce corruption ​ ​ ​ 17.11 Developing ​ ​ ​ country exports 17.16 Partner for ​ ​ ​ Sustainable Development 17.17 Promote effective ​ ​ ​ partnerships olamgroup.com 93 General information This General Information is intended to help readers understand the bases of our financial reporting and analysis contained in this Annual Report 2017. Important changes 5 business segments 18 platforms Edible Nuts, 1. Edible Nuts (cashew, Change in fiscal year-end to 31 December Spices and peanuts, almonds, hazelnuts, In 2015, the Company (Olam International Limited) Vegetable pistachios, walnuts, sesame changed its fiscal year-end from 30 June to 31 Ingredients and beans, including pulses, December. With this change, the Company’s fiscal year lentils and peas) 2015 (FY2015) was an 18-month period from 1 July 2014 2. Spices and Vegetable to 31 December 2015. Starting with 2016 (FY2016), the Ingredients (including Company follows a January to December fiscal year. pepper, onion, garlic, To facilitate like-for-like comparison, the financials are capsicums and tomato) presented in the Financial and Performance Highlights on Confectionery 3. Cocoa pages 22 to 27 and the Group COO’s review on pages 36 and Beverage 4. Coffee to 66 for the years between 2013 and 2017, from January Ingredients to December in each year, unless otherwise indicated. Food Staples and 5. Rice Changes in accounting standards, policies and Packaged Foods 6. Sugar and Sweeteners restatements 7. Grains and Animal Feed The Group has adopted all the new and revised 8. Edible Oils standards which are effective for annual financial periods 9. Dairy beginning on or after 1 January 2016. These include 10. Packaged Foods Amendments to FRS 16 and FRS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Industrial Raw 11. Cotton Plants and early adoption of FRS 109 Financial Materials, 12. Wood Products Instruments. As a result of these amendments, the Ag Logistics and Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Group as at 1 July 13. Rubber Infrastructure 14. Fertiliser 2014 and 31 December 2015 as well as the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Consolidated Cash Flow 15. Ag Logistics and Statement for the 12 and 18 months ended 31 December Infrastructure (including 2015 have been restated. These amendments and other Gabon Special Economic changes in accounting standards and their impact are Zone or GSEZ) detailed in the Notes to Financial Statements. Commodity 16. Risk Management Solutions Financial Services 17. Market-making, Business segmentation and reporting (CFS) Volatility Trading and For financial reporting purposes, we organise our 18 Asset Management business platforms into five segments – Edible Nuts, 18. Trade and Structured Finance Spices and Vegetable Ingredients; Confectionery and Note: The 2013-2016 results for the CFS segment do not include those of Beverage Ingredients; Food Staples and Packaged Trade and Structured Finance. Foods; Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure (renamed from Industrial Raw Materials to reflect the principal activities of the Gabon Special Economic Zone within the segment); and Commodity Financial Services. The table below shows the distribution of platforms across these five segments. 94 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 In addition, we report our financial performance on the Net changes in fair value of biological assets: Records various value chain initiatives across three value chain changes in the fair value of agricultural produce growing segments as follows: on bearer plants and livestock 3 value chain segments Value chain activity Exceptional Items: One-off, non-recurring items, Supply Chain Includes all activities connected including negative goodwill and related transaction costs, with origination, sourcing, gain/loss on sale of assets/business, gain/loss on primary processing, logistics, buyback of bonds, impairment loss, finance charges on trading, marketing (including pre-payment of loans and non-recurring business value-added services) and risk restructuring expenses. Tax expenses associated with management of agricultural these items are also presented as Exceptional Items. products and the CFS segment EBITDA: Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Upstream Includes all activities relating Amortisation (EBITDA) which includes minority interest to farming (annual row crops), and excludes Exceptional Items plantations (perennial tree PAT: Net profit after tax crops), Dairy farming and forest concessions PATMI: PAT less minority interest Midstream and Includes all activities relating to Operational PATMI: PATMI excluding Exceptional Items downstream secondary processing, contract Total Assets: Total assets are net of trade payables and manufacturing, branded accruals, derivative financial instruments (current distribution, private label liabilities), provision for taxation, other current liabilities activities and Ag logistics and and deferred tax liabilities Infrastructure Invested Capital (IC): Excludes cash and bank balances, deferred tax assets, fixed deposits, other current/ Definitions of key financial metrics non-current assets (other than option premiums payable/ The definitions for the key financial metrics are as follows: receivable) and fair value of derivative assets on bonds Sales Volume: Sale of goods in metric tonne (MT) EBITDA/IC: EBITDA on average invested capital based equivalent. There are no associated volumes for CFS and on beginning and end-of-period invested capital Ag Logistics & Infrastructure platforms. Net Gearing: Ratio of Net Debt (gross debt less cash) to Revenue: Sale of goods and services Equity (before fair value adjustment reserves) Income: Includes sale of scrap materials, commissions Net Gearing (adjusted): Net gearing adjusted for readily and claims income and fair value gain on investments marketable inventories that are liquid, hedged and/or sold held for trading. Negative goodwill, gain on sale of assets forward, operating as near-cash assets on the balance and other non-recurring, exceptional items which are part sheet, and secured receivables are supported by letters of Other Income in financial statements are classified as of credit or documents through banks Exceptional Items. Free Cash Flow to Firm (FCFF): Operating cash flow less Cost of Sales: Cost of goods sold, shipping and logistics, changes in working capital, cash taxes, capital commissions and claims expenses and the net expenditures and investments measurement of derivative assets Free Cash Flow to Equity (FCFE): FCFF less net interest Overhead Expenses: Employee benefit costs, paid manufacturing overheads, travel expenses and other direct expenses Other Operating Expenses: Unrealised foreign exchange gain/loss and other expenses olamgroup.com 95 General information continued Disclaimer Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that Certain sections of our Annual Report 2017 have been could cause actual reports to differ materially from audited. The sections that have been audited are those expressed or implied by these forward-looking set out on pages 12 to 84 of the Financial Report. statements, including among others, competitive Readers should note that legislation in Singapore pricing and activity, demand levels for the products governing the preparation and dissemination of financial that we supply, cost variances, the ability to maintain statements may differ from legislation in and manage key supplier and customer relationships, other jurisdictions. supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the Except where you are a shareholder, this material is ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned provided for information only and is not, in particular, divestitures, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability intended to confer any legal rights on you. This to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve Annual Report does not constitute an invitation to pending matters within current estimates, legislative, invest in the Company’s shares. Any decision you fiscal and regulatory developments, political, economic make relying on this information is solely your and social conditions in the geographic markets where responsibility. The information given is as of the the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the dates specified, is not updated and any forward-looking Company’s or its subsidiaries’ Boards. Further details of statement is made subject to the reservation specified potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Group can in the following paragraph. be found in the Offering Circular of the Group and its subsidiary Olam Treasury on its US$5.0 billion Euro Cautionary statement Medium Term Note Programme dated 16 March 2018. This Annual Report may contain forward-looking These forward-looking statements speak only as of the statements. Words such as ‘expect’, ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’ date of this Annual Report. Except as required by any or the negative use of these terms and other similar applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly expressions of future performance or results and their disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release negatives are intended to identify such forward-looking publicly any updates or revision to any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based statements contained herein to reflect any change in the upon current expectations and assumptions regarding Group’s expectations with regard thereto or any change anticipated developments and other factors affecting the in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such Group. They are not historical facts, nor are they statement is based. guarantees of future performance. 96 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Stay up to date olamgroup.com @olam Olam International Limited 7 Straits View Marina One East Tower #20-01 Singapore 018936 Telephone (65) 6339 4100 Facsimile (65) 6339 9755 olamgroup.com Governance Report Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Re-imagining Global Agriculture Governance Report Olam International Annual Report 2017 olamgroup.com Our vision To be the most differentiated and valuable global agri-business by 2040. Our governing objective To maximise long-term intrinsic value for our continuing shareholders. This report is the first on our journey to develop a new model of reporting that provides insight into how we create value over the long-term. We aim to communicate how we identify, develop, preserve and deploy strategic assets in line with our company’s purpose. A separate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report is available on our website at olamgroup.com. Contents About this report Governance This Annual Report has 3 chapters. These can be read 1 Chairman’s letter independently; however, for the purpose of compliance they 6 Board of directors are intended to be viewed as a single document. 12 Corporate governance report 34 Corporate information Governance Report Shareholder information This section of the report gives detailed 35 Substantial shareholders information about our rigorous governance 36 Statistics of shareholdings framework and those responsible for ensuring 37 Notice of Annual General it is followed. Shareholder information is also held within this chapter. Meeting Proxy form Strategy Report This chapter offers narrative about our performance, strategy and market factors. It can be read independently as an Executive Summary or as part of the full report. Front cover image: Financial Report Factory of the Future initiative at Cafe Our figures and respective notes are enclosed Outspan Vietnam involves fixing Mobile within this chapter. It should be read in App based SMART sensors on critical conjunction with the Strategy Report to give a motors to help predict failures using balanced account of internal and external factors. Internet of Things and data analytics. Read more on olamgroup.com Chairman’s letter Execution of strategy delivers… Amidst the challenges in 2017, in particular, the continuation of volatile and challenging economic conditions and ongoing complexity and uncertainty at a geo-political and trade level, Olam recorded strong growth in the year. olamgroup.com 1 Lim Ah Doo Chairman, Non-Executive and Independent Director Chairman’s letter continued …growth and resilience. The performance is a testimony of the Company’s strategy and implementation of key initiatives to improve working capital efficiency and reinforces the strength and resilience of its businesses. olamgroup.com 3 Chairman’s letter continued We remain confident of the long-term prospects of the agriculture sector, seizing the many opportunities it presents to us, and focused on our differentiated strategy which we believe will shape the future of our company. Financial Performance Sustainability Positive results were delivered across Olam’s key Sustainability and stakeholder engagement remain a metrics in 2017. Operational PATMI grew by 18.6% core focus of all that we do at Olam and are embedded to S$432 million, following a 23.1% increase in 2016. in our strategic planning and business implementation EBITDA improved by 10.4% to S$1,328 million and Free processes. Cash Flow to Equity exceeded S$1 billion. The company Olam now supports 363,000 smallholders helping them also significantly reduced gearing to 1.46 times, down to improve practices. During the year, we also commenced from 1.99 times in the prior year. development of Olam AtSource which will move us even The company ended the year with a share capital closer to ensuring end-to-end sustainability across our base that has expanded by S$586 million mainly supply chains and assist our customers to do so in years from the conversion of warrants into shares by to come. continuing shareholders. The company’s sustainability commitments and In view of the performance, the Board of Directors has practices were recognised in a number of awards recommended a final ordinary dividend of 4.0 cents per received during 2017. Olam was recognised by global share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 7.5 benchmarking body CDP with an award for Best cents per share, up from 6.0 cents per share in 2016. Performance Across Programmes for companies who have sustainability programmes across climate change, Strategic Progress water and forests. The company also received a In 2017, the second year of our three-year strategic plan Singapore Apex Corporate Responsibility Award from (FY2016 – 2018), Olam remained focused on pursuing the Global Compact Network Singapore for implementing growth in prioritised platforms, working to turn around sustainable practices across its core operations and was underperforming assets and ensuring gestating assets one of two finalists from Singapore to win Asia’s best moved towards contributing at their full potential. Sustainability Report within Annual Report at the CSR Works’ Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards. Initiatives to release cash and improve cash flow generation included the selling of 5,100 acres of edible nuts orchards in California, partial divestment of 50% of FEA, which owns an Indonesian sugar refining company, and “The performance is a testimony repayment by associate GSEZ of a shareholder loan following its sale of port assets and concession rights. of the Company’s strategy and Two task forces were also set up to continue focus on optimising working capital and extracting cost efficiencies implementation of key initiatives across operations going forward. to improve working capital In 2018, the Board and Management will continue to execute the FY2016 – 2018 strategic plan, and will, within efficiency and reinforces the year, review and formulate a new strategic plan to the strength and resilience further enhance performance and shareholder value. of its businesses.” 4 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Governance I also thank our shareholders for their continued trust and support. Our stable base of continuing shareholders In 2017, the Board continued to provide oversight on the has enabled us to take a long-term view of our business, company’s strategy, performance, capital allocation, risk and at the same time, generate returns, cashflow and management, compliance, control and assurance value for our shareholders. framework, audit, people, talent management, retention and succession planning as well as sustainability. To our many partners around the world, including our loyal customers, the farmers we work with, our service During the year, the Board and Board Committees providers and our partners in civil society – I wish to worked with Management to strengthen the overall thank you for your willingness to engage and partner us governance of the Group, in particular, the Board Risk in ways that make a real difference to our business and Committee carried out a review of the risk governance to our purpose in the global agriculture business. framework of the Company and the Audit Committee formulated an Integrated Assurance Framework as part of the continuous effort to further strengthen controls. The Board also held a Board Offsite in Brazil, during which Board members interacted with country management and employees in different locations in the country. The visit coincided with the 15th anniversary of Olam’s operations in Brazil. Besides the Board Offsite, Lim Ah Doo certain Board members visited the Company’s Chairman, Non-Executive and Independent Director operations in Spain, India and Nigeria. Board Changes “Olam remained focused on In 2017, Mr. Katsuhiro Ito stepped down as Non-Executive Director due to the change in his pursuing growth in prioritised responsibilities at Mitsubishi Group. On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank Mr. Ito for his contribution during platforms, working to turn around his short stint with the Board. Mr. Mitsumasa Icho was underperforming assets and nominated by Mitsubishi Corporation to succeed Mr. Ito. ensuring gestating assets Acknowledgements On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of Olam’s moved towards contributing employees around the world for their dedication and commitment to doing things the ‘Olam Way’. It is our at their full potential.” employees’ hard work, talent and focus that has enabled Olam to continue to perform through the year in review. olamgroup.com 5 Board of directors Lim Ah Doo, 68 Sunny George Verghese, 58 G H C C CRS Chairman, Non-Executive and Independent Director Executive Director, Co-Founder and Group CEO Date of appointment as Chairman: 1 January 2017 Date of first appointment as Director: 11 July 1996 Date of first appointment as Director and Chairman-designate: Date of last re-election: 25 April 2017 1 November 2016 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): Date of last re-election: 25 April 2017 21 years 5 months Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): Academic and professional qualification: 1 year 2 months Postgraduate Degree in Business Management, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad Academic and professional qualification: Degree (Honours) in Engineering, Queen Mary College, Advanced Management Program, Harvard Business School University of London Present Directorship: Master in Business Administration, Cranfield School of Management Listed company Present Directorship: Société SIFCA (Non-Executive Director) Listed company Non-listed company GDS Holdings Ltd (Director) Caraway Pte. Ltd. (Director) GP Industries Ltd (Director) Other Major appointment: SembCorp Marine Ltd (Director) Chairman, Human Capital Leadership Institute Pte Ltd Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd (Director) Chairman, WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Non-listed company ARA-CWT Trust Management (Cache) Limited (Director) Chairman, JOil (S) Pte Ltd (Trustee Manager of Cache Logistics Trust) Member, Singapore Management University Board of Trustee Singapore Technologies Marine Ltd (Chairman) Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: STT GDC Pte. Ltd. (Director) International Enterprise Singapore (Chairman) STT Global Data Centres India Private Limited (Director) National University of Singapore (Trustee) U Mobile Sdn Bhd (Director) PureCircle Limited (Director) Virtus HoldCo Limited (Director) Additional Information: Other Major appointment: Nil Mr. Sunny Verghese was with the Kewalram Chanrai Group (KC Group) for over two decades and in 1989 was mandated to Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: start the Company with a view to building an agricultural products Linc Energy Limited business for the KC Group. Before joining the KC Group, he Bracell Limited worked for Unilever in India. Mr. Verghese previously chaired CitySpring Infrastructure Management Pte Ltd, a listed Business SM Investments Corporation Trust in Singapore and was also a Commissioner of the Business Additional Information: & Sustainable Development Commission (BSDC). Mr. Verghese Mr. Lim Ah Doo was formerly the President and subsequently the has won several awards including ‘Outstanding Chief Executive’ non-executive Vice Chairman of RGE Pte Ltd (formerly known as at the Singapore Business Awards in 2007, ‘Ernst & Young RGM International Pte Ltd). His past working experience includes Entrepreneur of the Year’ for Singapore in 2008 and ‘Best CEO an 18-year banking career in Morgan Grenfell from 1977 to 1995, of the Year 2011’ at the Singapore Corporate Awards. He was during which he held several key positions including that of also awarded the Public Service Medal by the Government of Chairman of Morgan Grenfell (Asia) Limited. Mr. Lim was the Republic of Singapore in 2010. previously an Independent Director at EDB Investments and SM Investments Corporation and an Independent Commissioner and Chairman of the Audit Committee of PT Indosat (Indonesia). 6 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Jean-Paul Pinard, 67 Sanjiv Misra, 57 CRS C H C H B Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of first appointment as Director: 29 October 2008 Date of first appointment as Director: 1 November 2013 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2017 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2017 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 9 years 2 months 4 years 2 months Academic and professional qualification: Academic and professional qualification: PhD in Economics, University of California Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, St Stephen’s College, University of Delhi, India Diplôme d’Ingénieur, École Polytechnique, Paris Postgraduate Degree in Management, University of Delhi, Present Directorship: Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad Listed company Master in Management, JL Kellogg Graduate School of Nil Management, Northwestern University Non-listed company Present Directorship: Hero Future Energies Pvt Ltd (Director) Listed company Other Major appointment: Nil Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd (Director) Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: OUE Hospitality REIT Management Pte. Ltd. (Director) Yantai Changyu Pioneer Wine Company Limited (Director) (Manager of OUE Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust) Zalagh Holding (Member of the Supervisory Board) Non-listed company Additional Information: Edelweiss Capital (Singapore) Pte Ltd (Director) Mr. Jean-Paul Pinard, prior to joining Olam, spent 17 years EDBI Pte Ltd (Director) with the International Finance Corporation, Washington, DC OUE Hospitality Trust Management Pte. Ltd. (Director) (“IFC”), becoming the Director of its Agribusiness Department, responsible for managing IFC’s global investment portfolio in Phoenix Advisers Pte. Ltd. (President and Director) agri-business and food sectors. Phoenix E.K. Limited (Director) Singapore Symphony Group (Director) Other Major appointment: Chairman, Apollo Management Asia Pacific Advisory Board Member, International Advisory Board of the Institute of Societal Leadership, SMU Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: National University Health System (Director) Key Additional Information: A Audit Committee Mr. Sanjiv Misra’s career featured several senior positions, namely, Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup’s Global Corporate and Investment Banking Group in Singapore and Brunei and B Board Risk Committee Capital Country Officer in Singapore, Head of Asia Pacific Investment Banking and Head of the Asia Pacific Corporate Bank, in a career C Capital and Investment Committee spanning 11 years with the Citigroup. His career prior to Citigroup included stints with Salomon Brothers and Goldman Sachs & Co. CRS Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee G Governance and Nomination Committee H Human Resource and Compensation Committee Denotes Committee Chairman olamgroup.com 7 Board of directors continued Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, 73 Yap Chee Keong, 57 A CRS A B C G Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of first appointment as Director: 1 October 2014 Date of first appointment as Director: 1 December 2015 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2016 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2016 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 3 years 3 months 2 years 1 month Academic and professional qualification: Academic and professional qualification: Bachelor of Arts, Economics (Honours), Bombay University, India Bachelor of Accountancy, National University of Singapore Present Directorship: Fellow, Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants and Certified Listed company Public Accounts, Australia DBS Group Holdings Ltd (Director) Present Directorship: GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Director) Listed company StarHub Ltd (Director) Sembcorp Industries Ltd (Director) Shangri-La Asia Limited (Director) Non-listed company Caraway Pte. Ltd. (Chairman) The Straits Trading Company Limited (Director) DBS Bank Ltd (Director) Malaysia Smelting Corporation Berhad (Director) DBS Foundation Ltd (Director) Non-listed company Certis CISCO Security Pte Ltd (Director) Other Major appointment: Member, Advisory Board for South East Asia/Indonesia, Citibank Singapore Limited (Director) Bain & Company SE Asia, Inc MediaCorp Pte Ltd (Director) Member, Private Sector Portfolio Advisory Committee in India of Rahman Hydraulic Tin Sdn Bhd (Director) the UK Government’s Department for International Development Other Major appointment: Nil Member, Corporate Resilience Advisory Council, McKinsey & Company Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: ARA Asset Management Limited (Director) Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: CapitaMalls Asia Limited (Director) Akzo Nobel India Limited (Chairman) CityNet Infrastructure Management Pte Ltd (Chairman) TVS Motor (Singapore) Pte. Limited (Director) (Trustee-Manager of NetLink Trust, a business trust wholly owned PT TVS Motor Company (President Commissioner) by Singapore Telecommunications Ltd) SATS Ltd (Director) Hup Soon Global Corporation Limited (Director) Wildlife Reserves Singapore Pte Ltd (Director) Interoil Corporation (Director) Additional Information: Tiger Airways Holdings Limited (Director) Mr. Nihal Kaviratne CBE’s career with the Unilever Group spanned Additional Information: 40 years during which he held various senior level management Mr. Yap Chee Keong’s career included being the Executive Director positions in sales, marketing, brand and strategic planning and of The Straits Trading Company Limited and the Chief Financial development, and as Chairman/CEO across Asia, Europe and Officer of Singapore Power Ltd. Mr. Yap has also worked in Latin America. He retired from Unilever in 2005. Mr. Kaviratne various senior management roles in multinational and listed was cited in HM Queen Elizabeth II’s 2004 New Year Honours List companies. He was a board member of the Accounting and in the UK and has been made the Commander of the Order of the Corporate Regulatory Authority and a member of the Public British Empire (CBE) for services to UK business interests and to Accountants Oversight Committee, the MAS/SGX/ACRA Work sustainable development in Indonesia. He was one of “25 leaders Group to review the Guidebook for Audit Committees in Singapore at the forefront of change” chosen by Business Week in 2002 for and the MAS/SGX/ACRA/SID Review Panel to develop a Guide for the Stars of Asia Award. In its year end 2010 issue, Forbes India Board Risk Committees in Singapore. listed him as one of the “5 top names to have on your Board”. He was awarded for driving “Business Excellence” at the World Business Conclave 2016 in Hong Kong. Mr. Kaviratne brings with him extensive organisational, business, management, strategic planning and customer-based experience and knowledge. 8 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Marie Elaine Teo, 51 Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, 49 B C CRS A G H Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of first appointment as Director: 1 December 2015 Date of first appointment as Director: 25 April 2016 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2016 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 1 year 8 months 2 years 1 month Academic and professional qualification: Academic and professional qualification: Bachelor of Law (Honours), National University of Singapore Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Experimental Psychology, Diploma in Accounting and Finance, Chartered Association Oxford University of Certified Accountants (UK) MBA, INSEAD Present Directorship: Present Directorship: Listed company Listed company StarHub Ltd (Director) G. K. Goh Holdings Limited (Director) Non-listed company Non-listed company Certis Cisco Security Pte. Ltd. (Director) Caregivers Alliance Ltd (Director) SPH REIT Management Pte Ltd (Director) Mapletree Investments Pte Ltd (Director) Other Major appointment: Mapletree Oakwood Holdings Pte Ltd (Director) Member, Supervisory Committee of ABF Singapore Bond Index, Monetary Authority of Singapore The Teng Ensemble Ltd (Chairman) Member, Appeals Panel, Abu Dhabi Global Market Other Major appointment: Member, International Advisory Panel, CIMB Group Holdings Board Member, Public Utilities Board Berhad Member, Council, Singapore Business Federation Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: Nil Member, Board of Trustees, Singapore Institute of Technology Additional Information: Member, Corporate Governance Council Ms. Marie Elaine Teo has over 20 years of investment experience, Member, SGH Health Development Fund Committee, SingHealth primarily with the Capital Group companies where she focused on Fund Asian banks and global emerging markets, both as an analyst and an investment manager. Ms. Teo was formerly the Chairman of Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: Capital International Research Group and Managing Director of Wopa Services Pte Ltd (Director) Capital International Inc., Asia. 89 Holdings Pte. Ltd. (Director) Additional Information: Ms. Rachel Eng is currently the Deputy Chairman of WongPartnership LLP. As a corporate lawyer, she is involved in listings, corporate advisory and corporate governance work. Ms. Eng was a member of the Committee on the Future Economy, which released its report in 2017. olamgroup.com 9 Board of directors continued Yutaka Kyoya, 56 Mitsumasa Icho, 58 A CRS G B C H Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date of first appointment as Director: 1 November 2015 Date of first appointment as Director: 1 May 2017 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2016 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 7 months Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 2 years 2 months Academic and professional qualification: Bachelor of Law, University of Tokyo Academic and professional qualification: Degree in Commerce, Waseda University, Tokyo Present Directorship: Advanced Management Program, Harvard Business School Listed company Nil Present Directorship: Listed company Non-listed company Lawson, Inc. (Director) Nil Mitsubishi Shokuhin Co., Ltd. (Director) Other Major appointment: Nil Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: Nil Non-listed company Nil Additional Information: Other Major appointment: Nil Mr. Mitsumasa Icho is currently Executive Vice President, Corporate Functional Officer, Regional Strategy for Japan and Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: General Manager, Kansai Branch of Mitsubishi Corporation. He Thai Union Group Public Company Limited (Director) has been with the Mitsubishi Group since 1982 and has held Rokko Butter Co., Ltd. (Director) senior positions within the Group in Houston and New York as well as other key Group functional roles in Finance, Risk Management, Additional Information: Tax and Administration. He was the Executive Vice President of Mr. Yutaka Kyoya is currently the Executive Vice President and Mitsubishi Motors North America, Inc. from 2006 to 2008 and Group CEO of Living Essentials Group of Mitsubishi Corporation. subsequently Mitsubishi Motors Corporation from 2008 to 2012. He joined Mitsubishi Corporation in 1984 and has since been Prior to assuming his current role, Mr. Icho was Senior Vice engaged in the food business. Mr. Kyoya has held various roles President of the Risk Management Department, an advisory function in Mitsubishi Corporation in Tokyo as well as in its overseas offices, to the President’s office and the General Manager of Mitsubishi including the USA, Malaysia and Singapore. Prior to his current Corporation’s Machinery Group Administration Department. position, he was the Deputy General Manager of Living Essentials Group CEO’s Office in 2012 before being promoted to Senior Vice President of Mitsubishi Corporation and Chief Operating Officer of its Living Essential Resources Division in 2014. 10 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Shekhar Anantharaman, 54 B C Executive Director and Group Chief Operating Officer Date of first appointment as Director: 1 April 1998 Date of last re-election: 25 April 2017 Length of service as a Director (as at 31 December 2017): 19 years 8 months Academic and professional qualification: Bachelor’s Degree in Aeronautical Engineering, Panjab University, India Postgraduate Degree in Business Management, Panjab University, India Advanced Management Program, Harvard Business School Present Directorship: Listed company Nil Non-listed company Caraway Pte Ltd (Director) Other Major appointment: Nil Past Directorships held over the preceding three years: Nil Additional Information: Mr. Shekhar Anantharaman has been with the Group since 1992. As the Group Chief Operating Officer of the Company, he jointly oversees all aspects of the Company’s global business with the Group CEO. Prior to his current role, he was the Executive Director – Finance and Business Development for the Group leading the Company’s overall Strategy and Business Development activities along with responsibility for various functions including the Group’s Finance and Accounts, Treasury and IR, IT and Shared Services, Legal and Corporate Secretarial and Manufacturing and Technical Services. He has incubated and managed various global businesses for the Group including its Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients and Packaged Foods businesses. As the Global Head of these businesses, Mr. Anantharaman has been directly involved in identifying and leading many of the Company’s organic and inorganic growth initiatives. He has also played a variety of country management and regional oversight roles across Africa, Asia, Russia, South and North America. olamgroup.com 11 Corporate governance report Harnessing corporate governance practices for sustainable profitable growth The 2012 Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) is to meet its objectives, as well as to regularly review the applicable to the Company for its 2017 Annual Report. execution and the implementation of the Strategic Plan; Olam complies with most of the principles and • To oversee the process and framework for evaluating guidelines of the Code. Today, the Board comprises the adequacy of internal controls, risk management, more than 50% independent directors with the Board financial reporting and compliance and satisfy itself as Chair being independent since 2015. With the optimal to the adequacy and effectiveness of such processes mix of expertise and experience including gender and framework; diversity, the Board is equipped to effectively lead and • To ensure the Company’s compliance with such laws direct the Company’s business and strategy, ensuring and regulations as may be relevant to the business; the long-term success of the Company. • To assume responsibility for corporate governance; This Corporate Governance report cross-references • To set the Company’s values and standards, and other reports and statements made in certain sections of ensure that obligations to shareholders and others are the 2017 Annual Report such as the detailed profile of understood and met at all times; the Board that may be found in the section on Board of • To review the performance of the Senior Management Directors, details on the Company’s risk governance and the compensation framework for the Board, framework and the corporate responsibility and sustainability Executive Directors and Senior Management; strategy as well as highlights that may be found in the • To oversee the succession plans for the Board, Group Strategy Report. For completeness, this Corporate CEO, Group COO, Group CFO and Senior Management; Governance report should be read in conjunction with • To oversee and consider corporate responsibility and the various sections of the 2017 Annual Report. sustainability issues, policies, standards and strategy The Company continues to focus on the substance and in the context of the Company’s activities which may spirit of the Code, while continuing to deliver on the have an impact on environmental and social issues; and Company’s vision and objectives. Where there are • To identify key stakeholder groups and consider differences between the Code and the Company’s their perceptions. practices, we have clarified them within the report. As an established practice, the material matters that Board leadership transition require the specific review and approval of the Board are designated as reserved matters and include: In 2017, we saw the transition of Board Chair to Mr. Lim Ah Doo and the appointment of a new Non-Executive • Acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure Director, Mr. Mitsumasa Icho, in place of an existing exceeding the authority limits established under an Non-Executive Director. The changes to the Board internal policy adopted by the Board, while delegating brought deep insights and experience that were directly authority for transactions below those limits to Board relevant and useful in providing leadership and Committees, the Executive Committee and Senior stewardship to Olam’s development. Management; • Capital planning and raising, annual budgets and Board matters updates to the Strategic Plan; Principle 1: The Board’s conduct of affairs • Key policy decision-making process and control; • Changes to capital, dividend distribution, Olam is led by an experienced Board with representatives issuance and buy-back and changes to shares from varied nationalities and diverse international and other securities; business backgrounds. The Board oversees the affairs of the Company and provides leadership and guidance • Matters considered not in the ordinary course of to the Senior Management Team. Collectively, the Board business of the Group; and and the Senior Management Team ensure the long-term • Any matter which the Board considers significant success of the Company and discharge their statutory enough to require the Board’s direct attention or would and fiduciary responsibilities, both individually and be critical to the proper functioning of the Company or collectively. The key functions of the Board are: its business. • To provide entrepreneurial leadership, set strategic The Board is assisted by various Board Committees for objectives, and ensure that the necessary financial the effective discharge of its responsibilities. To date, and human resources are in place for the Company these include the Audit Committee (AC), Board Risk Committee (BRC), Capital and Investment Committee 12 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 (CIC), Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability and 25 Board Committee meetings were held, with Committee (CRSC), Governance and Nomination certain Directors attending via telephone or video Committee (GNC), and the Human Resource and conference, as permitted by the Company’s Constitution. Compensation Committee (HRCC). In line with the Group’s commitment to business Each Board Committee has clear written terms of sustainability, conservation of the environment and reference which set out its role, authority, procedures and technological advancement, Directors are provided with qualifications for membership. All of the Board Committees access to the Board and Board Committee papers through are actively engaged and play an important role in electronic devices to enable them to read, annotate as ensuring good corporate governance in the Company. well as share their comments on the Board and Board The terms of reference of the Board Committees may Committee papers in soft copy prior to and during meetings. be reviewed from time to time by each Committee, taking In 2017, the Board undertook detailed review of the into consideration the changing needs of the business and Company’s budgeting exercise, risk governance framework operations of the Company, relevant laws and regulations. (comprising enterprise risk report, dashboard and They are ratified by the GNC and approved by the Board. scorecard), integrated assurance framework which includes Ad hoc committees of the Board may also be formed in-business control framework and internal audit, risk from time to time as part of the Board’s commitment to appetite and tolerance, and the internal control systems. engage and provide leadership to management in the Board Committees’ oversight on specific risks areas was business and operations of the Company. These ad also determined under the revised risk governance hoc committees, formed by Independent Directors framework and the integrated assurance framework. and supported by the Executive team, add to the To ensure that the Board has an in-depth understanding effectiveness and strength of the Company’s governance of the Group’s business and activities, one or more practices as well as reflecting the interests and Board offsite visits is organised in countries where the perspectives of the various stakeholders of the Company. Company operates. Besides the visits to facilities, the In 2017, the Board at the recommendation of the GNC Board meets with the local management team as well as formed the Council of Committee Chairs to coordinate in-country key stakeholders. Ad hoc visits by the Board the decisions, proposals and initiatives across the Committees or individual Director are organised Board Committees. wherever required to better facilitate the review of issues delegated by the Board. Yearly, the Board is invited to Directors are expected to exercise independent and participate in the Annual ManComm Meet attended by a objective judgement in the best interests of the Company. significant number of key executives and Senior In the annual Board and peer performance evaluation Management of the Company globally, with experts in exercise, the ability to discharge duties and responsibilities economic, policies, social, strategy, environmental areas at all times as fiduciaries in the interests of the Company, etc. addressing the participants. The Annual Meet as well as the ability to listen and discuss issues with one provides the Board with opportunities to deepen their another objectively, are important assessment criteria. interactions with the leadership team of the Company, Where the material matters require the approval of and to gain insights into issues and developments that shareholders, the Board may if required under the are important for the long-term success of the business. Companies Act (Chapter 50) and/or the Listing Manual Besides meetings of the Board, the Board pursuant to of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited the Company’s Constitution and the Board Committees (SGX-ST) appoint an independent valuer or independent under their terms of reference may also make decisions financial adviser to evaluate the fairness of the transaction by way of resolution by circulation. The details of the price and offer. Directors’ membership on the Board and Board Committees are provided in the following pages. Board and Board Committee meetings A table showing the memberships of the Directors and Meetings of the Board and Board Committees are number of Board, Board Committee, Non-Executive scheduled one year in advance. Besides the regular Directors’ and shareholders’ meetings held during the agenda, the Board receives briefings and updates year under review along with the attendance of Directors from the key executives and Senior Management on are provided on page 14 of this report. Throughout the developments and issues concerning the Group’s year, Directors individually and collectively actively business or which have an impact on the business of the engage with other members of the Board, the Group Group. Regular presentations and updates by business CEO and Group COO, Senior Management Team and units and functions are provided to the Board to ensure external consultants to gain deeper insights into the an understanding of the Group’s business. The Board industry and the business of the Company. The sets aside time at each regular Board meeting to meet contribution to and involvement of Directors in Board without the presence of Executive Directors or Management. affairs and growth of the Company cannot be quantified In addition to the four scheduled meetings each year, simply by their attendance. Their input and engagement the Board meets as and when warranted by particular in the affairs of the Company far outweigh their circumstances as well as engaging in informal attendance at these meetings. discussions. During the year under review, 6 Board olamgroup.com 13 Corporate governance report continued Information on Board and Board Committee Membership and Attendance at Board, Board Committees and Shareholders’ Meetings For the year ended 31 December 2017 Membership Board NED AC BRC CIC CRSC GNC HRCC AGM Directors No. of Meetings Held 6 4 7 4 6 4 2 2 1 Independent C C – – M – C C C Lim Ah Doo Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 6/6 2/2 2/2 1/1 Independent M M – – M C – M – Jean-Paul Pinard Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 6/6 4/4 2/2 1/1 Independent M M – M C – – M – Sanjiv Misra Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 4/4 6/6 2/2 1/1 Independent M M M – – M – – – Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 6/7 4/4 1/1 M M M1 M1 M1 M1 M1 M1 – Yutaka Kyoya Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1 3/3 1/1 1/1 1/1 Independent M M – C M M – – – Marie Elaine Teo Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 4/4 5/6 4/4 1/1 Independent M M C M – – M – – Yap Chee Keong Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 7/7 4/4 2/2 1/1 Independent M M M – – – M M – Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Non-Executive 6/6 4/4 7/7 2/2 2/2 1/1 M M – M M – – M O Mitsumasa Icho2 Non-Executive 5/5 4/4 3/3 3/5 1/1 1/1 M – – M M – – – – Sunny George Verghese Executive 6/6 4/4 6/6 1/1 M – – – M M – – – Shekhar Anantharaman Executive 5/6 3/6 3/4 1/1 M M M – – M M – – Katsuhiro Ito3 Non-Executive 1/1 1/1 3/3 1/1 1/1 1/1 “M” Member “C” Chairman “NED” Non-Executive Director “AC” Audit Committee “BRC” Board Risk Committee “CIC” Capital and Investment Committee “CRSC” Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee “GNC” Governance and Nomination Committee “HRCC” Human Resource and Compensation Committee “AGM” Annual General Meeting “O” Observer 1. Mr. Yutaka Kyoya was appointed to the AC, GNC and CRSC on 1 May 2017, and stepped down as member of the BRC, CIC and HRCC on 1 May 2017. 2. Mr. Mitsumasa Icho was appointed as Non-Executive Director and member of the BRC, CIC and HRCC on 1 May 2017. 3. Mr. Katsuhiro Ito stepped down as Non-Executive Director and member of the AC, CRSC and GNC on 1 May 2017. 14 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Induction and orientation of Directors Upon their appointment, Directors are issued with a formal appointment pack which outlines their Board and Board Committee membership details and term of office, fiduciary duty and legal obligations of a director, other vital information regarding their appointment and on the Company. Newly appointed Directors undergo a comprehensive and tailored induction programme which includes briefings by the Board Chairman, Group CEO and Group COO, industry, business and operations briefings by Senior Management; visits to the Group’s Board visit held in Brazil which included a tour of the key operations; and briefings on governance matters, etc. cofffee plantation in Barreiras. The newly appointed Directors are further assisted by the Group Corporate Secretarial office to enable them to Principle 2: Board composition and guidance appropriately discharge their statutory and fiduciary duties. To align with the extensive geographical spread and A comprehensive risk induction programme was conducted depth of the business, the existing Board comprises for the BRC on areas such as risk governance, risk Directors with diverse skills and expertise in finance and identification, risk monitoring and control, risk management accounting, banking, investment, strategic planning, tools, market compliance, environmental and social risks, retail, infrastructure, legal and environment and health and safety and the Enterprise Risk Framework. sustainability issues. The size, composition and blend of experience of the Board allows discussions on matters Directors’ training of policy, strategy and performance to be informed, critical and constructive. The profile and key information To keep the Directors abreast of developments in the of each Director is provided in the Board of Directors Group’s diverse industries as well as the Company’s section of the 2017 Annual Report. global operations, country visits and interactions with business and geography teams are amongst the Board size different types of exposure provided. Directors are invited to participate in sessions and talks conducted by Our Board currently consists of 11 members, 7 of whom specific industry specialists and experts on trends, are Independent Non-Executive Directors, 2 of whom developments and issues concerning the sectors in are Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors and the which the Company operates. Directors are routinely remaining 2 being Executive Directors. More than 50% of briefed via detailed presentations on the development the Board is comprised of Independent Non-Executive and progress of the Group’s key operations. Regular Directors. The 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive updates on Directors’ duties and responsibilities, and Directors are appointed by Mitsubishi Corporation. The changes to any relevant laws and regulations such as GNC examines the size of the Board to ensure that it is the Listing Rules of the SGX-ST, the Code, the appropriate for effective decision-making. The review Companies Act, etc. are provided to the Board. takes into consideration the variety, magnitude, nature and depth of the Group’s business and operations. Based During the year under review, the Board was briefed on on the factors considered and the composition of the the global sustainability issues and developments, changes existing Board who collectively possess sufficient depth and developments in financial reporting standards by and breadth to discharge duties and responsibilities the external auditors, policy changes in countries where effectively as well as to make objective decisions, the the Group operates, information technology (including current Board size of 11 members is appropriate. cyber‑security) and shared services, etc. A Board Offsite was held in Brazil where the Board Board diversity visited the Company’s local operations. Olam Brazil The composition of the Board today is a testimony to celebrated its 15th year in operation. The visit included what it believes is important: diversity for an optimal mix a tour of the Cocoa processing plan in Ilheus, Coffee of expertise and experience. The importance of diversity plantation in Barreiras; review of the various businesses stretches across skills, industry experience, geographic in South America including Coffee, Cocoa, Cotton and exposure, training and gender. The Board today has 2 Pepper as well as certain functions such as the Human women Directors with the nationalities of the Directors Resource and Finance; inauguration of key facilities such spanning 4 countries. The Board is well-appointed for as the innovation centre and the hydraulic press; and the the foreseeable future. launch of G.R.O.W. (Globally Reaching Olam Women). The Board interacted with the local management team Independence and gained insights into the leadership strength, the The GNC determines on an annual basis each Director’s businesses and the environment in which they operate. independence bearing in mind the definition of an The Board also met with key stakeholders across the Independent Director under the Code and guidance as banking, food, logistics and crop production sectors to relationships that may exist which would cause a as well as ex-governmental leaders. Director to be deemed non‑independent. A Director who olamgroup.com 15 Corporate governance report continued has no familial or commercial relationship with the notwithstanding the term of office. Independent Directors Group or its officers and substantial shareholders of may be retired prior to completion of the term of office if the Company that could interfere, or be reasonably so determined by the Board, taking into consideration perceived to interfere, with the exercise of his or her the recommendation of the GNC. independent business judgement in the best interests of the Company, is considered to be independent. Non-Executive Independent Directors The Code further requires the independence of any The Non-Executive Independent Directors fulfil a pivotal Director who has served on the Board beyond 9 years role in corporate accountability. Their role is particularly to be rigorously reviewed. The basis of determination by important as they provide unbiased and independent the GNC takes into account the annual confirmation of views, advice and judgement to protect the interests independence (the ‘Confirmation’) completed by each not only of the Company but also of shareholders, Independent Director. He or she is required to critically employees, customers, suppliers and the many assess their independence by examining the existence communities in which the Company conducts business. of any relationships or dealings that may compromise The Board has since 2013 maintained the number of their independence. Executive Directors at 2 to have a greater proportion of independent representation on the Board. Having carried out its review for the year under review and taking into account the views of the GNC, the Principle 3: Chairman and Group Chief Board has determined that, with the exception of the 2 Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directors, the Mr. Lim Ah Doo, who joined the Board on 1 November remaining 7 Directors are to be considered as independent. 2016 as Chairman‑designate and Independent and In its review, the GNC has considered the independence Non-Executive Director, assumed the role of Chairman of Mr. Jean-Paul Pinard who has served on the Board for with effect from 1 January 2017. more than 9 years. Mr. Pinard was appointed to the Mr. Lim Ah Doo is a Non‑Executive Director and is not Board since 2008 and has since chaired the CRSC. related to the Group CEO, Mr. Sunny George Verghese, Through his chairmanship and guidance, the Company’s or other members of the Senior Management Team. CR&S function as well as the MATS function continues to There is a clear division of responsibility between the mature in strength and expertise, with several key CR&S Chairman and Group CEO to ensure a balance of power policies and related policies developed and implemented and authority. and key stakeholders’ relationships built to further the Company’s CR&S commitment and endeavours. His vast The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the experience with the International Finance Corporation effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees remained relevant for the nature of the Company’s as well as the governance process. The Group CEO business in particular the area of corporate responsibility is at the helm of the Management Team and has overall and sustainability. The GNC further considered Mr. responsibility for the Company’s operations and Pinard’s independence of mind and opined that he has organisational effectiveness. The Group CEO remains consistently exercised independent judgement and accountable to the Board for the decisions and actions evidently expressed his views objectively and is able to taken, as well as for the performance of the Group. The exercise strong independent business judgement with Chairman works closely with the Group CEO on matters a view to acting in the best interests of our Company, to be tabled at meetings and matters arising from the thereby demonstrating an independence of mind. meetings as well as in ensuring that Board members Notwithstanding Mr. Pinard having served on the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information. beyond 9 years, the Board concurred with the Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Board holds recommendation of the GNC that Mr. Pinard is to be robust, open and constructive discussions at its considered as independent. meetings with adequate time allocated to sufficiently review the issues tabled. The Chairman chairs the Ongoing renewal of the Board quarterly Non-Executive Directors’ discussions after The ongoing renewal of the Board is in line with the each Board meeting and may organise offsite meetings Board’s policy on tenure of directorships. Since 2013, of the Non-Executive Directors. Along with the Group long-serving independent directors were retired CEO, the Chairman monitors the translation of the gradually at each AGM with new independent directors Board’s decisions, requests and recommendations into who possess the required skills and capabilities executive action. As part of the Chairman’s oversight, he appointed to fill these vacancies. All newly appointed ensures that constructive communication and engagement independent directors will be subject to a term of office with shareholders take place at every General Meeting. comprising two terms of 3 years each, with an additional The Chairman may direct members of the Board to term of 3 years at the sole discretion of the Board. All participate in briefings and meetings with other stakeholders directors whether Executive, Non-Executive or to explain publicly available material information. Independent remain subject to an annual evaluation 16 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Principle 4: Board membership Succession planning The review of Board succession plans, including the Governance and Nomination role of Chairman, is the primary responsibility of the GNC; while review of the succession plans for key Committee (GNC) positions in the Group, including the Group CEO and Senior Management, is within the purview of the Human Resource and Compensation Committee (HRCC). The GNC actively reviews the Board and Board Committees’ composition and the necessity of refreshing the Board. The GNC is of the view that any renewal and refreshment of the Board must be carried out progressively and in an orderly manner to ensure continuity. A formal plan for the renewal of the Board and the process for selection Lim Ah Doo of new Directors was put in place after having been Chairman recommended to and approved by the Board in 2012. The key recommendations, approved by the Board for Yap Chee Keong implementation, are effective from 1 July 2013 and were announced in October 2013. They are as follows: Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee • Longest-serving Independent Director will be Yutaka Kyoya (appointed 1 May 2017) retired gradually at each AGM commencing with Katsuhiro Ito (stepped down 1 May 2017) the 2013 AGM; The GNC is chaired by an Independent and • New Independent Directors who possess the required Non-Executive Director. The GNC comprises only skills and capabilities will be appointed to fill the Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are vacancies created by outgoing Independent Directors Independent Directors. The GNC is guided by its written after such appointment is reviewed by the GNC in terms of reference with principal functions as follows: concurrence with the Board; • All newly appointed Independent Directors are subject • To review the size, skills and composition of the Board to a term of office comprising 2 terms of 3 years each, to ensure there is adequate representation in respect with an additional term of 3 years at the sole discretion of issues and challenges, without compromising Board of the Board; and effectiveness and participation. In addition, the GNC seeks to identify the critical needs in terms of expertise • All Directors, whether Executive, Non-Executive and skills, as well as knowledge of the jurisdictions in or Independent, remain subject to an annual which Olam operates; performance evaluation notwithstanding the term of • To recommend the appointment and re-appointment office. Independent Directors may be retired prior to of Directors with a view to refreshing the Board; completion of the term of office if so determined by the Board, taking into consideration the recommendation • To conduct an annual review of the independence of of the GNC. each Director bearing in mind the relationships and the tenure limits under the Code; Retirement and re-election • To assess the effectiveness of the Board and All Directors submit themselves for retirement and its members; re-election at least once every 3 years. Pursuant to the • To review and recommend performance criteria for Constitution of the Company, one-third of the Directors evaluating the Board’s performance; shall retire from office at the Company’s AGM. A retiring • To recommend membership for Board Committees; Director is eligible for re-election at the AGM. The Group • To consider and review the Company’s corporate CEO, as a Director, is subject to the same retirement by governance principles; rotation provision as the other Directors. In addition, the • To consider any possible conflicts of interest Company’s Articles of Association comprising part of experienced by any Board members and senior the Company’s Constitution also provides that a newly executives; and appointed Director must submit himself or herself for • To review and recommend to the Board the induction re-election at the AGM following his or her appointment programme for new Directors and ongoing training (unless such appointment was voted upon by and development needs of the Directors and the shareholders at a general meeting). Board as a whole. At the 2018 AGM, Mitsumasa Icho who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2017 will submit himself for re-election in accordance with Article 109 of the Articles of Association comprising part of the Company’s Constitution. olamgroup.com 17 Corporate governance report continued Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Yutaka Kyoya, of board representations which a Director may hold Yap Chee Keong and Marie Elaine Teo will retire pursuant has been imposed by the GNC as Directors have to Article 103 of the Articles of Association comprising demonstrated their commitment and effectiveness part of the Company’s Constitution and will be eligible in discharging their duties and responsibilities and for re-election by the shareholders at the AGM. avoiding actual or potential conflicts of interest caused by serving on other boards. New appointments, selection and re-nomination of Directors Key information regarding Directors All new appointments, selection and re-nomination Key information regarding Directors, such as academic of Directors are reviewed and proposed by the GNC. and professional qualifications, Board Committees served The GNC has access to external search consultants on (as a member or Chairman), date of first appointment and resources to identify potential candidates. Board as a Director, date of last re-election as a Director, members may also make recommendations to the GNC. directorships both present and past held over the Shortlisted candidates are met by the GNC Chairman preceding 3 years in other listed companies and other along with the Board Chairman and Group CEO major appointments, is disclosed in the section on Board prior to approval at Board level. Some of the criteria of Directors of the 2017 Annual Report. Information considered by the GNC while evaluating Directors’ relating to Directors’ shareholding and interests in the appointments are: Group is disclosed in the Financial Report. • The candidate should possess knowledge and Principle 5: Board performance experience in a particular area of value to the Group, The Board considers the importance of putting the right namely accounting or finance, business or people with the right range of skills, knowledge and management, industry knowledge, strategic planning, experience together for effective governance of the customer-based experience or knowledge or Group’s business. The GNC assists the Board in environment and sustainability; ensuring that the Board is comprised of individuals • The candidate should have the aptitude or whose background, skills, experience and personal experience to understand fully the fiduciary duties characteristics enhance the effectiveness of the current of a Director and the governance processes of Board and meet its future needs. a publicly listed company; • Independence of mind; Based on the recommendations of the GNC, the Board has laid down a preliminary set of assessment criteria to • Capability and how he/she could meet the needs of assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole. There the Company and simultaneously complement the are 12 broad sections and a total of 49 assessment skillset of other Board members; areas for the Board evaluation covering, amongst others, • Experience and track record in multinational Board composition and leadership, Board processes, companies; strategy and implementation, risk and crisis management, • Ability to commit time and effort to discharging his/her effectiveness of Board Committees and stakeholder responsibilities as a Director; and management. The assessment of the Board Chair and • Reputation and integrity. Director individually is conducted on an ‘exception’ The GNC reviews all proposed appointments as basis with broad criteria on their individual contribution, part of the Board’s renewal process taking into involvement, conduct of and at meetings, execution of consideration the capability, experience, skillset agreed matters, interaction with the Board, industry and and the principal commitment of the candidates. functional expertise, etc. Interviews and discussions by the GNC Chair, Board During the year, the GNC carried out an evaluation of Chair and the Group CEO will also be held with any the effectiveness of the Board, the individual Board proposed candidates. members and the Chairman of the Board. The results of the evaluations are reviewed by the GNC and the Board Membership of other boards with proposed follow-up actions led by the GNC Chair. The GNC, in assessing the performance of the individual Meetings between the individual Director and the Board Director, considers whether sufficient time and attention Chairman, as well as the GNC Chairman, may be set up has been given by the Director to the affairs of the to share feedback and comments received and to work Company. It has regard to the Director’s other board out action plans to address specific issues raised. memberships and commitments. No limit on the number 18 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Principle 6: Access to information The Company has in place a comprehensive investor relations programme to keep investors informed of Principle 10: Accountability material developments in the Company’s business and To enable the Directors to fulfil their responsibilities, affairs beyond that which is prescribed, but without pre‑meeting discussions are held between the Chairman prejudicing the business interests of the Company. of the Board and/or Committees with Senior Management for the construction of the agenda and the Role of the Company Secretary preparation of Board materials. The agenda for each Directors have separate and independent access to the Board and Board Committee meeting along with all Company Secretary. The Company Secretary advises the Board papers, related materials and background Board through the Board Chair on governance matters, materials are provided to the Directors to enable the and facilitates the effective functioning of the Board and Directors to obtain further details and explanations Board Committees in accordance with their terms of where necessary. The Board is briefed and updated on reference including any best practices. Meetings of the the execution of the Company’s Strategic Plan, Board and Board Committees are scheduled at least a performance of its investments, financing plan, variance year in advance. Beyond scheduling meetings, the in budgets, etc. Members of the Management Team are Company Secretary works closely with the Board Chair invited to be present at Board and Board Committee and Chairman of the Board Committees and key meetings to provide additional insight into the matters executives of the Company to proactively manage the tabled for deliberation. Global heads of business units agenda and the materials provided in advance of and at are scheduled wherever required to update the Board meetings. The Company Secretary pursues and manages on platform-wise performance and plans. follow-up actions and reports on matters arising from the meetings. The Company Secretary assists the Board Non-Executive Directors meet with Senior Management Chair with Board development and Board processes independently to be briefed on various issues. Additional including Board evaluation, induction and training. She information, documents and materials are provided to takes the lead in organising the appointment letter and the Directors as and when required to enable them to information pack and in developing tailored induction make informed decisions. plans for new Directors, working with the Board Chair Board members are invited to participate in the annual and new Directors. ManComm meeting to interact with Management as well The Company Secretary acts as the sounding board for as to gain industry insight through external speakers. matters of corporate governance and monitors overall Presentations on the Group’s business and activities are compliance with the law and regulations adhered to by provided to the Board throughout the year by the the Group. The Company Secretary is also responsible Company’s Management Team. for ensuring the Company’s compliance with the Listing The Board has separate and independent access to the Rules of the SGX-ST, for interaction with shareholders Senior Management and the Company Secretary at all and for facilitating the convening of general meetings. times. Directors and Board Committees may, where The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary necessary, seek independent professional advice, paid is subject to the approval of the Board. for by the Company. The Board has adopted a policy of openness and Remuneration matters transparency in the conduct of the Company’s affairs Principle 7: Procedures for developing while preserving the commercial interests of the Company. The Company reports its financial results remuneration policies quarterly and holds media and analyst meetings to Principle 8: Level and mix of remuneration coincide with the announcements. Financial results and other price-sensitive information Principle 9: Disclosure on remuneration are disseminated to shareholders via SGXNET, to the SGX-ST, via press releases, on the Company’s website (olamgroup.com) and through media and analyst briefings. olamgroup.com 19 Corporate governance report continued Human Resource and Compensation The framework and details of the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors approved at the previous AGM Committee (HRCC) of the Company in April 2017 are provided in the following paragraphs. The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is in line with peer companies and those whom Olam was benchmarked against. The fees framework for NonExecutive Directors reflects an equitable and adequate remuneration on account of the responsibilities and average amount of time spent by a Director at Board and Board Committee meetings, as well as their discussions Lim Ah Doo beyond formal meetings and separate discussions with Chairman management in the discharge of their responsibilities. To facilitate timely payment of Directors’ fees, the fees Jean-Paul Pinard are paid in arrears on a quarterly basis for the current Sanjiv Misra financial year once approval is obtained from Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee shareholders at the AGM. Mitsumasa Icho (appointed 1 May 2017) Fees for Non-Executive Directors Yutaka Kyoya (stepped down 1 May 2017) At the April 2017 AGM, shareholders approved the payment of Directors’ fees of up to S$2,000,000 under the existing The existing members of the HRCC, including the HRCC fees framework for Non-Executive Directors set out in the Chairman, are Independent and Non-Executive Directors, paragraphs below. The aggregate fees paid quarterly in except for Mr. Mitsumasa Icho, who is Non-Executive. arrears to the Non-Executive Directors for the financial The HRCC is established by the Board with the following year ended 31 December 2017 entirely in cash amounted principal functions: to S$1,697,600.00 (excluding fees paid to a Director for • To review the executive leadership development his directorship with the subsidiary of the Company). process and programme; The breakdown of the fees paid to the Non-Executive • To review and recommend executives’ compensation Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 framework and equity-based plans; is set out in the table below. The Non-Executive Directors • To review succession plans for key executives, only receive Directors’ fees and do not receive any other including the Group CEO; benefits. • To establish and oversee the process for evaluating the performance of the Group CEO, Group COO and Fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors for the other key executives in the fulfilment of their financial year ended 31 December 2017 responsibilities, and the meeting of objectives and Directors’ fees paid performance targets; and Name in FY 2017 (S$) • To review annually the remuneration framework and the Current Directors adequacy of the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors. Lim Ah Doo1 303,800 The HRCC carries out regular discussions with the Group Jean-Paul Pinard 179,400 CEO and the Board on succession planning at the Senior Sanjiv Misra 196,800 Management level including that of the Group CEO. Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 141,400 During the year, the HRCC reviewed with the Group CEO the Yutaka Kyoya 162,333 succession plans for key executives and the progress, the Yap Chee Keong 195,500 compensation framework and the deliverables of the Group Marie Elaine Teo 182,000 CEO and Group COO. The HRCC also reviewed and Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 165,100 approved the recommendation for the issuance and allocation Mitsumasa Icho2 116,100 of new share grants under the Olam Share Grant Plan. Past Director Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Katsuhiro Ito3 55,167 Directorship on Subsidiary The existing remuneration framework for Non-Executive Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE4 57,600 Directors adopted by the HRCC is a comprehensive framework consisting of base fee for membership on the 1. Appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2017. Board and each Board Committee, Chairmanship, Lead 2. Appointed on 1 May 2017. Independent Director’s fee and attendance fee. 3. Stepped down on 1 May 2017. 4. Fees paid as Independent and Non-Executive Chairman of Caraway Pte. Ltd., a 75:25 joint venture subsidiary of the Company. 20 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Proposed Revision to the Fees for the Board Risk concerned shall have given instructions in his or her Committee (BRC) proxy form as to the manner in which his or her votes are to be cast in respect of this resolution. The HRCC yearly reviews the adequacy of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and may commission an independent Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and review by an external consultant on the remuneration other key executives framework of Directors as well as key management personnel. Executive Directors are not entitled to either base fees or The Non-Executive Directors’ fees have remained fees for membership on Board Committees. Remuneration unchanged in the last three years. The Board has during for Executive Directors currently comprises a base salary, the year, in conjunction with the HRCC, carried out a a performance bonus tied to the Company’s and the individual’s review on the adequacy of the fees paid to the Nonperformance, and participation in the Olam Share Grant Plan. Executive Directors, in particular, the members of the BRC. The review took into consideration the expansive The Company advocates a performance-based work done by the BRC, the amount of time spent in remuneration system that is flexible and responsive to the reviewing and revising the Group risk governance framework market. The total remuneration comprises 3 components: and the discussions held with key stakeholders. Consequent an annual fixed cash component, an annual performance to the review, the Board approved the recommendation incentive and a long‑term incentive. The annual fixed of the HRCC for an upward adjustment of the fees payable component consists of the annual basic salary and other to the Chairman of the BRC from S$35,000 to US$50,000 fixed allowances. The annual performance incentive is tied and to each member from S$20,000 to S$25,000. to the Company’s and individual executive’s performance, while the long-term incentive is granted based on the Details of the fees framework for Non-Executive individual’s performance and contribution made. Directors, which included the proposed changes to the Directors’ fees payable to the BRC, are provided below: To remain competitive, it would be our aim to benchmark our executives’ compensation with that of similar Nature of appointment S$ performing companies and remain in the top 25 percentile. Board of Directors The compensation structure has been designed so that, as Base fee (Chairman) 180,000 one moves up the corporate ladder, the percentage of total Base fee (Deputy Chairman) 130,000 remuneration at risk increases. The Company currently has Base fee (Member) 70,000 10 top key executives who are not also Directors. Lead Independent Director 25,000 Information on the compensation paid to Directors and Audit Committee key executives is summarily provided in the notes to the Board Risk Committee (From FY 2018) Financial Statements of the Financial Report. Capital and Investment Committee Chairman’s fee 50,000 In considering the disclosure of remuneration of the Member’s fee 25,000 Executive Directors and top 10 key executives, the HRCC considered the industry conditions in which the Board Risk Committee (Till FY 2017) Human Resource and Compensation Committee Group operates, as well as the confidential nature of the Chairman’s fee 35,000 Executive Directors’ and key executives’ remuneration. Member’s fee 20,000 In view of the highly competitive industry conditions the Governance and Nomination Committee Group operates within, and as many of our competitors Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee do not publish details of the specific remuneration of key Chairman’s fee 30,000 executives, the Board is of the view that detailed publication Member’s fee 15,000 of the remuneration of the Group’s key executives should Attendance fee Board Committee not be made. Given the general sensitivity and Home city meeting 3,000 1,500 confidentiality of remuneration matters, it would be Out-of-region meeting 4,500 2,250 disadvantageous to the interests of the Group to divulge Conference call 600 400 remuneration of Executive Directors, the CEO and key Odd hours 1,200 750 executives in such detail as recommended by the Code. Board offsite 6,000 Level and mix of remuneration of Executive Directors The aggregate Directors’ fees are subject to shareholders’ for the year ended 31 December 2017 approval at the AGM. The Non-Executive Directors will Variable or refrain from making any recommendation on and, being performance Base/ related shareholders, shall abstain from voting on the ordinary Remuneration fixed income/ Benefits Share resolution for the aggregate Directors’ fees. Other than the band salary bonuses in kind Total Options Grant Chairman who will be voting for proxies under the Listing S$2,000,000 and above Rules of the SGX-ST, the Directors shall also decline to Sunny George accept appointment as proxies for any shareholder to Verghese 20.4% 75.4% 4.1% 100% 15,000,0001 1,901,7943 vote in respect of this resolution unless the shareholder Shekhar Anantharaman 32% 68% – 100% 5,000,0002 1,420,0524 olamgroup.com 21 Corporate governance report continued 1. The subscription/exercise price of S$2.35 per share for 15,000,000 share options is the price equal to the average of the last dealt prices for a Board Risk Committee (BRC) share for the 5 consecutive market days preceding the date of grant. 2. The subscription/exercise price of S$2.28 per share for 1,750,000 share options and S$1.76 per share for 3,250,000 share options is the price equal to the average of the last dealt prices for a share for the 5 consecutive market days preceding the date of grant. 3. Share grant of 1,901,794 comprised of 1,202,147 Performance Share Awards and 699,647 Restricted Share Awards granted pursuant to the Olam Share Grant Plant. The actual number of shares to be delivered pursuant to the 810,000 Performance Share Awards granted will range from 0% to 192.5% of the base award and 392,147 Performance Share Awards granted will range from 0% to 200.0%, both of which are contingent on the achievement of pre-determined targets set out in the Marie Elaine Teo 3 year performance period and other terms and conditions being met. 4. Share grant of 1,420,052 comprised of 923,026 Performance Share Chairman Awards and 497,026 Restricted Share Awards granted pursuant to the Olam Share Grant Plan. The actual number of shares to be delivered pursuant to the 600,000 Performance Share Awards granted will range Sanjiv Misra from 0% to 192.5% of the base award and 323,026 Performance Share Yap Chee Keong Awards granted will range from 0% to 200.0%, both of which are contingent on the achievement of pre-determined targets set out in the Mitsumasa Icho (appointed 1 May 2017) 3 year performance period and other terms and conditions being met. Shekhar Anantharaman (appointed 4 January 2018) Remuneration band of the top key executives for Yutaka Kyoya (stepped down 1 May 2017) the year ended 31 December 2017 Sunny George Verghese (stepped down 4 January 2018) Remuneration band No. of executives The Board is responsible for the governance of risk. S$1,000,000 and above 7 To assist the Board in carrying out its responsibility of Below S$1,000,000 3 overseeing the Company’s risk management framework and policies, the Board Risk Committee was established Remuneration of employees who are immediate family in 2005. The BRC met 4 times during the year under members of a Director or the Group CEO review, which included a joint meeting with the No employee of the Company and its subsidiaries whose Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee remuneration exceeded S$50,000 during the year under (“CRSC”) to review a specific country risk. The BRC has review was an immediate family member of a Director or the oversight of the following matters: Group CEO. Immediate family member is defined as a spouse, • To review with Management the Group’s framework, child, adopted child, step-child, brother, sister or parent. guidelines, policies and systems to govern the process for assessing and managing risks; Employee Share Grant Plan • To review and recommend annual risk limits and The Company had adopted the new Olam Share Grant trading risk budgets; Plan (OSGP) at the 2014 AGM. The OSGP involves the • To review benchmarks for, and major risk exposures award of fully-paid shares, when and after prefrom, such risks; determined performance or service conditions are • To request, receive and review reports from accomplished. Any performance targets set under the management on risk exposures; OSGP are intended to be based on longer-term • To identify and evaluate new risks at an enterprise corporate objectives covering market competitiveness, level and to table a report to the Board; quality of returns, business growth and productivity growth. Details of the OSGP including its objectives, key • To review the Enterprise Risk Scorecard and terms, potential size of grants, methodology of valuation, determine the risks to be escalated to the Board; market price of shares that were granted as well as • To review market compliance updates and issues outstanding, and the vesting schedule may be read as reported; and part of the Financial Report. • To review annually the Insurance Strategy and Plan. The Company complies with the recommendations Accountability and audit contained in the Code and the Risk Governance Principle 11: Risk management and internal control Guidelines issued by the Corporate Governance Council in the approach to risk governance for the Group. The Principle 12: Audit Committee Company has robust mechanisms and systems to The Board, supported by the AC and BRC, oversees the identify risks inherent in the Group’s business model and Group’s system of internal controls and risk management. strategy, risks from external factors and other exposures, and to monitor the Company’s exposure to key risks that could impact the business sustainability, strategy, reputation and long-term viability of the Group. The Board along with the BRC supported by the Chief Risk 22 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 and Compliance Officer (“CRCO”) and the Risk Office presented to the BRC quarterly. The Enterprise Risk instils the right culture throughout the Company for Scorecard (“ERS”) is the result of an assessment of each effective risk governance. of the 51 risks for likelihood of occurrence and impact. The BRC Chair actively engages with the risk Each risk is evaluated for each business unit both on an management team on various risk matters as well as the inherent and residual basis using a traffic-light system of matters to be discussed at each BRC meeting. The BRC red-amber-green. The ERS is also presented to the BRC continually reviews its terms of reference taking into on a quarterly basis which, in conjunction with the GRD consideration the Risk Governance Guidelines and the assists the Board with (i) examining the effectiveness of Code as well as the changing needs of the organisation. the Company’s risk management plans, systems, processes and procedures and (ii) reviewing CompanyThe Group has a rigorous risk management framework wide risk policies, guidelines and limits, as well as risk designed to identify and assess the likelihood and impact exposure and risk treatment plans. The BRC is of risks and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate responsible for the recommendation of the overall annual their impact. The process identifies risks from a top-down risk capital of the Company for the approval of the Board. strategic perspective and a bottom-up business perspective. Overall responsibility to monitor and assess Risk Measurement, Market Compliance Controls, risk lies with the Risk Office. The Company takes a Risk Training and Communication holistic approach to enterprise-wide risk, monitoring The BRC is advised by the CRCO and Risk Office risk across each value-chain step across a wide range on the risk measurement methodology adopted and of both quantifiable and non-quantifiable risks. any changes in methodology in line with industry Risk Governance Structure best practices. The Group has an institutionalised process in the One of the Company’s key priorities is to comply with the governance of risk management matters. The CRCO is highest standards of business conduct. The Market a member of the Executive Committee and reports to Compliance Office (“MCO”) is responsible for ensuring both the Group CEO and the BRC Chair. regulatory compliance for the Company’s derivative trading units. The MCO carries out regular trader training The Risk Office reports to the CRCO and is responsible courses to ensure familiarity with prevailing exchange for identifying, assessing, measuring and monitoring rules globally and ensures that all new hires are risks, to provide the Company’s senior management and comprehensively trained in the Company’s Trading the Board with assurance that all the risks borne by the Compliance Manual. The BRC receives a quarterly Company are within its risk limits. The Risk Office is update on the status of compliance, initiatives and responsible for risk monitoring and control on an changes in global regulatory laws and regulations independent basis and undertakes regular stress-testing impacting the Company’s business and participation on of the Company’s portfolio. exchanges. From time to time, the Company’s Risk The Company sets risk limits as part of the annual Office publishes risk advisories on pertinent matters to budgeting cycle, which are presented to the Board for raise awareness and to promote industry best practices. approval. These limits include outright, basis, structure, This section should be read in conjunction with the arbitrage and Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) as well as credit and section on Risk Management in the Strategy Report of counterparty limits. The CRCO is mandated to allocate the 2017 Annual Report and the section on internal the risk capital across businesses considering the control in this report. competitive position, trading and market conditions and the track record of each business. Performance is continuously monitored, and risk capital allocation is recalibrated where necessary. The assigned limits are set at all levels of hierarchy within the structure, i.e. at business-unit level, value-chain step level and at profit-centre level, as well as any other limits the Risk Office deems appropriate. Enterprise Risk Management The Company’s Enterprise Risk Management framework defines 51 individual risks across 11 categories. The oversight of each of the 51 risks is divided among the 5 Board Committees, namely, the BRC, AC, CIC, CRSC and HRCC. Of the 51 risks, 16 are evaluated on a quantitative basis and represented in the company’s Group Risk Dashboard (“GRD”), the output of which is olamgroup.com 23 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee (AC) • Review the proposed scope of the Internal Audit function, the performance of the Internal Audit function, Internal Audit findings and to approve the Annual Internal Audit Plan and as and when there are changes to the plan; • Review the internal controls and procedures and ensure coordination between the external auditors, the internal auditors and Management, reviewing the assistance given by Management to the auditors, and Yap Chee Keong discussing problems and concerns, if any, arising from the interim and final audits, and any matters Chairman which the auditors may wish to discuss (in the absence of the Management where necessary); Nihal Kaviratne CBE • Review and discuss with the internal auditors, external Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee auditors and Management any suspected fraud or Yutaka Kyoya (appointed 1 May 2017) irregularity, or suspected infringement of any relevant laws, rules or regulations, which has, or is likely to Katsuhiro Ito (stepped down 1 May 2017) have, a material impact on the Group’s operating results or financial position, and Management’s All the members of the Audit Committee (AC) are response to the same; Non-Executive Directors with a majority of members including the AC Chair being independent. Members • Consider the appointment or re-appointment of the of the AC have significant and varied experience and external auditors and matters relating to resignation backgrounds in accounting, financial managementor dismissal of the auditors; related and legal fields. • Review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity The AC met 7 times during the year under review. The of the external auditors, annually; AC has established terms of reference approved by the • Review interested person transactions falling within Board and has explicit authority to investigate any matter the scope of Chapter 9 of the Singapore Exchange within its terms of reference. The key functions of the Listing Rules; AC are to: • Undertake such other reviews and projects as may • Assist the Board in discharging its statutory and other be requested by the Board of Directors and report responsibilities on internal controls, financial and to the Board of Directors its findings from time to time accounting matters, operational and compliance on matters arising and requiring the attention of the controls, and business and financial risk management AC; and policies and systems; and to ensure that a review of • Undertake such other functions and duties as may the effectiveness of the same (which may be carried be prescribed by statute and the Listing Rules or out by the external or internal auditors) is conducted recommended by the Code and by such amendments at least annually; made thereto from time to time. • Review with the external auditors their audit plan, their evaluation of the system of internal controls, their The external auditors update the AC at its quarterly report and management letter to the AC, Management’s meetings on any changes to the accounting standards, response, and the allocation of audit resources issues and developments with a direct impact on according to the key business and financial risk areas financial statements. as well as the optimum coverage and efforts between The AC has clear authority to investigate any matter the external and internal auditors; within its terms of reference, full access to and • Review the quarterly and annual financial statements cooperation of the Management and full discretion to before submission to the Board of Directors for invite any Director, key executive or officers of the approval, focusing in particular on changes in Company to attend its meetings. The Group COO, accounting policies and practices, major operating Group CFO, Global Head for Corporate Finance, the risk areas, the overview of all Group risk on an President and Head of Internal Audit and the external integrated basis, significant adjustments resulting from auditors are invited to attend these meetings. the audit, the going concern statement, compliance To enable it to discharge its functions properly, the AC, with accounting standards, and compliance with any through Management, has access to external counsels SGX and statutory/regulatory requirements; and consultants. 24 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Financial Reporting and Key Audit Matters Management engaged KPMG to review and formulate For the year under review, the AC discussed with an integrated assurance framework to bring more clarity Management and the external auditors changes in and to strengthen controls. The framework brings accounting policies and practices, major operating risk together the risk governance framework established by areas, the overview of all Group risk on an integrated the Board Risk Committee with the various Board basis, significant adjustments resulting from the audit, Committees providing oversight of designated key risk the going concern statement, compliance with areas, the In-Business Control (IBC) framework accounting standards, compliance with any SGX and implemented globally to monitor and report the inherent statutory/regulatory requirements, and reviewed with and residual risks in key risk areas, the internal audit Management and the external auditors the matters of framework and the work done by the control functions. significance in the audit of the financial statements (Key The AC carried out a detailed review of the role, Audit Matters). The AC concurs with the basis and adequacy and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function assessment of the Key Audit Matters disclosed in the during the year and recommended changes to the Independent Auditors’ Report of the Financial Report internal audit framework to bring more focus to and section of the Annual Report 2017. alignment with the Group’s business. The Internal Audit function has under the guidance of the AC Chair External auditors enhanced the Internal Audit plan, report on findings and the Internal Audit manual. The AC is satisfied that The external auditors report their findings and the Internal Audit team has appropriate standing within recommendations independently to the AC. During the the Company. During the year, the Committee met with year, the AC reviewed the unaudited financial statements Internal Audit, without the presence of Management, of the Company before the announcement of the to discuss any issues of concern. financial results and the audited financial statements prior to despatch to shareholders. During the year, the Whistleblowing AC along with Management reviewed the adequacy, structure and content of its results announcements to On the recommendation of the AC and the approval of the enable easier interpretation and analysis by its Board, the Company has formalised a Code of Conduct stakeholders. The AC also reviewed with the external (CoC) for the Group with the objective of conducting auditors changes and proposed changes to the financial business in compliance with the letter and spirit of the law reporting standards and the impact on the Company’s and other accepted standards of business conduct and financial statements, tax matters, policies and global to maximise shareholder value for its continuing developments and their audit on the Company’s systems shareholders in an ethical and environmentally of internal control. sustainable manner. It provides the key standards and policies that everyone working in and for Olam, including The Committee met with the external auditors during Directors, should adhere to. The CoC also encourages the year under review, without the presence of the and provides a channel for employees to report possible Management Team, to discuss with them any issues of improprieties, unethical practices, etc. in good faith and concern. The AC reviewed the nature and extent of all confidence, without fear of reprisals or concerns. All non-audit services performed by the external auditors to information and reports are received confidentially to establish their independence and objectivity. From the protect the identity and the interest of all whistleblowers. review, the AC has confirmed that the non-audit services To ensure that all incidents that are reported are performed by the external auditors would not affect their adequately brought to the notice of the stakeholders independence. Details of the fees payable to the concerned as well as to initiate corrective action, a external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit reporting structure is provided in detail in the CoC. services are set out in the notes to the financial statements of the Financial Report. The Company has A simple communication channel to allow anonymous complied with Rule 712, and Rule 715 read with Rule reporting of any fraud, misappropriation, improprieties or 716 of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST in relation to its unethical practices is set out in the CoC. A completely auditing firms. anonymous online report may be made using a reporting link http://www.jotform.me/iaolamint/FraudInformation Taking all relevant factors into consideration, the Channel. Any report so made reaches the Internal Audit Committee made its recommendation to the Board to department immediately. An alternative to the above for re-appoint the current auditors, which was endorsed by reporting a fraud can be by email sent directly to the the Board. Internal Audit department at ia@olamnet.com. Report can also be made by mail to the Head of Risk and Internal audit Compliance. The phone line to the Compliance Officer is The AC regularly reviews the areas of audit undertaken 65 6339 4100 (ask for the compliance officer). by Internal Audit, key findings by Internal Audit, To safeguard the whistleblower from retaliation, should complaints received from the whistleblowing channel, employees suspect that they are being targeted or have the resource adequacy and the effectiveness of the actions taken against them in retaliation for raising a Internal Audit function. During the year, the AC and olamgroup.com 25 Corporate governance report continued compliance or integrity issue, they should immediately Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework and report such suspicions using the communication put forth changes to the ERM Framework by identifying channels provided in the CoC and as set out above. the key risk categories and risk events, strengthening The CoC may be referred to on the Company’s website risk governance through Board Committees, oversight at olamgroup.com. of risk categories and the analysis of risks. Internal controls Integrated assurance The Company’s internal controls structure consists of The Company has in place an Integrated Assurance the policies and procedures established to provide Framework to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness reasonable assurance that the organisation’s related of the internal controls, including financial, operational, objectives will be achieved, the enterprise risk compliance and information technology controls, and management framework to examine the effectiveness risk management systems. of the Company’s risk management plans, systems, The Board has received assurance from the Group CEO, processes and procedures, the IBC framework the Group COO and the Group CFO that: implemented across the geography and entities where • the financial records have been properly maintained the Company operates, the audit by internal auditors and the financial statements give a true and fair view including any specialised audit commissioned and the of the Company’s operations and finances; and work done by external auditors. • from their review with the risk owners of their Olam has established authorisation and financial assessments of the standard operating procedures approval limits for operating and capital expenditure, the framework, escalation reporting, breaches and procurement of goods and services, and the acquisition assurance processes, they are satisfied with the and disposal of investments. Apart from reserved matters adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s risk that require the Board’s specific approval, such as the management and internal control systems. issue of equity and dividend and other distributions, Based on the work performed under the integrated Board approval is required for transactions exceeding assurance framework, the work performed by the control certain threshold limits, while delegating authority for functions, the internal and external auditors, the transactions below those limits to Board Committees assurance received from the Group CEO, the Group and Management to optimise operational efficiency. COO and the Group CFO as well as the reviews The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and Field undertaken by various Board Committees: Operations Manual (FOM) policies prescribe the • the Board, with the concurrence of the BRC, is of the process and documentation requirements for all our view that the Group’s risk management systems are procurement, grading, sorting, processing, storage, adequate and effective; and transits and shipment of our products. Strict adherence to the SOP and FOM is the key to our control over • the Board, with the concurrence of the AC, is of the financial and operational risks. To ensure compliance, opinion that the internal controls, addressing the periodical internal and external audit reviews are financial, operational, compliance and information routinely carried out. technology risks of the Company, are adequate and effective to meet the needs of the Group in its current In 2017, Management in consultation with the AC further business environment. improved on the In-Business Control (IBC) framework implemented since 2016 to capture the inherent level Whilst the internal audit and the internal controls systems of risk, its impact, the monitoring frequency and the put in place by Management provide reasonable risk owners. The 5 risk areas covered under the IBC assurance against material financial misstatements or Framework are, (i) capex execution and monitoring; (ii) loss, and assurance reliability, relevance and integrity of credit control-trade debtors; (iii) credit control-advance information (including financial information), completeness to suppliers; (iv) inventory control and (v) statutory of records, safeguarding of assets, effectiveness and compliance and risks. The IBC Framework forms part of efficiency of operations and compliance with applicable the integrated assurance matrix, which includes the policies, laws and regulations, it is opined that such Risk Dashboard and the work done by Internal Audit. assurance cannot be absolute in view of the inherent The internal audit findings are tracked and included as limitations of any internal audit and internal controls key performance indicators in managers’ performance system against the occurrence of significant human evaluation systems, to ensure the desired influence and system errors, poor judgement in decision-making, on behaviour. losses, fraud or other irregularities. During the year under review, Management in Principle 13: Internal audit consultation with the BRC and AC Chair assessed the The Internal Audit function is an important line of 26 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 defence for the Company; central to the overall Integrated Assurance Framework as well as the Capital and Investment Committee governance process. Internal Audit provides a source (CIC) of confidence to both Management and the AC that there is sound managerial control over all aspects of the operations of the Group including statutory compliance, accounting, asset management and control systems. Rajeev Kadam, President and Head of Internal Audit, reports directly to the Chairman of the AC and administratively to the Group CEO. The AC participates in the appointment, replacement or dismissal and the evaluation of the Head of Internal Audit. The Internal Sanjiv Misra Audit team includes members with relevant qualifications Chairman and experience. Internal audit is carried out according to the standards set by nationally or internationally Lim Ah Doo recognised professional bodies including the Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing set by Jean-Paul Pinard The Institute of Internal Auditors. The Internal Audit team Sunny George Verghese has full, free and unrestricted access at all times to all Shekhar Anantharaman books, personnel, documents, accounts, property, Marie Elaine Teo vouchers, records, correspondence and other data of Mitsumasa Icho (appointed 1 May 2017) the Company. The internal auditors also have the right to Yap Chee Keong (appointed 4 January 2018) enter any premises of the Group and to request any officer to furnish all information and such explanations Yutaka Kyoya (stepped down 1 May 2017) deemed necessary for them to form an opinion on the probity of action and adequacy of systems and/or controls. The CIC meets every quarter, and more often if required, either by way of physical meetings or via telephone As part of the Integrated Assurance Framework, the AC conference. The CIC is governed by established terms and IA regularly review the scope of the internal audit of reference and has oversight of the following matters: carried out by the Internal Audit team to ensure that it is comprehensive and to enable the effective and regular • To review the financial strategies, policies, gearing, review of all operational, financial and related activities. financial risks and capital structure of the Company; The internal audit coverage extends to all areas of the • To review and recommend the annual financing plan; Company and its controlled entities and includes • To review and recommend equity capital-raising plans; financial, accounting, administrative, computing and • To review and recommend debt capital-raising plans other operational activities. An internal compliance and significant banking arrangements; monitoring system is in place as a self-assessment tool • To review investment policy guidelines and capital for monitoring the performance of the business units on expenditure plans; key control aspects and processes. • To review and assess the adequacy of foreign The AC reviews the proposed scope and performance currency management; of the Internal Audit function, Internal Audit findings • To review and recommend on mergers, acquisitions and management response, and the Annual Internal and divestments; and Audit Plan. It ensures that no limitation on audit • To evaluate periodically the performance of the has been imposed. businesses in relation to the capital allocated. In 2017, the CIC met 6 times. The CIC reviewed its terms of reference, the policy governing the authority limits of Management, the CIC and the Board in respect of capital expenditure and divestments, and the financing plans and authority of Management arising thereto. A semi-annual review of the progress of all investments made to date was also carried out by the CIC. Under the revised Enterprise Risk Management framework, the CIC also provides oversight on certain risk category and risk events. The CIC has access to any member of the team in its review of investments and divestments, and actively engages the Management Team and consultants when deliberating on any investment or divestment proposal. olamgroup.com 27 Corporate governance report continued Corporate Responsibility and During the year under review, the Committee reviewed and discussed the Company’s engagement with the Sustainability Committee (CRSC) Non-Governmental Organisations in the sustainability sphere as well as the approach to the global issues concerning environment and sustainability. The Committee actively monitors corporate responsibility and sustainability issues and the reporting by Management on such issues in the Company’s pursuit of various investments. As part of the CRSC’s active engagement on corporate responsibility and sustainability matters concerning the Group’s business and operations, the Jean-Paul Pinard Chairman and members of the CRSC may, collectively or Chairman individually, visit some of the Company’s global operations, along with members of the Management Team, to gain deeper insights into the CR&S activities on the ground. Nihal Kaviratne CBE Marie Elaine Teo Principle 14: Shareholders’ rights Yutaka Kyoya (appointed 1 May 2017) Principle 15: Communication with shareholders Sunny George Verghese (appointed 4 January 2018) Shekhar Anantharaman (stepped down 4 January 2018) Principle 16: Conduct of shareholder meetings Katsuhiro Ito (stepped down 1 May 2017) Enhancing investor communication At Olam, we believe that profitable growth, as a way At Olam, we believe it is important for us to communicate of doing business, needs to incorporate creating our business, strategic developments, financial, value on an ethically, socially responsible and environmental, social and governance and other environmentally sustainable basis. We have called non‑financial information to shareholders, investors, this ‘Growing Responsibly’. analysts (collectively referred to as the investing community) and key intermediaries (including financial The CRSC met 4 times during the year. The terms of media, brokers and independent research organisations) reference of this Committee include: who provide research and information on the Company. • To review and recommend to the Board the Corporate Concurrently, we aim to understand their perspectives Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) vision and and requirements for decision-making and improve strategy for the Group; two-way communication. • To oversee the integration of CR&S perspectives into Since the 2014-2016 Strategic Plan, one of our the Company’s strategy and businesses; strategic priorities has been to promote a better • To review global CR&S issues and trends and assess understanding of Olam’s business by enhancing their potential impact on the Group; stakeholder communication. We have supplemented • To review the state of the Group’s health and safety our Company disclosure with details on investment measures and status; performance and held investor days and field visits • To monitor implementation, through the CR&S to Olam’s operational sites. function, strategy as well as policies and investments To facilitate better understanding and analysis, we in the CR&S area; have improved the structure and content of our results • To review the progress made on various initiatives; announcements by publishing a quarterly Management • To support Management’s response to crisis, Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) statement, which where required; includes a business commentary, key operational • To review the Company’s report and statement on and financial highlights and a detailed review of sustainability activities, commitment and involvement financial performance. and its (Olam) Livelihood Charter; and We have also produced additional corporate literature, • To review the adequacy of the CR&S function. such as ‘Olam Insights’ since 2015, a quarterly The CRSC actively engages the CR&S function headed newsletter for investors that features our different by Dr. Christopher Stewart with oversight by Gerard business platforms and profit centres around the world. Manley, a member of the Executive Committee, in the The Group Investor Relations department has lead formulation and implementation of various sustainability responsibility for enhancing communication with the policies and projects. investing community, with the active involvement of The CRSC plays a pivotal role in monitoring the state of the Group CEO, Group COO and Group CFO, and in health and safety within the Group, ensuring a culture of consultation with the Global Corporate Responsibility zero tolerance to fatality, and reviews the health and and Sustainability department on environmental, social safety report from MATS on a quarterly basis. and governance issues. 28 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 In order to track and measure progress against our The Group Investor Relations department periodically targets as stated in the Strategic Plan, we have also receives investor/analyst requests for meetings or introduced new key financial metrics and enhanced the conference calls to discuss the Company. Generally, quality of our financial information. we accede to all requests for meetings/calls where our schedule permits, provided these meetings/calls do not Delivering quality and timely information in fall within the closed periods prior to the announcement a transparent manner of financial results. We aim to deliver information to the investing community In addition to outreach programmes targeted at and key intermediaries in a timely manner. We hold institutional investors, we maintain communication with our media and analysts’ conferences quarterly to announce employee and retail shareholders, through our employee our financial and operating results. These quarterly portal and shareholder communication services facilitated results briefings are webcast live to cater to global by the Securities Investors’ Association of Singapore audiences. The full financial statements, press release, (SIAS) respectively. MD&A and presentation materials provided at the conferences are disseminated through the SGXNET onto Tracking changes in the shareholder base and the SGX website outside trading hours, uploaded onto interaction with the investing community the Company’s website and disseminated by email to We track and monitor changes in our shareholder base subscribers to our news alerts and investor relations regularly to help us tailor our shareholder engagement mailing list. and targeting programmes. Our investor relations website (olamgroup.com/investorWe maintain an active electronic database of the relations) is the go-to resource for the investing investing community, which allows us to target investors community for quality and timely information. Besides and track every investor meeting so that we can announcements, it contains Company news, investor measure the frequency and quality of conversations. presentations, earnings webcasts, transcripts of This system also enables us to deliver our Company earnings conference calls, historical financial information results and announcements to the investing community on spreadsheets, annual reports, consensus estimates, electronically at the same time as these are upcoming events, shareholding structure and disseminated through SGXNET so that investors have dividend information. access to our information on a timely basis. In addition to the quarterly results briefings, we hold media As the internet, social media and other mobile and analysts’ conferences and teleconference calls to applications have become more accessible, we communicate important corporate developments. Such continue to leverage such means to achieve a greater media and analyst conferences are also webcast live. and faster reach to the investing community and facilitate their research by providing on-the-go access Engaging the investing community to financial and non-financial information, webcasts, Apart from these forums, we hold meetings, telephone tweets and other resources. and video conference calls with the investing community and organise investor days to facilitate their Obtaining and acting on feedback from the understanding of the Company’s business model and investing community growth strategies. We conduct investment roadshows We conduct investor perception surveys to seek the and participate in investment conferences on a selective investing community’s feedback on the Company. basis. Where necessary, the frequency of conducting The study we undertook in 2013 formed our 2013 roadshows and attending investment conferences may Strategy Review and helped formulate our 2014-2016 increase to meet the Company’s requirements of Strategic Plan. We also commission annual surveys communicating important key messages and addressing with the investing community to gather their feedback market concerns. on annual reports. Investor Relations activities in 2017 Encouraging greater shareholder participation at Date Event Annual General Meetings (AGMs) 28 February Briefing on 2016 results We regard the AGM as an opportunity to communicate 25 April 22nd Annual General Meeting directly with shareholders. We are committed to 15 May Briefing on Q1 2017 results establishing more effective ways of communicating 14 August Briefing on Q2 2017 results with our shareholders around the AGM. Shareholders 15 November Briefing on Q3 2017 results are informed of these meetings through notices 16 November Morgan Stanley 16th Annual Asia Pacific published in the newspapers or through circulars. To Summit, Singapore encourage more shareholder participation, our AGMs are held in Singapore’s city centre, which is easily accessible by most shareholders. olamgroup.com 29 Corporate governance report continued Board members including the Chairman of all Board During the AGM, shareholders are given the opportunity Committees, namely, the AC, BRC, CIC, CRSC, GNC and to ask questions or raise issues. The questions and HRCC, and key executives of the Senior Management answers are recorded and detailed in the minutes, which Team, attend the AGM. Our external auditors are also are available to shareholders upon request. present to assist the Directors in addressing shareholders’ Voting in absentia by mail or electronic means requires queries. The Group CEO or Group COO delivers a careful study and is only feasible if there is no presentation to update shareholders on the Group’s compromise to either the integrity of the information and/ progress over the past year. or the true identity of the shareholder. We treat shareholder issues, particularly those that require shareholders’ approval, such as the re-election Recognitions of Directors and approval of Directors’ fees, as Olam’s 2016 Annual Report won Bronze Award at the distinct subjects and submit them to the AGM as 2017 Corporate & Financial Awards. The award was separate resolutions. presented to Olam in the “Best Printed Report: In support of greater transparency and an efficient voting International” category, which honours reports that system, the Company has been conducting electronic successfully use one document to tell an organisation’s poll voting since 2011. Shareholders who are present in corporate story to stakeholders and allow for ease of person or represented at the meeting will be entitled to access to key information. vote on a one-share, one-vote basis on each of the The 2016 Annual Report also won the Company the resolutions by poll, using an electronic voting system. honour of international winner for being the most Voting and vote tabulation procedures are declared effective in integrating sustainability into corporate and presented to shareholders in a video before the communications at the IR Society (UK)’s Best Practice AGM proceeds. The Company appoints an independent Awards 2017. scrutineer to count and validate the votes at the AGM. The Company was declared the winner of the Singapore The independent scrutineer for the 22nd AGM was RHT Corporate Governance Award (SCGA) 2017, Consumer Corporate Advisory. The results of all votes cast for and Staples Category at SIAS 18th Investors’ Choice Awards. against in respect of each resolution, including The SCGA is jointly developed by SIAS with the Centre abstaining votes, are instantaneously displayed at the for Governance, Institutions and Organisations (CGIO) of meeting and announced on SGXNET after the AGM. the NUS Business School to recognise listed companies All Board members were present at the 22nd AGM: that have excellent corporate governance practices and Chairman of the Board Committees shareholder interests. Lim Ah Doo, Chairman of the GNC and HRCC Securities transactions Yap Chee Keong, Chairman of the AC The Company is committed to transparency, fairness Jean-Paul Pinard, Chairman of the CRSC and equity in dealing with all shareholders and in ensuring adherence to all laws and regulations that Sanjiv Misra, Chairman of the CIC govern a company listed and trading on the SGX-ST. Marie Elaine Teo, Chairman of the BRC The Employee Share Dealing Committee (‘ESDC’) was set up to formulate and review best practice in the Board Members dealing of securities by Directors, executives and Sunny George Verghese, Executive Director, employees. The ESDC is chaired by a Senior Co‑Founder and Group CEO Management Team member, Ranveer Singh Chauhan, Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Independent and with members, V. Srivathsan, Joydeep Bose and N. Non-Executive Director Muthukumar. The ESDC reports to the Group CEO. Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, Independent and Through the ESDC, the Company has a policy on Non‑Executive Director dealings in securities of the Company in line with the SGX-ST Listing Rules for its Directors and employees, Katsuhiro Ito, Non-Executive Director (stepped down setting out the implications of insider trading and on 1 May 2017) guidance on such dealings. The policy provides that the Yukaka Kyoya, Non-Executive Director Company, its Directors and employees must not deal in the Company’s securities at any time after a priceShekhar Anantharaman, Executive Director and sensitive development has occurred, or has been the Group COO subject of a decision, until the price-sensitive decision has been publicly announced. Directors and employees are discouraged from short-term speculative trading in the Company’s securities; personal investment 30 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 decisions should be geared towards long-term In the event that any of the AC members has an interest investment. In particular, the Company, its Directors in an IPT under review or any business or personal and executives will not deal in the Company’s securities connection with the parties or any of its associates, the during the following periods: relevant AC member shall abstain from any decision• commencing 2 weeks prior to making public the making procedure in respect of that IPT, and the review quarterly financial results and ending at the close of and approval of that IPT will be undertaken by the trading on the date of the announcement of the remaining members of the AC where applicable. If there relevant results; and is only 1 member of that approving authority or where all the members of the relevant approving authority of the • commencing 1 month prior to making public the IPT are conflicted, the approval from the next higher annual financial results and ending at the close of approving authority shall be sought. trading on the date of the announcement of the relevant results. Shareholders of the Company who are interested persons of an IPT shall also abstain from voting their In keeping with the policy, Directors and employees of shares on a resolution put to the vote of shareholders the Company are notified of close periods for dealing in in relation to the approval of such IPT. the Company’s securities as well as any special dealing restriction that may be imposed from time to time. Directors who are deemed an interested person of an IPT that requires the approval of shareholders will Directors who deal in the shares and any other securities abstain from voting his/her holding of shares (if any) on of the Company are required to notify the Company within any resolution put to the vote of shareholders in relation 2 business days of becoming aware of the transaction. to the approval of any IPT. Directors will also decline to Material contracts accept appointment as proxy for any shareholder to vote in respect of such resolution unless the shareholder There were no material contracts entered into by the concerned shall have given specific instructions in his/ Company or any of its subsidiaries involving the interests her proxy form as to the manner in which his/her votes of any Director or controlling shareholder. are to be cast in respect of such resolution. Interested person transactions All transactions with interested persons are reviewed by the internal auditors and reported to the AC for approval. The transactions are carried out on normal commercial terms and are not prejudicial to the interests of the Company or its minority shareholders. The Company’s disclosures in respect of interested person transactions (IPT) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: FY 2017 Parties S$ Singapore Telecommunications Limited 1,043,450 SP Services Ltd 7,067 StarHub Ltd 10,327 DBS Bank Limited 1,362,543 Standard Chartered Bank 2,255,485 Mitsubishi Corporation 19,045,095 Mitsubishi International Corporation 421,166 MC Agri Alliance, Ltd 61,740,625 MS Commercial Pte. Ltd. 2,390,861 Total 88,276,619 olamgroup.com 31 Corporate governance report continued Board Committee Membership – At a glance as at 4 January 2018 Directors Membership Board Committees Date of first appointment Lim Ah Doo Chairman, Governance and Nomination Committee (C) 1 November 2016 Independent (assumed Human Resource and Compensation Committee (C) Chairmanship on Non-Executive Capital and Investment Committee (M) 1 January 2017) Sunny George Executive Capital and Investment Committee (M) 11 July 1996 Verghese Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (M) Jean-Paul Pinard Independent Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (C) 29 October 2008 Non-Executive Capital and Investment Committee (M) Human Resource and Compensation Committee (M) Sanjiv Misra Independent Capital and Investment Committee (C) 1 November 2013 Non-Executive Board Risk Committee (M) Human Resource and Compensation Committee (M) Nihal Vijaya Independent Audit Committee (M) 1 October 2014 Devadas Non-Executive Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (M) Kaviratne CBE Yap Chee Keong Independent Audit Committee (C) 1 December 2015 Non-Executive Board Risk Committee (M) Capital and Investment Committee (M) Governance and Nomination Committee (M) Marie Elaine Teo Independent Board Risk Committee (C) 1 December 2015 Non-Executive Capital and Investment Committee (M) Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (M) Yutaka Kyoya Non-Executive Audit Committee (M) 1 November 2015 Governance and Nomination Committee (M) Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (M) Rachel Eng Yaag Independent Audit Committee (M) 25 April 2016 Ngee Non-Executive Governance and Nomination Committee (M) Human Resource and Compensation Committee (M) Mitsumasa Icho Non-Executive Capital and Investment Committee (M) 1 May 2017 Board Risk Committee (M) Human Resource and Compensation Committee (M) Shekhar Executive Board Risk Committee (M) 1 April 1998 Anantharaman Capital and Investment Committee (M) 32 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Summary of Disclosures of Code of Corporate Governance 2012 Specific principles and guidelines in the Code with express disclosure requirements pursuant to the Corporate Governance Disclosure Guide issued by the Singapore Exchange on 29 January 2015. Principle/Guidelines Page Principle/Guidelines Page Guideline 1.3 12 Guideline 7.3 NA Board delegation of authority Remuneration consultants Guideline 1.4 14 Principle 9 20-21 Board attendance Remuneration policies, level and mix Guideline 1.5 12 Guideline 9.1 to 9.3 20-21 Material transactions for Board approval Remuneration of Directors, CEO and top 5 key management personnel Guideline 1.6 15 Guideline 9.4 22 Induction and training Remuneration of employees who are immediate family members of directors Guideline 2.3 15-16 Guideline 9.5 22 Directors’ independence Employee share schemes Guideline 2.4 16 Guideline 9.6 21 Directors’ nine years tenure Remuneration linked to performance Guideline 3.1 16 Guideline 11.3 26 Chairman and CEO relationship Adequacy of internal controls Guideline 4.1 17 Guideline 12.1 24-27 Nomination Committee Audit Committee Guideline 4.4 18 Guideline 12.6 25 Number of board memberships Audit and non-audit fees Guideline 4.6 18 Guideline 12.7 25 Appointments, selection, re-appointments Whistleblowing policy Guideline 4.7 6-11 Guideline 12.8 24 Key Directors’ information Audit Committee training on changes to accounting standards and issues impacting financial statements Guideline 5.1 18 Guideline 15.4 28-29 Board evaluation Obtaining views of the shareholders Guideline 7.1 20 Guideline 15.5 NA Remuneration Committee Reasons where dividends are not paid olamgroup.com 33 Corporate information LEADERSHIP TEAM Company Secretary Victor Lai Kuan Loong Registered office 7 Straits View Leadership Governance Board Non-Executive Marina One East Tower #20-01 Singapore 018936 CEO & COO Executive Telephone: (65) 6339 4100 Fax: (65) 6339 9755 Executive Committee Auditor Operating Committee Ernst & Young LLP One Raffles Quay North Tower Level 18 Management Committee Singapore 048583 Partner in charge: 72,000 Vincent Toong Weng Sum Employees (since financial year 30 June 2013) Principal bankers Executive Committee Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited Sunny George Verghese Gerard Anthony Manley Ashok Hegde Greg Estep Shekhar Anantharaman Vivek Verma Srivathsan Venkataramani KC Suresh Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Jagdish Parihar Ashok Krishen Ranveer Chauhan Joe Kenny Argentaria S.A Operating Committee BNP Paribas Amit Khirbat Gerard Anthony Manley MD Ramesh Sandeep Kumar Jain Commerzbank AG Anupam Jindel Greg Estep Mukul Mathur Sathyamurthy Mayilswamy Aravind Velamur Jagdish Parihar Neelamani Muthukumar Shekhar Anantharaman Commonwealth Bank of Rajaqopala Jayant Parande Raja Saoud Srivathsan Venkataramani Arun Sharma Australia Joe Kenny Rajeev Kadam Sunny George Verghese Ashok Hegde Joydeep Bose Ramanarayanan Mahadevan Supramaniam Ramasamy Credit Suisse Group AG Ashok Krishen KC Suresh Ranveer Chauhan Suresh Sundararajan Devashish Chaubey Mahesh Menon Ravi Pokhriyal Tejinder Singh DBS Bank Ltd Gagan Gupta Martial Genthon S. Venkita Padmanabhan Vivek Verma ING Bank N.V. Management Committee JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Abhishek Sahai Devashish Chaubey Manish Dhawan Sameer Patil Mizuho Bank, Ltd Alain Fredericq Eduardo Andrade Manoj Vashista Sandeep Daga De Freitas Amit Agrawal Manvinder Singh Sandeep Hota National Australia Bank Limited Amit Gulrajani G. Srinivasakumar MD Ramesh Sandeep Jain Amit Khirbat Gagan Gupta Mehra Saurabh Sanjay Sacheti Natixis Amit Verma George Joseph Michael J Smyth Sathyamurthy Mayilswamy Anurag Shukla Gerard Anthony Manley Mukul Mathur Shankar Rao Rabobank International Anupam Gupta Girish Kumar Nair Munish Minocha Sharad Gupta Anupam Jindel Greg Estep Naveen Sharma Shekhar Anantharaman Standard Chartered Bank Aravind VR Gurpreet Singh Neelamani Muthukumar Sridhar Krishnan Heemskerk Rinus Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Arouna Coulibaly Partheeban Theodore Sriram Subramanian Arun Sharma Indranuj Choudhury Paul Hutchinson Srivathsan Venkataramani Corporation Ashish Govil Jagdish Parihar Prakash Jhanwer Stephen Driver Ashok Hegde Janaky Grant (Dr) Prakash Kanth Sumanta De The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ashok Krishen Jayant Parande Premender Sethi Sunil Agarwal UFJ, Ltd Bikash Prasad Jeff Pfalzgraf Raj Vardhan Sunny George Verghese Brijesh Krishnaswamy Jeronimo Antonio Raja Saoud Supramaniam Ramasamy The Hongkong and Shanghai Pereira Banking Corporation Limited Briony Rudder Mathieson Rajeev Kadam Suresh Ramamurthy Jim Fenn Chandrasekaran Balaji Ramanarayanan Suresh Sundararajan Chris Beetge Joe Kenny Mahadevan Syed Abdul Azeez Westpac Banking Corporation Joseph West Ranjan Naik Chris Thompson Thiagaraja Manikandan Joydeep Bose Ranveer Chauhan Christopher Stewart Tejinder Singh Juan Antonio Rivas Ravi Pokhriyal Chye Yeong Thomas Gregersen Kartik Balasubramanian Raymond G Steitz Damien Houlahan Vasanth Subramanian KC Suresh Rishi Kalra Darshan Raiyani Vibhu Nath Kameswar Ellajosyula Robert Dall’Alba Dave De Frank Vinayak Narain Kaushal Khanna S. Venkita Padmanabhan David Watkins Vipan Kumar L. G. Moorthy Sachin Sachdev Deepak Kaul Vivek Verma Mahesh Menon Sameer Kaushal 34 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Shareholding information letter Substantial Shareholders (As recorded in the Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 16 March 2018) Direct Deemed Name of Shareholder Number of Shares1 Number of Shares1 1. Breedens Investments Pte. Ltd.2 1,394,271,494 – 2. Aranda Investments Pte. Ltd.2 312,814,360 – 3. Seletar Investments Pte Ltd2 – 1,707,085,854 4. Temasek Capital (Private) Limited2 – 1,707,085,854 5. Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited2 – 1,707,085,854 6. Mitsubishi Corporation3 554,689,829 – 7. Allan & Gill Gray Foundation (Guernsey)4 – 221,277,796 8. Orbis Allan Gray Limited4 – 221,277,796 9. Orbis Holdings Limited4 – 221,277,796 10. Orbis Investment Management Limited4 – 221,277,796 11. Orbis Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited4 – 181,506,595 12. Kewalram Singapore Limited5 223,769,921 – 13. Chanrai Investment Corporation Limited5 – 223,769,921 14. Kewalram Chanrai Holdings Limited5 – 223,769,921 15. GKC Trustees Limited (as trustees of Girdhar Kewalram Chanrai Settlement)5 – 223,769,921 16. MKC Trustees Limited (as trustees of Hariom Trust)5 – 223,769,921 17. DKC Trustees Limited (as trustees of Dayal Damodar Chanrai Settlement)5 – 223,769,921 Notes: (1) Percentages of shareholdings are calculated based on the total 1. Orbis Emerging Markets Equity Fund (Australia Registered) number of issued ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) being 2. Orbis Institutional Emerging Markets Equity LP 3,172,225,057 as at 16 March 2018. 3. Orbis Global Equity LE Fund (Australia Registered) (2) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited’s (“Temasek”) interest arises from the direct interest held by Breedens Investments Pte. Ltd. 4. Orbis Global Equity Fund (Australia Registered) (“Breedens”) and Aranda Investments Pte. Ltd. (“Aranda”). 5. Orbis Global Balanced Fund Wholesale Class (Australia (A) Temasek’s deemed interest through Breedens 43.95% Registered) (i) Breedens has a direct interest in 43.95% of voting shares of 6. Orbis SIVAC – Orbis Global Balanced Fund the Company. 7. Orbis Institutional Equity LP (ii) Breedens is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Seletar Investments 8. Orbis Institutional Global Equity Fund Pte Ltd (“Seletar”). 9. Orbis Global Equity Fund (iii) Seletar is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Capital 10. Orbis Institutional Global Equity (OFO) Fund (Private) Limited (“Temasek Capital”). 11. Orbis Institutional Global Equity LP (iv) Temasek Capital is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek. 12. Orbis Institutional International Equity LP (B) Temasek’s deemed interest through Aranda 9.86% 13. Orbis Optimal LP (i) Aranda has a direct interest in 9.86% of voting shares of the Company. 14. Orbis Optimal SA (ii) Aranda is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Seletar. 15. Orbis SICAV – Orbis Global Equity (iii) Seletar is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Capital. 16. Allan Gray Australia Balanced Fund (iv) Temasek Capital is a wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek. 17. Orbis SICAV – Orbis Institutional Equity Total deemed interest of Temasek 53.81% 18. Orbis OEIC Global Balanced Fund (3) Total interest of Mitsubishi Corporation 17.49% 19. Orbis OEIC Global Equity Fund (4) As a result of a restructuring exercise of the Orbis Group 20. Orbis SICAV Orbis Emerging Markets Fund (“Restructuring Exercise”), Orbis Allan Gray Limited and Allan & Gill by virtue of OIML’s ability to make or execute investment decisions on Gray Foundation (Guernsey) have on completion of the Restructuring behalf of these entities. Exercise, become substantial shareholders of the Company by virtue None of the above Orbis funds individually holds 5% or more of the of their deemed interest in the shares managed by their indirect Company’s shares. subsidiary, Orbis Investment Management Limited (“OIML”), which is a fund manager of the Orbis funds. The fund manager has the ability Total deemed interest of Orbis Group 6.98% to vote and acquire/dispose of the Company’s shares for and on (5) Kewalram Singapore Limited (“KSL”) is a wholly-owned subsidiary behalf of the Orbis funds. of Chanrai Investment Corporation Limited (“CICL”), which in turn is Orbis Holdings Limited is the holding company for OIML and Orbis a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kewalram Chanrai Holdings Limited Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited (“OIMHK”). Orbis (“KCHL”). By virtue of section 4(7)(d) of the Securities and Futures Allan Gray Limited and Allan & Gill Gray Foundation (Guernsey) are Act (Chapter 289), each of CICL and KCHL are deemed to be the parent entities for Orbis Holdings Limited. interested in the voting shares of the Listed Issuer (“Shares”). On 1 January 2017, OIML sub-delegated some of its portfolio GKC Trustees Limited (as trustees of Girdhar Kewalram Chanrai management duties, including the authority to dispose of securities, settlement) (“GKC Settlement”), MKC Trustees Limited (as trustees of to OIMHK. By virtue of the sub-delegation, OIAHK and OIMHK have Hariom Trust)(“Hariom Trust”) and DKC Trustees Limited (as trustees deemed interest in the voting shares of the Company. OIML still of Dayal Damodar Chanrai Settlement)(“DDC Settlement”) are retains overall investment management oversight, including voting shareholders of KCHL. By virtue of section 4(5) of the Securities and shares in the Company, held by the portfolios. Futures Act (Chapter 289), each of the GKC Settlement, Hariom Trust and DDC Settlement are deemed to be interested in the voting shares OIML is part of the Orbis Group. OIML is a substantial shareholder of the Listed Issuer (“Shares”). of the Company as it has deemed interests in the shares of the Company held by the following Orbis funds: CICL, KCHL, GKC Settlement, Hariom Trust and DDC Settlement are deemed interested in the 223,769,921 Shares held by KSL. olamgroup.com 35 Shareholding information continued Statistics of Shareholdings As at 16 March 2018 Issued and fully Paid-up Capital $3,812,922,224.14 Number of Ordinary Shares in issue (excluding Treasury Shares) 3,172,225,057 Number of Ordinary Shares held as Treasury Shares 98,793,600 Percentage of Treasury Shares held against the total number of Issued 3.11% Ordinary Shares outstanding (excluding Treasury Shares) Class of Shares Ordinary Shares Voting Rights One vote per share Distribution of Shareholdings Size of Shareholdings No. of Shareholders % No. of Shares % 1 – 99 106 1.73 3,230 0.00 100 – 1,000 793 12.92 652,959 0.02 1,001 – 10,000 4,058 66.12 19,177,275 0.61 10,001 – 1,000,000 1,158 18.87 50,572,747 1.59 1,000,001 and above 22 0.36 3,101,818,846 97.78 Total 6,137 100.00 3,172,225,057 100.00 Twenty Largest Shareholders No. Name No. of Shares % 1 Breedens Investments Pte Ltd 1,394,271,494 43.95 2 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 571,111,267 18.00 3 Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 360,657,977 11.37 4 Aranda Investments Pte Ltd 312,814,360 9.86 5 Kewalram Singapore Limited 223,769,921 7.05 6 DBS Nominees (Private) Limited 68,416,414 2.16 7 Raffles Nominees (Pte) Limited 67,318,844 2.12 8 Daiwa Capital Markets Singapore Limited 50,000,000 1.58 9 UOB Kay Hian Private Limited 10,990,631 0.35 10 ABN Amro Clearing Bank N.V. 5,338,261 0.17 11 Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte. Ltd. 4,614,019 0.15 12 OCBC Securities Private Limited 4,557,009 0.14 13 United Overseas Bank Nominees (Private) Limited 4,540,036 0.14 14 DB Nominees (Singapore) Pte Ltd 4,027,775 0.13 15 Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte Ltd 3,604,437 0.11 16 CGS-CIMB Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 3,241,109 0.10 17 DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte Ltd 3,181,261 0.10 18 Mak Seng Fook 3,028,296 0.10 19 Phillip Securities Pte Ltd 2,430,023 0.08 20 OCBC Nominees Singapore Private Limited 1,683,566 0.05 Total 3,099,596,700 97.71 Public Float Approximately 9.98% of the Company’s Shares are held in the hands of the public. The Company announced on 27 February 2018 that it has asked SGX-ST for an extension of time to restore the public float to cross 10% following the vesting of shares in April 2018 under the Company’s Restricted Share Awards (assuming there is no increase in the shareholding of substantial shareholders and Directors prior to April 2018). 36 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting Olam International Limited (Company Registration No. 199504676H) (Incorporated in The Republic of Singapore with limited liability) NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Third Annual General Meeting of Olam International Limited (the “Company”) will be held at Ballroom 1, The Westin Singapore, 12 Marina View, Asia Square Tower 2, Singapore 018961, on Wednesday, 25 April 2018 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes: Ordinary ORDINARY BUSINESS Resolutions 1.  receive and adopt the Directors’ Statement and the Audited Consolidated To Resolution 1 Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 together with the Auditors’ Report thereon. Please refer to the explanatory note (i) provided. 2. T  o declare a second and final dividend of 4 cents per share, tax exempt Resolution 2 (one-tier), for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. Please refer to the explanatory note (ii) provided. 3. To re-elect the following Directors retiring pursuant to Article 103 of the Articles of Association of the Company comprising part of the constitution of the Company (the “Constitution”), and who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election: (a) Mr. Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Resolution 3 (b) Mr. Yutaka Kyoya Resolution 4 (c) Mr. Yap Chee Keong Resolution 5 (d) Ms. Marie Elaine Teo Resolution 6 Please refer to the explanatory note (iii) provided. 4. To re-elect Mr. Mitsumasa Icho who will cease to hold office in accordance with Resolution 7 Article 109 of the Constitution, and who, being eligible, offers himself for reelection. Please refer to the explanatory note (iv) provided. 5. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to S$2,000,000 for the financial Resolution 8 year ending 31 December 2018 (“FY 2018”) (2017: S$1,697,600). Please refer to the explanatory note (v) provided. 6. To re-appoint Messrs Ernst & Young LLP as the auditors of the Company and to Resolution 9 authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. Please refer to the explanatory note (vi) provided. olamgroup.com 37 Shareholding information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Ordinary SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as Ordinary Resolutions: 7. General Authority to Issue Shares Resolution 10 That pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act, Chapter 50 of Singapore (the “Companies Act”) and Rule 806 of the Listing Manual of Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”) (the “Listing Manual”), the Directors be authorised and empowered to: (a) (i) issue ordinary shares in the capital of the Company (“Shares”) whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise; and/or (ii) make or grant offers, agreements or options (collectively, “Instruments”) that might or would require Shares to be issued, including but not limited to the creation and issue of (as well as adjustments to) options, warrants, debentures or other instruments convertible into Shares, at any time and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes and to such persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit; and (b) (notwithstanding the authority conferred by this Resolution may have ceased to be in force) issue Shares in pursuance of any Instruments made or granted by the Directors while this Resolution was in force, provided that: (1) the aggregate number of Shares (including Shares to be issued in pursuance of the Instruments, made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) to be issued pursuant to this Resolution shall not exceed fifty per cent. (50%) of the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) (as calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) below), of which the aggregate number of Shares to be issued other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders of the Company shall not exceed ten per cent. (10%) of the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) (as calculated in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) below); (2) (subject to such calculation as may be prescribed by the SGX-ST) for the purpose of determining the aggregate number of Shares that may be issued under sub-paragraph (1) above, the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) shall be based on the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) at the time of the passing of this Resolution, after adjusting for: (A) new Shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities; (B) new Shares arising from exercising share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time of the passing of this Resolution; and (C) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of Shares; 38 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Ordinary SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions (3) in exercising the authority conferred by this Resolution, the Company shall comply with the provisions of the Listing Manual for the time being in force (unless such compliance has been waived by the SGX-ST) and the Constitution; and (4) unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company (“AGM”) or the date by which the next AGM is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. Please refer to the explanatory note (vii) provided below. 8. Renewal of the Share Buyback Mandate Resolution 11 That: (a) for the purposes of the Companies Act, the exercise by the Directors of all the powers of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire Shares not exceeding in aggregate the Maximum Limit (as defined below), at such price(s) as may be determined by the Directors from time to time up to the Maximum Price (as defined below), whether by way of: (i) market purchase(s) (each a “Market Purchase”) on the SGX-ST; and/or (ii) off-market purchase(s) (each an “Off-Market Purchase”) in accordance with any equal access scheme(s) as may be determined or formulated by the Directors as they consider fit, which scheme(s) shall satisfy all the conditions prescribed by the Companies Act, and otherwise in accordance with all other laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the provisions of the Companies Act and listing rules of the SGX-ST as may for the time being be applicable, be and is hereby authorised and approved generally and unconditionally (the “Share Buyback Mandate”); (b) unless varied or revoked by the members of the Company in a general meeting, the authority conferred on the Directors pursuant to this Resolution may be exercised by the Directors at any time and from time to time during the period commencing from the date of the passing of this Resolution and expiring on the earlier of: (i) the date on which the next AGM is held or required by law to be held; or (ii) the date on which the purchases or acquisitions of Shares by the Company pursuant to the Share Buyback Mandate are carried out to the full extent mandated, whichever is the earlier; and (c) in this Resolution:   “Maximum Limit” means that number of issued Shares representing not more than five per cent. (5%) of the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) as at the date of the passing of this Resolution, unless the Company has effected a reduction of the share capital of the Company in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, at any time during the Relevant Period (as defined below), in which event the total number of issued Shares shall be taken to be the total number of issued Shares as altered (excluding any treasury shares that may be held by the Company from time to time and subsidiary holdings); olamgroup.com 39 Shareholding information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Ordinary SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions   “Relevant Period” means the period commencing from the date of passing of this Resolution and expiring on the date the next AGM is held or is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier; and  “Maximum Price” in relation to a Share to be purchased or acquired, means the purchase price (excluding brokerage, stamp duties, commission, applicable goods and services tax and other related expenses) which shall not exceed: (i) in the case of a Market Purchase, 105% of the Average Closing Price; and (ii) in the case of an Off-Market Purchase pursuant to an equal access scheme, 120% of the Average Closing Price,  where:  “Average Closing Price” means the average of the closing market prices of the Shares over the last five (5) Market Days (a “Market Day” being a day on which the SGX-ST is open for trading in securities), on which transactions in the Shares were recorded, before the day on which the purchase or acquisition of Shares was made, or as the case may be, the day of the making of the offer pursuant to the Off-Market Purchase, and deemed to be adjusted for any corporate action that occurs after the relevant five (5) Market Days; and  “day of the making of the offer” means the day on which the Company announces its intention to make an offer for an Off-Market Purchase, stating therein the purchase price (which shall not be more than the Maximum Price for an Off-Market Purchase calculated on the foregoing basis) for each Share and the relevant terms of the equal access scheme for effecting the Off-Market Purchase; and (d) the Directors and/or any of them be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such acts and things (including executing such documents as may be required) as they and/or he may consider necessary, expedient, incidental or in the interests of the Company to give effect to the transactions contemplated and/or authorised by this Resolution. Please refer to the explanatory note (viii) provided. 9. Authority to issue Shares under the Olam Scrip Dividend Scheme Resolution 12 That pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to allot and issue such number of Shares as may be required to be allotted and issued from time to time pursuant to the Olam Scrip Dividend Scheme. Please refer to the explanatory note (ix) provided. 40 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Ordinary SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions 10. Authority to issue Shares under the Olam Share Grant Plan Resolution 13 That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to: (a) grant awards in accordance with the provisions of the Olam Share Grant Plan; and (b) allot and issue from time to time such number of fully paid-up Shares as may be required to be delivered pursuant to the vesting of awards under the Olam Share Grant Plan, provided that the total number of Shares which may be allotted and issued and/ or Shares which may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the Olam Share Grant Plan on any date, when added to: (i) the total number of new Shares allotted and issued and/or to be allotted and issued, and issued Shares delivered and/or to be delivered in respect of all awards granted under the Olam Share Grant Plan; and (ii) all Shares, options or awards granted under any other share schemes of the Company then in force, shall not exceed ten per cent. (10%) of the total number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) from time to time, and that such authority shall, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue in force until the conclusion of the next AGM or the date by which the next AGM is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. Please refer to the explanatory note (x) provided. By Order of the Board Lai Kuan Loong Victor Company Secretary Singapore Date: 10 April 2018 olamgroup.com 41 Shareholding information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Please read the following notes and the explanations of for the collection, use and disclosure by the the resolutions before deciding how to vote. Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; Appointment of Proxy and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the a. A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM, Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, and who is not a Relevant Intermediary (as hereinafter claims, demands, losses and damages as a result defined) is entitled to appoint one (1) or two (2) of the member’s breach of warranty. proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A member of the Company who is a Relevant Intermediary Voting is entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to a. In compliance with Rule 730A(2) of the Listing attend and vote in his place, but each proxy must Manual, the Company intends to call a poll on all be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The Company different Share or Shares held by such member. intends to conduct the poll electronically. Voting A proxy need not be a member of the Company. and vote tabulation procedures will be read and “Relevant Intermediary” has the meaning ascribed explained at the start of the AGM before voting to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act. begins. An independent scrutineer will be appointed to count and validate the votes at the AGM. If an b. The instrument appointing a proxy must be electronic poll is conducted, the results of each deposited at the registered office of the Company at resolution will be instantaneously displayed at 7 Straits View, #20-01 Marina One East Tower, the AGM, showing the total number of Shares Singapore 018936, or at the office of the Share represented by votes cast for and against each Registrar of the Company at 50 Raffles Place, resolution as well as abstentions. Shareholders #32-01 Singapore Land Tower, Singapore 048623, who are unable to attend the AGM may refer to not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Company’s announcement on SGXNet after holding the AGM. In the case of members of the the AGM. Company whose Shares are entered against their names in the Depository Register, the Company b. Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are may reject any instrument appointing a proxy entitled to appoint proxies to attend and vote at the lodged if such members are not shown to have AGM on their behalf by duly completing the Proxy Shares entered against their names in the Form. All valid votes cast by proxies on each Depository Register as at 72 hours before the time resolution will be counted. Accordingly, appointed for holding the AGM as certified by The shareholders may ensure that their views are Central Depository (Pte) Limited to the Company. counted by appointing a proxy to cast the votes on their behalf. The duly completed Proxy Form must c. Personal data privacy: be deposited at the Company’s registered office at By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) 7 Straits View, #20-01 Marina One East Tower, and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at Singapore 018936, or at the office of the Company’s the AGM and/or any adjournment thereof, a member Share Registrar at 50 Raffles Place, #32-01 of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use Singapore Land Tower, Singapore 048623. Please and disclosure of the member’s personal data by complete and return your Proxy Form as soon as the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the possible and in any event not less than 48 hours processing and administration by the Company (or before the time appointed for the AGM. Please refer its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed to the Proxy Form for further information. for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the Website attendance lists, minutes and other documents The Company’s website, www.olamgroup.com, provides relating to the AGM (including any adjournment more information about the Company, including the latest thereof), and in order for the Company (or its Annual Report, the Notice of AGM and the Proxy Form. agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the Admission to the AGM “Purposes”); (ii) warrants that where the member Please arrive with sufficient time to allow registration. discloses the personal data of the member’s Please bring your attendance and identification proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company documentation with you. (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) 42 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed in accordance with the Income Tax Act, Chapter 134 at the AGM of Singapore. Resolutions 1 to 13 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. (iii) Ordinary Resolutions 3, 4, 5 and 6 For an ordinary resolution to be passed, more than half Mr. Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE will, upon of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution. re-election as a Director, continue his office as (i) Ordinary Resolution 1 Non-Executive and Independent Director and will The Companies Act requires the audited remain as a member of the Audit Committee (“AC”) consolidated financial statements of the Company and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability for each financial year to be tabled before the Committee (“CRSC”). He will be considered shareholders in a general meeting. The audited independent. consolidated financial statements are to be Mr. Yutaka Kyoya will, upon re-election as a Director, accompanied by the Directors’ Statement and the continue his office as Non-Executive Director. He will Auditors’ Report thereon. The Directors’ Statement remain a member of the AC, CRSC and the and the audited consolidated financial statements for Governance and Nomination Committee (“GNC”). the financial year ended 31 December 2017 together Mr. Yap Chee Keong will, upon re-election as a with the Auditors’ Report thereon are provided in the Director, continue his office as Non-Executive and Financial Report of the Annual Report. A copy may Independent Director and will remain as Chairman of also be read on our website at olamgroup.com/ the AC and a member of the Board Risk Committee annual-report-2017/. (“BRC”), Capital and Investment Committee (“CIC”) (ii) Ordinary Resolution 2 and GNC. He will be considered independent. Ordinary Resolution 2 is to declare a final tax exempt Ms. Marie Elaine Teo will, upon re-election as a dividend of 4 cents per Share for the financial year Director, continue her office as Non-Executive and ended 31 December 2017 (“FY 2017”). Together with Independent Director and will remain as Chairman of the sum of 3.5 cents per Share of interim dividend the BRC and a member of the CIC and CRSC. She declared for the second quarter FY 2017, the will be considered independent. total dividend for FY 2017 is 7.5 cents per Share Please refer to the Governance Report of the 2017 (approximately S$223 million). The Company does Annual Report for the profile of each of Messrs. Nihal not have a fixed dividend policy. The Directors’ policy Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Yutaka Kyoya, Yap is to recommend dividends consistent with the Chee Keong and Marie Elaine Teo. Company’s overall governing objective of maximising intrinsic value for its continuing shareholders. Dividend (iv) Ordinary Resolution 7 payments are affected by matters such as the level of Mr. Mitsumasa Icho will, upon re-election as a Director, the Company’s future earnings, results of operations, continue his office as Non-Executive Director and will capital requirements, cash flows, financial conditions, remain as a member of the BRC, CIC and Human the Company’s plans for expansion, general business Resource and Compensation Committee. conditions and other factors, including such legal or Please refer to the Governance Report of the 2017 contractual restrictions as may apply from time to time Annual Report for the profile of Mr. Mitsumasa Icho. or which the Directors may consider appropriate in the interests of the Company. The Directors will (v) Ordinary Resolution 8 consider all these factors before proposing any Ordinary Resolution 8 seeks the payment of up to dividends. The Company may, by ordinary resolution S$2,000,000 to all Directors (other than the Executive at a general meeting of shareholders, declare dividends, Directors) as Directors’ fees for FY 2018. The but the amount of such dividends shall not exceed Directors’ fees approved for FY 2017 were S$2,000,000 the amount recommended by the Directors. The with the aggregate fees paid quarterly in arrears to the Directors may also declare an interim dividend Non-Executive Directors for FY 2017 entirely in cash without seeking shareholders’ approval. Potential amounted to S$1,697,600. The exact amount of investors should note that this statement is a Directors’ fees received by each Director for FY 2017 statement of the Company’s present intention and is disclosed in full on page 21 of the Governance shall not constitute a legally binding commitment in Report of the 2017 Annual Report. Ordinary respect of the Company’s future dividends and Resolution 8, if passed, will facilitate the quarterly dividend pay-out ratio which may be subject to payment in arrears of Directors’ fees during FY 2018 modification (including reduction or non-declaration in which the fees are incurred. The amount of thereof) in the Directors’ sole and absolute discretion. Directors’ fees is computed based on the fee All dividends are distributed as tax-exempt dividends olamgroup.com 43 Shareholding information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued structure as reported on page 21 of the Governance (50%) limit if made on a pro rata basis to Report of the 2017 Annual Report. The Directors’ shareholders, and up to a sub-limit of twenty per fees proposed for payment also include the proposed cent. (20%) if made other than on a pro rata basis to increase in the fees payable to the BRC Chair and shareholders, the Company is nonetheless only members from FY 2018, details of which are seeking a sub-limit of ten per cent. (10%). provided on page 21 of the Governance Report of For determining the aggregate number of Shares the 2017 Annual Report as well as an additional that may be issued, the total number of issued provision of approximately fifteen per cent. (15%) Shares will be calculated based on the total number for developments in the year (such as additional of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares and meetings of the Board and Board Committees subsidiary holdings) at the time this Ordinary and Board offsites, the appointment of additional Resolution 10 is passed after adjusting for new Directors and/or the formation of ad-hoc and Shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any additional Board Committees) during FY 2018. convertible securities or share options or vesting of Notwithstanding the proposed increase in fees share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at payable to the BRC Chair and members from the time when this Ordinary Resolution 10 is passed FY 2018, the overall Directors’ fees proposed to and any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or be approved remained unchanged from FY 2017. subdivision of Shares. The fees of the Directors shall not be increased except pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed (viii) Ordinary Resolution 11 at a General Meeting. Ordinary Resolution 11, if passed, will empower the (vi) Ordinary Resolution 9 Directors from the date of the passing of this Ordinary Resolution 11 until the earlier of the date of Ordinary Resolution 9 seeks the re-appointment of the next AGM, or the date by which the next AGM is Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditors to the required by law to be held, to purchase or otherwise Company (the “Auditors”) and requests authority for acquire, by way of Market Purchases or Off-Market the Directors to set the remuneration of the Auditors. Purchases, up to five per cent. (5%) of the total The Board is careful that the Auditors’ independence number of issued Shares (excluding treasury shares should not be compromised and the AC takes and subsidiary holdings) as at the date of the passing responsibility for reviewing the performance of the of this Ordinary Resolution 11 on the terms of the Auditors and making recommendations about the Share Buyback Mandate as set out in the Letter to scope of their work and fees. The Audit Committee Shareholders dated 10 April 2018 accompanying has recommended to the Board that the appointment this Notice of AGM (the “Letter”), unless such of Ernst & Young LLP should be renewed until the authority is earlier revoked or varied by the conclusion of the next AGM. shareholders of the Company in a general meeting. (vii) Ordinary Resolution 10 The Company may use internal sources of funds or Ordinary Resolution 10, if passed, will empower borrowings or a combination of both to finance the the Directors, effective until the earlier of (1) the Company’s purchase or acquisition of Shares conclusion of the next AGM, or (2) the date by which pursuant to the Share Buyback Mandate. The the next AGM is required by law to be held (unless amount of financing required for the Company to such authority is varied or revoked by the Company purchase or acquire its Shares, and the impact on in a general meeting), to issue Shares, make or grant the Company’s financial position, cannot be Instruments convertible into Shares and to issue ascertained as at the date of this Notice of AGM as Shares pursuant to such Instruments, up to a number these will depend on, inter alia, the aggregate number not exceeding, in total, fifty per cent. (50%) of the of Shares purchased, whether the purchase is made total number of issued Shares, of which up to ten per out of capital or profits, the purchase prices paid for cent. (10%) may be issued other than on a pro rata such Shares, the amount (if any) borrowed by the basis to shareholders. Although the Listing Manual Company to fund the purchases or acquisitions and enables the Company to seek a mandate to permit whether the Shares purchased or acquired are its Directors to issue shares up to the fifty per cent. cancelled or held as treasury shares. For illustrative 44 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 purposes only, the financial effects of an assumed such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the purchase or acquisition of the maximum number of next AGM, or the date by which the next AGM is Shares, at a purchase price equivalent to the Maximum required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. Price per Share, in the case of a Market Purchase More details on the Olam Share Grant Plan may be and an Off-Market Purchase respectively, based on found in the Governance Report and the Financial the audited financial statements of the Company and Report of the 2017 Annual Report. its subsidiaries for FY 2017 and certain assumptions, are set out in paragraph 2.4.6 of the Letter. NOTICE OF BOOKS CLOSURE (ix) Ordinary Resolution 12 As stated in the Notice of Books Closure set out in the Ordinary Resolution 12, if passed, will empower the Company’s announcement dated 27 February 2018, the Directors to issue Shares from time to time pursuant Company wishes to notify shareholders that the Share to the Olam Scrip Dividend Scheme to shareholders Transfer Books and Register of Members of the who, in respect of a qualifying dividend, have Company will be closed at 5.00 p.m. on 4 May 2018 for elected to receive Shares in lieu of the cash amount the preparation of dividend warrants. Duly completed of that qualifying dividend. Unless varied or revoked registrable transfers of Shares received by the by the Company in a general meeting, such authority Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Corporate & shall remain effective until the conclusion of the next Advisory Services (Pte) Ltd, at 50 Raffles Place, #32-01 AGM or the date by which the next AGM is required Singapore Land Tower, Singapore 048623, up to 5.00 by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. Please p.m. on 4 May 2018 will be registered to determine refer to the circular to shareholders of the Company members’ entitlements to the proposed final dividend. dated 7 October 2009 for the terms and conditions of Members whose Securities Accounts with The Central the Olam Scrip Dividend Scheme. Depository (Pte) Limited are credited with Shares at 5.00 p.m. on 4 May 2018 will be entitled to the proposed final (x) Ordinary Resolution 13 dividend. Payment of the final dividend, if approved by The Olam Share Grant Plan was adopted at the AGM the members at the AGM to be held on 25 April 2018, held on 30 October 2014. Other than the Olam Share will be made on 11 May 2018. Grant Plan, the Company does not have any other share scheme which is currently in force. Ordinary Resolution 13, if passed, will empower the Directors to grant awards under the Olam Share Grant Plan and to issue new Shares in respect of such awards, subject to the limitations described in this Ordinary Resolution 13. Unless such authority has been varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting, olamgroup.com 45 This page is intentionally left blank. Proxy Form IMPORTANT: For Central Provident Fund (“CPF”) and/or Supplementary Retirement Scheme (“SRS”) investors who have used their CPF/SRS monies to buy Olam International Limited ordinary shares in the capital of Olam International Limited (“Shares”), (Company Registration No. 199504676H) this Proxy Form is not valid for use and shall be ineffective for all intents and purposes if used or purported to be used by them. CPF/SRS (Incorporated in The Republic of Singapore with limited liability) investors should contact their respective Agent Banks/SRS Operators if they have any queries as to how they may be appointed as proxies. (Please see notes overleaf before completing this Form) *I/We, Of being a *member/members of Olam International Limited (the “Company”), hereby appoint: Name NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings No. of Shares % Address and/or (delete as appropriate) Name NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings No. of Shares % Address or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the Twenty-Third Annual General Meeting of the Company (the “Meeting”) as *my/our *proxy/proxies to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 25 April 2018 at 10.00 a.m. at Ballroom 1, The Westin Singapore, 12 Marina View, Asia Square Tower 2, Singapore 018961, and at any adjournment thereof. *I/We direct *my/our *proxy/proxies to vote for or against the Resolutions proposed at the Meeting as indicated hereunder. If no specific direction as to voting is given or in the event of any other matter arising at the Meeting and at any adjournment thereof, the *proxy/proxies will vote or abstain from voting at *his/her discretion. (If you wish to exercise all your votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution, please tick [✓] within the box provided. Alternatively, if you wish to exercise your votes both “For” and “Against” the relevant Resolution, please indicate the number of Shares in the boxes provided.) No. Resolutions relating to: For Against Ordinary Business 1. Directors’ Statement and the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 ( FY 2017 ) together with the Auditors’ Report thereon 2. Payment of a second and final dividend of 4 cents per share for FY 2017 3. Re-election of Mr. Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE as a Director retiring under Article 103 4. Re-election of Mr. Yutaka Kyoya as a Director retiring under Article 103 5. Re-election of Mr. Yap Chee Keong as a Director retiring under Article 103 6. Re-election of Ms. Marie Elaine Teo as a Director retiring under Article103 7. Re-election of Mr. Mitsumasa Icho as a Director retiring under Article 109 8. Approval of payment of Directors’ fees of up to S$2,000,000 for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 9. To re-appoint Messrs Ernst & Young LLP as the auditors of the Company Special Business 10. General authority to issue Shares 11. Renewal of the Share Buyback Mandate 12. Authority to issue Shares under the Olam Scrip Dividend Scheme 13. Authority to issue Shares under the Olam Share Grant Plan Dated this day of 2018 Total number of Shares Held Signature of Shareholder(s) or Common Seal of Corporate Shareholder * Delete where inapplicable IMPORTANT: Please read the notes overleaf before completing this Proxy Form. PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY: By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data privacy terms set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 10 April 2018. Notes: 1. Please insert the total number of Shares held by you. If you only have Shares entered against your name in the Depository Register (as defined in Section 81SF of the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289 of Singapore), you should insert that number of Shares. If you only have Shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert that number of Shares. If you have Shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and Shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert the aggregate number of Shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and registered in your name in the Register of Members. If no number is inserted, the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall be deemed to relate to all the Shares held by you (in both the Register of Members and the Depository Register). 2. A member of the Company (other than a relevant intermediary*) entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company is entitled to appoint one (1) or two (2) proxies to attend and vote instead of him/her. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. Any appointment of a proxy by an individual member attending in person shall be null and void and such proxy shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting. 3. Where a member (other than a relevant intermediary*) appoints two (2) proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholding (expressed as a percentage of the whole) to be represented by each proxy. A relevant intermediary may appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company, but each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him (which number or class of shares shall be specified). 4. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at 7 Straits View, #20-01 Marina One East Tower, Singapore 018936, or at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company at 50 Raffles Place, #32-01 Singapore Land Tower, Singapore 048623, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Meeting. 5. (i) The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing. (ii) Where the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies is executed by a corporation, it must be executed either under its seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. (iii) Where the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies is signed on behalf of the appointor by an attorney, the letter or the power of attorney or other authority, if any, or a duly certified true copy thereof shall (failing previous registration with the Company) be duly stamped (if required by law) and be deposited at the registered office of the Company or at the office of the share registrar, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the Meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the instrument proposes to vote and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. 6. A corporation which is a member may authorise by resolution of its directors or other governing body such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Meeting, in accordance with Section 179 of the Companies Act, Chapter 50 of Singapore. 7. Subject to note 2, completion and return of this instrument appointing a proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the Meeting. Any appointment of a proxy or proxies shall be deemed to be revoked if a member attends the Meeting in person, and in such event, the Company reserves the right to refuse to admit any person or persons appointed under the instrument of proxy to the Meeting. * The term “relevant intermediary” has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Chapter 50 of Singapore. General: The Company shall be entitled to reject the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies if it is incomplete, improperly completed or illegible or where the true intentions of the appointor are not ascertainable from the instructions of the appointor specified in the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies. The Company shall not be responsible to confirm nor be liable for the rejection of any incomplete or invalid proxy instrument. In addition, in the case of Shares entered in the Depository Register, the Company shall reject any instrument appointing a proxy or proxies lodged if the member, being the appointor, is not shown to have Shares entered against his name in the Depository Register as at 72 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting, as certified by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited to the Company. Stay up to date olamgroup.com @olam Olam International Limited 7 Straits View Marina One East Tower #20-01 Singapore 018936 Telephone (65) 6339 4100 Facsimile (65) 6339 9755 olamgroup.com Financial Report Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 Re-imagining Global Agriculture Financial Report Olam International Annual Report 2017 olamgroup.com Our vision To be the most differentiated and valuable global agri-business by 2040. Our governing objective To maximise long-term intrinsic value for our continuing shareholders. This report is the first on our journey to develop a new model of reporting that provides insight into how we create value over the long-term. We aim to communicate how we identify, develop, preserve and deploy strategic assets in line with our company’s purpose. A separate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report is available on our website at olamgroup.com. Contents About this report Financial statements This Annual Report has 3 chapters. These can be read 1 Directors’ Statement independently; however, for the purpose of compliance they 8 Independent Auditor’s Report are intended to be viewed as a single document. 12 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 13 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Financial Report Our figures and respective notes are enclosed 14 Balance Sheets within this chapter. It should be read in 15 Statement of Changes in Equity conjunction with the Strategy Report to give a 19 Consolidated Cash Flow balanced account of internal and external factors. Statement 21 Notes to the Financial Statements Strategy Report This chapter offers narrative about our performance, strategy and market factors. It can be read independently as an Executive Summary or as part of the full report. Front cover image: In the West Black Sea Region of Turkey, hazelnut farmer Zafer Bekta Governance Report is being registered to the Olam This section of the report gives detailed Farmer Information System (OFIS) information about our rigorous governance during harvest by agronomist framework and those responsible for ensuring Hüseyin Noyan, working in the it is followed. Shareholder information is also Olam Progıda Sustainability team. held within this chapter. Read more on olamgroup.com Directors’ Statement The directors are pleased to present their statement to the members together with the audited consolidated financial statements of Olam International Limited (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiary companies (the ‘Group’) and the balance sheet and statement of changes in equity of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. 1. Opinion of the directors In the opinion of the directors, (i) the financial statements set out on pages 12 to 84 are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2017, changes in equity of the Group and of the Company, the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group for the financial year ended on that date; and (ii) at the date of this statement there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due. 2. Directors The directors of the Company in office at the date of this statement are:Lim Ah Doo Sunny George Verghese Jean-Paul Pinard Sanjiv Misra Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Yap Chee Keong Marie Elaine Teo Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Yutaka Kyoya Mitsumasa Icho (Appointed on 1 May 2017) Shekhar Anantharaman 3. Arrangements to enable directors to acquire shares and debentures Except as disclosed in this report, neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 was the Company a party to any arrangement whose objects are, or one of whose objects is, to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares or debentures of the Company or any other body corporate. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 11 Directors’ Statement continued 4. Directors’ interests in shares and debentures According to the register of the directors’ shareholdings, none of the directors holding office at the end of the financial year had any interest in the shares or debentures of the Company or its related corporations, except as follows: Held in the name of the director or nominee Deemed interest As at 1.1. 2017 As at 1.1.2017 or date of or date of appointment, As at As at appointment, As at As at Name of directors if later 31.12.2017 21.1.2018 if later 31.12.2017 21.1.2018 The Company Olam International Limited (a) Ordinary shares Sunny George Verghese 111,646,477 111,748,977 132,594,096 – – – Shekhar Anantharaman 12,619,672 12,677,672 15,558,947 – – – Jean-Paul Pinard – 806,761 806,761 – – – (b) $275,000,000 7.0% Perpetual Capital Securities (‘Capital Securities’) issued in denominations of $250,000 and in higher integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof Jean-Paul Pinard $250,000 – – – – – (c) 51,077,331 Warrants issued at an exercise price of US$1.09 for each new share 1 Sunny George Verghese 20,178,230 20,845,119 – – – – Shekhar Anantharaman 2,789,093 2,881,275 – – – – Jean-Paul Pinard 780,949 – – – – – (d) Euro Medium Term Note Programme Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 2 US$200,000 US$200,000 US$200,000 – – – (e) Options to subscribe for ordinary shares Sunny George Verghese 15,000,000 15,000,000 15,000,000 – – – Shekhar Anantharaman 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 – – – 2 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 2 Annual Report 2017 4. Directors’ interests in shares and debentures continued Held in the name of the director or nominee Deemed interest As at 1.1. 2017 As at 1.1.2017 or date of or date of appointment, As at As at appointment, As at As at Name of directors if later 31.12.2017 21.1.2018 if later 31.12.2017 21.1.2018 Subsidiaries of the Company’s holding company Temasek Group of companies (a) Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust Management Ltd (Unit holdings in Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust) Sunny George Verghese 510,000 510,000 510,000 – – – (b) Mapletree Logistics Trust Management Ltd (Unit holdings in Mapletree Logistics Trust) Sunny George Verghese 505,000 505,000 505,000 – – – Lim Ah Doo 185,000 185,000 185,000 – – – (c) Mapletree Commercial Trust Management Ltd. (3.25% Bonds due 3 February 2023) Yap Chee Keong $250,000 $250,000 $250,000 – – – (d) Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd (Ordinary Shares) Lim Ah Doo 31,300 42,600 42,600 – – – (e) Starhub Ltd (Ordinary Shares) Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 19,000 23,000 23,000 – – – Sanjiv Misra 3 60,000 60,000 60,000 – – – Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 6,900 19,800 19,800 – – – (f) Mapletree Industrial Trust (Ordinary Shares) Marie Elaine Teo 11,800 11,800 11,800 – – – Sanjiv Misra 3 – 100,000 100,000 – – – (g) Singapore Airlines Limited (3.035% Notes due 2025) Yap Chee Keong – $250,000 $250,000 – – – 1. On 29 January 2013, the Company undertook a renounceable underwritten rights issue (the ‘Rights Issue’) of US$750,000,000 6.75 per cent. Bonds due 2018 (the ‘Bonds’), with 387,365,079 free detachable warrants (the ‘Warrants’). The Warrants were listed and quoted on the Official List of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (‘SGX-ST’). Each Warrant carries the right to subscribe for 1 new ordinary share in the capital of the Company (the ‘New Share’) at an original exercise price of US$1.291 for each New Share. The Company has fully redeemed the Bonds. These Warrants are exercisable from 29 January 2016 to 29 January 2018. Under the terms and conditions of the Warrants, the exercise price of the Warrants and the number of Warrants may be adjusted as a result of certain events. At the end of the financial year, the exercise price of the Warrants was adjusted to US$1.09 and a total of 51,077,331 Warrants were outstanding. 2. This refers to the Notes issued under Series 006 of the US$5,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme (‘EMTN’) established by the Company on 6 July 2012 and subsequently updated on 14 July 2014, 21 August 2015 and 23 November 2016, comprising US$300,000,000 in principal amount of 4.50 per cent fixed rate notes due 2020. 3. Held in trust by Windsor Castle Holding Ltd for Sanjiv Misra and spouse. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 33 Directors’ Statement continued 5. Olam employee share option scheme and Olam share grant plan The Company offers the following share plans to its employees: (a) Olam Employee Share Option Scheme, and (b) Olam Share Grant Plan. These share plans are administered by the Human Resource & Compensation Committee (‘HRCC’), which comprises the following directors:Lim Ah Doo Jean-Paul Pinard Sanjiv Misra Mitsumasa Icho (Appointed 1 May 2017) Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Olam Employee Share Option Scheme The Olam Employee Share Option Scheme (‘the ESOS’) was approved by the shareholders on 4 January 2005 at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. The ESOS Rules were amended on 29 October 2008 at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. Under the amended rules, the directors (including Non-Executive directors and Independent directors) and employees of the Group are eligible to participate in the ESOS, and all subsequent options issued to the Group’s employees and Executive directors shall have a life of ten years instead of five. For options granted to the Company’s Non-Executive directors and Independent directors, the option period shall be no longer than five years. Controlling Shareholders and associates of Controlling Shareholders are not eligible to participate in the ESOS. Pursuant to the voluntary conditional cash offer by Breedens International Pte Ltd approval was sought and granted on 8 April 2014 such that all outstanding options which have not been exercised at the expiry of the accelerated exercise period shall not automatically lapse and become null and void but will expire in accordance with their original terms. The ESOS has expired on 3 January 2015. The terms of the ESOS continue to apply to outstanding options granted under the ESOS. The ESOS rules amended on 29 October 2008 may be read in the Appendix 1 of the Company’s circular dated 13 October 2008. Details of all the options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company pursuant to the ESOS outstanding as at 31 December 2017 are as follows:Exercise price Number of Expiry date ($) options 21 July 2019 2.28 32,175,000 17 February 2020 2.35 15,000,000 23 July 2020 2.64 3,185,000 17 December 2020 3.10 650,000 14 March 2021 2.70 1,195,000 30 December 2021 2.16 2,620,000 15 June 2022 1.76 16,442,000 Total 71,267,000 The details of options granted to the directors, are as follows:Aggregate Aggregate options options granted exercised since the since the Aggregate Exercise Price commencement commencement options Options for options of the scheme of the scheme outstanding as granted during granted during to the end of to the end of at the end of financial year the financial year financial year financial year financial year Name of Participant under review under review under review under review under review Sunny George Verghese – – 30,000,000 15,000,000 15,000,000 Shekhar Anantharaman – – 5,800,000 800,000 5,000,000 The 15,000,000 options granted to Sunny George Verghese in financial year 2010 were exercisable in three equal tranches of 5,000,000 each on or after the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant date (17 February 2010) at the exercise price of $2.35 where the vesting conditions were met. The options will expire ten years after the date of grant. The 1,750,000 options granted to Shekhar Anantharaman in financial year 2010 were exercisable in tranches of 25% and 75% at the end of the third and fourth anniversary from the date of grant (21 July 2009) at the exercise price of $2.28 where the vesting conditions were met. The 3,250,000 options granted to Shekhar Anantharaman in financial year 2012 are exercisable in tranches of 25% and 75% at the end of the third and fourth anniversary respectively from the date of grant (15 June 2012) at the exercise price of $1.76 if the vesting conditions are met. The options will expire ten years after the date of grant. 4 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 4 Annual Report 2017 5. Olam employee share option scheme and Olam share grant plan continued Olam Share Grant Plan The Company had adopted the Olam Share Grant Plan (‘OSGP’) at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The OSGP helps retain staff whose contributions are essential to the well-being and prosperity of the Group and to give recognition to outstanding employees and executive directors of the Group who have contributed to the growth of the Group. The OSGP gives participants an opportunity to have a personal equity interest in the Company and will help to achieve the following positive objectives: • motivate participants to optimise their performance standards and efficiency, maintain a high level of contribution to the Group and strive to deliver long-term shareholder value; • align the interests of employees with the interests of the Shareholders of the Company; • retain key employees and executive directors of the Group whose contributions are key to the long-term growth and profitability of the Group; • instil loyalty to, and a stronger identification by employees with the long-term prosperity of, the Company; and • attract potential employees with relevant skills to contribute to the Group and to create value for the Shareholders of the Company. An employee’s Award under the OSGP will be determined at the absolute discretion of the HRCC. In considering an Award to be granted to an employee, the HRCC may take into account, inter alia, the employee’s performance during the relevant period, and his capability, entrepreneurship, scope of responsibility and skills set. The OSGP contemplates the award of fully-paid Shares, when and after pre-determined performance or service conditions are accomplished. Any performance targets set under the OSGP are intended to be based on longer-term corporate objectives covering market competitiveness, quality of returns, business growth and productivity growth. Examples of performance targets include targets based on criteria such as total shareholders’ return, return on invested capital, economic value added, or on the Company meeting certain specified corporate target(s). It is also currently intended that a Retention Period, during which the Shares awarded may not be transferred or otherwise disposed of (except to the extent set out in the Award Letter or with the prior approval of the HRCC), may be imposed in respect of Shares awarded to the employees under the OSGP. Details of the Awards granted (including to the directors), are as follows:Type of Grant Performance share awards (‘PSA’) Restricted share awards(‘RSA’) Date of Grant 24 April 2017 5 May 2017 24 April 2017 5 May 2017 Number of Shares which are subject of the Awards granted 9,711,173 40,000 4,456,173 20,000 Number of employees receiving Shares Awards 320 1 319 1 Market Value of Olam Shares on the Date of Grant $1.91 $1.90 $1.91 $1.90 Number of Shares awarded granted to directors Sunny George Verghese Sunny George Verghese of the Company 392,147 − 392,147 − Shekhar Anantharaman Shekhar Anantharaman 323,026 − 323,026 − Tranche 1 – 25%: 1 April 2018 Tranche 1 – 25%: 1 April 2018 Tranche 2 – 25%: 1 April 2019 Tranche 2 – 25%: 1 April 2019 Tranche 3 – 25%: 1 April 2020 Tranche 3 – 25%: 1 April 2020 Vesting Date of Shares awarded April 2020 April 2020 Tranche 4 – 25%: 1 April 2021 Tranche 4 – 25%: 1 April 2021 The actual number of shares to be delivered pursuant to the PSA granted in the table above will range from 0% to 200.0% of the base award and is contingent on the achievement of pre-determined targets set out in the three year performance period and other terms and conditions being met. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 55 Directors’ Statement continued 5. Olam employee share option scheme and Olam share grant plan continued Olam Share Grant Plan continued Type of Grant Performance share awards (‘PSA’) Restricted share awards (‘RSA’) Date of Grant 7 April 2015 15 April 2016 15 April 2016 Number of Shares which are subject of the Awards granted 11,817,500 10,397,000 5,423,000 Number of employees receiving Shares Awards 280 297 294 Market Value of Olam Shares on the Date of Grant $1.985 $1.72 $1.72 Number of Shares awarded granted to directors of the Company Sunny George Verghese Sunny George Verghese Sunny George Verghese 400,000 410,000 410,000 Shekhar Anantharaman Shekhar Anantharaman Shekhar Anantharaman 250,000 350,000 232,000 Tranche 1 – 25%: 1 April 2017 Tranche 2 – 25%: 1 April 2018 Tranche 3 – 25%: 1 April 2019 Vesting Date of Shares awarded April 2018 April 2019 Tranche 4 – 25%: 1 April 2020 The actual number of shares to be delivered pursuant to the PSA granted in the table above will range from 0% to 192.5% of the base award and is contingent on the achievement of pre-determined targets set out in the three year performance period and other terms and conditions being met. The details of awards granted to the directors, are as follows:Aggregate Aggregate share awards share awards vested granted since the since the Aggregate commencement commencement share awards Share awards of the scheme of the scheme outstanding as granted during to the end of to the end of at the end of financial year financial year financial year financial year Name of Participant under review under review under review under review Restricted Share Awards: Sunny George Verghese 392,147 802,147 102,500 699,647 Shekhar Anantharaman 323,026 555,026 58,000 497,026 Apart from that which is disclosed above, no directors or employees of the Group received 5% or more of the total number of options/shares available under the ESOS/OSGP. The options/shares granted by the Company do not entitle the holder of the options, by virtue of such holding, to any right to participate in any share issue of any other company. There were no incentive options/shares granted from commencement of ESOS/OSGP to the financial year end under review. There were no options/shares granted at a discount. There were no options/shares granted to controlling shareholders of the Company and their associates. 6 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 6 Annual Report 2017 6. Audit Committee The Audit Committee (the ‘AC’ or “Committee”) comprises three Independent Non-Executive directors and a Non-Executive director. The members of the AC are Yap Chee Keong (Chairman), Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee and Yutaka Kyoya (appointed on 1 May 2017). The AC performed the functions specified in section 201B(5) of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50, the Singapore Code of Corporate Governance and the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST with full access and cooperation of the management and full discretion to invite any director or executive officer to attend its meetings. In performing its function, the AC held seven meetings during the year and reviewed the following: • audit plans of the internal and external auditors of the Company, and ensured the adequacy of the Company’s system of accounting controls and the cooperation given by the Company’s management to the external and internal auditors; • quarterly and annual financial statements of the Group and the Company prior to their submission to the board of directors for adoption; • scope of work of the external and internal auditors, the results of their examinations and their evaluation of the Company’s internal accounting control systems; • the Company’s material internal controls, including financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management via the integrated assurance framework (including the in-business control framework and reporting), audit and reviews carried out by the internal auditors along with the reviews by the control functions; • whistle-blowers’ reports; • legal and regulatory matters that may have a material impact on the financial statements, related compliance policies and programmes, and any reports received from regulators; • independence and objectivity of the external auditors; • interested person transactions (as defined in Chapter 9 of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST); and • the scope and results of the audit. Further, the Committee • held meetings with the external auditors and the management in separate executive sessions to discuss any matters that these groups believed should be discussed privately with the AC; • made recommendations to the board of directors in relation to the external auditor’s reappointment and their compensation; and • reported actions and minutes of the AC meetings to the board of directors with such recommendations as the AC considered appropriate. As part of the review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Committee reviewed the cost effectiveness of the audit conducted by the external auditors and the nature and extent of all non-audit services performed by the external auditors, and has confirmed that such services would not affect their independence. The Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be nominated for re-appointment as independent auditor of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. In appointing the auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Company has complied with Rule 712 and Rule 715 of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST. Please refer to the additional disclosures on the AC provided in the Corporate Governance Report in the Company’s Annual Report to shareholders. 7. Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to accept re-appointment as independent auditor. On behalf of the board of directors, Lim Ah Doo Director Sunny George Verghese Director 20 March 2018 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 77 Independent Auditor’s Report For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 To the Members of Olam International Limited Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Olam International Limited (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the ‘Group’) set out on pages 12 to 84, which comprise the balance sheets of the Group and the Company as at 31 December 2017, the statements of changes in equity of the Group and the Company and the consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated cash flow statement of the Group for the financial year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group, the balance sheet and the statement of changes in equity of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 (the Act) and Financial Reporting Standards in Singapore (FRSs) so as to give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2017 and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group and changes in equity of the Company for the year ended on that date. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (SSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled our responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. 1 Fair value of retained interest in investment in jointly-controlled entity During the current financial year, the Group divested 50% of an existing subsidiary as described in Note 13. As a result of the divestment, the retained interest of the investment at the Group is required to be remeasured and recorded at its fair value, which becomes the cost on initial recognition of the investment in a jointly-controlled entity. The fair value of the retained interest was determined using a value-in-use model by discounting the underlying cash flow forecasts. Due to the measurement of fair value being inherently judgemental, we have considered this to be a key audit matter. Our procedures in relation to assessing the fair value measurement included: Understanding how the management determines the fair value measurement of the retained interest Evaluating the reasonableness of management’s conclusions on key assumptions including forecast cash flows focusing on revenues and earnings before interest, tax depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’), assessing the appropriateness of discount rates with the assistance of our valuation specialist, and growth rates to historical trends and external market data to assess the reliability of management’s forecast Testing the mathematical accuracy of the model 8 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 8 Annual Report 2017 Key audit matters continued 2 Impairment assessment of goodwill, indefinite life intangible assets and fixed assets The Group makes and has significant investments in fixed assets, goodwill and intangible assets as disclosed in Notes 10 and 11 respectively that are associated with its operations and business units around the world. Management performs periodic reviews of goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite life and fixed assets for indication of impairment. Impairment assessments are performed whenever there are indicators of impairment based on the periodic reviews, or as part of an annual impairment assessment exercise as required. Realisable values of the fixed assets, goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are determined based on the business units’ cash flow forecasts and are performed by management with the help of independent professional valuers where applicable. Due to the element of judgement exercised in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, we have considered this to be a key audit matter. Our procedures included: Evaluating the reasonableness of management’s conclusions on key assumptions including forecast cash flows focusing on revenues and earnings before interest, tax depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’), assessing the appropriateness of discount rates with the assistance of our valuation specialist where required and growth rates to historical trends to assess the reliability of management’s forecast and, in addition to comparing forecast assumptions to external market analysis, whilst considering the risk of management bias. Where independent professional valuers are involved, assessing the competence, capabilities and objectivity and evaluating the appropriateness of the impairment model prepared by independent professional valuers Testing the mathematical accuracy of the models Reviewing the Group’s disclosures of the application of judgement in estimating cash-generating units cash flows and the sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect the risks associated with goodwill, indefinite life intangible assets and fixed assets impairment 3 Valuation of biological assets The Group operates various farms and plantations for which the livestock, agricultural produce (‘fruits on trees’) and annual crops are subject to valuation. These significant biological assets across the Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients and Food Staples and Packaged Foods segments, are fair valued by management and/or independent professional valuers engaged by the Group using industry/ market accepted valuation methodology and approaches. Due to the measurement of fair value being inherently judgemental, we have considered this to be a key audit matter. Our procedures in relation to assessing the fair value measurement included: Understanding how the management determines the fair value measurement of the biological assets, including the involvement of the independent professional valuers Evaluating the appropriateness of the valuation model prepared by management and/or independent professional valuers in determining the fair value which include forecast cash flows, discount rates and yield rates for the plantations and market prices of the fruits or nuts/crop and livestock Reviewing the sufficiency and appropriateness of the Group’s disclosures on the application of judgement in estimating cashgenerating units cash flows and the sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect the risks associated with biological assets valuation 4 Valuation of financial instruments As disclosed in Notes 34 and 35 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group enters into various financial instruments which are required to be carried at fair value. Estimation uncertainty is high for those financial instruments where significant valuation inputs are unobservable (i.e. Level 3 instruments) as it involves exercise of judgement and use of assumptions and estimates. Due to the related judgement in estimation, this is considered a key audit matter. Our procedures in relation to assessing the fair value measurement included: Assessing controls over identification, measurement and management of valuation risk, and evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used. The review also included comparisons of observable inputs against independent sources and externally available market data Evaluating the assumptions and models used or re-performing independent valuation assessment to assess the reasonableness of the computed fair value, with the help of our own valuation specialist where required Reviewing the appropriateness and adequacy of disclosures of fair value risks and sensitivities to reflect the Group’s exposure to valuation risk olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 99 Independent Auditor’s Report continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 To the Members of Olam International Limited Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon Management is responsible for the other information. The other information in the Annual Report 2017 comprises the information included in (i) Strategy Report, (ii) Governance Report and (iii) Director’ Statement (within the Financial Report) sections, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the provisions of the Act and FRSs, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 10 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 10 Annual Report 2017 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company and by those subsidiary corporations incorporated in Singapore of which we are the auditors have been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Vincent Toong Weng Sum. Ernst & Young LLP Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants Singapore 20 March 2018 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 11 11 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Group 2017 2016 Note $’000 $’000 Sale of goods and services 4 26,272,529 20,587,032 Other income 5 207,531 47,265 Cost of goods sold 6 (23,757,685) (18,363,777) Net (loss)/gain from changes in fair value of biological assets 12 (15,250) 14,141 Depreciation and amortisation 10, 11 (380,680) (353,481) Other expenses 7 (1,297,602) (1,103,939) Finance income 65,597 30,248 Finance costs 8 (531,178) (446,248) Share of results from jointly controlled entities and associates 14 67,631 22,160 Profit before taxation 630,893 433,401 Income tax expense 9 (79,248) (94,314) Profit for the financial year 551,645 339,087 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 580,743 351,312 Non-controlling interests (29,098) (12,225) 551,645 339,087 Earnings per share attributable to owners of the Company (cents) Basic 25 18.62 11.54 Diluted 25 17.92 11.14 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. 12 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 12 Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Profit for the financial year 551,645 339,087 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes during the financial year 336,076 (44,170) Recognised in the profit and loss account on occurrence of hedged transactions (68,037) (54,111) Foreign currency translation adjustments (357,694) (306,122) Share of other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities and associates 65,520 (19,616) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (24,135) (424,019) Total comprehensive income for the year 527,510 (84,932) Attributable to: Owners of the Company 560,419 (80,320) Non-controlling interests (32,909) (4,612) 527,510 (84,932) The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 13 13 Balance Sheets As at 31 December 2017 Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 5,625,837 5,367,039 13,285 12,581 Intangible assets 11 1,207,283 1,313,608 280,547 304,573 Biological assets 12 471,656 450,564 – – Subsidiary companies 13 – – 6,043,511 5,550,460 Deferred tax assets 9 95,871 95,735 – – Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates 14 1,070,940 889,838 780,557 724,826 Long-term investments 15 257,519 148,492 257,519 136,321 Other non-current assets 21 25,852 30,400 – – 8,754,958 8,295,676 7,375,419 6,728,761 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiary companies 16 – – 1,926,416 3,583,148 Trade receivables 17 1,901,925 1,656,457 965,592 385,620 Margin accounts with brokers 18 399,680 164,958 304,862 153,544 Inventories 19 6,044,681 7,414,311 1,405,000 1,144,986 Advance payments to suppliers 20 743,516 880,602 116,243 142,456 Advance payments to subsidiary companies 20 – – 852,001 2,196,193 Cash and short-term deposits 33 1,986,351 2,144,051 1,137,011 1,274,672 Derivative financial instruments 34 1,619,249 1,926,151 1,098,147 1,118,686 Other current assets 21 848,187 986,678 168,061 151,116 13,543,589 15,173,208 7,973,333 10,150,421 Current liabilities Trade payables and accruals 22 (2,184,352) (2,201,494) (1,087,350) (949,283) Borrowings 24 (4,660,209) (5,983,035) (2,309,058) (3,632,631) Derivative financial instruments 34 (851,947) (987,942) (685,128) (681,162) Provision for taxation (162,977) (84,949) (81,343) (24,739) Other current liabilities 23 (473,313) (383,731) (111,131) (115,176) (8,332,798) (9,641,151) (4,274,010) (5,402,991) Net current assets 5,210,791 5,532,057 3,699,323 4,747,430 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 9 (416,991) (505,876) (6,662) (8,103) Borrowings 24 (6,927,729) (7,687,553) (4,985,786) (6,435,337) (7,344,720) (8,193,429) (4,992,448) (6,443,440) Net assets 6,621,029 5,634,304 6,082,294 5,032,751 Equity attributable to owners of the Company Share capital 26 3,674,206 3,087,894 3,674,206 3,087,894 Treasury shares 26 (187,276) (190,465) (187,276) (190,465) Capital securities 26 1,045,773 930,416 1,045,773 930,416 Reserves 1,910,878 1,570,498 1,549,591 1,204,906 6,443,581 5,398,343 6,082,294 5,032,751 Non-controlling interests 177,448 235,961 – – Total equity 6,621,029 5,634,304 6,082,294 5,032,751 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. 14 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 14 Annual Report 2017 Statements of Changes in Equity For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Attributable to owners of the Company Foreign Treasury Capital currency Fair value Share-based Total nonShare capital shares securities Capital translation adjustment compensation Revenue Total controlling 31 December 2017 (Note 26) (Note 26) (Note 26) reserves1 reserves2 reserves3 reserves4 reserves reserves Total interests Total equity Group $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 At 1 January 2017 3,087,894 (190,465) 930,416 280,647 (703,305) (398,824) 119,520 2,272,460 1,570,498 5,398,343 235,961 5,634,304 Profit for the financial year – – – – – – – 580,743 580,743 580,743 (29,098) 551,645 Other comprehensive income Net gain on fair value changes during the financial year – – – – – 336,076 – – 336,076 336,076 – 336,076 Recognised in the profit and loss account on occurrence of hedged transactions – – – – – (68,037) – – (68,037) (68,037) – (68,037) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – – – (353,883) – – – (353,883) (353,883) (3,811) (357,694) Share of other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities and associates – – – 14,916 50,604 – – – 65,520 65,520 – 65,520 Other comprehensive income for the financial year, net of tax – – – 14,916 (303,279) 268,039 – – (20,324) (20,324) (3,811) (24,135) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 14,916 (303,279) 268,039 – 580,743 560,419 560,419 (32,909) 527,510 Contributions by and distributions to owners Buy back of capital securities (Note 26) – – (235,800) – – – – – – (235,800) – (235,800) Issue of shares on exercise of warrants (Note 26) 585,542 – – – – – – – – 585,542 – 585,542 Issue of shares on exercise of share options (Note 26) 770 – – – – – – – – 770 – 770 Issue of treasury shares for Restricted Share Award (Note 26) – 3,189 – – – – (3,189) – (3,189) – – – Issue of capital securities, net of transaction costs (Note 26) – – 347,727 – – – – – – 347,727 – 347,727 Share-based expense – – – – – – 20,184 – 20,184 20,184 – 20,184 Dividends on ordinary shares (Note 27) – – – – – – – (180,399) (180,399) (180,399) – (180,399) Accrued capital securities distribution – – 56,635 – – – – (56,635) (56,635) – – – Payment of capital securities distribution – – (53,205) – – – – – – (53,205) – (53,205) Total contributions by and distributions to owners 586,312 3,189 115,357 – – – 16,995 (237,034) (220,039) 484,819 – 484,819 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in loss of control Capital reduction in subsidiary without change in ownership – – – – – – – – – – (25,604) (25,604) Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – – (25,604) (25,604) Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners 586,312 3,189 115,357 – – – 16,995 (237,034) (220,039) 484,819 (25,604) 459,215 At 31 December 2017 3,674,206 (187,276) 1,045,773 295,563 (1,006,585) (130,785) 136,515 2,616,170 1,910,878 6,443,581 177,448 6,621,029 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 15 15 Statements of Changes in Equity continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Attributable to owners of the Company Foreign Treasury Capital currency Fair value Share-based Total nonShare capital shares securities Capital translation adjustment compensation Revenue Total controlling 1 2 3 4 31 December 2016 (Note 26) (Note 26) (Note 26) reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves Total interests Total equity Group $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 At 1 January 2016 3,082,499 (96,081) 237,525 280,647 (375,057) (107,931) 106,238 1,990,670 1,894,567 5,118,510 240,573 5,359,083 Effects of Biological assets adjustment (FRS 16, FRS 41) – – – – 5,103 – – (44,530) (39,427) (39,427) – (39,427) Effects of FRS 109 early adoption – – – – – (192,612) – 192,612 – – – – At 1 January 2016, as restated 3,082,499 (96,081) 237,525 280,647 (369,954) (300,543) 106,238 2,138,752 1,855,140 5,079,083 240,573 5,319,656 Profit for the financial year – – – – – – – 351,312 351,312 351,312 (12,225) 339,087 Other comprehensive income Net loss on fair value changes during the financial years – – – – – (44,170) – – (44,170) (44,170) – (44,170) Recognised in the profit and loss account on occurrence of hedged transactions – – – – – (54,111) – – (54,111) (54,111) – (54,111) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – – – (313,735) – – – (313,735) (313,735) 7,613 (306,122) Share of other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities and associates – – – – (19,616) – – – (19,616) (19,616) – (19,616) Other comprehensive income for the financial year, net of tax – – – – (333,351) (98,281) – – (431,632) (431,632) 7,613 (424,019) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – (333,351) (98,281) – 351,312 (80,320) (80,320) (4,612) (84,932) Contributions by and distributions to owners Buy back of shares (Note 26) – (94,384) – – – – – – – (94,384) – (94,384) Issue of shares on exercise of warrants (Note 26) 5,096 – – – – – – – – 5,096 – 5,096 Issue of shares on exercise of share options (Note 26) 299 – – – – – – – – 299 – 299 Issue of capital securities, net of transaction costs (Note 26) – – 675,874 – – – – – – 675,874 – 675,874 Share-based expense – – – – – – 13,282 – 13,282 13,282 – 13,282 Dividends on ordinary shares (Note 27) – – – – – – – (184,036) (184,036) (184,036) – (184,036) Accrued capital securities distribution – – 33,568 – – – – (33,568) (33,568) – – – Payment of capital securities distribution – – (16,551) – – – – – – (16,551) – (16,551) Total contributions by and distributions to owners 5,395 (94,384) 692,891 – – – 13,282 (217,604) (204,322) 399,580 – 399,580 Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners 5,395 (94,384) 692,891 – – – 13,282 (217,604) (204,322) 399,580 – 399,580 At 31 December 2016 3,087,894 (190,465) 930,416 280,647 (703,305) (398,824) 119,520 2,272,460 1,570,498 5,398,343 235,961 5,634,304 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. 16 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 16 Annual Report 2017 Attributable to owners of the Company Foreign Share Treasury Capital currency Fair value Share-based capital shares securities Capital translation adjustment compensation Revenue Total 31 December 2017 (Note 26) (Note 26) (Note 26) reserves1 reserves2 reserves3 reserves4 reserves reserves Total Company $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 At 1 January 2017 3,087,894 (190,465) 930,416 140,486 298,656 (398,818) 119,520 1,045,062 1,204,906 5,032,751 Profit for the financial year – – – – – – – 736,368 736,368 736,368 Other comprehensive income Net gain on fair value changes during the financial year – – – – – 336,076 – – 336,076 336,076 Recognised in the profit and loss account on occurrence of hedged transactions – – – – – (68,037) – – (68,037) (68,037) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – – – (439,683) – – – (439,683) (439,683) Other comprehensive income for the financial year, net of tax – – – – (439,683) 268,039 – – (171,644) (171,644) Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – (439,683) 268,039 – 736,368 564,724 564,724 Contributions by and distributions to owners Buy back of capital securities (Note 26) – – (235,800) – – – – – – (235,800) Issue of shares on exercise of warrants (Note 26) 585,542 – – – – – – – – 585,542 Issue of shares on exercise of share options (Note 26) 770 – – – – – – – – 770 Issue of treasury shares for Restricted Share Awards (Note 26) – 3,189 – – – – (3,189) – (3,189) – Issue of capital securities, net of transaction costs (Note 26) – – 347,727 – – – – – – 347,727 Share-based expense – – – – – – 20,184 – 20,184 20,184 Dividends on ordinary shares (Note 27) – – – – – – (180,399) (180,399) (180,399) Accrued capital securities distribution – – 56,635 – – – – (56,635) (56,635) – Payment of capital securities distribution – – (53,205) – – – – – – (53,205) Total contributions by and distributions to owners 586,312 3,189 115,357 – – – 16,995 (237,034) (220,039) 484,819 Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners 586,312 3,189 115,357 – – – 16,995 (237,034) (220,039) 484,819 At 31 December 2017 3,674,206 (187,276) 1,045,773 140,486 (141,027) (130,779) 136,515 1,544,396 1,549,591 6,082,294 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 17 17 Statements of Changes in Equity continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 Attributable to owners of the Company Foreign Share Treasury Capital currency Fair value Share-based capital shares securities Capital translation adjustment compensation Revenue Total 1 2 3 4 31 December 2016 (Note 26) (Note 26) (Note 26) reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves Total Company $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 At 1 January 2016 3,082,499 (96,081) 237,525 140,486 175,744 (107,925) 106,238 829,337 1,143,880 4,367,823 Effects of FRS 109 early adoption – – – – – (192,612) – 192,612 – – At 1 January 2016, as restated 3,082,499 (96,081) 237,525 140,486 175,744 (300,537) 106,238 1,021,949 1,143,880 4,367,823 Profit for the financial year – – – – – – – 240,717 240,717 240,717 Other comprehensive income Net loss on fair value changes during the financial year – – – – – (44,170) – – (44,170) (44,170) Recognised in the profit and loss account on occurrence of hedged transactions – – – – – (54,111) – – (54,111) (54,111) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – – – 122,912 – – – 122,912 122,912 Other comprehensive income for the financial year, net of tax – – – – 122,912 (98,281) – – 24,631 24,631 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 122,912 (98,281) – 240,717 265,348 265,348 Contributions by and distributions to owners Buy back of shares (Note 26) – (94,384) – – – – – – – (94,384) Issue of shares on exercise of warrants (Note 26) 5,096 – – – – – – – – 5,096 Issue of shares on exercise of share options (Note 26) 299 – – – – – – – – 299 Issue of capital securities, net of transaction costs (Note 26) – – 675,874 – – – – – – 675,874 Share-based expense – – – – – – 13,282 – 13,282 13,282 Dividends on ordinary shares (Note 27) – – – – – – – (184,036) (184,036) (184,036) Accrued capital securities distribution – – 33,568 – – – – (33,568) (33,568) – Payment of capital securities distribution – – (16,551) – – – – – – (16,551) Total contributions by and distributions to owners 5,395 (94,384) 692,891 – – – 13,282 (217,604) (204,322) 399,580 Total transactions with owners in their capacity as owners 5,395 (94,384) 692,891 – – – 13,282 (217,604) (204,322) 399,580 At 31 December 2016 3,087,894 (190,465) 930,416 140,486 298,656 (398,818) 119,520 1,045,062 1,204,906 5,032,751 1 Capital reserves Capital reserves represent the premium paid and discounts on acquisition of non-controlling interests, gain on partial disposal of subsidiary which did not result in loss of control, residual amount of convertible bonds net of proportionate share of transaction costs, after deducting the fair value of the debt and derivative component on the date of issuance, the share of capital reserves of a jointly controlled entity and warrants arising from the Rights Issue (Note 26). 2 Foreign currency translation reserves The foreign currency translation reserves are used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Company and the Group’s foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the Group’s presentation currency as well as the share of foreign currency translation reserves of jointly controlled entities and associates. 3 Fair value adjustment reserves Fair value adjustment reserves record the portion of the fair value changes on derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges that are determined to be effective hedges as well as fair value changes of long term investment. 4 Share-based compensation reserves Share-based compensation reserves represent the equity-settled shares and share options granted to employees. The reserve is made up of the cumulative value of services received from employees recorded over the vesting period commencing from the grant date of equity-settled shares and share options and is reduced by the expiry of the share options. The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. 18 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 18 Annual Report 2017 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 630,893 433,401 Adjustments for:Allowance for doubtful debts 43,911 39,403 Amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation of property, plant and equipment 380,680 353,481 Share-based expense 20,184 13,282 Fair value of biological assets (Note 12) 15,250 (14,141) Gain on disposal of subsidiary (121,188) – (Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (29,205) 5,405 Interest income (65,597) (30,248) Interest expense 531,178 446,248 Inventories written down, net 30,718 18,910 Share of results from jointly controlled entities and associates (67,631) (22,160) Operating cash flows before reinvestment in working capital 1,369,193 1,243,581 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 856,220 (259,677) Increase in receivables and other current assets (35,655) (132,885) Decrease/(increase) in advance payments to suppliers 86,083 (119,522) (Increase)/decrease in margin account with brokers (196,761) 14,061 Increase in payables and other current liabilities 124,835 270,258 Cash flows from operations 2,203,915 1,015,816 Interest income received 65,597 30,248 Interest expense paid (529,581) (378,028) Tax paid (82,098) (48,420) Net cash flows generated from operating activities 1,657,833 619,616 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 197,359 31,981 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (Note 10) (951,086) (751,793) Purchase of intangibles (Note 11) (7,163) (11,686) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired – (588,137) Net proceeds from associates and jointly controlled entities (12,374) (65,863) Dividends received from associate 22,278 – Proceeds on disposal of intangible asset – 10 Proceeds from partial divestment of subsidiary 113,539 – Net cash flows used in investing activities (637,447) (1,385,488) The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 19 19 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid on ordinary shares by the Company (180,399) (184,036) (Repayment)/proceeds from borrowings, net (1,385,209) 831,556 Proceeds from issuance of shares on exercise of share options 770 299 Proceeds from conversion of warrants 585,542 5,096 Proceeds from of capital securities, net of distribution 58,722 659,323 Payment for bond buy-back – (318,401) Purchase of treasury shares – (94,384) Net cash flows (used in)/generated from financing activities (920,574) 899,453 Net effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (157,423) (112,924) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (57,611) 20,657 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,939,418 1,918,761 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 33) 1,881,807 1,939,418 The accompanying accounting policies and explanatory notes form an integral part of the financial statements. 20 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 20 Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 These notes form an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2018. 1. Corporate information Olam International Limited (‘the Company’) is a limited liability company, which is domiciled and incorporated in Singapore. The Company is listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST). The Company’s ultimate holding company is Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited, a company incorporated in Singapore. The principal activities of the Company are those of sourcing, processing, packaging and merchandising of agricultural products. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements. The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is at 7 Straits View, #20-01 Marina One East Tower, Singapore 018936. 2. Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the balance sheet and statement of changes in equity of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (‘FRS’). The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies below. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 3. The financial statements are presented in Singapore Dollars ($ or SGD) and all values in the tables are rounded to the nearest thousand ($’000) as indicated. 2.1.1 Convergence with International Financial Reporting Standard The Accounting Standards Council announced on 29 May 2014 that Singapore incorporated companies listed on the Singapore Exchange will apply Singapore Financial Reporting Framework (International), a new financial reporting framework identical to the International Financial Reporting Standards. The Group will adopt SFRS(I) the new financial reporting framework on 1 January 2018. The Group has performed an assessment of the impact of adopting the SFRS (I). Other than the adoption of the new standards that are effective on 1 January 2018, the Group expects that the adoption of SFRS (I) will have no material impact on the financial statements in the year of initial application. 2.2 Changes in accounting policies and restatements The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except in the current financial year, the Group has adopted all the new and revised standards which are effective for annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, including the Amendments to FRS 7 Disclosure Initiative. The adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group and the Company. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 21 21 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.3 Standards issued but not yet effective The Group has not adopted the following standards and interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective: Effective for financial Description year beginning on Amendments to FRS 40: Transfers of Investment Property 1 January 2018 FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Amendments to FRS 115: Clarifications to FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Amendments to FRS 102: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 Amendments to FRS 104: Applying FRS 109 Financial Instruments with FRS 104 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2018 FRS 116 Leases 1 January 2019 Improvements to FRSs (December 2016): Amendments to FRS 28: Measuring an Associate or Joint Venture at fair value 1 January 2018 Amendments to FRS 109: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 INT FRS 122 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 INT FRS 123 Uncertainty Over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Amendments to FRS 110 and FRS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Date to be determined Except for FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Amendments to FRS 115 and FRS 116 Leases, the directors expect that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations above will have no material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application. The nature of the impending changes in accounting policy on adoption of FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Amendments to FRS 115 and FRS 116 Leases is described below. FRS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and Amendments to FRS 115 In accordance with FRS 115, which is effective from 1 January 2018 onwards, excluding interest and dividend income and other such income from financial instruments recognised in accordance with FRS 109, revenues are recognised upon transfer of promised goods or services to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration to which Group expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services based on the five step approach as prescribed in the standard. The Group has performed an impact assessment and does not expect a change in revenue recognition for sales of goods or services upon adoption on 1 January 2018. FRS 116 Leases FRS 116 requires lessees to recognise most leases on balance sheets to reflect the rights to use (‘ROU’) the leased assets and the associated obligations for lease payments as well as the corresponding interest expense and depreciation charges. The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees – leases of ‘low value’ assets and short-term leases. The new leases standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group has performed a preliminary high-level impact assessment of the adoption of FRS 116 on its existing operating lease arrangements as lessee. Based on its preliminary assessment, the Group expects these operating leases to be recognised as ROU assets and corresponding lease liabilities which will result in increase in total assets and total liabilities, EBITDA and gearing ratio. The Group plans to adopt the standard when it becomes effective in 2019. 22 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 22 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.4 Functional and foreign currency The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Singapore Dollars. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. The Company’s functional currency is the United States Dollar (‘USD’), which reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of the Company. Although the Company is domiciled in Singapore, most of the Company’s transactions are denominated in USD and the selling prices for the Company’s products are sensitive to movements in the foreign exchange rate with the USD. (a) Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are measured in the respective functional currencies of the Company and its subsidiaries and are recorded on initial recognition in the functional currencies at exchange rates approximating those ruling at the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was measured. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at the balance sheet date are recognised in profit or loss except for exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations, which are recognised initially in other comprehensive income and accumulated under foreign currency translation reserve in equity. The foreign currency translation reserve is reclassified from equity to profit or loss of the Group on disposal of the foreign operation. (b) Consolidated financial statements For consolidation purpose, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into USD at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their profit or loss are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year. The exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss. In the case of a partial disposal without loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interest and are not recognised in profit or loss. For partial disposals of associates or jointly controlled entities that are foreign operations, the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss. (c) Translation to the presentation currency The financial statements are presented in Singapore Dollar (‘SGD’) as the Company’s principal place of business is in Singapore. The financial statements are translated from USD to SGD as follows:• Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate ruling at that balance sheet date; • Income and expenses for each profit and loss account are translated at average exchange rates for the year, which approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and All exchange differences arising on the translation are included in the foreign currency translation reserves. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 23 23 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.5 Subsidiary companies, basis of consolidation and business combinations (a) Subsidiary companies A subsidiary is an investee that is controlled by the Group. The Group controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment losses. A list of the Group’s significant subsidiary companies is shown in Note 13. (b) Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The financial statements of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances. All intra-group balances, income and expenses and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: • Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary at their carrying amounts at the date when control is lost; • Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; • Derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; • Recognises the fair value of the consideration received; • Recognises the fair value of any investment retained; • Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; • Reclassifies the Group’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. (c) Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are received. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in profit or loss. In business combinations achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group elects for each individual business combination, whether non-controlling interest in the acquiree (if any), that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of net assets in the event of liquidation, is recognised on the acquisition date at fair value, or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Other components of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by another FRS. Any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the business combination, the amount of noncontrolling interest in the acquiree (if any) and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. In instances where the latter amount exceeds the former, the excess is recognised as gain on bargain purchase in profit or loss on the acquisition date. The accounting policy for goodwill is set out in Note 2.10(a). 24 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 24 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.6 Transactions with non-controlling interests Non-controlling interest represents the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly, to owners of the Company, and are presented separately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the Company. Changes in the Company’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. In such circumstances, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company. 2.7 Jointly controlled entities The Group has interests in joint ventures that are jointly controlled entities. A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, and a jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses of its jointly controlled entities on an equity accounted basis from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the investment is reported as nil and recognition of losses is discontinued except to the extent of the Group’s commitment. In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in jointly controlled entities are stated at cost less impairment loss. The carrying amounts of the jointly controlled entities are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated and any impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The impairment loss is charged to profit or loss. Upon loss of joint control, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the former joint venture entity upon loss of joint venture control and the aggregate of the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. 2.8 Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but does not have control or joint control of those policies. The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is measured in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate. Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor tested individually for impairment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment is included as income in the determination of the Group’s share of results of the associate in the period in which the investment is acquired. The profit or loss reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates. Where there has been a change recognised in other comprehensive income by the associates, the Group recognises its share of such changes in other comprehensive income. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associates. The Group’s share of the profit or loss of its associates is shown on the face of profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of associates. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Group’s investment in its associates. The Group determines at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the profit or loss. The financial statements of the associates are prepared as of the same reporting date as the Company. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the aggregate of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 25 25 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.9 Property, plant and equipment All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying property, plant and equipment. The accounting policy for borrowing costs is set out in Note 2.17. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised as an asset if, and only if, it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Subsequent to recognition, all items of property, plant and equipment (except for freehold land) are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Freehold land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not depreciated. Leasehold land and buildings are depreciable over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease period. Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use and is computed on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life except for ginning assets of Queensland Cotton Holdings, which are depreciated using the units of use method. The estimated useful life of the assets is as follows:Bearer plants • 15 to 30 years Leasehold land and buildings • 5 to 50 years Plant and machinery • 3 to 25 years; 30 years for ginning assets Motor vehicles • 3 to 5 years Furniture and fittings • 5 years Office equipment • 5 years Computers • 3 years Other assets in Note 10 comprise motor vehicles, furniture and fittings, office equipment and computers. Bearer plants Immature plantations are stated at acquisition cost which includes costs incurred for field preparation, planting, farming inputs and maintenance, capitalisation of borrowing costs incurred on loans used to finance the development of immature plantations and an allocation of other indirect costs based on planted hectarage. Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated as these assets are not yet available for use. The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the profit and loss account in the year the asset is derecognised. 2.10 Intangible assets (a) Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. The cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account. Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss of disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative fair values of the operations disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations on or after 1 January 2005 are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and are recorded in the functional currency of the foreign operations and translated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.4. 26 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 26 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.10 Intangible assets continued (b) Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured initially at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial acquisition, intangible assets are measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method are reviewed at least at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the profit or loss in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use are not subject to amortisation and they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if the events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. Such intangible assets are not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the useful life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. 2.11 Biological assets (a) Agricultural produce (‘Fruits on trees’) and annual crops The agricultural produce (‘fruits on trees’) are valued in accordance with FRS 41 Agriculture. The fair value amount is an aggregate of the fair valuation of the current financial year and the reversal of the prior year’s fair valuation. The fair valuation takes into account current selling prices and related costs. The calculated value is then discounted by a suitable factor to take into account the agricultural risk until maturity. The annual crops have been valued using adjusted cost, which is the estimate of the yield and cost of the crop at harvest discounted for the remaining time to harvest, which approximate fair value. (b) Livestock Livestock are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the profit or loss. Point-of-sale costs include all costs that would be necessary to sell the assets. The fair value of livestock is determined based on valuations by an independent professional valuer using the market prices of livestock of similar age, breed and generic merit. 2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets The Group performs periodic reviews of non-financial assets for indication of impairment. Impairment assessment are done whenever there are indicators of impairment, or as part of an annual impairment assessment exercise as required. The Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount with the help of independent professional valuers where applicable. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or group of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit or loss in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for assets that have been previously revalued and where the revaluation was taken to other comprehensive income. In this case the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 27 27 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets continued For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised previously. Such reversal is recognised in the profit or loss unless the asset is measured at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. 2.13 Financial instruments (a) Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are recognised when, and only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent measurement Debt instruments Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset. The three measurement categories for classification of debt instruments are:(i) Amortised cost Financial assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are derecognised or impaired, and through amortisation process. (ii) Fair value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual of cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Financial assets measured at FVOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Any gains or losses from changes in fair value of the financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses, foreign exchange gains and losses and interest calculated using the effective interest method are recognised in profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment when the financial asset is de-recognised. (iii) Fair value through profit or loss Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit or loss. A gain or loss on a debt instruments that is subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or loss statement in the period in which it arises. Interest income from these financial assets is included in the finance income. Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity instruments at fair value. On initial recognition of an equity instruments that is not held for trading, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value in OCI. Dividends from such investments are to be recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. Changes in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss. Changes in fair value of financial assets at FVOCI are recognised in OCI. Derivatives Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognised in profit or loss. 28 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 28 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.13 Financial instruments continued (a) Financial assets continued Subsequent measurement continued Impairment The Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses (‘ECL’) associated with its debt instrument assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI. For trade receivables only, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the asset has expired. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in profit or loss. (b) Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument. The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised, and through the amortisation process. Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability and the difference in the respective carrying amounts are recognised in profit or loss. (c) Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheets, when and only when, there is a currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. 2.14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and short-term fixed bank deposits that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. These also include bank overdrafts that form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. Cash and cash equivalents carried in the balance sheets are classified and accounted as measured at amortised cost under FRS 109. The accounting policy for this category of financial assets is stated in Note 2.13. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 29 29 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.15 Impairment of financial assets Trade receivables The Group measures the loss allowance for its trade receivables at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, which are the present value of the cash shortfalls over the expected life of the financial assets. Other financial assets Accordingly, other financial assets are classified as measured at amortised cost less expected impairment losses. The Group’s other financial assets have contractual cash flows that are solely principal, and interest and the business model’s objective is to hold these assets to collect contractual cash flows. Impairment allowances for other financial assets are determined based on the 12-month expected credit loss model. 2.16 Inventories Inventories principally comprise commodities held for trading and inventories that form part of the Group’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. Inventories for commodity trading businesses are measured at fair value less costs to sell, with changes in fair value less costs to sell recognised in the profit or loss in the period of the change. Inventories that form part of the Group’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are valued on a first-in-first-out basis or weighted average cost method, depending on the underlying business activity. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less anticipated cost of disposal and after making allowance for damages and slow-moving items. For fruits on trees that are harvested, are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs at the time of harvest (the ‘initial cost’). Thereafter these inventories are carried at the lower of initial cost and net realisable value. Where necessary, allowance is provided for damaged, obsolete and slow-moving items to adjust the carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value. 2.17 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the cost of a qualifying asset if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of that asset. Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when the activities to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress and the expenditures and borrowing costs are incurred. Borrowing costs are capitalised until the assets are substantially completed for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. 2.18 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 30 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 30 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.19 Employee benefits (a) Defined contribution plan The Group participates in the national pension schemes as defined by the laws of countries in which it has operations. In particular, the Singapore companies in the Group make contributions to the Central Provident Fund scheme in Singapore, a defined contribution pension scheme. Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the period in which the related service is performed. (b) Employee leave entitlement Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised as a liability when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability for leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date. (c) Employee share options scheme/share grant plan Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment for services rendered (‘equity-settled transactions’). The cost of these equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees is measured with reference to the fair value at the date on which the share subscriptions/options are granted which takes into account market conditions and non-vesting conditions. This cost is recognised in the profit or loss, with a corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve, over the vesting period. The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest. The charge or credit to the profit or loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense. No expense is recognised for options that do not ultimately vest, except for options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. In the case where the option does not vest as the result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of the Group or the employee, it is accounted for as a cancellation. In such case, the amount of the compensation cost that otherwise would be recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss upon cancellation. In situations where equity instruments are issued and some or all of the goods or services received by the entity as consideration cannot be specifically identified, the unidentified goods or services received (or to be received) are measured as the difference between the fair value of the share-based payment and the fair value of any identifiable goods or services received at the grant date. This is then capitalised or expensed as appropriate. Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for a modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it has vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 31 31 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.20 Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception date: whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. (a) Operating lease Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The aggregate benefit of incentives provided by the lessor is recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. (b) Finance lease Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Any initial direct costs are also added to the amount capitalised. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to profit or loss. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. 2.21 Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is made. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates and sales taxes or duty. The Group assesses its revenue arrangements to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. The Group has concluded that it is acting as a principal in all of its revenue arrangements. The following specific recognition criteria must be met before revenue is recognised: (a) Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised upon passage of title to the customer, which generally coincides with their delivery and acceptance. Revenue is not recognised to the extent where there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the possible return of goods. (b) Sale of services Revenue from services rendered is recognised upon services performed. (c) Interest income Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method. 2.22 Government grants, export incentives and subsidies Government grants, export incentives and subsidies are recognised at their fair values when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all conditions attached will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match it on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate. When the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is recognised as deferred capital grant on the balance sheet and is amortised to the profit or loss over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual instalments. 2.23 Taxes (a) Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income. Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax relates to items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. 32 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 32 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.23 Taxes continued (b) Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except: • where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carryforward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: • where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and • in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax asset is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from a business combination is adjusted against goodwill on acquisition. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, would be recognised subsequently if new information about facts and circumstances changed. The adjustment would be treated either as a reduction to goodwill (as long as it does not exceed goodwill) if incurred during the measurement period or in profit or loss. (c) Sales tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: • where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the assets or as part of the expense item as applicable; and • where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included. The net amount of sales tax recoverable from or payable to the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 33 33 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.24 Segment reporting For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on their products and services, which are independently managed by the respective segment managers responsible for the performance of the respective segments under their charge. The segment managers report directly to the management of the Company which regularly reviews the segment results in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess the segment performance. Additional disclosures on each of these segments are shown in Note 38, including the factors used to identify the reportable segments and the measurement basis of segment information. 2.25 Share capital and share issue expenses Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares net of directly attributable expenses are recognised as share capital in equity. 2.26 Treasury shares The Group’s own equity instruments, which are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost (including directly attributable expenses) and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount of treasury shares and the consideration received, if reissued, is recognised directly in equity. Voting rights related to treasury shares are nullified for the Group and no dividends are allocated to them respectively. 2.27 Perpetual capital securities The perpetual capital securities do not have a maturity date and the Company is able to elect to defer making a distribution subject to the term and conditions of the securities issue. The Company is considered to have no contractual obligation to make principal repayments or distributions in respect of its perpetual capital securities issue. Accordingly, the perpetual capital securities do not meet the definition for classification as financial liability and are presented within equity. Distributions are treated as dividends which will be directly debited from equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of the perpetual capital securities are deducted against the proceeds from the issue. 2.28 Contingencies A contingent liability is:(a) a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or nonoccurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group; or (b) a present obligation that arises from past events but is not recognised because: (i) It is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; or (ii) The amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. Contingent liabilities and assets are not recognised on the balance sheet of the Group, except for contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination that are present obligations and for which the fair values can be reliably determined. 2.29 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments include forward currency contracts, commodity futures, options, over-the-counter (‘OTC’) structured products, commodity physical forwards, foreign currency swap and interest rate swap contracts. These are used to manage the Group’s exposure to risks associated with foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations. Certain derivatives are also used for trading purposes. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivative financial instruments are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The fair value of forward currency contracts and interest rate derivatives are calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and interest rates respectively for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair values of commodity futures, options, OTC structured products and physical forwards are determined by reference to available market information and market valuation methodology. Where the quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on management’s best estimates, which are arrived at by reference to market prices. 34 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 34 Annual Report 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.29 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities continued Hedge accounting The Group applies hedge accounting for certain hedging relationships which qualify for hedge accounting. For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:• fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment; or • cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment. (a) Fair value hedges Fair value hedge accounting is applied to hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in the fair value portion of such an asset or liability or an identified portion of such an asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk – commodity price risk that could affect the profit and loss account. For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item (inventories) is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative (hedging instrument) is remeasured at fair value, gains and losses from both are taken to the profit and loss account. When inventories are designated as a hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in the fair value of these inventories attributable to the hedged commodity price risk is recognised as part of inventories with a corresponding gain or loss in the profit and loss account. The hedging instrument is recorded at fair value as an asset or liability and the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are also recognised in the profit and loss account. The application of hedge accounting is discontinued in cases where the Group revokes the hedging relationship. Effective from FRS 109, hedging relationships may not be voluntarily revoked unless there is a change in risk management objective. Accordingly, in cases where a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio but the risk management objective remains unchanged, the Group adjusts the hedging ratio to re-establish the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Furthermore, the Group discontinues the application of hedge accounting in cases where there is a change in the risk management objective for the hedging relationship. The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is expensed to profit and loss account from the date on which the Company discontinues hedge accounting. (b) Cash flow hedges For each cash flow hedge relationship, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account at the time hedge effectiveness is tested. When a cash flow hedge is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income will remain in the cash flow hedge reserve until the future cash flows occur. If the hedged future cash flows no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss is immediately reclassified to profit and loss account. 2.30 Convertible bonds When convertible bonds are issued, the total proceeds net of transaction costs are allocated to the debt component, the fair value of derivative financial instruments component and the equity component, which are separately presented on the balance sheet. The debt component is recognised initially at its fair value, determined using a market interest rate for equivalent non-convertible bonds. It is subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method until the debt is extinguished on conversion or redemption of the bonds. The derivative financial instruments component is determined by the fair value of the embedded derivatives on the date of issue. The fair value is reassessed at every balance sheet date and the difference is recognised in the profit and loss account. The balance after reducing the debt component and the fair value of the embedded derivatives component from the net proceeds is presented as capital reserve under equity. The carrying amount of the equity component is not adjusted in subsequent periods. When the conversion option is exercised, the carrying amount of the equity component will be transferred to the share capital account. When the conversion option lapses, its carrying amount will be transferred to retained earnings. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 35 35 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.31 Related parties A related party is defined as follows:(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and Company if that person: (i) Has control or joint control over the Company; (ii) Has significant influence over the Company; or (iii) Is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or Company or of a parent of the Company. (b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:(i) The entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is related to the others). (ii) One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a group of which the other entity is a member). (iii) Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party. (iv) One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third entity. (v) The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or an entity related to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the Company. (vi) The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a). (vii) A person identified in (a) (i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity). 3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the reporting date. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in future periods. Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimating uncertainty as at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. (a) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life Management performs periodic reviews of goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite life for indication of impairment. The Group estimates the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill and intangible asset with indefinite useful life is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group, with the help of independent professional valuers where applicable, to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The impairment tests are sensitive to growth rates and discount rates. Changes in these assumptions may result in changes in recoverable values. The carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets at the balance sheet date is disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements. 36 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 36 Annual Report 2017 3. Significant accounting judgements and estimates continued Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued (b) Impairment of property, plant and equipment An impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The fair value less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions in an arm’s length transaction of similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model and requires the Group, with the help of independent professional valuers where applicable, to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cashgenerating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment at the balance sheet date is disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements. (c) Biological assets The fair value of biological assets (other than annual crops and livestock) is estimated using the discounted cash flow model, which requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the biological assets and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows, which is referenced to professional valuations or fair valued by independent professional valuers where significant. The valuation of these biological assets is particularly sensitive to discount rates and they are disclosed in Note 12. (d) Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair values of financial instruments recorded on the balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models are derived from observable market data where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. The judgements include considerations of model inputs regarding forward prices, credit risk, volatility and counterparty risk that are not supported by observable market data. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. The valuation of financial instruments is described in more detail in Note 35. 4. Sale of goods and services Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Sale of goods 26,068,654 20,422,256 Sale of services 203,875 164,776 26,272,529 20,587,032 Revenue from sale of goods is stated net of discounts and returns. It excludes interest income, realised gains or losses on derivatives and intra-group transactions. Revenue from sale of services mainly represents ginning and toll processing income and freight charter income. 5. Other income Other income included the following:Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Gain on disposal of subsidiary (Note 13) 121,188 − Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net 1 29,205 − Commissions and claims, sale of packaging materials, sales of scrap and others 57,138 47,265 207,531 47,265 1. Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment in the current financial year includes the gain on sale of USA orchards farmland amounting to $34,168,000 in a Revenue Tier Sharing Arrangement where the Group will pay the buyer a share of the annual revenue from sale of harvests, while the Group continues to operate the orchards for the next 25 years. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 37 37 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 6. Cost of goods sold The significant portion of the cost of goods sold pertains to the purchase costs of inventories sold. There are other directly attributable costs associated with cost of goods sold and these include:Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Shipping, logistics, commission and claims (2,832,574) (2,682,495) Foreign exchange on cost of goods sold 1 247,008 179,348 Gains on derivatives net of fair value changes 246,472 63,609 Inventories written down, net (Note 19) (30,718) (18,911) Export incentives, subsidies and grant income received 2 27,789 51,384 1. Foreign exchange on cost of goods sold relate to foreign exchange movement arising between the time of purchase of goods and the time of sale of such goods. 2. Export incentives and subsidies relate to income from government agencies of various countries for the export of agricultural products. 7. Other expenses Other expenses are stated after (charging)/crediting:Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Employee benefits expenses (Note 30) (704,252) (617,887) Gain on foreign exchange, net 31,518 21,566 Bank charges (74,416) (57,530) Travelling expenses (67,867) (55,829) Transaction costs incurred in business combinations − (3,257) Impairment loss on financial assets: • Trade receivables (Note 17) (41,207) (37,016) • Advance payments to suppliers (Note 20) (2,704) (2,387) Bad debts written back: • Trade receivables 385 35,083 • Advance payments to suppliers 998 756 Auditor’s remuneration: • Ernst & Young LLP, Singapore (1,518) (2,000) • Other member firms of Ernst & Young Global (8,458) (6,606) • Other auditors (920) (1,601) Non-audit fees: • Ernst & Young LLP, Singapore (776) (586) • Other member firms of Ernst & Young Global (1,983) (137) • Other auditors (629) (1,214) 38 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 38 Annual Report 2017 8. Finance costs Finance costs include the following:Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Interest expense: • On bank overdrafts 36,670 44,390 • On bank loans 298,195 207,896 • On medium-term notes 204,154 174,899 • On bonds 25,950 40,213 • Others 37,249 35,419 602,218 502,817 Less: interest expense capitalised in: • Property, plant and equipment and biological assets (71,040) (56,569) 531,178 446,248 Interest was capitalised to capital work-in-progress, plant and machinery, buildings and biological assets by various subsidiaries of the Group at rates ranging from 5.50% to 7.50% (31 December 2016: from 5.00% to 7.50%) per annum. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 39 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 9. Income tax (a) Major components of income tax expense Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Profit and loss account Current income tax: • Singapore 81,210 29,493 • Foreign 73,742 54,218 Overprovision in respect of prior years (900) (1,527) 154,052 82,184 Deferred income tax: • Singapore (9,311) (347) • Foreign (65,493) 12,477 Income tax expense 79,248 94,314 Group 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax related to items credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net change in fair value adjustment reserves for derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges (7,179) (1,457) Deferred tax recorded in other comprehensive income (7,179) (1,457) (b) Relationship between tax expense and accounting profit A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the Group’s effective tax rate is as follows:Group 2017 2016 % % Statutory tax rate 17.0 17.0 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses 2.3 5.7 Higher statutory tax rates of other countries 1 3.3 10.4 Tax effect on over provision in respect of prior years (0.3) (0.4) Tax effect of income taxed at concessionary rate 2 (0.2) (0.2) Tax effect on non-taxable/ exempt income 3 (6.2) (9.4) Tax effect of jointly controlled entities/associates (1.8) (0.9) Tax effect of deferred tax assets not recognised 2.1 6.7 Tax effect of others, net (3.6) (7.1) 12.6 21.8 1. The above reconciliation is prepared by aggregating separate reconciliations for each national jurisdiction. 2. The Company is an approved company under the Global Trader Programme (‘GTP’) of International Enterprise Singapore and Development and Expansion Incentive (‘DEI’) under the International Headquarters (‘IHQ’) award of Singapore Economic Development Board. By virtue of this, the Company is entitled to a concessionary income tax rate of 5% for a period of 5 years from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2018 on qualifying activities, products and income. 3. There are seven (31 December 2016: seven) subsidiaries within the Group that are taxed at the preferential tax rate of 0% (as opposed to the local headline/ statutory tax rates ranging from 20% to 35%) by the local tax authorities for periods ranging from 2 to 6 years, except one subsidiary which does not have an expiry date on preferential tax rate. 40 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 40 Annual Report 2017 9. Income tax continued (c) Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. The amounts, after such offsets, are disclosed on the balance sheet as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Deferred tax assets 95,871 95,735 – – Deferred tax liabilities (416,991) (505,876) (6,662) (8,103) Net deferred tax liabilities (321,120) (410,141) (6,662) (8,103) Details of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting is as follows:Group Company Consolidated Consolidated profit balance sheet and loss account Balance sheet 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 140,415 207,620 (65,005) 39,267 626 680 Fair value adjustment on business combinations 128,037 198,461 (28,409) (16,319) 1,417 9,634 Biological assets 69,895 63,814 3,373 (13,289) – – Convertible bonds 446 483 – 323 446 483 Others – – (17,832) 13,695 – – Gross deferred tax liabilities 338,793 470,378 2,489 10,797 Deferred tax assets: Allowance for doubtful debts (1,040) (3,467) (1,658) (649) – 76 Inventories written down 589 76 (532) – 589 – Revaluation of financial instruments to fair value (9,264) 2,618 4,206 (2,420) (4,762) 2,618 Unabsorbed losses 7,884 43,912 31,053 (22,316) – – Others 19,504 17,098 – 13,838 – – Gross deferred tax assets 17,673 60,237 (4,173) 2,694 Net deferred tax liabilities (321,120) (410,141) (6,662) (8,103) Deferred income tax (credit)/expense (74,804) 12,130 Unrecognised tax losses and capital allowances for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised The Group has tax losses of $372,978,000 (31 December 2016: $320,957,000) and capital allowances of $93,864,000 (31 December 2016: $99,149,000) that are available for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised. The use of these tax losses is subject to the agreement of the tax authorities and compliance with certain provisions of the tax legislation of the respective countries in which the companies operate and there is no expiry date on the utilisation of such tax losses and capital allowances for offset against future taxable profits, except for amounts of $284,965,000 (31 December 2016: $272,996,000) which will expire over financial years 2018 to 2022. Unrecognised temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities At the end of the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, there is no deferred tax liability that needs to be recognised for taxes that would be payable on the undistributed earnings of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities as the Group has determined that if any undistributed earnings of its subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities are distributed in the foreseeable future, there will be no material tax impact. Such temporary differences for which no deferred tax liability has been recognised aggregate to $158,785,000 (31 December 2016: $163,009,000). The deferred tax liability is estimated to be $26,993,000 (31 December 2016: $27,711,000). Tax consequences of proposed dividends There are no income tax consequences attached to the dividends to the shareholders proposed by the Company but not recognised as a liability in the financial statements in respect of the current and previous financial year (Note 27). olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 41 41 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 10. Property, plant and equipment Leasehold land Plant and Capital work-inFreehold land and buildings machinery Other assets1 progress Bearer plants Total Group $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cost As at 1 January 2016, as restated 452,979 1,537,418 2,044,734 270,091 332,266 1,039,816 5,677,304 Additions 13,146 96,630 81,504 34,206 312,137 214,170 751,793 Acquired through business combination 58 186,215 181,611 4,685 76,489 2,607 451,665 Disposals (6,986) (19,395) (39,539) (8,512) (1,344) – (75,776) Reclassification (23,616) 83,808 51,843 (14,402) (110,492) 12,859 – Foreign currency translation adjustments (12,927) (110,360) (141,105) (13,150) 27,063 23,803 (226,676) As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 422,654 1,774,316 2,179,048 272,918 636,119 1,293,255 6,578,310 Additions 1,404 155,727 82,437 37,435 462,562 211,521 951,086 Disposals (121,996) (31,704) (23,867) (32,002) (2,552) – (212,121) Reclassification 17,144 221,619 158,624 9,188 (430,587) 24,012 – Disposal of ownership interest in subsidiaries resulting in loss of control (Note 13) – (7,672) (48,002) (903) (662) – (57,239) Foreign currency translation adjustments (26,228) (62,021) (124,037) 2,350 (11,065) 1,689 (219,312) As at 31 December 2017 292,978 2,050,265 2,224,203 288,986 653,815 1,530,477 7,040,724 Accumulated depreciation and impairment loss As at 1 January 2016, as restated – 219,790 565,656 124,800 – 45,078 955,324 Charge for the year – 67,347 162,300 38,946 – 53,192 321,785 Disposals – (2,386) (14,068) (6,762) – – (23,216) Reclassification – (8,055) 8,494 (439) – – – Foreign currency translation adjustments – (14,395) (27,683) (7,107) – 6,563 (42,622) As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 – 262,301 694,699 149,438 – 104,833 1,211,271 Charge for the year – 83,158 158,366 45,420 – 60,101 347,045 Disposals – (14,708) (15,477) (28,253) – – (58,438) Reclassification – 8,362 (9,377) 1,015 – – – Disposal of ownership interest in subsidiaries resulting in loss of control (Note 13) – (3,781) (29,594) (715) – – (34,090) Foreign currency translation adjustments – (11,427) (37,094) 6,329 – (8,709) (50,901) As at 31 December 2017 – 323,905 761,523 173,234 – 156,225 1,414,887 Net carrying value As at 31 December 2017 292,978 1,726,360 1,462,680 115,752 653,815 1,374,252 5,625,837 As at 31 December 2016 422,654 1,512,015 1,484,349 123,480 636,119 1,188,422 5,367,039 1. Other assets comprise of motor vehicles, furniture and fittings, office equipment and computers. 42 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 42 Annual Report 2017 10. Property, plant and equipment continued Plant and Furniture and Office Buildings machinery Motor vehicles fittings equipment Computers Total Company $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cost As at 1 January 2016 585 922 1,540 2,150 1,156 28,287 34,640 Additions – 11 – 4 – 185 200 Disposals – – (285) (8) (21) (17) (331) Foreign currency translation adjustments 12 19 20 42 22 571 686 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 597 952 1,275 2,188 1,157 29,026 35,195 Additions – – – 7,284 700 1,320 9,304 Foreign currency translation adjustments (45) (73) (97) (349) (106) (2,255) (2,925) As at 31 December 2017 552 879 1,178 9,123 1,751 28,091 41,574 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2016 296 290 975 2,103 1,054 10,750 15,468 Charge for the year 49 128 166 16 33 6,461 6,853 Disposals – – (271) (8) (21) (13) (313) Foreign currency translation adjustments 9 11 15 42 21 508 606 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 354 429 885 2,153 1,087 17,706 22,614 Charge for the year 49 105 141 743 92 6,465 7,595 Foreign currency translation adjustments (28) (35) (71) (183) (86) (1,517) (1,920) As at 31 December 2017 375 499 955 2,713 1,093 22,654 28,289 Net carrying value As at 31 December 2017 177 380 223 6,410 658 5,437 13,285 As at 31 December 2016 243 523 390 35 70 11,320 12,581 The carrying amount of freehold land, leasehold buildings, plant and machinery and bearer plants of the Group held under financial lease at the end of the reporting period was $81,072,000 (31 December 2016: $124,600,000). The Group’s land, buildings, plant and machinery with a carrying amount of $230,053,000 (31 December 2016: $201,931,000) have been pledged to secure the Group’s borrowings as set out in Note 24 to the financial statements. Bearer plants consist of mature and immature almond orchards, coffee, cocoa, palm and rubber plantations. The almond orchards and coffee plantations presently consist of trees aged between 1 and 28 years and 1 and 16 years respectively (31 December 2016: 1 and 27 years and 1 and 15 years respectively). The cocoa plantations presently consist of trees aged between 1 and 17 years (31 December 2016: 13 and 15 years). Immature plantations mainly consist of almond, palm and rubber trees aged between 1 and 5 years amounting to $707,317,000 (31 December 2016: $509,965,000). At the end of the financial year, the Group’s total planted area of plantations is approximately 96,786 (31 December 2016: 78,324) hectares, excluding hectares for those commodities whose plantations are not managed by the Group. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 43 43 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 11. Intangible assets Customer Brands and Water Concession Goodwill relationships trademarks1 Software Rights2 Rights3 Others4 Total Group $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cost As at 1 January 2016, as restated 538,939 115,628 128,728 68,031 184,141 81,337 124,986 1,241,790 Acquired through business combinations 139,022 17,650 24,144 − − − 13,064 193,880 Additions − − − 10,872 − − 814 11,686 Disposals − − − (1,973) − − (758) (2,731) Foreign currency translation adjustments 16,606 3,586 3,755 1,513 1,670 (486) 2,646 29,290 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 694,567 136,864 156,627 78,443 185,811 80,851 140,752 1,473,915 Additions − − − 6,947 − − 216 7,163 Disposals − − − (797) − − (117) (914) Re-classification − − − 176 − − (176) − Foreign currency translation adjustments (51,786) (10,351) (11,995) (5,557) 66 (738) (9,775) (90,136) As at 31 December 2017 642,781 126,513 144,632 79,212 185,877 80,113 130,900 1,390,028 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 2016 4,512 33,636 − 30,153 − 35,899 23,251 127,451 Amortisation − 12,537 − 5,632 − 4,301 9,226 31,696 Disposals − − − (746) − − (570) (1,316) Foreign currency translation adjustments (789) 1,232 − 617 − 729 687 2,476 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 3,723 47,405 − 35,656 − 40,929 32,594 160,307 Amortisation − 12,470 − 6,680 − 4,258 10,227 33,635 Disposals − − − (348) − − (113) (461) Re-classification − − − 39 − − (39) − Foreign currency translation adjustments 198 (3,879) − (2,297) − (2,514) (2,244) (10,736) As at 31 December 2017 3,921 55,996 − 39,730 − 42,673 40,425 182,745 Net carrying value As at 31 December 2017 638,860 70,517 144,632 39,482 185,877 37,440 90,475 1,207,283 As at 31 December 2016 690,844 89,459 156,627 42,787 185,811 39,922 108,158 1,313,608 Average remaining amortisation period (years) – 31 December 2017 – 1–14 – 1–10 – 9–19 1–48 Average remaining amortisation period (years) – 31 December 2016 – 1–15 – 1–10 – 10–20 1–49 44 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 44 Annual Report 2017 11. Intangible assets continued Brands and Goodwill trademarks Software Others4 Total Company $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cost As at 1 January 2016, as restated 147,327 897 35,001 52,660 235,885 Additions – – 10,295 443 10,738 Disposals – – (1,907) – (1,907) Reclassification 44,837 – – 12,744 57,581 Foreign currency translation adjustments 18,324 18 1,079 5,444 24,865 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 210,488 915 44,468 71,291 327,162 Additions – – 5,993 – 5,993 Disposals – – (726) – (726) Foreign currency translation adjustments (16,120) (70) (3,536) (5,460) (25,186) As at 31 December 2017 194,368 845 46,199 65,831 307,243 Accumulated amortisation As at 1 January 2016 – – 9,911 7,123 17,034 Amortisation – – 3,211 2,494 5,705 Disposals – – (718) – (718) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – 311 257 568 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 – – 12,715 9,874 22,589 Amortisation – – 4,068 2,240 6,308 Disposals – – (322) – (322) Foreign currency translation adjustments – – (1,067) (812) (1,879) As at 31 December 2017 – – 15,394 11,302 26,696 Net carrying amount As at 31 December 2017 194,368 845 30,805 54,529 280,547 As at 31 December 2016 210,488 915 31,753 61,417 304,573 Average remaining amortisation period (years) – 31 December 2017 – – 1–10 2–48 – 31 December 2016 – – 1–10 3–49 1. Brands and trademarks include ‘Dona’, ‘OK Foods’ and ‘OK Sweets’ brands. The useful lives of the brands are estimated to be indefinite as management believes there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brands are expected to generate net cash flows for the Group. 2. Water rights relate to perpetual access to share of water from a specified consumptive pool. 3. Concession rights consist of rights to harvest trees in designated areas. Amortisation is charged over the estimated useful life of the concession rights. 4. Others comprise land use rights, trade names, marketing agreements and non-compete fees. Land use rights relate to rights to land where the Group has acquired plantations. Amortisation is charged over the estimated useful lives of the land use rights. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 45 45 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 11. Intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives arising from business combinations have been allocated to the following cash-generating units (‘CGU’), for impairment testing:Goodwill Brands and trademark Water rights 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Olam Orchards Australia Pty Ltd – – – – 185,877 185,811 Cocoa Processing Business 231,835 251,062 – – – – Quintessential Foods Nigeria Limited 74,748 80,947 – – – – McCleskey Mills Inc. 74,671 80,864 – – – – Universal Blanchers 66,193 71,684 – – – – Brooks Peanuts Company 48,659 52,694 – – – – Packaged Foods brands 31,494 34,108 120,164 130,130 – – Caraway Nigeria Africa Limited (Formerly known as ‘Ranona Limited’) 43,032 46,599 – – – – Progida Group 12,499 13,535 – – – – Acacia Investments Limited 11,600 12,562 23,648 25,608 – – Olam Spices & Vegetables Ingredients 9,134 9,965 820 889 – – Olam Food Ingredients Holdings UK Limited 7,708 8,226 – – – – Olam International – Brazilian Cotton (Queensland Cotton Holdings) 5,880 6,367 – – – – Olam Food Ingredients Spain, S.L. 5,839 6,323 – – – – Dehydro Foods S.A.E. 4,697 5,086 – – – – Queensland Cotton Holdings: • Australian Cotton 5,023 5,021 – – – – • Australian Pulses 1,438 1,437 – – – – • USA Cotton 2,155 2,154 – – – – Hemarus Industries Limited 1,517 1,410 – – – – Usicam S.A. 738 800 – – – – 638,860 690,844 144,632 156,627 185,877 185,811 46 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 46 Annual Report 2017 11. Intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets continued The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five year period. The discount rates applied to the cash flow projections and the forecasted growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five year period are as follows:Growth rates Discount rates 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % % % Olam Orchards Australia Pty Ltd – – 13.00 13.00 Cocoa Processing Business 2.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 Quintessential Foods Nigeria Limited – – 11.40 11.40 McCleskey Mills Inc. 1.50 1.50 14.00 14.00 Universal Blanchers 2.00 2.00 10.00 10.00 Brooks Peanuts Company 1.50 1.50 10.00 10.00 Packaged Foods brands 3.00 3.00 12.50 12.50 Caraway Nigeria Africa Limited (Formerly known as ‘Ranona Limited’) 3.00 3.00 12.50 12.50 Progida Group 2.00 2.00 12.50 12.50 Acacia Investment Limited 3.00 3.00 17.70 17.70 Olam Spices & Vegetables Ingredients 2.00 2.00 12.00 12.00 Olam Food Ingredients Holdings UK Limited – – 12.50 12.50 Olam International – Brazilian Cotton (Queensland Cotton Holdings) 2.00 2.00 13.00 13.00 Olam Food Ingredients Spain, S.L. – – 12.00 12.00 Dehydro Foods S.A.E. 2.00 2.00 12.90 12.90 Queensland Cotton Holdings 1 – – 13.00 13.00 Hemarus Industries Limited – – 11.50 11.50 Usicam S.A. 2.00 2.00 12.00 12.00 1. The growth rates and discount rates used are the same for all CGUs relating to Queensland Cotton Holdings. The calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the following assumptions:Budgeted gross margins – Gross margins are based on average values achieved at prevailing market conditions at the start of the budget period. Growth rates – The growth rates indicated are as estimated by the management based on published industry research and do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the industries relevant to the CGUs. Discount rates – Discount rates reflect management’s estimate of risks specific to each CGU. This is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future investment proposals. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 47 47 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 12. Biological assets Fruits on trees and annual crops Livestock Total Group $’000 $’000 $’000 As at 1 January 2016, as restated 227,590 108,556 336,146 Net additions/(reductions) 41,687 (52,351) (10,664) Capitalisation of expenses 32,029 62,637 94,666 Net change in fair value less estimated costs to sell 18,160 (4,019) 14,141 Foreign currency translation adjustments 4,733 11,542 16,275 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 324,199 126,365 450,564 Net reductions (30,398) (53,214) (83,612) Capitalisation of expenses 64,453 70,180 134,633 Net change in fair value less estimated costs to sell (22,668) 7,418 (15,250) Foreign currency translation adjustments (7,171) (7,508) (14,679) As at 31 December 2017 328,415 143,241 471,656 Fruits on trees and annual crops During the financial year, the Group harvested approximately 43,429 metric tonnes (31 December 2016: 44,071 metric tonnes) of almonds, which had a fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs of approximately $262,904,000 (31 December 2016: $463,805,000). The fair value of almonds was determined with reference to the market prices at the date of harvest. Annual crops consist of various commodities such as cotton, onions, tomatoes and other vegetables, rice and grains. For cotton, onions, tomatoes and other vegetables, the Group provides seeds to farmers to sow and grow while for rice and grains, the Group manages its own farms. For annual crops where seeds are provided, the farmers take all the harvest risks and bear all the farming costs. However, the Group has the first right to buy the produce from these farmers, when these annual crops are harvested. At the end of the financial year, the Group’s total planted area of annual crops is approximately 99,310 (31 December 2016: 111,712) hectares, excluding for those commodities where farms are not managed by the Group. Fair value determination The fair value of fruits on trees is estimated with reference to an independent professional valuation using the present value of expected net cash flows from the biological assets. The following table shows the key inputs used:Key inputs Inter-relationship between key inputs and fair value measurement Discount rates of 14.6% (31 December 2016: 15.0%) per annum The estimated fair value increases as the estimated discount rate per annum decreases, and vice versa. Market prices approximating $9,993 (31 December 2016: $9,500) The estimated fair value increases as the respective inputs per metric tonne increase, and vice versa. The annual crops have been valued using adjusted cost, based on the estimate of the yield and cost of the crop at harvest discounted for the remaining time to harvest, which approximates fair value. Livestock Livestock relates mainly to dairy cattle in Uruguay and Russia. At the end of the financial year, the Group held 42,297 (31 December 2016: 32,290) cows, which are able to produce milk (mature assets) and 38,321 (31 December 2016: 39,579) heifers and calves, being raised to produce milk in the future (immature assets). The cows produced 245 million litres (31 December 2016: 166 million litres) of milk with a fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs of $146,978,000 (31 December 2016: $94,051,000) during the financial year. Fair value determination The fair value of livestock is determined based on valuations by an independent professional valuer using market prices ranging from $69 to $5,132 (31 December 2016: $69 to $3,796) of livestock of similar age, breed and generic merit. Financial risk management strategies related to agricultural activities The Group is exposed to financial risk in respect of agricultural activity. The agricultural activity of the Group consists of the management of biological assets to produce marketable output. The primary financial risk associated with this activity occurs due to the length of time between expending cash on the purchase or planting and maintenance of biological assets and on harvesting and ultimately receiving cash from the sale of the marketable output. The Group plans for cash flow requirements for such activities and manages its debt and equity portfolio actively. 48 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 48 Annual Report 2017 13. Subsidiary companies Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Unquoted equity shares at cost 4,982,916 3,101,835 Less: Impairment loss (16,130) (16,130) Foreign currency translation adjustments 7,380 314,602 4,974,166 3,400,307 Loans to subsidiary companies 1,069,345 2,150,153 6,043,511 5,550,460 Loans to subsidiary companies denominated in currencies other than functional currency of the Company are as follows:Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Euro 96,945 513,596 No impairment has been recognised in both current and previous financial year on the investment in the subsidiaries as the carrying amount exceeds the fair value based on the net asset value of the subsidiaries. Loans to subsidiary companies are unsecured and are not repayable within the next 12 months. The loans are non-interest bearing, except for amounts of $74,131,000 (31 December 2016: $722,690,000) which bear interest ranging from 3.3% to 7.0% (31 December 2016: 1.0% to 7.5%) per annum. The Group did not have any material non-controlling interests as at the balance sheet dates. Composition of the Group Details of significant subsidiary companies are as follows:Effective percentage of equity held by the Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Name of company Country of incorporation Principal activities % % Olam Ghana Limited 1 Ghana (a) 100 100 Olam Ivoire SA 1 Ivory Coast (a) 100 100 Olam Nigeria Limited 1 Nigeria (a) 100 100 Outspan Ivoire SA 1 Ivory Coast (a) 100 100 Olam Moçambique, Limitada 1 Mozambique (a) 100 100 Olam Vietnam Limited 1 Vietnam (a) 100 100 Olam South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 1 South Africa (a) 100 100 Olam Brasil Ltda 1 Brazil (a) 100 100 Olam Europe Limited 1 United Kingdom (a) 100 100 PT Olam Indonesia 1 Indonesia (a) 100 100 Olam Agricola Ltda.1 Brazil (a) 100 100 Olam Argentina S.A.1 Argentina (a) 100 100 Café Outspan Vietnam Limited 1 Vietnam (a) 100 100 LLC Outspan International 1 Russia (a) 100 100 Olam Enterprises India Private Limited 1 India (a) 100 100 Crown Flour Mills Limited 1 Nigeria (a) 100 100 Olam Orchards Australia Pty Ltd 1 Australia (a) & (c) 100 100 tt Timber International AG 2 Switzerland (a) & (b) 100 100 Congolaise Industrielle des Bois SA 1 Republic of Congo (a) 100 100 NZ Farming Systems Uruguay Limited 1 New Zealand (a), (b) & (c) 100 100 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 49 49 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 13. Subsidiary companies continued Composition of the Group continued Details of significant subsidiary companies are as follows:Effective percentage of equity held by the Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Name of company Country of incorporation Principal activities % % Caraway Pte Ltd 1 Singapore (a) 75 75 OK Foods Limited 1 Nigeria (a) & (b) 75 75 Caraway Nigeria Africa Limited 1 Nigeria (Formerly known as ‘Ranona Limited’) (a) 75 75 Nutrifoods Ghana Limited 1 Ghana (a) 75 75 Olam Sanyo Foods Limited 1 Nigeria (a) 75 75 Olam Cocoa Processing Cote d’Ivoire 1 Ivory Coast (a) 100 100 Seda Outspan Iberia S.L.1 Spain (a) 100 100 Dehydro Foods S.A.E.1 Egypt (a) 100 100 Queensland Cotton Holdings Pty Ltd 1 Australia (a) & (b) 100 100 Olam Holdings Inc 1 The United States of (Formerly known as ‘Olam Holdings Partnership’) America (a), (b) & (c) 100 100 Progida Tarim Űrűnleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.1 Turkey (a) 100 100 Progida Pazarlama A.Ş.1 Turkey (a) 100 100 LLC Russian Dairy Company 1 Russia (c) 93 93 Gabon Fertilizer Company SA 1 Gabon (a) 80 80 Olam Palm Gabon SA 1 Gabon (a) & (c) 60 60 Olam Rubber Gabon SA 1 Gabon (a) & (c) 60 60 Olam Cam SA 1 Cameroon (a) 100 100 Panasia International FZCO 2 United Arab Emirates (a) 100 100 Olam International UK Limited 2 United Kingdom (b) 100 100 Olam Cocoa Processing Ghana Limited 2 Ghana (a) 100 100 Olam Cocoa Ivoire SA 2 Ivory Coast (a) 100 100 Olam Cocoa B.V. 2 Netherlands (a) 100 100 Olam Cocoa Deutschland GmbH 2 Germany (a) 100 100 Olam Suisse Sarl 1 Switzerland (a) 100 100 Olam Cocoa Pte Limited 2 Singapore (a) 100 100 Acacia Investment Limited 3 United Arab Emirates (b) 100 100 Fasorel Sarl 2 Mozambique (a) 100 100 Quintessential Foods Nigeria Limited 1 Nigeria (a) 100 100 Olam Holdings B.V. 2 Netherlands (b) 100 100 (a) Sourcing, processing, packaging and merchandising of agricultural products and inputs. (b) Investment holding. (c) Agricultural operations. 1. Audited by member firms of Ernst & Young Global. 2. Audited by other Certified Public Accounting (‘CPA’) firms. 3. No statutory audit is required. 50 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 50 Annual Report 2017 13. Subsidiary companies continued Disposal of ownership interest in a subsidiary resulting in loss of control Far East Agri Pte Ltd On 21 December 2017, the Company completed the sale of 50% stake in Far East Agri Pte Ltd (which holds 100% of PT Dharmapala Usaha Sukses in Indonesia), collectively known as “FEA group” to a third party. The cash consideration is $137,010,000, of which $20,552,000 is deferred; resulting in a net cash inflow on disposal of subsidiary of $113,539,000 recorded in the consolidated cash flow statement. The net assets derecognised on disposal and together with the fair value of retained interest has resulted in a gain on disposal of $121,188,000 which has been recorded in ‘Other Income’ in profit and loss account (Note 5). Upon the sale, FEA Group ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company and has been classified as a jointly-controlled entity (Note 14(a)). The value of assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated financial statements as at 21 December 2017 that was disposed is as follows:$’000 Property, plant and equipment (Note 10) 23,149 Non-current assets 29,244 Current assets 99,145 Cash and bank balances 2,919 154,457 Current liabilities 60,704 Non-current liabilities 43,044 103,748 Net assets 50,709 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 51 51 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 14. Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Jointly controlled entities (Note 14(a)) 281,001 247,748 198,815 124,256 Associates (Note 14(b)) 789,939 642,090 581,742 600,570 1,070,940 889,838 780,557 724,826 (a) Investments in jointly controlled entities Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Unquoted equity shares at cost 1 57,818 1,551 45,936 – Share of post-acquisition reserves 63,830 102,376 – – Loans to jointly controlled entities 2 154,022 124,256 154,022 124,256 Foreign currency translation adjustments 5,331 19,565 (1,143) – 281,001 247,748 198,815 124,256 1. In the current financial year, the Group had divested 50% stake in Far East Agri Pte Ltd and its subsidiary and is now accounted for as a jointly controlled entity (Note 13). 2. Loans to jointly controlled entities are unsecured, not expected to be repayable within the next 12 months and are interest free, except for loan balances amounting to $39,277,000 (31 December 2016: $Nil) that bears interest ranging from 3.25% to 4.00% (31 December 2016: Nil). As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, no jointly controlled entity was individually material to the Group. However, list of key jointly controlled entities among all the immaterial jointly controlled entities of the Group at the end of financial year are as follows:Percentage of equity held 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Name of company Country of incorporation Principal activities % % Held by the Company Nauvu Investments Pte Ltd 1 Singapore Sourcing, 50 50 processing and trading of agricultural commodities and technical services Far East Agri Pte Ltd 2 Singapore Processing and 50 – trading of agricultural commodities 1. Audited by Ernst & Young LLP, Singapore. 2. Audited by member firms of Ernst & Young Global. 52 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 52 Annual Report 2017 14. Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates continued (a) Investments in jointly controlled entities continued The summarised financial information in respect of the jointly controlled entities, based on its FRS financial statements and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investments in the combined financial statements are as follows:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Summarised balance sheet Non-current assets 414,953 563,044 Current assets 115,238 62,261 Total assets 530,191 625,305 Non-current liabilities 262,479 368,685 Current liabilities 51,460 7,387 Total liabilities 313,939 376,072 Net assets 216,252 249,233 Proportion of the Group’s ownership: Group’s share of net assets 106,910 123,492 Goodwill on acquisition 20,069 – Loan to jointly-controlled entities 154,022 124,256 Carrying amount of the investments 281,001 247,748 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 21,167 13,535 Profit after tax 455 10,026 Total comprehensive income 455 10,026 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 53 53 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 14. Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates continued (b) Investments in associates Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Unquoted equity shares at cost 328,957 350,714 373,962 373,424 Share of post-acquisition reserves 214,353 42,797 – – Loans to associates 1 289,927 258,794 263,682 256,683 Less: Impairment loss (35,596) (35,596) (35,596) (35,596) Foreign currency translation adjustments (7,702) 25,381 (20,306) 6,059 789,939 642,090 581,742 600,570 1. Loans to associates are unsecured, not expected to be repayable within the next 12 months and are interest-free except for an amount of $265,073,000 (31 December 2016: $256,683,000) that bears interest of 7.50% (31 December 2016: 5.00% to 7.50%) per annum. As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, no associate was individually material to the Group. However, list of key associates among all the immaterial associates of the Group at the end of financial year are as follows:Percentage of equity held 31 December 31 December Country of 2017 2016 Name of company incorporation Principal activities % % Held by the Company Gabon Special Economic Zone SA 1 Gabon Infrastructure 40.49 40.49 development Open Country Dairy Limited 2 New Zealand Processing 15.19 15.19 and trading of agricultural commodities 1. Audited by member firms of Ernst & Young Global. 2. Audited by other CPA firms. Management has assessed and is satisfied that the Group retains significant influence over Open Country Dairy Limited as the Group continues to hold positions in the Board of Directors of the entity and actively participates in all board meetings. The summarised financial information in respect of the material associates based on its FRS financial statements and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in the combined financial statements are as follows:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Summarised balance sheet Non-current assets 1,727,544 1,335,418 Current assets 1,238,213 1,026,082 Total assets 2,965,757 2,361,500 Non-current liabilities 645,563 838,299 Current liabilities 814,339 377,695 Total liabilities 1,459,902 1,215,994 Net assets 1,505,855 1,145,506 Proportion of the Group’s ownership: Group’s share of net assets 511,797 364,688 Goodwill on acquisition 14,461 18,608 Loan to associates 263,682 258,794 Carrying amount of the investments 789,940 642,090 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 1,908,573 1,072,362 Profit after tax 179,916 87,785 Other comprehensive income 37,780 (19,616) Total comprehensive income 217,696 68,169 54 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 54 Annual Report 2017 15. Long-term investments Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Quoted equity shares 257,519 136,321 257,519 136,321 Unquoted equity shares − 12,171 − − 257,519 148,492 257,519 136,321 The Group’s investment in quoted equity shares relates to a 18.56% (31 December 2016: 18.56%) investment in PureCircle Limited (‘PureCircle’). Management has assessed and is of the view that the Group does not retain significant influence over PureCircle and is accounted for as fair value through other comprehensive income. The investment in unquoted equity shares relates to a 20% investment in Olam Grains Australia Pty Ltd which was disposed in the current financial year. 16. Amounts due from subsidiary companies Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Trade receivables 1,906,156 1,886,313 Loans to subsidiaries 1,877,382 1,790,805 Non-trade payables (1,857,122) (93,970) 1,926,416 3,583,148 Loans to subsidiaries include amounts totalling $1,112,709,000 (31 December 2016: $1,479,030,000) which are unsecured and bear interest ranging from 2.00% to 7.50% (31 December 2016: 0.60% to 7.50%) per annum, repayable on demand and are to be settled in cash. The remaining amounts are non-interest bearing, unsecured, repayable on demand and are to be settled in cash. The other amounts are non-interest bearing, unsecured, subject to trade terms or repayable on demand, and are to be settled in cash. Amounts due from subsidiary companies denominated in currencies other than functional currency of the Company are as follows:Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Euro 1,200,445 1,504,480 Indian Rupee 1,275,453 877,662 Great Britain Pounds 154,531 508,675 Australian Dollar (1,892,055) (2,227) Amounts due from subsidiary companies are stated after deducting impairment loss: • Trade 7,792 8,261 • Non-trade 22,630 24,506 30,422 32,767 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 55 55 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 17. Trade receivables Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Trade receivables 1,635,078 1,407,854 963,987 385,144 Indirect tax receivables 266,847 248,603 1,605 476 1,901,925 1,656,457 965,592 385,620 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are subject to trade terms of 30 to 60 days’ terms. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts, which represent their fair values on initial recognition. Indirect tax receivables comprise goods and services, value-added taxes and other indirect forms of taxes. Trade receivables denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of Group companies are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Euro 298,090 24,619 278,043 12,337 United States Dollar 144,301 165,922 – – Great Britain Pounds 56,791 87,844 36,734 – Trade receivables include amounts of $8,559,000, $21,836,000 and $Nil (31 December 2016: $295,000, $Nil and $2,318,000) due from associates, a jointly controlled entity and a shareholder related company, respectively. The expected credit loss provision as at 31 December 2017 is determined as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Trade receivables measured at amortised cost 1,716,289 1,458,774 1,014,215 414,387 Less: Lifetime expected credit loss for trade receivables (81,211) (50,920) (50,228) (29,243) Total trade receivables measured at amortised cost 1,635,078 1,407,854 963,987 385,144 Movement in allowance accounts:As at beginning of year 50,920 60,721 29,243 42,440 Charge for the year 41,207 37,016 23,818 27,972 Written off (6,102) (542) – – Written back (1,272) (44,319) – (41,405) Foreign currency translation adjustments (3,542) (1,956) (2,833) 236 As at end of year 81,211 50,920 50,228 29,243 Receivables that are past due but not impaired The analysis of the Group and Company’s ageing for receivables that are past due but not impaired is as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Trade receivables past due but not impaired:Less than 30 days 384,032 346,694 145,240 56,932 30 to 60 days 125,057 194,829 31,091 9,584 61 to 90 days 75,642 38,006 47,148 10,832 91 to 120 days 69,142 20,578 19,771 813 121 to 180 days 18,090 8,459 5,288 1,880 More than 180 days 39,079 39,961 22,787 6,234 Total trade receivables measured at amortised cost 711,042 648,527 271,325 86,275 56 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 56 Annual Report 2017 18. Margin accounts with brokers Margin accounts are maintained with recognised futures dealers and brokers for trades done on the futures exchanges. These margin accounts move in relation to trades done on futures, variation margins required and prices of the commodities traded. These amounts reflect the payments made to futures dealers as initial and variation margins depending on the volume of trades done and price movements. Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Margin deposits with brokers 583,925 1,037,352 488,250 970,574 Amounts due to brokers (184,245) (872,394) (183,388) (817,030) 399,680 164,958 304,862 153,544 19. Inventories Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Balance sheets: Commodity inventories at fair value 4,096,968 5,365,835 1,267,257 1,038,380 Commodity inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 1,947,713 2,048,476 137,743 106,606 6,044,681 7,414,311 1,405,000 1,144,986 Profit and loss account: Inventories recognised as an expense in cost of goods sold inclusive of the following (charge)/credit (21,442,547) (15,940,068) (17,535,130) (11,875,179) • Inventories written down (46,757) (38,664) (25,397) (11,435) • Reversal of write-down of inventories 1 16,039 19,754 11,321 10,366 1. The reversal of write-down of inventories is made when the related inventories are sold above their carrying amounts. 20. Advance payments to suppliers/subsidiary companies Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Third parties 743,516 880,602 116,243 142,456 Subsidiary companies – – 852,001 2,196,193 743,516 880,602 968,244 2,338,649 These represent advance payments to suppliers and subsidiary companies for procurement of physical commodities. Advance payments to suppliers and subsidiary companies denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of Group companies are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 United States Dollar 37,193 67,803 – – Euro 36,968 30,269 455,950 613,857 Great Britain Pounds 126 168 582 62,596 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 57 57 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 20. Advance payments to suppliers/subsidiary companies continued Advance payments to subsidiary companies are stated after deducting allowance for doubtful debts of $40,773,000 (31 December 2016: $43,483,000). Advance payments to suppliers (third parties) for the Group and Company are stated after deducting allowance for doubtful debts of $11,423,000 and $769,000 (31 December 2016: $12,450,000 and $472,000) respectively. The movement in the allowance accounts for advance payment to suppliers is as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Movement in allowance accounts:As at beginning of year 12,450 17,337 472 6,561 Charge for the year 2,704 2,387 354 452 Written off (2,093) (7,285) (13) (5,956) Written back (998) (756) − (446) Foreign currency translation adjustments (640) 767 (44) (139) As at end of year 11,423 12,450 769 472 21. Other current/non-current assets Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Current: Sundry receivables 1 216,485 362,123 21,172 1,189 Export incentives and subsidies receivable 2 70,479 69,983 − − Amounts due from jointly-controlled entity, associates and a shareholder related company 64,295 29,425 20,046 23,314 Deposits 61,168 59,772 2,121 2,565 Option premium receivable 5,843 3,632 4,798 3,632 Staff advances 3 9,466 8,182 369 492 Insurance receivables 4 17,679 32,493 6,858 3,548 Short-term investment 11,600 4,478 − − 457,015 570,088 55,364 34,740 Prepayments 5 317,291 356,819 112,697 116,376 Advance corporate tax paid 67,351 35,633 − − Taxes recoverable 6,530 24,138 − − 848,187 986,678 168,061 151,116 Non-current: Other non-current assets 6 25,852 30,400 − − 1. Sundry receivables include receivables amounting to $Nil (31 December 2016: $162,449,000) which relate to the sale-and-leaseback of the Awala palm plantations. 2. These relate to incentives and subsidies receivable from the Government agencies of various countries for export of agricultural products. There are no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached to these incentives and subsidies. 3. Staff advances are interest-free, unsecured, repayable within the next 12 months and are to be settled in cash. 4. Insurance receivables pertain to pending marine and inventories insurance claims. The outstanding claims are currently being processed by the insurance companies for final settlement. 5. Prepayments mainly pertain to prepaid expenses incurred for sourcing, processing, packaging and merchandising of agricultural products and inputs. 6. Other non-current assets include an investment in a dairy co-operative in Uruguay, which is accounted at cost amounting to $11,061,000 (31 December 2016: $11,978,000). 58 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 58 Annual Report 2017 22. Trade payables and accruals Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Trade payables 1,637,565 1,538,786 923,272 799,160 Accruals 457,244 567,802 159,053 150,123 Advances received from customers 43,732 51,459 − − GST payable and equivalent 45,811 43,447 5,025 − 2,184,352 2,201,494 1,087,350 949,283 Trade payables are non-interest bearing. Trade payables are subject to trade terms of 30 to 60 days’ terms while other payables have an average term of two months. Trade payables and accruals denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of Group companies are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Euro 178,813 124,705 173,627 121,564 Great Britain Pounds 140,042 340,044 124,962 293,772 United States Dollar 31,391 37,336 − − Trade payables include amounts of $19,471,000 (31 December 2016: $Nil) and $Nil (31 December 2016: $18,000) due to an associate and a jointly controlled entity respectively. Accruals mainly relate to operating costs such as logistics, insurance premiums and employee benefits. 23. Other current liabilities Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Interest payable on bank loans 82,951 81,355 74,526 75,110 Sundry payables 339,816 261,081 − 6,647 Option premium payable 18,450 33,419 18,450 33,419 Amount due to jointly controlled entities 19,626 − 18,155 − 460,843 375,855 111,131 115,176 Withholding tax payable 12,470 7,876 − − 473,313 383,731 111,131 115,176 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 59 59 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 24. Borrowings Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Current: Bank overdrafts (Note 33) 104,544 190,165 − − Bank loans 2,644,191 3,220,351 1,259,505 1,694,362 Term loans from banks 1,643,678 1,842,830 799,690 1,218,610 Medium-term notes 249,863 719,659 249,863 719,659 Obligation under finance leases (Note 28(c)) 17,933 10,030 − − 4,660,209 5,983,035 2,309,058 3,632,631 Non-current: Term loans from banks 2,750,543 4,232,530 1,335,932 3,092,015 Medium-term notes 3,778,652 2,983,926 3,317,732 2,983,926 Obligation under finance leases (Note 28(c)) 66,412 111,701 − − Other bonds 332,122 359,396 332,122 359,396 6,927,729 7,687,553 4,985,786 6,435,337 11,587,938 13,670,588 7,294,844 10,067,968 Borrowings denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of Group companies are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Singapore Dollar 1,482,143 1,480,199 1,481,730 1,480,199 United States Dollar 341,014 253,992 − − Australian Dollar 185,096 200,279 185,082 200,279 Japanese Yen 371,332 146,690 371,332 146,690 Great Britain Pounds 20,289 18,703 − − Euro 420,271 − − − Bank overdrafts and bank loans The bank loans to the Company are repayable within 12 months and bear interest in a range from 1.95% to 3.65% (31 December 2016: 1.26% to 1.61%) per annum. The bank loans and bank overdrafts to the subsidiary companies are repayable within 12 months and bear interest in a range from 0.65% to 22.00% (31 December 2016: 0.80% to 26.00%) per annum. Bank loans include an amount of $17,885,000 (31 December 2016: $24,079,000) secured by the assets of subsidiaries. The remaining amounts of bank loans are unsecured. Term loans from banks Term loans from banks to the Company bear interest at floating interest rates ranging from 2.47% to 3.20% (31 December 2016: 1.56% to 2.76%) per annum. Term loans to the Company are unsecured and are repayable within five years. Term loans from banks to the subsidiary companies bear interest at floating interest rates ranging from 0.91% to 12.00% (31 December 2016: 1.20% to 12.00%) per annum. Term loans from banks to the subsidiary companies are repayable between two to fifteen years (31 December 2016: two and seven years). Term loans from banks include an amount of $101,141,000 (31 December 2016: $93,992,000) secured by the assets of subsidiaries. The remaining amounts of term loans from banks are unsecured. 60 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 60 Annual Report 2017 24. Borrowings continued Medium-term notes The Company has a $800,000,000 multicurrency medium-term notes (‘MTN’) programme and a US$5,000,000,000 Euro mediumterm notes (‘EMTN’) programme. The drawdowns from the MTN and EMTN are unsecured. The MTN and EMTN are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Maturity $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Current: Multicurrency medium-term note programme: • 5.75% fixed rate notes 2017 − 719,659 − 719,659 • 6.00% fixed rate notes 2018 249,863 − 249,863 − Non-current: Multicurrency medium-term note programme: • 6.00% fixed rate notes 2018 − 249,638 − 249,638 Euro medium-term note programme: • 4.25% fixed rate notes 2019 399,077 398,484 399,077 398,484 • 5.80% fixed rate notes 2019 349,422 349,047 349,422 349,047 • 4.50% fixed rate notes 2020 398,741 430,748 398,741 430,748 • 4.875% fixed rate notes 2020 185,082 200,279 185,082 200,279 • 1.375% fixed rate notes 2020 68,272 73,860 68,272 73,860 • 4.00% fixed rate notes 2020 66,662 72,119 66,662 72,119 • 6.00% fixed rate notes 2022 483,369 483,030 483,369 483,030 • 4.50% fixed rate notes 2021 600,963 653,891 600,963 653,891 • 1.427% fixed rate notes 2021 67,241 72,830 67,241 72,830 • 0.47% fixed rate notes 2022 67,848 − 67,848 − • 4.375% fixed rate notes 2023 396,378 − 396,378 − • 0.9725% fixed rate notes 2022 72,089 − 72,089 − • 3.65% fixed rate notes 2022 66,706 − 66,706 − • 0.9825% fixed rate notes 2022 95,882 − 95,882 − Other medium-term notes: • 3.90% fixed rate notes 2022 233,800 − − − • 3.73% fixed rate notes 2022 227,120 − − − 3,778,652 2,983,926 3,317,732 2,983,926 Obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases amounting to $18,101,000 (31 December 2016: $19,602,000) are guaranteed by a subsidiary company. Obligations under finance leases bear interest ranging from 8.05% to 25.00% (31 December 2016: 0.96% to 9.22%) per annum and are repayable between 1 and 25 years (31 December 2016: 1 and 20 years). Other bonds Group and Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Non-current: 7.50% unsecured senior bonds 1 332,122 359,396 1. On 7 August 2010, the Company issued 7.50% interest bearing unsecured senior bonds of US$250,000,000 due in 2020. The interest is payable semi-annually. On 9 July 2014, the Company repurchased US$917,000 of the senior bonds. Upon settlement, the repurchased portion was cancelled and the aggregate outstanding principal amount following such cancellation is US$249,083,000. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 61 61 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 24. Borrowings continued A reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:Group 31 December 31 December 2016 Cash Flows 2017 $’000 $’000 Non-cash changes $’000 Foreign Disposal of exchange subsidiary movement (Note 13) $’000 $’000 Bank borrowings and obligations under finance leases (exclude bank overdrafts) 9,417,442 (1,779,508) (491,308) (23,869) 7,122,757 Medium-term notes 3,703,585 394,299 (69,369) − 4,028,515 Other bonds 359,396 − (27,274) − 332,122 25. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares) during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the adjusted net profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares) during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive shares and options. The following reflects the profit and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the financial years ended 31 December:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Net profit attributable to owners of the Company 580,743 351,312 Less: Accrued capital securities distribution (56,635) (33,568) Adjusted net profit attributable to owners of the Company for basic and dilutive earnings per share 524,108 317,744 No. of shares No. of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue applicable to basic earnings per share 2,814,058,047 2,753,842,602 Dilutive effect of convertible bonds – 6,332,446 Dilutive effect of share options 2,314,339 1,035,086 Dilutive effect of performance share plan 35,528,711 23,098,975 Dilutive effect of warrants 72,287,589 66,835,892 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares applicable to diluted earnings per share 2,924,188,686 2,851,145,001 The incremental shares relating to the outstanding convertible bonds have not been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive for the previous financial year. During the current financial year, there are no such items. There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date and the date of these financial statements. 62 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 62 Annual Report 2017 26. Share capital, treasury shares, perpetual capital securities and warrants (a) Share capital Group and Company 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 No. of shares $’000 No. of shares $’000 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid 1 Balance at beginning of year 2,829,036,837 3,087,894 2,825,645,142 3,082,499 Issue of shares on exercise of warrants 391,928,073 585,542 3,221,695 5,096 Issue of shares on exercise of share options 80,000 770 170,000 299 Balance at end of year 3,221,044,910 3,674,206 2,829,036,837 3,087,894 1. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restriction. The ordinary shares have no par value. (b) Treasury shares Group and Company 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 No. of shares $’000 No. of shares $’000 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid 1 Balance at beginning of year 101,165,100 190,465 52,196,000 96,081 Use of treasury shares for share awards/options 2 (1,631,500) (3,189) – – Share buyback during the year – – 48,969,100 94,384 Balance at end of year 99,533,600 187,276 101,165,100 190,465 2. The Company used 1,631,500 treasury shares during the current financial year towards the release of 1,321,500 restricted share awards and issuance of 310,000 shares on exercise of share options. (c) Capital securities S$275,000,000 7.00% Perpetual Capital Securities On 1 March 2012, the Company issued perpetual capital securities (the ‘perpetual securities’) with an aggregate principal amount of S$275,000,000. Issuance costs incurred amounting to $4,549,000 were recognised in equity as a deduction from proceeds. Such perpetual securities bear distributions at a rate of 7% per annum, payable semi-annually. Subject to the relevant terms and conditions in the offering circular, the Company may elect to defer making distribution on the perpetual securities, and is not subject to any limits as to the number of times a distribution can be deferred. On 22 January 2014, the Company repurchased S$39,200,000 of the S$275,000,000 7% Perpetual Capital Securities issued on 1 March 2012 (the ‘Perpetual Bonds’). The repurchase was made by way of on-market purchases. Upon settlement, the repurchased portion was cancelled and the aggregate outstanding principal amount following such cancellation is S$235,800,000. On 4 September 2017, the Company has repurchased the remaining of the S$275,000,000 7% Perpetual Capital Securities at an amount approximating S$235,800,000. The repurchase was made by way of on-market purchases and the repurchased portion was cancelled in the current financial year. US$500,000,000 5.35% Perpetual Capital Securities On 20 July 2016, the Company issued subordinated perpetual capital securities (the ‘capital securities’) with an aggregate principal amount of US$500,000,000 under the US$5,000,000,000 EMTN Programme. Issuance costs incurred amounting to $6,126,000 were recognised in equity as a deduction from proceeds. The capital securities were priced at par and bear a distribution rate of 5.35% for the first five years. The distribution rate will then be reset at the end of five years from the issue date of the capital securities and each date falling every 5 years thereafter. Additionally, Olam may choose to redeem in whole the capital securities on or after the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the capital securities. Combined S$350,000,000 5.50% Perpetual Capital Securities On 11 July 2017 and 4 August 2017, the Company issued subordinated perpetual capital securities (the ‘capital securities’) with an aggregate combined principal amount of S$350,000,000 (S$300,000,000 and S$50,000,000 respectively) under the US$5,000,000,000 EMTN Programme. Issuance costs incurred amounting to $2,273,000 were recognised in equity as a deduction from proceeds. The capital securities were priced at par and bear a distribution rate of 5.50% for the first five years. The distribution rate will then be reset at the end of five years from the issue date of the capital securities and each date falling every 5 years thereafter. Additionally, Olam may choose to redeem in whole the capital securities on or after the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the capital securities. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 63 63 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 26. Share capital, treasury shares, perpetual capital securities and warrants continued (d) Warrants On 29 January 2013, 387,365,079 Warrants were listed and quoted on the Official List of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited. Each Warrant carries the right to subscribe for 1 new ordinary share in the capital of the Company (the ‘New Share’) at an original exercise price of US$1.291 for each New Share. These Warrants are exercisable from 29 January 2016 to 29 January 2018. The Warrants have been presented as capital reserves under equity. During the current financial year, the exercise price for each Warrant were adjusted from US$1.14 to US$1.12 and finally US$1.09. A total of 391,928,073 Warrants were exercised at a maximum price of US$1.14 and minimum price of US$1.09 and new ordinary shares were issued. The outstanding number of warrants following the aforementioned exercise is 51,077,331 with an exercise price of US$1.09 expires on 29 January 2018. Post 31 December 2017, a further 49,973,747 Warrants at the exercise price of US$1.09 each were exercised and all remaining subscription rights under the Warrants which have not been exercised as at 29 January 2018 have lapsed and ceased to be valid. 27. Dividends Group and Company 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Declared and paid during the financial year ended:Dividends on ordinary shares: • One tier tax exempted interim dividend for financial year ended 31 December 2017: $0.035 97,740 82,296 (31 December 2016: $0.030) per share • One tier tax exempted second and final dividend for financial year ended 31 December 2016: 82,659 101,740 $0.030 (31 December 2015: $0.035) per share 180,399 184,036 Proposed but not recognised as a liability as at:Dividends on ordinary shares, subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting: • One tier tax exempted second and final dividend for financial year ended 31 December 2017: 124,860 81,836 $0.040 (31 December 2016: $0.030) per share 64 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 64 Annual Report 2017 28. Commitments (a) Operating lease commitments Operating lease expenses of the Group and Company (principally for land, offices, warehouses, employees’ residences and vessels) were $162,948,000 (31 December 2016: $117,866,000) and $68,406,000 (31 December 2016: $37,536,000), respectively. These leases have an average tenure of between 1.0 and 19.0 years with no renewal option or contingent rent provision included in the contracts. Lease terms do not contain restrictions on the Group’s activities concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing. Future minimum rental payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Within one year 136,750 98,816 43,955 26,511 After one year but not more than five years 284,703 229,080 37,363 21,477 More than five years 467,117 581,424 774 1,398 888,570 909,320 82,092 49,386 (b) Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for as at the balance sheet date but not recognised in the financial statements is as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Capital commitments in respect of property, plant and equipment 57,621 15,267 – – (c) Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for palm and almond plantations, land and buildings. These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:Group 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Present value of Present value of Minimum lease payments Minimum lease payments payments (Note 24) payments (Note 24) Not later than one year 19,322 17,933 14,812 10,030 Later than one year but not later than five years 32,301 25,623 65,743 40,740 Later than five years 83,363 40,789 132,860 70,961 Total minimum lease payments 134,986 84,345 213,415 121,731 Less: Amounts representing finance charges (50,641) – (91,684) – Present value of minimum lease payments 84,345 84,345 121,731 121,731 29. Contingent liabilities Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Contingent liabilities not provided for in the accounts: Financial guarantee contracts given on behalf of subsidiary companies1 – – 9,776,482 6,954,277 1. Amounts utilised by subsidiary companies on the bank facilities secured by corporate guarantees amounted to $2,046,030,000 (31 December 2016: $1,089,198,000). The Company has agreed to provide continuing financial support to certain subsidiary companies. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 65 65 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 30. Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses (including executive directors):Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Salaries and employee benefits 652,171 571,963 Central Provident Fund contributions and equivalents 30,290 31,813 Retrenchment benefits 1,607 829 Share-based expense (relates to OSGP only) 20,184 13,282 704,252 617,887 (a) Employee share option scheme The Olam Employee Share Option Scheme (the ‘ESOS’) was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 4 January 2005. The ESOS rules were amended on 29 October 2008 at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. Under the amended rules, the directors (including Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors) and employees of the Group are eligible to participate in the ESOS and all subsequent options issued to the Group’s employees and Executive Directors shall have a life of 10 years, instead of 5 years. For Options granted to the Company’s Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors, the Option Period shall be no longer than 5 years. The shares issued upon the options being exercised carry full dividend and voting rights. Controlling Shareholders and associates of Controlling Shareholders are not eligible to participate in the ESOS. All these options have a contractual life of 10 years with no cash settlement alternatives. The fair value of share options as at the date of grant, is estimated by the Company using the Black Scholes Model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options are granted. The expected life of the option is based on the assumption that the options would be exercised within six months of the vesting date. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome. Pursuant to the voluntary conditional cash offer by Breedens International Pte Ltd approval was sought and granted on 8 April 2014 such that all outstanding options which have not been exercised at the expiry of the accelerated exercise period shall not automatically lapse and become null and void but will expire in accordance with their original terms. The ESOS has expired on 3 January 2015. The terms of the ESOS continue to apply to outstanding options granted under the ESOS. The ESOS rules amended on 29 October 2008 may be read in the Appendix 1 of the Company’s circular dated 13 October 2008. Movement of share options during the financial year The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price of, and movements in, share options during the financial year:31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number exercise share price of share price options $ options $ Outstanding at the beginning of the year 72,742,000 2.20 74,417,000 2.20 Forfeited during the year (1,085,000) 2.38 (1,505,000) 2.66 Exercised during the year 1 (390,000) 1.97 (170,000) 2.28 Outstanding at the end of the year 2 71,267,000 2.20 72,742,000 2.20 Exercisable at end of year 71,267,000 2.20 60,238,000 2.29 1. The weighted average share price when the options were exercised in the current financial year was $1.97 (31 December 2016: $2.28). 2. The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the financial year was $1.76 to $3.10 (31 December 2016: $1.76 to $3.10). The weighted average remaining contractual life for these options is 2.52 years (31 December 2016: 4.52 years). 66 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 66 Annual Report 2017 30. Employee benefits expenses continued (b) Olam Share Plans Olam Share Grant Plan (‘OSGP’) On 30 October 2014, the Company had adopted the new Share Grant Plan (‘OSGP’). The OSGP is a share-based incentive plan which involves the award of fully-paid shares, when and after pre-determined performance or service conditions are accomplished. Any performance targets set under the OSGP are intended to be based on longer-term corporate objectives covering market competitiveness, quality of returns, business growth and productivity growth. The actual number of shares to be delivered pursuant to the award granted will range from 0% to 192.5% and 200% of the base award and is contingent on the achievement of pre-determined targets set out in the three-year performance period and other terms and conditions being met. The details of OSGP are described below:Olam Share Grant Plan (‘OSGP’) – Performance and Restricted Share Awards (‘PSA’ and ‘RSA’) Plan Description Award of fully-paid ordinary shares of the Company, conditional on performance targets set at the start of a three-year performance period based on stretched long-term corporate objectives Performance • Absolute Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) Conditions • Relative Total Shareholder Return • Return on Equity (‘ROE’) • Profit after Tax and Minority Interest (‘PATMI’) Growth Vesting Condition Vesting based on meeting stated performance conditions over a three-year performance period Payout 0% – 192.5% and 200% depending on the achievement of pre-set performance targets over the performance period. Fair value of OSGP The fair value of services received in return for shares awarded is measured by reference to the fair value of shares granted under the OSGP. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a Monte Carlo simulation model, which involves projection of future outcomes using statistical distributions of key random variables including share price and volatility of returns. The inputs to the model used for the shares granted are shown below:Plan: RSA and PSA RSA and PSA PSA Grant date: 24 April 2017 15 April 2016 7 April 2015 Dividend yield (%) 2.333 2.753 2.87 Expected volatility (%) 22.035 22.747 7.82 Risk-free interest rate (%) 1.394 1.197 1.33 Expected term (years) 2.94 2.72 2.74 Index (for Relative TSR) Not applicable FTSE Straits Times Index FTSE Straits Times Index Index volatility (%) Not applicable 14.081 7.82 Correlation with Index (%) Not applicable 35.4 38.8 Share price at date of grant ($) 1.910 1.720 1.985 Fair value at date of grant ($) 1.594 1.400 1.848 The number of contingent shares granted but not released for both PSA and RSA awards as at 31 December 2017 was 38,897,596 (31 December 2016: 27,637,500). Based on the achievement factor, the actual release of the PSA awards could range from zero to maximum of 59,553,509 (31 December 2016: 42,762,913) fully-paid ordinary shares of the Company. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 67 67 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 31. Related party disclosures An entity or individual is considered a related party of the Group for the purposes of the financial statements if: i) it possesses the ability (directly or indirectly) to control or exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the Group or vice versa; ii) it is subject to common control or common significant influence. The following are the significant related party transactions entered into by the Company and Group in the ordinary course of business on terms agreed between the parties:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Subsidiary companies: • Sales of goods – – 3,549,093 3,288,693 • Sales of services, net – – 1,539 29,125 • Purchases – – 11,002,794 7,113,429 • Insurance premiums paid – – 14,365 13,295 • Commissions paid – – 30,475 56,074 • Interest received on loans, net – – 60,355 80,824 • Consultancy fee paid – – 85,885 30,850 • Management fee received – – 46,688 35,049 • Trademark income – – – 204,817 • Dividend received – – 12,997 101 • Toll processing charges paid – – 120,672 – • Warehouse rental paid – – 383 – Jointly controlled entities: • Sales of goods 2,844 – – – • Management fee received 383 204 – – • Interest received on loans 8 – 8 – Associates: • Sales of goods 81,070 31,347 79,266 19,659 • Purchases 316,421 165,859 316,417 165,852 • Finance income 22,758 14,659 22,758 14,659 • Dividend received 22,325 12 22,325 12 • Management fee received 2,351 664 2,351 664 • Director Fees received 38 77 38 77 • Miscellaneous income 131 255 131 255 Shareholder related companies: • Sale of goods 54,751 58,002 19,466 48,585 • Purchases 123 1,278 – 485 • Others – 78 – – 68 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 68 Annual Report 2017 32. Compensation of directors and key management personnel The remuneration of directors and key management personnel during the years is as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Directors’ fees 1,755 1,866 1,698 1,806 Salaries and employee benefits 20,511 19,581 16,796 16,629 Central Provident Fund contributions and equivalents 557 448 126 130 Share-based expense 4,543 2,803 3,688 2,279 27,366 24,698 22,308 20,844 Comprising amounts paid to:Directors of the Company 11,389 10,550 11,332 10,490 Key management personnel 15,977 14,148 10,976 10,354 27,366 24,698 22,308 20,844 Directors’ interests in employee share benefit plans At the end of the reporting date, the total number of outstanding options/shares that were issued/allocated to the directors and key management personnel under existing employee benefit schemes is given below:31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Options/shares Options/shares Employee Share Option Scheme: Directors 20,000,000 20,000,000 Key management personnel 16,800,000 16,800,000 Olam Share Grant Plan: Directors 3,321,846 2,052,000 Key management personnel 5,750,000 3,700,000 33. Cash and short-term deposits Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cash and bank balances 1,174,552 1,556,636 601,561 723,680 Deposits 811,799 587,415 535,450 550,992 1,986,351 2,144,051 1,137,011 1,274,672 Cash at banks earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates ranging from 0.1% to 21.0% (31 December 2016: 0.00% to 12.50%) per annum. Deposits include short-term and capital guaranteed deposits. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between 1 and 365 days (31 December 2016: 1 and 365 days) depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and interest earned at floating rates ranging from 0.80% to 19.50% (31 December 2016: 0.00% to 9.96%) per annum and may be withdrawn on demand. Deposits amounting to $1,119,000 (31 December 2016: $1,545,000) have been pledged to secure the Group’s borrowings as set out in Note 24 to the financial statements. Deposits include capital guaranteed, non-interest bearing, index-linked structured deposits of $Nil (31 December 2016: $14,468,000) (31 December 2016: remaining maturity period of three months) and may be withdrawn on demand. Cash and bank balances and deposits denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of Group companies are as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Euro 876,917 294,709 865,456 290,061 United States Dollar 68,335 86,235 – – Great Britain Pounds 17,214 103,304 14,039 102,285 Singapore Dollar 17,075 49,808 16,798 49,806 Japanese Yen 10,881 267,271 10,881 267,208 Swiss Franc 1,359 210,833 1,284 210,015 Australian Dollar 579 3,625 576 3,324 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 69 69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 33. Cash and short-term deposits continued Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Cash and bank balances 1,174,552 1,556,636 Deposits 811,799 587,415 Structured deposits – (14,468) Bank overdrafts (Note 24) (104,544) (190,165) 1,881,807 1,939,418 Bank overdrafts are included in the determination of cash and cash equivalents because they form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives The Group and the Company are exposed to financial risks from its operations and the use of financial instruments. The board of directors and board risk committee reviews and agrees on policies and procedures for the management of these risks, which are executed by the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Risk. The Audit Committee provides independent oversight to the effectiveness of the risk management process. The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivative financial instruments and investment in security, comprise bank loans, medium-term notes, term loans from banks, bonds, cash and bank balances, fixed deposits and bank overdrafts. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, commodity options, swaps and futures contracts and foreign currency forward contracts. The purpose is to manage the commodity price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of financing. There has been no change to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks. The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are commodity price risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees on the policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below:(a) Commodity price risk Commodities traded by the Group are subject to fluctuations due to a number of factors that result in price risk. The Group purchases and sells various derivative products, primarily exchange traded futures and options with the purpose of managing market exposure to adverse price movements in these commodities. The Group has established policies and exposure limits that restrict the amount of unhedged fixed price physical positions in each commodity. The Group also enters into commodity derivatives for trading purposes. The Group’s trading market risk appetite is determined by the Board of Directors, with detailed exposure limits recommended by the Executive Risk Committee and approved by the Board Risk Committee. At balance sheet date, if the commodities price index moved by 1.0% with all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit net of tax would have changed by $30,287,000 (31 December 2016: $22,991,000) arising as a result of fair value on Group’s commodity futures, options contracts, physical sales and purchases commitments as well as the inventory held at balance sheet date. 70 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 70 Annual Report 2017 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives continued (b) Credit risk Credit risk is limited to the risk arising from the inability of a customer to make payment when due. It is the Group’s policy to provide credit terms only to creditworthy customers. These debts are continually monitored and therefore, the Group does not expect to incur material credit losses. For computation of impairment losses on financial assets, the Group uses a provision matrix as presented below:Balance Sheet Expected credit loss Trade receivables (Note 17) Loans to jointly-controlled entities and associates (Note 14) Other current assets – Sundry receivables, export incentives and subsidies A percentage of the financial asset calculated receivable, deposits, staff advances, insurance receivables, amount due by taking the default sovereign risk rating of the from jointly-controlled entity, associates and a shareholder related company counterparties based on external benchmarks (Note 21) Amount due from subsidiary companies (Note 16) The carrying amounts of trade receivables, other non-current and current assets, margin accounts with brokers, cash and short-term deposits payments, including derivatives with positive fair value represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. No other financial assets carry a significant exposure to credit risk. Deposits and cash balances are placed with reputable banks. Credit risk concentration profile The Group determines concentrations of credit risk by monitoring the operating segment profile of its trade receivables on an ongoing basis. The credit risk concentration profile of the Group’s trade receivables at the end of the reporting period is as follows:Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 By operating segments: Edible nuts, spices and vegetable ingredients 337,909 253,620 219,463 68,467 Confectionery and beverage ingredients 675,624 556,669 444,534 77,805 Industrial raw materials 178,959 79,105 156,962 47,890 Food staples and packaged food business 442,381 518,460 143,028 190,982 Commodity financial services 205 – – – 1,635,078 1,407,854 963,987 385,144 The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk with any single customer. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 71 71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives continued (c) Foreign currency risk The Group trades its products globally and, as a result, is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The primary purpose of the Group’s foreign currency hedging activities is to protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency purchases and sales of raw materials and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business. The Group primarily utilises foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge firm commitments. The Group does not use foreign currency forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The foreign currencies in which these transactions are denominated are mainly United States Dollar (USD), Great Britain Pounds (GBP), Euro (EUR), Australian Dollar (AUD) and Singapore Dollar (SGD). The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s profit net of tax and equity to a reasonably possible change in the USD, GBP, EUR, AUD and SGD exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. Group 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Profit net of tax Equity Profit net of tax Equity $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Increase/ Increase/ Increase/ Increase/ (decrease) (decrease) (decrease) (decrease) SGD – strengthened 0.5% (7,217) 5,629 (6,692) 6,275 GBP – strengthened 0.5% (673) (5,287) (322) (2,983) USD – strengthened 0.5% (380) – 689 – AUD – strengthened 0.5% (225) 4,439 (134) 2,609 EUR – strengthened 0.5% 1,615 (6,103) (2,954) (10,129) 72 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 72 Annual Report 2017 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives continued (d) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group or the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations associated with its financial liabilities or due to shortage of funds. To ensure continuity of funding, the Group primarily uses short-term bank facilities that are transaction-linked and self-liquidating in nature. The Group also has a multicurrency medium-term notes programme, as well as term loans from banks, to fund its ongoing working capital requirement and growth needs. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities at the balance sheet date based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 $’000 $’000 One year One to five Over five One year One to five Over five or less years years Total or less years years Total Group Financial liabilities: Trade payables and accruals (Note 22) 2,094,809 – – 2,094,809 2,201,494 – – 2,201,494 Other current liabilities (Note 23) 377,892 – – 377,892 294,500 – – 294,500 Borrowings 4,995,442 7,039,874 555,524 12,590,840 6,465,152 7,727,079 689,751 14,881,982 Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) 851,947 – – 851,947 987,942 – – 987,942 Total undiscounted financial liabilities 8,320,090 7,039,874 555,524 15,915,488 9,949,088 7,727,079 689,751 18,365,918 Company Financial liabilities: Trade payables and accruals (Note 22) 1,082,325 – – 1,082,325 949,283 – – 949,283 Other current liabilities (Note 23) 36,605 – – 36,605 40,066 – – 40,066 Borrowings 2,531,888 5,043,954 401,238 7,977,080 4,010,284 6,492,154 508,758 11,011,196 Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) 685,128 – – 685,128 681,162 – – 681,162 Total undiscounted financial liabilities 4,335,946 5,043,954 401,238 9,781,138 5,680,795 6,492,154 508,758 12,681,707 The table below shows the contractual expiry by maturity of the Group and Company’s contingent liabilities and commitments. The maximum amount of the financial guarantee contracts are allocated to the earliest period in which the guarantee could be called. 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 $’000 $’000 One year or One to five Over five One year or One to five Over five less years years Total less years years Total Group Financial guarantees – – – – – – – – Company Financial guarantees 2,046,030 – – 2,046,030 1,089,198 – – 1,089,198 (e) Interest rate risk The Company’s and the Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relate primarily to its floating rate loans and borrowings. Interest rate risk is managed on an ongoing basis such as hedging the risk through interest rate derivatives with the primary objective of limiting the extent to which net interest exposure could be affected by adverse movements in interest rates. The details of the interest rates relating to the interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities are disclosed in various notes to the financial statements. At the balance sheet date, if interest rates had moved by 25 basis points with all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit net of tax would have changed inversely by $27,607,000 (31 December 2016: $25,393,000). olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 73 73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives continued (f) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Group’s exposure to risks associated with foreign currency and commodity price. Certain derivatives are also used for trading purposes. The Group and Company have master netting arrangements with certain dealers and brokers to settle the net amount due to or from each other. As at 31 December 2017, the settlement dates on open foreign exchange derivatives and commodity derivatives ranged between 1 and 24 months (31 December 2016: 1 and 24 months), except for power purchase agreement (10 years). The Group’s and Company’s derivative financial instruments that are offset are as follows:Group Company Fair value Fair value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 31 December 2017 Derivatives held for hedging: Foreign exchange contracts 257,385 (176,798) 143,026 (164,497) Foreign exchange contracts – Cash flow hedge – (11,619) – (11,619) Commodity contracts 2,603,631 (1,956,800) 2,163,097 (1,754,690) Power purchase agreement 13,801 – – – Interest rate swaps – (1,199) – (1,199) Total derivatives held for hedging 2,874,817 (2,146,416) 2,306,123 (1,932,005) Derivatives held for trading: Foreign exchange contracts 3,806 (2,388) 3,806 (2,388) Commodity contracts 124,791 (87,308) 124,791 (87,308) Total derivatives held for trading 128,597 (89,696) 128,597 (89,696) Total derivatives, gross 3,003,414 (2,236,112) 2,434,720 (2,021,701) Gross amounts offset in the balance sheet (1,384,165) 1,384,165 (1,336,573) 1,336,573 Net amounts in the balance sheet 1,619,249 (851,947) 1,098,147 (685,128) Group Company Fair value Fair value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 31 December 2016 Derivatives held for hedging: Foreign exchange contracts 231,380 (195,339) 206,572 (154,642) Foreign exchange contracts – Cash flow hedge – (41,305) – (41,305) Commodity contracts 5,739,831 (4,846,050) 4,840,466 (4,463,259) Total derivatives held for hedging 5,971,211 (5,082,694) 5,047,038 (4,659,206) Derivatives held for trading: Foreign exchange contracts 6,224 (9,768) 6,224 (9,768) Commodity contracts 305,170 (251,933) 305,170 (251,934) Total derivatives held for trading 311,394 (261,701) 311,394 (261,702) Total derivatives, gross 6,282,605 (5,344,395) 5,358,432 (4,920,908) Gross amounts offset in the balance sheet (4,356,454) 4,356,453 (4,239,746) 4,239,746 Net amounts in the balance sheet 1,926,151 (987,942) 1,118,686 (681,162) 74 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 74 Annual Report 2017 34. Financial risk management policies and objectives continued (f) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued The Group applies hedge accounting in accordance with FRS 109 for certain hedging relationships which qualify for hedge accounting. The effects of applying hedge accounting for expected future sales and purchases on the Group’s balance sheet and profit or loss are as follows:Group Group 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Line item in the Balance Sheets Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities where the hedging instrument is reported: $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Fair value hedge Hedged item: Inventories Inventories 1,135,411 – 767,870 – Sales and purchase contracts Derivative assets/ (liabilities) 67,384 – 274,192 – Hedging instruments: Commodity contracts Derivative assets/ (liabilities) 55,832 – – (225,817) Cash flow hedge Hedged item: Forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currency Fair value adjustment reserves 214,878 – 76,655 – Hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Derivative assets/ (liabilities) – (11,619) – (41,305) Fair value hedge The Group is exposed to price risk on the purchase side due to increase in commodity prices, on the sales sides and inventory held to decrease in commodity prices. Therefore, the Group applies fair value hedge accounting to hedge its commodity prices embedded in its inventories, sales and purchase contracts and uses commodity derivatives to manage its exposure. The Group determines its hedge effectiveness based on the volume of both hedged item and hedging instruments. For all the commodity derivatives used for hedging purposes, the forecasted transactions are expected to occur within 3 to 24 months. The commodity derivatives held for hedging are used to hedge the commodity price risk related to inventories, sales and purchases contracts. The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments included in the carrying amount of the inventories for the current financial year amounts to $178,271,000 (31 December 2016: $276,553,000). Cash flow hedge For all the foreign exchange and commodity derivatives used for hedging purposes, the forecasted transactions are expected to occur within 24 months (31 December 2016: 24 months). For all cases where the Group applies hedge accounting, the fair value of the derivative recorded in the fair value adjustment reserves will be recycled through the profit and loss account upon occurrence of the forecasted transactions and this amounts to $68,037,000 for the current financial year. The net hedging loss recognised in the ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ in relation to such transactions amounts to $11,619,000 in the current financial year. Cash flow hedges of expected transactions that were assessed to be highly effective have resulted in a net fair value gain of $146,841,000 for both the Group and Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016: gain of $22,544,000). There was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in Profit and Loss during the current financial year. 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities (a) Fair value hierarchy The Group classifies fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that is dependent on the valuation inputs used as follows: • Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the measurement date, • Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, and • Level 3 – Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 75 75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities continued (b) Fair value of assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value The following table shows an analysis of assets and liabilities carried at fair value by level of fair value hierarchy:Group 31 December 2017 Quoted prices Significant other Significant in active markets for observable unobservable identical instruments inputs inputs (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Recurring fair value measurements Financial assets: Long-term investment (Note 15) 257,519 – – 257,519 Derivative financial instruments • Foreign exchange contracts – 261,191 – 261,191 • Commodity contracts 107,212 1,166,466 70,579 1,344,257 • Power purchase agreement – – 13,801 13,801 364,731 1,427,657 84,380 1,876,768 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments • Foreign exchange contracts – 179,186 – 179,186 • Foreign exchange contracts – Cash flow hedge – 11,619 – 11,619 • Commodity contracts 223,277 435,004 1,662 659,943 • Interest rate swaps – 1,199 – 1,199 223,277 627,008 1,662 851,947 Non-financial assets: Biological assets (Note 12) – – 471,656 471,656 Inventories (Note 19) – 3,707,281 389,687 4,096,968 – 3,707,281 861,343 4,568,624 Group 31 December 2016 Quoted prices Significant other Significant in active markets for observable unobservable identical instruments inputs inputs (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Recurring fair value measurements Financial assets: Long-term investment (Note 15) 136,321 – 12,171 148,492 Derivative financial instruments • Foreign exchange contracts – 237,604 – 237,604 • Commodity contracts 492,907 1,073,034 122,606 1,688,547 629,228 1,310,638 134,777 2,074,643 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments • Foreign exchange contracts – 205,108 – 205,108 • Foreign exchange contracts – Cash flow hedge – 41,305 – 41,305 • Commodity contracts 129,122 599,632 12,775 741,529 129,122 846,045 12,775 987,942 Non-financial assets: Biological assets (Note 12) – – 450,564 450,564 Inventories (Note 19) – 4,550,262 815,573 5,365,835 – 4,550,262 1,266,137 5,816,399 76 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 76 Annual Report 2017 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities continued (b) Fair value of assets and liabilities that are carried fair value continued Determination of fair value Long-term investment relates to one investment in the current financial year, of which is based on quoted closing prices at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps are valued using a valuation technique with market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves. Commodity contracts, inventories and power purchase agreement are valued based on the following:• Level 1 – Based on quoted closing prices at the balance sheet date; • Level 2 – Valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs. The models incorporate various inputs including the broker quotes for similar transactions, credit quality of counter-parties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves of the underlying commodities; and • Level 3 – Valued using inputs that are not based on observable inputs such as historical transacted prices and estimates. Certain commodity contracts which were valued based on Level 3 in the previous financial year, are valued based on Level 2 in the current financial year as there were available broker quotes unlike in the previous financial year. The fair value of biological assets (fruits on trees, annual crops and livestock) has been determined through various methods and assumptions. Please refer to Note 12 for more details. (c) Level 3 fair value measurements (i) Information about significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements The significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of biological assets are disclosed in Note 12. The following table shows the information about fair value measurements of other assets and liabilities using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):Recurring fair value measurements Valuation techniques Unobservable inputs Percentage Financial assets/ liabilities: Long-term investment – unquoted Discounted cash flow Discount rate Nil (31 December 2016: 14.6%) Commodity contracts Comparable market Premium on quality 0% to 33% approach per metric tonne (31 December 2016: 0% to 17%) Commodity contracts Comparable market Discount on quality 0% to 25% approach per metric tonne (31 December 2016: 0% to 21%) Power purchase agreement Discounted Cash Flow Electricity Pricing per 0% to 21% megawatt hour (31 December 2016: Nil) Non-financial assets: Inventories Comparable market Premium on quality 0% to 23% approach per metric tonne (31 December 2016: 0% to 20%) Inventories Comparable market Discount on quality 0% to 23% approach per metric tonne (31 December 2016: 0% to 20%) olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 77 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities continued (c) Level 3 fair value measurements continued (i) Information about significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements continued Impact of changes to key assumptions on fair value of Level 3 financial instruments The following table shows the impact on the Level 3 fair value measurement of assets and liabilities that are sensitive to changes in unobservable inputs that reflect reasonably possible alternative assumptions. The positive and negative effects are approximately the same. 31 December 2017 Effect of reasonably possible alternative assumptions Other Carrying comprehensive amount Profit/(loss) income $’000 $’000 $’000 Recurring fair value measurements Financial assets: Commodity contracts 70,579 (621) – Power purchase agreement 13,801 381 – Financial liabilities: Commodity contracts (1,662) 182 – Non-financial assets: Biological assets – increased by 0.5% 471,656 (1,863) – Biological assets – decreased by 0.5% 471,656 1,874 – Inventories 389,687 3,996 – 31 December 2016 Effect of reasonably possible alternative assumptions Other Carrying comprehensive amount Profit/(loss) income $’000 $’000 $’000 Recurring fair value measurements Financial assets: Long-term investment – unquoted 12,171 − 61 Commodity contracts 122,606 6,666 − Financial liabilities: Commodity contracts (12,775) 612 − Non-financial assets: Biological assets, as restated – increased by 0.5% 450,564 (1,853) − Biological assets, as restated – decreased by 0.5% 450,564 1,864 − Inventories 815,573 7,801 − In order to determine the effect of the above reasonably possible alternative assumptions, the Group adjusted the following key unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement: • For certain commodity contracts and inventories, the Group adjusted the market prices of the valuation model by 1%. • For long-term investment (unquoted), the Group adjusted the assumptions to the model inputs of the valuation model by 0.5%. • For biological assets, the Group adjusted the estimated discount rate applied to discounted cash flow model by 0.5%. 78 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 78 Annual Report 2017 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities continued (c) Level 3 fair value measurements continued (ii) Movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value The following table presents the reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value, except for biological assets (Note 12), based on significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):Long-term Commodity Commodity Power purchase investment – contracts – contracts – agreement – unquoted assets liabilities assets (Note 15) Inventories $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 At 1 January 2016 52,409 (1,053) − 12,061 336,493 Total gain/(loss) recognised in the profit and loss account • Net gain/(loss) on fair value changes 70,197 (11,722) − − 53,154 • Purchases and sales, net − − − − 425,926 • Foreign currency translation adjustments − − − 110 − At 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 122,606 (12,775) − 12,171 815,573 Total gain/(loss) recognised in the profit and loss account • Net gain on fair value changes (52,027) 11,113 13,801 − (12,226) • Purchases and sales, net − − − (12,171) (413,660) At 31 December 2017 70,579 (1,662) 13,801 − 389,687 (d) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value (i) Cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, other current assets, margin accounts with brokers, amounts due from subsidiary companies, trade payables and accruals, other current liabilities and bank overdrafts. The fair values of these financial instruments approximate their carrying amounts at the balance sheet date because of their short-term maturity. (ii) Bank loans, term loans from banks and obligations from finance leases The carrying amount of the bank loans, term loans from banks and obligations from finance leases are an approximation of fair values as they are subjected to frequent repricing (floating rates) and/ or because of their short-term maturity. (e) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are not reasonable approximation of fair value (i) Loans to subsidiary companies, loans to jointly controlled entities and loans to associates Loans to subsidiary companies, loans to jointly controlled entities and loans to associates have no fixed terms of repayment and are repayable only when the cash flow of the entities permits. Accordingly, the fair value of these amounts is not determinable as the timing of the future cash flow arising from these balances cannot be estimated reliably. (ii) Other non-current assets – investment in dairy co-operative The Group’s investment in a dairy co-operative has been carried at cost because fair value cannot be measured reliably as the dairy co-operative is not listed and does not have any comparable industry peer that is listed. In addition, the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates derived from valuation techniques is significant. The Group does not intend to dispose of this investment in the foreseeable future. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 79 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 35. Fair values of assets and liabilities continued (e) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are not reasonable approximation of fair value continued (iii) Medium-term notes and other bonds The fair value of financial assets and liabilities by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are not reasonable approximation of fair value are as follows:Group Company Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 31 December 2017 Financial liabilities: Medium-term notes 4,028,515 4,090,749 3,567,595 3,629,829 Other bonds 332,122 360,259 332,122 360,259 31 December 2016 Financial liabilities: Medium-term notes 3,703,585 3,700,546 3,703,585 3,700,546 Other bonds 359,396 390,468 359,396 390,468 The fair value of medium-term notes and all bonds is determined directly by reference to their published market bid price (Level 1) or valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs (Level 2), where relevant at the end of the respective financial years. 36. Capital management The Group manages the capital structure by a balanced mix of debt and equity. Necessary adjustments are made in the capital structure considering the factors vis-a-vis the changes in the general economic conditions, available options of financing and the impact of the same on the liquidity position. Higher leverage is used for funding more liquid working capital needs and conservative leverage is used for long-term capital investments. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017. The Group calculates the level of debt capital required to finance the working capital requirements using traditional and modified financial metrics including leverage/gearing ratio and asset turnover ratio. As at balance sheet date, leverage ratios are as follows:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Gross debt to equity: • Before fair value adjustment reserve 1.76 times 2.36 times Net debt to equity: • Before fair value adjustment reserve 1.46 times 1.99 times The Group assesses the level of debt capital used to finance capital investment in respect of the projected risk and returns of these investments using a number of traditional and modified investment and analytical models including discounted cash flows. It also assesses the use of debt capital to fund such investments relative to the impact on the Group’s overall debt capital position and capital structure. In order to manage its capital structure, the Group may issue debt of either a fixed or floating nature, arrange credit facilities, issue medium-term notes, issue new shares or convertible bonds and adjust dividend payments. 80 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 80 Annual Report 2017 37. Classification of financial assets and liabilities Fair value through Other Fair value Comprehensive through Amortised cost Income Profit or Loss Group $’000 $’000 $’000 31 December 2017 Financial assets: Loans to jointly controlled entities (Note 14(a)) 154,022 − − Loans to associates (Note 14(b)) 289,927 − − Long-term investments (Note 15) − 257,519 − Trade receivables (Note 17) 1,635,078 − − Margin accounts with brokers (Note 18) 399,680 − − Other current assets (Note 21) 457,015 − − Cash and short-term deposits (Note 33) 1,986,351 − − Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) − − 1,619,249 Other non-current assets (Note 21) 14,791 − 11,061 4,936,864 257,519 1,630,310 Financial liabilities: Trade payables and accruals (Note 22) 2,094,809 − − Other current liabilities (Note 23) 460,843 − − Borrowings (Note 24) 11,587,938 − − Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) − 11,619 840,328 14,143,590 11,619 840,328 Fair value through Other Fair value Comprehensive through Amortised cost Income Profit or Loss Company $’000 $’000 $’000 31 December 2017 Financial assets: Loans to jointly controlled entities (Note 14(a)) 154,022 − − Loans to associates (Note 14(b)) 263,682 − − Long-term investments (Note 15) − 257,519 − Amounts due from subsidiary companies (Note 16) 1,926,416 − − Trade receivables (Note 17) 963,987 − − Margin accounts with brokers (Note 18) 304,862 − − Other current assets (Note 21) 55,364 − − Cash and short-term deposits (Note 33) 1,137,011 − − Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) − − 1,098,147 4,805,344 257,519 1,098,147 Financial liabilities: Trade payables and accruals (Note 22) 1,082,325 − − Other current liabilities (Note 23) 111,131 − − Borrowings (Note 24) 7,294,844 − − Derivative financial instruments (Note 34(f)) − 11,619 673,509 8,488,300 11,619 673,509 olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 81 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 38. Segmental information The Group’s businesses are organised and managed as five broad segments grouped in relation to different types and nature of products traded. The Group’s supply chain activities of sourcing, processing and merchandising span across a broad range of agricultural products. The segmentation of products has been done in the following manner:• Edible Nuts, Spices and Vegetable Ingredients – Edible Nuts (cashew, peanuts, almonds, hazelnuts, pistachios, walnuts, sesame and beans including pulses, lentils and peas), spices and vegetable ingredients (including pepper, onion, garlic, capsicums and tomato). • Confectionery and Beverage Ingredients – cocoa and coffee. • Industrial Raw Materials, Ag Logistics and Infrastructure – cotton, wood products, rubber, fertiliser and Gabon Special Economic Zone (GSEZ including ports and infrastructure). • Food Staples and Packaged Foods – rice, sugar and sweeteners, grains and animal feed, edible oils, dairy and packaged foods. • Commodity Financial Services – risk management solutions, market-making, volatility and asset management, and trade and structured finance. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items mainly comprise corporate cash, fixed deposits, other receivables and corporate liabilities such as taxation and borrowings. Assets which are unallocated are common and shared by segments and thus it is not practical to allocate them. Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. The measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is different from the operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements, as explained in the table in Note 38(a). Group financing (including finance cost), which is managed on group basis, and income tax which is evaluated on group basis are not allocated to operating segments. The turnover by geographical segments is based on the location of customers regardless of where the goods are produced. The assets and capital expenditure are attributed to the location of those assets. 82 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 82 Annual Report 2017 38. Segmental information continued (a) Business segments Industrial raw Edible nuts, spices and Confectionery and materials, Ag Logistics and Food staples Commodity vegetable ingredients beverage ingredients Infrastructure and packaged foods financial services Consolidated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Segment revenue : Sales to external customers 4,491,982 3,981,093 8,136,794 7,710,976 3,876,629 2,784,204 9,767,124 6,110,759 – – 26,272,529 20,587,032 Segment result (EBITDA) 438,403 331,790 327,709 407,288 197,287 135,182 359,670 330,230 4,896 (1,608) 1,327,965 1,202,882 Depreciation and amortisation (136,865) (134,707) (99,498) (97,192) (26,662) (24,271) (117,253) (96,996) (402) (315) (380,680) (353,481) Finance costs – – – – – – – – – – (531,178) (446,248) Finance income – – – – – – – – – – 65,597 30,248 Exceptional items1 28,001 – – – – – 121,188 – – – 149,189 – Profit before taxation 630,893 433,401 Taxation expense (79,248) (94,314) Profit for the financial year 551,645 339,087 Segment assets 4,051,846 4,185,983 6,054,288 7,212,619 2,914,211 2,794,927 5,960,449 5,642,221 174,111 260,835 19,154,905 20,096,585 Unallocated assets 2 3,143,642 3,372,299 22,298,547 23,468,884 Segment liabilities 447,956 543,317 707,254 1,103,141 561,218 349,162 1,282,132 1,120,138 75,815 107,053 3,074,375 3,222,811 Unallocated liabilities 3 12,603,143 14,611,769 15,677,518 17,834,580 Other segmental information: Share of results from jointly-controlled entities and associates 27 – 1,511 (232) 63,324 6,772 2,769 15,620 – – 67,631 22,160 Investments in jointly-controlled entities and associates 1,542 1,245 1,542 2,726 479,827 495,865 588,029 390,002 – – 1,070,940 889,838 Capital expenditure 135,612 139,153 159,472 132,139 99,004 129,561 556,756 350,480 242 460 951,086 751,793 (b) Geographical segments Asia, Middle East and Australia Africa Europe Americas Eliminations Consolidated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Segment revenue: Sales to external customers 9,809,906 6,823,304 4,854,419 3,646,339 6,784,873 5,466,757 4,823,331 4,650,632 – – 26,272,529 20,587,032 Intersegment sales 10,895,287 6,279,030 3,569,317 2,932,461 1,666,624 2,628,457 3,365,854 2,645,897 (19,497,082) (14,485,845) – – 20,705,193 13,102,334 8,423,736 6,578,800 8,451,497 8,095,214 8,189,185 7,296,529 (19,497,082) (14,485,845) 26,272,529 20,587,032 Non-current assets 4 3,775,732 3,391,133 2,799,057 2,527,224 806,691 803,504 1,373,478 1,573,815 – – 8,754,958 8,295,676 (c) Information on major customers The Group has no single customer accounting for more than 10% of the turnover. olamgroup.com olamgroup.com 83 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the financial year ended 31 December 2017 38. Segmental information continued 1 Exceptional items included the following items of income/(expenses):Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Wage agreement settlement, USA (6,167) − Gain on sale of USA orchards farmland 34,168 − Gain on disposal of subsidiary (Note 13) 121,188 − 149,189 − 2 The following unallocated assets items are added to segment assets to arrive at total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Cash and bank balances 1,174,552 1,556,636 Fixed deposits 811,799 587,415 Other current/non-current assets 803,901 984,021 Long-term investments 257,519 148,492 Deferred tax assets 95,871 95,735 3,143,642 3,372,299 3 The following unallocated liabilities items are deducted from segment liabilities to arrive at total liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet:Group 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $’000 $’000 Borrowings 11,587,938 13,670,588 Deferred tax liabilities 416,991 505,876 Other liabilities 435,237 350,356 Provision for taxation 162,977 84,949 12,603,143 14,611,769 4 Non-current assets mainly relate to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, biological assets, investments in jointly controlled entities and associates and long-term investments. 39. Events occurring after the reporting period (a) On 19 January 2018, the Company announced the acquisition of 546,000 Ordinary Shares in Long Son Joint Stock Company (’Long Son’), a company established under the laws of Vietnam, and a Cashew processor, for a total consideration of US$20,000,000 (approximately S$27,402,000). Following the acquisition, Long Son became a 30% associated company of the Company; and (b) On 29 January 2018, all remaining subscription rights under the Warrants (Note 26(d)) which have not been exercised have lapsed and ceased to be valid. 84 Olam International Limited Annual Report 2017 84 Annual Report 2017 Stay up to date olamgroup.com @olam Olam International Limited 7 Straits View Marina One East Tower #20-01 Singapore 018936 Telephone (65) 6339 4100 Facsimile (65) 6339 9755 olamgroup.com
