Added NH Investment & Securities 2018 Sustainability Report value NH Investment & Securities Co. Bldg. 60 Yeoui-daero Yeongdeungpo-gu Seoul 07325 www.nhqv.com FOR EVERYONE NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 Through our first Sustainability Report, NH Investment & Securities promises to Contents NH Investment & Securities hopes to continuously innovate and move forward to Company Overview begin the path of sharing our realize a sustainable company and society. 04 Message from the CEO sustainable values and engaging in To this end, we shall look to the future with 06 2017 Highlights deeper communication with various greater breadth and depth. 08 Company Profile stakeholders. Our Strategy and Approach 12 Sustainable Management System 14 Business Performance About This Report 20 Corporate Governance [Overview] 22 Stakeholder Engagement This is the first Sustainability Report (SR) published by NH Investment & Securities since the 26 launch of the merged securities firm in 2014. The report highlights our sustainable Materiality Assessment 2017 management activities and results based on material issues derived through a materiality assessment. Going forward, we plan to regularly publish SRs to share our vision of sustainability and related activities to both internal and external stakeholders. Our Material Issues 30 Risk Management & Compliance [Reporting Standards] This report was written in accordance to the core option of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 37 Sustainable Growth standards and the ISO 26000 and the 10 principles of UNGC. The reporting standards and definitions of the financial and non-financial information included in the report are based on 46 Service Leadership Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. 53 Workforce and Talent [Reporting Period, Scope and Boundary] 58 Community Investment This report covers the SR activities that took place between January 1 and December 31 of 2017 and during the first half of 2018. The scope refers to the domestic places of business for NH Investment & Securities, including the head office and branch offices, and does not include Sustainability Performance the subsidiaries. When necessary, activities and results of some overseas business sites were mentioned, and the reporting boundaries for the material issues are separately indicated on 64 Economic Performance pages 26~27. 67 Social Performance [Report Assurance] 73 Environmental Performance To ensure the objectivity and reliability of this report, we received third-party assurance based on the international assurance standard of AA1000AS (2008). The assurance results are attached in the appendix. Appendix 75 Third Party Assurance For Questions on this Report 78 GRI G4 & ISO 26000 Content Index This report can be downloaded from the NH Investment & Securities website. We welcome opinions on the report from stakeholders. Please send them to the following contact information through your 79 UN Global Compact preferred method of email, telephone or mail. 80 Accolades and Affiliations Management Strategy Dept. NH Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. Address: NH Investment & Securities Co. Bldg. 60 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07325 Korea Phone: 02-768-7351 | Fax: 0505-083-0777 email: investor@nhqv.com NH Investment & Securities is Korea’s representative “platform player” that provides optimized solutions for the capital market based on our unrivaled expertise. We look beyond the financial results to fulfill our role as a responsible financial investment Company company that grows together with our customers and communities. Overview Through this report, NH Investment & Securities shares with stakeholders its various activities as a responsible corporate citizen striving to contribute to a better world. Message from the CEO / 2017 Highlights / Company Profile Message from the CEO “We will emerge as the leading ‘platform player’ to pursue sustainable growth and responsible finance that focuses on enhancing the value of stakeholders.” Proud as we are of our financial results, we plan to continue to respond effectively to the fast-changing financial market paradigm and focus on our role as a responsible financial investment company that grows along with our stakeholders. First, we will become a strong ‘platform player’ that uses its unrivaled expertise to provide clients with optimal solutions that satisfy all their financial demands. The capital market abounds with many players and diverse customer needs. To position ourselves as a differentiated and competitive platform player, we will do our best to provide clients with the confidence that they will be able to find the most superior solutions on the NH Investment & Securities platform. Second, we will pursue customer-oriented management that focuses on increasing value for customers by seeking longterm partnerships with customers. The essence of financial investment is to increase value for customers. We plan to continually ask ourselves ‘What do our customers need?’ rather than ‘What should we market to our customers?’ so that we can provide them with the solutions they need most. We also want to improve the way we work so that we can deliver extra value to our customers through innovative methods to answer needs that they had not yet even vocalized. Third, we will respect and nurture our human resources as our most valuable asset to build an organization powered by high-caliber talent. Our people will be responsible for suggesting innovative products and solutions to customers using our platform. To ensure they are able to work in a healthy and balanced work-life environment with fair opportunities and assessments, in addition to compensation based on performance, we will create a transparent channel of communication to always listen to our employees. We will spare no effort so that all employees in planning, making and delivering financial products and solutions are experts in their respective fields. Finally, we will make every effort to serve the public interest and contribute to making the world a better and happier place. We will strive to meet the expectations of our stakeholders by helping to create quality jobs and by developing products and services that give due consideration to society and the environment. In particular, we are committed to promoting agriculture and farming communities as a member of Nonghyup. Furthermore, we abide by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and Dear stakeholders, anti-corruption. We also support and participate in efforts to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Thank you for your unwavering support for NH Investment & Securities. Since our launch, we have been fulfilling our social NH Investment & Securities promises to continuously innovate and move forward to realize a sustainable company and responsibility and systematically pursue sustainable management. I am proud to share with you some of the results of our society. To this end, we shall look to the future with greater breadth and depth. We ask for the support and trust of our efforts so far, along with our sustainable management vision and commitment in our first Sustainability Report. stakeholders as we seek change and reform to evolve into the leading ‘platform player’ in the capital market. The business environment is becoming ever more difficult to predict and competition is growing fiercer and more Thank you. complicated. Innovation in digital technology has led to non-financial companies entering the market and more global companies have ventured into Korea. Moreover, the rule of competition has shifted from one focused on brand or price to NH Investment & Securities CEO the ability of companies to come up with competitive products and innovative solutions based on risk acquisition capabilities. Jeong Young-Chae To remain a company of sustainable growth that can endure such generational changes and challenges, NH Investment & Securities has followed a strategy of balanced growth that takes into consideration our economy, society and environment. Due to this sound strategy, we recorded our best ever performance in 2017 which was made all the more meaningful as all business divisions achieved strong results. 04 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 05 2017 Highlights 2017 KEF/AKJ Sustainability Management Awards Mobile savings app Minister of Health & Welfare ‘NAMUH C(seed)’ Award, Social Contribution NUMUH C(seed) service introduces The KEF/AKJ Sustainability Management a new concept in savings. It Awards are jointly hosted by the encourages a habit of saving in Association of Korean Journalists (AKJ) users who are accustomed to and the Korea Employers Federation the mobile lifestyle with fun and (KEF) and overseen by the Korea Crowdfunding easy ways to save and make Fingerprint Sustainability Management Evaluation. service for farmers investments. The event is supported by the Ministry certification of Strategy and Finance, the Ministry of We launched a crowdfunding following industryEducation, the Ministry of Trade Industry service for farmers to help them first palm vein and Energy, the Ministry of Health and generate income and promote certification Welfare, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Employment and Labor, and mutual prosperity with farming Acquired 100% stake of NH communities. for the first time this year, the Ministry of We were the first in the financial Gender Equality and Family. Crowdfunding refers to raising funds from the public. It is divided Securities Vietnam (Vietnamese industry to introduce palm vein certification at nationwide branches. The awards are intended to promote into reward-based (funding in NH Investment & We subsequently introduced a a sense of compassion throughout return for a product or other subsidiary) society, from ordinary citizens to the reward) and equity-based (funding Securities selected fingerprint authentication system for mobile transactions. business community and government. in return for shares in a company) We entered the Vietnamese market as mega investment We received the Minister of Health and Opening of categories. We offer reward-based in 2009 by acquiring 49% of the bank Registered fingerprints can be Welfare Award in the social contribution local firm CBV Securities. In early discretionary/ crowdfunding in which the reward used to validate the user’s identity Industry’s first category in recognition of efforts to is a product made by processing 2018, we acquired the remaining instead of a public electronic make the world a better place through advisory platform agricultural output. Farmers benefit 51% of the joint venture from the internal rating NH Investment & Securities was ‘Portfolio Market’ certificate to carry out mobile activities such as volunteering and by securing a distribution channel local partner and carried out a selected as a mega investment bank in November 2017. A mega financial transactions including stock trading and money transfer. fundraising. system for credit risk without having to go through rights offering to launch the wholly investment bank can make direct Portfolio Market brings together multiple intermediaries, while owned subsidiary NH Securities The fingerprint system removes investors gain access to fresh and Vietnam (NHSV) in February. investments in a corporate entity We have created a system to investment products in one the need to enter PIN numbers, healthy products made by local and generate income through calculate and verify risk-weighted convenient platform, enabling meaning greater convenience for In pursuing overseas expansion, we lending and intermediary activities. assets based on an internal rating clients to easily sign up for farmers at low prices. customers. seek to grow along with the local We offer comprehensive financial system. discretionary and advisory services. Twelve farms participated in the market rather than focus on shortservices that include M&A, advisory Launched in 2017, Portfolio Market first season of crowdfunding in April term profits. We will build NHSV into In contrast to the standard method and other corporate financing. provides users with algorithm-based 2017 which raised KRW 28.45 a platform that our domestic clients of applying risk weights set by portfolios according to investment million, or 163% above the target can use to invest in Vietnam and In addition to carrying out traditional financial authorities, the internal targets and methods. It offers amount. Season 2 took place in amass local investing experience investment banking activities, rating system uses risk factors customized investment strategies August and raised KRW 44.83 to cultivate the subsidiary into a assumed internally (default rate, Named best fund we will draw on our capacity to based on an individual’s investment deliver unrivaled total solutions loss given default, exposure) to million, or 345% above the target. leading player in the Vietnamese seller for second preferences. The entire investment market. Products to raise to be the most highly regarded calculate risk-weighted assets for process, from analysis to trading, As a member of NH Financial ‘platform player’ by individual and funds to support credit risk. The system was set up over a period of one year. After data can be carried out online. Group, we will continue to expand year in a row institutional clients alike. crowdfunding for the farming farmers accumulation, model verification Portfolio Market will help communities. We received the top honor in the and monitoring, we aim to receive NH Investment & Securities fund distributor survey sponsored We offer three products that are approval from the authorities by establish itself as a leader in digital by the Korea Financial Investors designed to support farmers. A 2020. We plan to upgrade our risk wealth management. Protection Foundation for the portion of revenues generated management procedures so that second year in a row. The survey by these products are channeled the system can be fully utilized was conducted on 28 fund to support farmers. This is a part for data refining, provisioning that distributors (17 securities firms, 10 of a pan-NH initiative to increase complies with new accounting banks and one insurance firm). We the income levels of farming standards, and pricing. were recognized for high returns households. Funds are set aside and efforts to fully inform financial every year depending on the sales consumers through our stage-byamount of the products and given stage system for selling funds. to public interest groups that assist farming communities. 06 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 07 Company Profile Company NH Investment & Securities, which started anew on December 31, 2014 following a merger is a comprehensive financial investment company that serves a wide range of customers and investors (including individual and corporate clients, Ownership History Overview institutional investors). Structure Date Details Thanks to continuing efforts to establish a balanced business portfolio since the launch, we have built up a strong market Jan. 1969 Establishment of Hanbo Securities presence and industry-leading competitiveness across all of our business areas. July 1975 Merger with Sengbo Securities, name changed to Daebo Securities Going forward, we will remain committed to our ‘customer first’ principle. We will continue to prioritize the needs of our Nov. 1983 Merger of Daebo Securities with Lucky Securities, name changed to Lucky customers by providing them with innovative solutions and in the process, emerge as a dominant platform player in the capital Securities market. March 1995 Name changed to LG Securities (2017 consolidated basis) Oct. 1999 Merger with LG Merchant Bank, name changed to LG Investment & Securities Company name NH Investment & Securities Others NH Financial Group Dec. 2004 Change in largest shareholder (LG Group → Woori Financial Group) 41.8% 2017 49.1% Date established January 1969 April 2005 Merger with Woori Securities, name changed to Woori Investment & Securities Affiliates and Affiliates: NH Bank, NH-Amundi Asset Management, NH Life Insurance, NH Property & Casualty Insurance, NH Capital, NH Savings Bank June 2014 Change in largest shareholder (Woori Financial Group → NH Financial Group) subsidiaries Dec. 2014 Merger with NH Securities, launch of NH Investment & Securities Subsidiaries: NH Futures, NH Investment & Securities (H.K.), NH Investment & Securities America, NH Absolute Return Partners (Singapore), NH Investment Advisory (Beijing), NH Korindo Securities Indonesia, NH Securities Vietnam Jan. 2015 Issuance of new shares of NH Investment & Securities ESOP National Head office NH Investment & Securities Co., Bldg., 60 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07325 Korea 0.4% Pension Service April 2015 Announcement of NH Investment & Securities’ vision Organizational 5 Business Divisions (WM/IB/IC/Trading/Equity Sales), 1 Office (Management Support) and other units directly under the CEO 8.7% May 2015 IT integration between Woori I&S and NH Securities complete structure (as of December 2017) April 2016 Integration of HR systems and labor unions complete Core business Investment trading, brokerage, collective investment, trust, advisory, discretionary investment July 2016 Equity participation (10% stake) in K-bank (online bank) No. of employees 2,863 Aug. 2016 Launched ‘NH Absolute Return,’ the first hedge fund by a Korean securities firm Total assets KRW 43.9 trillion Dec. 2016 Certified for CCM (Consumer Centered Management), a first for a securities firm No. of branches Domestic: 82 Overseas: 6 local subsidiaries, 2 representative offices Operating income Net income KRW 459.2 billion KRW 349.6 billion Global Network Credit rating Domestic Korea Ratings, KIS, NICE (corporate bond): AA+ Overseas Moody’s long-term issuer rating: Baa1 / Moody’s short-term issuer: P-2 Vision & Core Values London IB/PI Beijing IB/PI Research Equity Sales Orientation Responsibility Innovation New York GSTS (global stock trading solution) Shanghai IB/PI Our Clients' interests We build trust through We innovate through IB/PI always come first strong responsibility creative thinking Hedge fund sourcing Hong Kong Equity Sales We are aiming for beyond No.1: Indonesia Overseas bonds S&T Beyond the First Local Brokerage Vietnam Local Brokerage Creating new history in Hedge fund sourcing/management Vision ORIGIN Singapore the capital market Alternative investment products New History Korea’s representative financial (as of December 2017) investment company New York Hong Kong Shanghai Singapore Indonesia Vietnam Beijing London We are NHIS Year of market entry 1992 1994 1996 2008 2009 2009 2011 2016 Global Intelligence Networks Method of market entry Local subsidiary Local subsidiary Representative Asset management Joint venture Local subsidiary Local subsidiary Representative We create opportunities We provide financial solutions We work together to office firm (subsidiary) office through global perspective based on superior expertise generate synergy Equity KRW 4.6 billion KRW 256.6 billion KRW 2.5 billion KRW 20.0 billion KRW 4.9 billion KRW 3.8 billion No. of employees 6 19 2 3 101 18 5 1 08 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 09 NH Investment & Securities strives to satisfy the needs of all stakeholders who require financial services in the midst of a fast changing business environment. Guided by Our Strategy and Approach our mission to ‘lead the market paradigm and create new financial value through innovative financial solutions,’ we pursue continuous change and development to create sustainable value. Sustainable Management System / Business Performance Corporate Governance / Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment 2017 Sustainable Management System Sustainable Our mission to ‘lead the market paradigm and create new financial value through innovative financial solutions’ reflects our dedication to providing diverse solutions that meet the needs of individual and corporate clients who require financial services UN SDGs The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are being implemented from 2016 to 2030, were adopted to address economic, social and environmental problems facing humanity and to make the world a better place. The 17 SDGs and their Management in a rapidly changing business environment as well as our commitment to creating new value by pursuing continuous change 169 targets encourage governments, citizens and civic groups, and business communities across the globe to participate in Mission and progress. efforts to promote sustainable development. As a company practicing responsible finance, NH Investment & Securities pursues various activities that contribute to achieving the SDGs. Going forward, we plan to link our sustainability endeavors with the We seek to attain the following objectives based on the standpoint of customers, shareholders, employees and society: SDGs and draw up detailed objectives and strategies. We will continue to disclose our activities and achievements regarding increase asset value for clients through long-term partnerships (customer satisfaction), maximize profits for shareholders SDGs through our sustainability report. through sustained revenue generation and corporate value enhancement (shareholder return), provide a workplace that gives employees and their families pride and happiness (employee well-being), and enhance public welfare and contribute to advancing local communities and the country (social contribution). Sustainable At NH Investment & Securities, we believe the essence of the securities business is to grow by increasing value alongside the customers. Accordingly, customer value is at the heart of our business strategy. We recognize the need for fundamental Management change, i.e., formulating the business model from the customer’s perspective, in order to increase value for our customers. We Strategy are making every effort to increase customer value and sustain growth by pursuing the following key action plans: build longterm partnerships with customers, strengthen our role as a platform player in the capital market, nurture competent human resources who are experts in their fields, and reinforce our role as a member of Nonghyup and society. Business Objectives & Strategy, Action Plans Business objective Strong platform player in the capital market, the first choice of customers Action plan Goal 1 No Poverty Goal 10 Reduced Inequality Build long-term Strengthen our role as Nurture competent Reinforce our role as a Goal 2 Zero Hunger Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities partnerships with clients platform player in the human resources who member of Nonghyup Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production capital market are experts in their fields and society Goal 4 Quality Education Goal 13 Climate Action Goal 5 Gender Equality Goal 14 Life Below Water Strategy •Provide customized •Expand product supply by •Foster a fair, reasonable •Create high quality Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation Goal 15 Life on Land solutions based on a sharpening deal sourcing and and effective jobs Goal 7 Affordable and Clean Energy Goal 16 Peace and Justice Strong Institutions strong customer analysis structuring capabilities organizational culture •Increase actual Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal 17 Partnerships to achieve the Goal system •Offer unrivaled solutions by •Nurture professionals who benefits for farmers Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure •Strengthen customer boosting risk assumption create the greatest value management with capabilities customer-centric asset •Reinforce WM business base management services with competitive financial •Serve as a partner solutions throughout a company’s •Expand global business base growth life-cycle with enhanced overseas product sourcing and management capabilities •Build a strong digital platform 12 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 13 Business Wealth Performance Management Brokerage and wealth management for retail clients In wealth management (WM), we are strengthening the portfolio asset management model which can diversify clients’ investments and generate stable income streams amid market fluctuations. Reflecting NH Investment & Securities’ investment knowhow, the asset management brand ‘QV’ encompasses diverse products and services including Robo-account and Individual Savings Account No. of customers with assets exceeding (ISA). The asset allocation prowess of QV Portfolio is also evident when it comes to overseas KRW 100 million: investment. QV Portfolio invests in a wide range of global assets such as stocks, bonds and funds. It flexibly adjusts weightings to seek opportunities for additional returns while responding to a fast 87,383 changing investment environment. We are also spearheading the paradigm shift to fintech with the first in-house developed Robo75,618 advisor service in the securities industry and the introduction of non-face-to-face channels. In step 73,639 with the growth of mobile financial transactions, we unveiled the industry’s first exclusive mobile brand NAMUH and carried out an event offering life-long commission exemptions for new clients who sign on through NAMUH. Separately, we signed an agreement with K Bank on opening of securities accounts in order to broaden our customer base in the non-face-to-face market and expand channels of alliance. Other notable achievements related to fintech include the launch of mobile One-Time Password (OTP), fingerprint certification and the mobile savings app NAMUH C. We will provide a wide range of investment products and unique solutions to help customers expand their investment 2015 2016 2017 scope and grow their wealth. We will continue to enhance our wealth management services with customized asset portfolios and build long-term partnerships with our customers. Wealth Management / Investment Banking Institutional Client / Trading / Equity Sales NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 15 Business Performance Investment Institutional Banking Client Corporate financing for corporate clients Financial products (structured products) sales and trading for We are demonstrating our competitive edge in all areas of investment banking, from M&A and institutional clients acquisition financing to structured finance and real estate financing. We have created a unique The IC business integrates asset management, solutions and marketing aimed at institutional clients business model for serving corporate clients. Rather than simply carrying out short-term deals, we with the goal of delivering the best financial solutions, with the emphasis placed on setting up a propose long-term business strategies and solutions. Net operating revenue from IB stable business model. We provide some 300 products and solutions to institutional investors. These (KRW 100 million) In the debt capital market (DCM), we produced outstanding results in domestic corporate bond include derivatives such as ELS (Equity Linked Securities) and DLS (Derivatives Linked Securities), underwriting thanks to our focus on strengthening relationships with issuers likely to lead to related funds, hedge funds, alternative investment funds, trusts, wrap accounts and RPs (Repurchase 2,677 2,637 deals. In the equity capital market (ECM), we were the lead manager in landmark deals including the Agreement). We have developed derivatives with various underlying assets including commodities IPO of Netmarble and we were the first in the industry to introduce spreads for institutional investors. and foreign currencies to satisfy diversifying investor needs and expanded supply of ELS with safety Amidst the increase in corporate governance reform, we successfully advised on the transition to a guards to meet demand for mid-risk/mid-return products. Moreover, we are expanding our hedge holding company for major business groups. Turning to structured finance and real estate financing, flow business* (FX swap**, hedges for asset managers/trust companies, CDS***, etc.) as major 1,792 we participated in major deals such as the Hannam-dong foreigners’ apartment and Namdaemun clients increasingly invest in overseas and alternative assets. We have delivered robust performance office development projects. We also made strides in global real estate investments (office property in our IC business by growing business volume and developing/selling various new products. We will in Boston, the Sony Tower in Tokyo, etc.) and aircraft financing. continuously upgrade the business portfolio to offer products and solutions optimized for diverse needs. We will strengthen relationships with institutional investors and serve them as their ideal We will further sharpen our abilities to provide total solutions throughout the corporate life cycle as a financial partner. mega investment bank and build a global business platform to respond to changes in the market. At the same time, we will practice rigorous risk management to uphold our position as a capital market * Hedge flow business: Exchange of future cash flows between two parties based on OTC derivative products like IRS (interest rate swap), 2015 2016 2017 leader trusted by clients. FX swap and CDS ** Foreign exchange swap (FX swap): Spot sale/purchase of currencies and simultaneous forward purchase/sale of the same currencies between two parties *** Credit default swap (CDS): Credit derivative designed to protect against default risk; involves the transfer of credit risk between the counterparties 16 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 17 Business Performance Trading Equity Equity (stocks), FICC (fixed income, currency, commodities) proprietary trading Sales Stock brokerage for institutional and overseas investors We produced healthy results from stock brokerage in 2017 as we maintained firm trust of institutional clients. In particular, we demonstrated remarkable growth in outbound global stock The Trading Division has produced healthy performance backed by in-depth market analysis and operations. effective risk management. In equity trading, the multi-asset, multi-strategy approach is the basis for stable income generation regardless of market conditions. Bond trading produced sound results We have been reinforcing strategic relationships with institutional investors in order to bolster our despite unfavorable market conditions such as the interest rate up-cycle and heightened interest market footing. In outbound global stocks, we were the only domestic securities firm to be chosen as rate volatility in the second half of 2017. an overseas stock broker by the National Pension Service for four consecutive terms (half-year terms from second half of 2016 to second half of 2018). In addition to traditional brokerage, we actively Bearing in mind prolonged low growth of the Korean economy, we are expanding the weight of ventured into new areas such as global REITs* and overseas bond ETFs** and secured the lead in overseas assets in the asset portfolio. We are extending our geographical reach, investing in regions global stock brokerage. including the U.S., Japan, Europe and China. Along with thorough sector-by-sector analysis and risk management, we have increased exposure to overseas stocks, bonds and mezzanine investments*. Additionally, we are sharpening competencies in derivatives by expanding ETF LP coverage***, and Based on comprehensive market analysis, we are boosting investment in bonds of emerging ETF-linked services. We are expanding our base of overseas institutional clients through linkage with countries with good growth prospects. With flexible portfolio rebalancing based on momentum, we investment banking activities such as IPOs****, and block deals*****. are pursuing both stability and high returns. We will concentrate on further enhancing our market presence in traditional brokerage and exploring We will step up investment in overseas assets such as global stocks and bonds to diversify the new business models to deliver optimal solutions that meet the diversifying needs of institutional investment scope in pursuit of higher returns. We will also strengthen the capabilities of our asset investors. management professionals to produce stable returns on investments and garner a reputation as a premier trading house. * Real Estate Investment Trusts(REITs): pools funds from small sum investors to invest in real estate or related debt and pays out generated earnings to the investors in the form of dividends ** Exchange Traded Fund (ETF): A marketable security that resembles index funds and is traded on stock exchanges * Mezzanine investments: Investments with risk that is higher than that of stocks but lower than that of bonds such as convertible bond (CB) *** Liquidity Provider (LP) coverage: Provides liquidity by quoting buy or sell prices and bond with warrant (BW) **** Initial Public Offering (IPO): The first time that the stock of a private company is offered to outside investors ***** Block deal: The trading of a large number of securities at an arranged price between two parties after the market close to minimize the impact on the market 18 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 19 Corporate Governance Board of The Board of Directors (BOD) is a major decision-making body that deliberates and decides on basic management policies and important issues regarding business execution in accordance with the law and the articles of incorporation. The BOD is BOD Activities Directors comprised of eight directors: two inside directors, five outside directors, and one non-standing director. To ensure the BOD 2015 2016 2017 Structure maintains its independence and fulfills its check and balance role, more than half of the BOD members are outside directors No. of agenda items 62 57 63 and the BOD chair position is filled by an outside director. To ensure the independence and fairness of the BOD, the Director No. of BOD meetings 14 13 14 Nomination Committee has been set up to recommend candidates who meet the criteria set forth in related laws. The Participation rate (%) Outside director 96.4 100 89.3 nominated candidates are subject to approval by the BOD and the general shareholders’ meeting. Inside director 93.3 96.2 96.4 Non-standing director 100 100 100 In accordance with the articles of incorporation, a director’s term is no longer than two years and a director can be reappointed after the term expires. According to related laws, an outside director can serve up to a maximum of six years in one company and a total of nine years when tenure at an affiliate is included. This is because a short tenure may hinder responsible management and give rise to the pursuit of short-term gains. Committees under the BOD Name Members Activities and Responsibilities Independence and Expertise of BOD Audit Committee Standing auditor: 1 Has the authority to request matters needed for auditing and all company To ensure expertise and diversity in the decision-making process, NH Investment & Securities gives due consideration to an Outside director: 2 information Devise internal audit plans which are classified into financial audit, business audit, individual’s career and experience when selecting directors. In accordance with internal standards on corporate governance, compliance audit, management audit and IT audit; carry out audits; evaluate audit we have strengthened the requirements for outside directors for fair and transparent appointment. As of the end of 2017, three results, take follow-up steps and present improvement measures of the BOD members are experts in financial systems, two in economics, two in finance, and one in legal matters. Evaluate the company’s overall internal control system and present improvement measures Director Nomination Committee Outside director: 3 Nominate director candidates to the general shareholders’ meeting Non-standing director: 1 Oversee matters related to nominating director candidates Board of The BOD holds regular meetings as well as extraordinary meetings when deemed necessary. In 2017, the BOD convened on 14 occasions, the rate of participation in BOD meetings was 92.5%, and the BOD deliberated on a total of 63 agenda items. Management Compensation Committee Outside director: 3 Inside director: 1 Oversee management performance evaluation and compensation Determine compensation for management and payment method Directors At the regular BOD meetings, held on a quarterly basis, the BOD was briefed on business performance and discussed major Non-standing director: 1 Oversee calculation of compensation for finance investment personnel and payment Operations method issues surrounding the company. Over the year, the BOD reviewed and made strategic decisions on important matters including Risk Management Committee Outside director: 3 Establish basic risk management policy and set risk levels approval of the 2018 business plans. Inside director: 1 Set and allocate risk capital limits Set limits on investment and loss Oversee structure and division of work in the risk management organization Oversee matters concerning the risk management information system Board of Evaluations of the BOD, which plays a vital role as a decision-making body and keeps a check on management, are conducted at least once a year to see that the BOD is properly fulfilling its responsibilities as set forth in related laws and internal Directors regulations. They include reviews of BOD meeting minutes and questionnaires filled by all of the directors. The department 2017 BOD Meetings and Major Resolutions Evaluation & Meeting No. Date Agenda item No. of outside that acts as the BOD secretariat gathers the related materials and presents the evaluation results to the BOD. In accordance directors present Compensation with commercial laws and the articles of incorporation, the limit on compensation for directors is decided by the general (total possible) shareholders’ meeting. Directors’ compensations are set fairly and transparently based on evaluation criteria such as annual Extraordinary #1 2017.02.03 Approval of financial statements (draft) and business report (draft) and 5 others 2(3) business targets and key performance indicators (KPIs), multi-dimensional assessments, and degree of BOD participation. Extraordinary #2 2017.02.16 Briefing on resolutions of the Management Compensation Committee and 2 others 2(3) Regular #1 2017.03.08 Resolution to convene annual general meeting of shareholders and 12 others 2(3) Extraordinary #3 2017.03.30 Appointment of BOD chair and outside directors and 3 others 5(5) Regular #2 2017.04.27 Briefing on execution of BOD resolutions in 1Q 2017 and 5 others 5(5) Extraordinary #4 2017.05.25 Briefing on resolutions of the Management Compensation Committee and 2 others 4(5) BOD Composition (as of March 2018) Extraordinary #5 2017.06.19 Approval of expansion into short-term financing business (draft) and 3 others 5(5) Name Age Gender Role (Title) Regular #3 2017.07.26 Approval of transaction with affiliate (draft) and 2 others 5(5) Inside director (2) Jeong Young-chae 54 Male Chairman & CEO Extraordinary #6 2017.08.31 Approval of 2017 corporate bond issuance plan (draft) and 2 others 5(5) Choi Han-mook 60 Male Standing Auditor Extraordinary #7 2017.09.08 Briefing on current status and direction of global business and 1 other 5(5) Outside director (5) Lee Jung-jae 72 Male Extraordinary #8 2017.09.22 Approval of participation in K Bank’s rights offering (draft) 4(5) Lee Jang-young 63 Male Regular #4 2017.10.31 Approval to raise the ceiling on the transaction amount with affiliates (draft) and 3 others 5(5) Pyun Chan-woo 57 Male Extraordinary #9 2017.11.30 Approval for ceiling on issuance of derivative products (draft) and 4 others 5(5) Kim Sun-kyu 66 Male Extraordinary #10 2017.12.27 Approval of 2018 business plans (draft) and 5 others 5(5) Kim Ill-gun 66 Male Non-standing director (1) Lee Jeong-dae 65 Male 20 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 21 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication with stakeholders is an integral part of sustainable management at NH Investment & Securities. We selected our stakeholder pool according to stakeholder categories of ISO 26000, the international standard on social responsibility. Selection and Depending on the legal, financial and operational responsibilities and impacts, we selected employees, customers, government Classification and related organizations, shareholders and investors, and local communities as the major stakeholder groups. We maintain communication channels taking into account the characteristics of each group and make every effort to reflect stakeholders’ opinions in our business activities. NHIS actions Communication channel Frequency Employees Employees Employees (including labor union) (including labor union) (including labor union) •Setting up customized programs to hone •Employee surveys As needed capabilities •Employee meetings As needed Communication with Stakeholders •Corporate culture innovation •Labor-Management Council Quarterly •Offering various welfare benefits •Intranet Year-round •Organizational culture campaign Monthly ) ion un Loc bor al c la ing om clud mu nit s (in •In ies Customers Customers Customers yee ves mplo com tm en (corporate/ individual) (corporate/ individual) (corporate/ individual) E •S m ti nce on oci uniti n loc bala t ati al c es/ al •Enhancing IT platform and digital services •Website/SNS Year-round -life tem m en pens on trib job c •Improving complaint handling process •Customer satisfaction surveys As needed ork sys velop com uti r •W lfare e d n on eatio •Developing financial products and services •VOC Year-round e ed an icatio act n •W ertis ation u n ivit ies tailored to customers •Investment presentations Year-round xp lu m •E ir eva l com •Developing and promoting communication •Education programs on post-retirement Twice a year/ F a n ta channels planning monthly • zo ori •Branch counters Year-round •H al Ext ern ern Int al •Differentiated financial products Customers (corporate/ individual) Government and Government and Government and •Accurate financial information related organizations related organizations related organizations •Convenient services External Key Issues •Regular compliance monitoring and reporting •Press releases Year-round •Faithfully paying taxes •Meetings and conferences Year-round •Customer data protection •Ethical management training •Policy proposal Year-round •Handling complaints Ext Shareholders and Shareholders and Shareholders and ern al ern investors investors investors •S tab al Ext y •T le g olic a row ndp •Regular risk assessments and adjustments •Website Year-round •C xes th ide ue om of div l •Exploring new markets and portfolio •IR activities Year-round •P p fin re/ er va t art lianc an c tu ld en enhancement •Shareholders meetings Once a year icip ew cia lm t stru reho gem ati a n a •Transparent disclosures •Major periodic reports Year-round on ith l ark rofi sh ectio man in g ws a ets •P ising t e •Review of management’s performance an a pro rat e Go ov’ t. p d re •R estor corpo rofits nanc evaluation and compensation policy ver olic gu Inv e f p ve r ies latio • ct iv o o nm ffe tion te g ors en ta ns •E tribu rpora n vest nd is o di Local Local Local rel •D und c an communities communities communities ate S o e rs do • ld rga ho niz are •Volunteering, support for farming communities •Company volunteer groups Year-round ati Sh on •Donations, scholarships •’Another Town’ initiative Year-round s 22 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 23 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder To provide better value for all stakeholders, we selected representatives from the stakeholder groups (customers, employees, related organizations, local communities, partner companies) and conducted interviews to gather their opinions. Stakeholder Survey Overview Interview Survey We conducted a stakeholder survey to determine the key issues concerning each stakeholder group and their level of significance. Through the survey, we identified sustainability related trends, impacts and internal capabilities that deserve priority attention in order for NH Investment & Securities to grow as a sustainable company. We derived the material issues based on the survey findings. Korea Financial Investment NH Investment & Securities Association Survey Outline 415 persons 144 persons (74.24%) (25.76%) Secure competitiveness Reinforce customized HR management Government and Shareholders and with differentiated services and IT enhancement Local Partner firms Customers business strategy Employees (including labor union) (individual/ related organizations investors corporate) communities Competition has heated up between domestic The most important thing when To ensure sustainability, a financial institution financial investment companies as the fourth communicating with customers is identifying has to catch two birds with one stone, that industrial revolution breaks down barriers their areas of interest. Satisfaction levels are is, pursue human resources and IT. It would Survey questions separating the different financial segments high for the programs offered to customers not be an exaggeration to say that finance and new competitors like fintech companies by the Longevity Research Institute as they is IT, considering the importance of IT in the Trend Impact Internal capability appear. In order to survive, NH Investment deal with recently highlighted issues such as financial investment industry at present. & Securities has to draw up a differentiated health, hobbies, and life in the golden years. Human resources are also important. External economic, social and environmental External economic, social and environmental Issues concerning NHIS’s internal capabilities business strategy and offer products I believe it is a customer service unique NH Investment & Securities will expand trends that affect NHIS trends that are affected by NHIS in each financial and non-financial performance tailored to customers’ needs. It also has to to NH Investment & Securities. I hope the investment in IT to stay competitive while (source: global CSR agenda) (source: GRI Standards) segment (source: IIRC <IR>) make efforts to secure competitiveness for company will provide customized information securing talent who will lead the financial sustainability such as protecting financial and services that reflect the traits of investment business and honing skills to consumers and providing financial solutions individual customers and see customer spearhead financial markets of the future. that have value. satisfaction lead to customer value creation. Survey Results The survey found that the most important issue affecting sustainable management at NH Investment & Securities is securing talent and strengthening competencies. In terms of the impact that our sustainable management activities have on society, Kim Jae-hyeon, manager Kim Eui-gyu Song Chi-yeol, manager the most important issue was the protection of customers’ personal information. As for internal capability, the most important (Related organizations) (Individual clients) (Employees) issues was the need to continue reinforcing devotion to the company and motivation to enhance performance. Top 5 Issues per Survey Category Korea Pediatric Cancer Design Korea Foundation Trend Impact Internal capability Growing importance of securing Protection of customers’ Devotion to company and motivation Company that stands by the Trust derived from talent and strengthening personal information to enhance performance less fortunate in society transparent management of competencies partner companies Tighter IT security, growing Ability to understand/devise and NH Investment & Securities has supported Trust is the most basic and most important Compliance with demand for prevention of ethics and laws implement organizational vision projects that instill hope among children factor for a financial institution. This is also financial accidents/crimes and strategy suffering from cancer. In particular, it has also true when it comes to relationships with shown much interest in initiatives that look partner companies. From the standpoint Growing demand for Relationship with major after the emotional needs of young patients. of a vendor, NH Investment & Securities Employee training and corporate transparency and stakeholders (communication) and As our programs help these children grow up is an attractive partner since it handles all education ethical management trust to be healthy adults and contribute to society processes with transparency and fairness, and the country, I hope NH Investment from the bidding stage to the selection & Securities can continue to join us in and management of vendors. I hope it will Management of economic, Stronger product and Company reputation and brand our efforts to tackle the difficulties facing continue to grow together with its business social and environmental risks service responsibility management pediatric cancer patients and their families. partners through smart work practices and efficient decision-making rooted in a foundation of trust. Funds that can be used to develop Response to changes in Respect for employee diversity financial regulations financial products and provide and equal opportunity services Yoon Jin-seok, manager Jeon Eun-gyeong, team leader (Local communities) (Partner firms) 24 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 25 Materiality Assessment 2017 Materiality To identify material issues for sustainability reporting, we conducted a materiality assessment based on the principles of sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness as set forth in ISO 26000 and GRI Standards. Materiality Internal and external stakeholders of NH Investment & Securities assessed the materiality of various sustainability issues depending on the levels of risk, opportunity and impact. The most important topics chosen by employees and other Assessment Our sustainability report focuses on issues in which our stakeholders have a high degree of interest and those that have a high Assessment stakeholders were issues related to ‘protection of customers’ personal information,’ ‘securing talent and strengthening Process relevance to our management strategy and business operations. Results competencies,’ ‘prevention of financial accidents/crimes,’ and ‘transparency and ethical management’. Materiality Assessment Matrix 4.50 Material Issues Materiality to stakeholders ① Protection of customers’ personal information Materiality Assessment Process ② Securing talent and strengthening competencies ① ③ Tighter IT security, growing demand for prevention of financial Step3 4.30 accidents/crimes ④ Growing demand for corporate transparency and ethical Validation ③ management ⑥ ⑤ Prevention of corruption and compliance with regulations ⑤ ④ ② ⑥ Stronger product and service responsibility 4.10 (responsible investing, proper product sales, accurate Step2 ⑬ ⑧ ⑦ explanations, etc.) ⑦ Response to changes in financial regulations Prioritization Check validity ⑭ ⑩ ⑨ ⑧ Development of products and services that reflect market 3.90 ⑮ changes ⑫ ⑨ Digitalization of finance (fintech, use of big data, etc.) ⑩ Respect for employee diversity and equal opportunity Step1 •Examined whether the 17 issues are ⑯ ⑪ ⑪ Growing demand for employee welfare/rights (work-life balance) Identification Determine priority issues through ⑫ Expansion into global markets and strengthening the business material to sustainability of NHIS materiality assessment 3.70 portfolio through pertinent TF meeting ⑬ Economic performance (income, taxes, distribution to •Decided on the reporting scope, stakeholders, etc.) boundary and period of the material ⑰ ⑭ Diversifying customer demand Identify sustainability issues through •Relevance: Derived 41 relevant issues issues and drew up report preparation ⑮ Management of economic, social and environmental risks 3.50 analysis of internal and external after assessing the relevance of plans 3.70 3.90 4.10 4.30 4.50 4.70 4.90 ⑯ Improving access to financial services environments sustainability issues derived from analysis Materiality of impact on NHIS (include customers and the financially marginalized) of internal and external environments ⑰ Participation in and contribution to local communities and interviews Material Issues and Report Content •Global standard: Examined reporting •Significance: Selected a total of 17 Dimension Material issue Stakeholder SDGs pag requirements of related standards like material issues after prioritizing the Risk Management & Management of economic, social and environmental risks All stakeholders 31~33 GRI Standards, ISO 26000, UNGC, and relevant issues based on online and Compliance Growing demand for corporate transparency and ethical management All stakeholders 34~35 DJSI offline surveys on 559 stakeholders Prevention of corruption and compliance with regulations Employees, government & 34~45 •Media analysis: Analyzed media articles conducted during January 22~31, 2018 related organizations on NH Investment & Securities to Growing demand for prevention of financial accidents/crimes Customers, government & 36 examine external perception related organizations Sustainable Growth Response to changes in financial regulations Employees, government & 38~39 •Stakeholder interview: Selected five related organizations people who represent the key stakeholder Economic performance (income, taxes, distribution to stakeholders, etc.) All stakeholders 64~66 groups and conducted interviews to Expansion into global markets and strengthening the business portfolio Shareholders & investors 40~42 deduce detailed issues for sustainability Digitalization of finance (fintech, use of big data, etc.) Customers 43~45 •Benchmarking: Analyzed sustainability Service Leadership Diversifying customer demand Customers 47~49 reports of similar companies in Korea Development of products and services that reflect market changes Employees, customers 44~45, 52 Improving access to financial services Customers, 50 and abroad to identify material issues for (include customers and the financially marginalized) local communities reporting Stronger product and service responsibility Employees, customers 51~52 (responsible investing, upright product sales, accurate explanations, etc.) Protection of customers’ personal information, tighter IT security Customers 50~51 Workforce and Talent Securing talent and strengthening competencies Employees 54~55 Respect for employee diversity and equal opportunity Employees 54 Growing demand for employee welfare/rights (work-life balance) Employees 56~57 Community Investment Participation in and contribution to local communities Employees, 59~61 local communities 26 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 27 At NH Investment & Securities, our vision of growth is more than simple abundance that comes from growing profits. Rather, it implies growing together with diverse stakeholders through the Our Material Issues balanced pursuit of economic gains, social responsibility and environmental soundness. We are drawing on our sustainability competencies to be a comprehensive financial investment company that sets an example for others. Risk Management & Compliance / Sustainable Growth Service Leadership / Workforce and Talent Community Investment Risk Management & Compliance Risk Management Risk Management & Compliance Risk Risk Management Governance Management NH Investment & Securities has in place a risk management department and decision-making bodies in order to systematically manage risks. The organizational unit in charge is the Risk Management Department, which reports directly to the CEO and is Framework overseen by the CRO (Chief Risk Officer). The related decision-making bodies are the Risk Management Committee, Risk Management Council, and the Investment Business Council. Through a multilayered decision-making process that makes use of this system, we are able to methodically manage risks. The highest decision-making body is the Risk Management Committee which is under the Board of Directors and sets the basic risk management policy and strategy. The Risk Management Council is chaired by the CRO and deals with 2017 working-level decisions related to managing risks. The Investment Business Council oversees various transactions that entail Key Performance credit risk. •Conducted 1,241 RSAs* and KRI** reviews •Established internal grading system for credit risk •Overhauled derivative evaluation system*** •No. of persons who received ethical management training: 1,576 (only includes collective training sessions) Risk Management Organization Organization 1 Department (Risk Management Dept.) 4 Divisions (Risk Management Div., Evaluation Div., Risk Support Div., Financial Engineering Div.) Committee* Risk Management Committee (9), Risk Management Council (54), Investment Business Council (56) Risk management is an essential factor for bolstering profits and creating value for stakeholders. Without risk, a company will find it 1 difficult to generate profits, grow, or develop. This is why preemptively responding to financial and non-financial risks that influence * Numbers in brackets refer to number of sessions convened in 2017 business activities is important to ensure sustainability. A key business of the financial investment industry is managing assets entrusted by customers. Conflicts of interest may arise between the company and the customers due to the risk of loss of principal •Chair: Outside director Why is it and complexity of financial and investment products. Therefore, reactive supervision in accordance with the law is insufficient when it •Members: 2 outside directors, 1 chairman & CEO Important? comes to the actions of people serving in the financial investment industry. In order to preserve customers’ assets and protect financial •Administrator: Head of Risk Management Department consumers, the company and its employees must practice ethical management. •Role Set risk management policy and strategy Board of Directors Risk Management Committee Set and allocate companywide risk capital NH Investment & Securities maintains preemptive and postliminary processes to manage all risks that may arise in the course of 2 carrying out business activities. We have a department dedicated to risk management and business ethics. We have prepared guidelines and strategies to deal with risks depending on the type of risk, the type of business and the object of risk management. What is our Financial and non-financial risks including ethics and compliance are subject to rigorous analysis and regular monitoring, and the •Chair: Head of Risk Management Department related findings are relayed to the management. We have organized training on risk management and ethics for all employees and Chairman & CEO Approach? operate a system through which related problems can be reported should they occur. We seek to enhance corporate sustainability and •Members: 5 inside directors social responsibility through preemptive risk management and commitment to ethics. •Administrator: Head of Risk Management Division •Role Set and manage risk limits Head of Risk Management Risk Management Council 3 Department Review transactions that entail credit risk •Management of economic, social and environmental risks •Growing demand for corporate transparency and ethical management Material •Prevention of corruption and compliance with regulations Financial Engineering Div. Issues •Growing demand for prevention of financial accidents/crimes Investment Business Council •Chair: Head of Risk Management Department Risk Management Div. in 2017 Risk Support Div. •Members: 5 inside directors Evaluation Div. •Administrator: Head of Evaluation Division •Role Conduct preliminary review of transactions that entail 4 •Segment risk indicators and upgrade risk measurement model * RSA: Risk Self Assessment credit risk •Set up overseas investment risk management system with risk checklist ** KRI: Key Risk Indicator *** Derivative evaluation system: in-house developed system •Hold regular meetings of the Derivative Linked Securities Issuance for evaluating financial products and measuring risk Our Next Committee and improve stress test scenarios (QED: Quod Erat Demonstrandum) steps •Prepare and distribute due diligence manual for FATCA/CRS**** **** FATCA: Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act / CRS •H old training on internal control tailored to needs of business (Common Reporting Standard): Global standard for automatic departments exchange of financial information developed by the OECD NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 31 Risk Management & Compliance Risk Management Process Response by Risk Type Risk type Details Response (measures) Risk controlled profits Financial risk Market risk Risk of loss due to fluctuations in financial markets VaR, sensitivity analysis, loss limits (share prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, etc.) Regular monitoring and reporting of risk Credit risk Risk of loss due to a change in the counterparty’s credit standing Credit limit according to business purpose/ Planning/ Follow-up (profits) credit rating, preliminary review Implementation Strategy Liquidity risk Risk of loss from a shortage of operating funds and in the course Regular monitoring and reporting of liquidity ratio Business departments of raising funds Non-financial Operational risk Risk of loss due to problems/errors in process, people and system Designating risk managers at organizational units, Reasonable risk regular risk assessments profit Environmental risk Risk of having a negative impact on the environment due to Preliminary inspection by the risk management units and generation investment in a business or company that is not eco-friendly committees Risk management department Efforts to Strengthen Risk Management Agreement Deliberation Follow-up (risks) Details Upgrade risk management system Enhance/redevelop ALM system* for calculation of liquidity ratio, etc.; market risk management system to calculate VaR; system to manage exposure limit per entity; and operational risk management for risk self assessment Risk management division/ Risk management division/ Risk management division/ Implement stage-by-stage risk management Classify risk into green, yellow and red levels for preemptive risk management Risk support division/ Evaluation division Risk support division/ Set up monitoring system Periodically inspect (daily/monthly/quarterly) various risk limits, report to the management Evaluation division Financial engineering division Revise rules/regulations Revise rules and regulations in response to changes in the business and financial environments Organize risk management training Promote risk management culture with risk management training and education (video program) for all employees * ALM: Asset Liability Management Types of Market Risk Risk & Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from market fluctuations such as changes in interest rates, prices of securities and Response foreign exchange rates. To control market risk, we set risk limits using Value at Risk (VaR). We also use sensitivity analysis and other Risk and Opportunity methods to manage market risk. Measures NH Investment & Securities conducts thorough analysis of risk factors that More business opportunities Greater possibility of loss on bond-related through customer assets Credit Risk are expected to have a significant and investment diversification Credit risk refers to the risk of loss associated with creditworthiness such as default on debt, the failure of a counterparty to meet influence on business activities and IS the magnitude of their influence NH its financial obligation or a decline in the credit rating. To manage credit risk, we set credit limits depending on the counterparty to Increase in act on impact of global Imp Increase in a transaction and credit rating. We vary the decision-making process according to credit rating and scale of transaction to enhance in order to turn risks into new economic funding costs asset quality. opportunities. conditions and related risks Growth of Rise in interest Liquidity Risk overseas business rates Increase in Rising trend of Liquidity risk refers to the risk of loss associated with a shortage of funds which could entail raising funds at higher costs and the overseas alternative interest rates amid disposal of assets on unfavorable terms. To avoid such losses, the departments in charge of managing risk and managing funds Heightened investments, growth Risk and global economic recovery Need for tighter in overseas bond regularly monitor indicators such as the liquidity ratio. We classify liquidity risk into three stages and have prepared response foreign exchange brokerage and Opportunity risk monitoring for exposure and businesses related measures for each stage. need for tighter sales, etc. Factors to bonds control of related risks Operational Risk Expansion of business scope Expansion into new businesses (shortOperational risk refers to the risk of loss arising from problems with internal processes or human and system errors. To control term financing, etc.) and growth of existing businesses (credit extension, etc.) operational risk, we have set up an operating risk management system (ORMS) that encompasses the entire company. Also, each More business Need for more stringent risk organizational unit has a risk manager who carries out risk self assessments (RSA) on a daily or monthly basis and oversees key opportunities management (allocation (investments using of risk limits, revision of risk indicators (KRI). This enables regular inspection of risk levels throughout the company and preemptive control of potential new funds, etc. ) related rules, etc.) operational risks. Need for new risk Greater need for standards and efficient capital procedures due to inflow management of new funds 32 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 33 Risk Management & Compliance Ethical Management Ethical Management Training and Education We carry out ongoing training and education programs to enable the internalization of a culture of ethical management and to help NH Investment & Securities members appreciate that ethical management is fundamental and requisite to a company’s sustainability. We provide half yearly training on internal control for the compliance managers and team leaders of each department Ethical As a pioneer in the financial investment industry, NH Investment & Securities leads the way in the practice of ethical management to encourage all employees to understand and strictly observe professional ethics in carrying out their duties. As a member of the NH and sales branches. Ethical management is included as a mandatory part of the training, emphasizing the importance of practicing Management Financial Group, we strive to earn our customers and society’s trust by fulfilling our economic, legal, and ethical responsibilities with ethical management and fostering awareness of related procedures and systems. Departments and branches also independently Framework carry out monthly ethical/legal compliance training. In particular, they are required to hold training on anti-graft laws and internal the goal of becoming ‘Beloved Nonghyup ethical awareness in action and integrity’. whistleblower system once every quarter to improve employees’ understanding of the relevant procedures and systems. Ethical Management Organization Additional efforts include a weekly online video training program and the inclusion of an ethical management course in the training given to new employees and employees changing positions. In 2017, there were 40 online training sessions, including 7 irregular We formed the Ethical Management Committee to establish an ethical corporate culture and undertake comprehensive sessions, accessed by 166 trainees. We also changed the online process so that trainees had to pass a quiz at the end of each management of decisions and assessments related to ethical management policies. The Committee is headed by the CEO and session to receive recognition for completing the course. assisted by the Ethical Management Secretariat. Under the compliance officer’s supervision, the Compliance Division handles areas that fall within its purview. The Ethical Management Secretariat supports the compliance officer and the Ethical Management Committee through its main duties, which are to establish and implement ethical management plans, provide employee training, Ethical Management Monitoring and Prevention System and operate a center to accept suggestions and reports. Ethical Management Regulations Ethical Integrity Compliance Management In order to achieve the ethical management that NH Investment & Securities aspires to, we adopted a Code of Ethics, based Assessment Monitoring Self Index (EMI) Inspection on which we established the Employee Code of Conduct. The Employee Code of Conduct guides the behavior of employees in Assessment every position and helps them apply ethical standards to the real life work environment. The Code of Conduct broadly consists of responsibilities, fair performance of work duties, prohibition on ill-gotten gains, cultivation of a sound workplace culture, Every year, we review whether parties Starting in 2015, all employees are required to We conduct quarterly EMI assessments and response measures to violation. These are official company regulations concerning compulsory ethical standards, and we that have contracts with NH Investment perform compliance monitoring self inspections in which involve activities to improve integrity, & Securities are subject to wrongful the first month of each quarter and to view a video compliance monitoring activities, and enforce compliance by taking disciplinary action and other measures on employees who violate the Code. You can learn more behavior or corruption. We outsource afterwards to complete the inspection process. The integrity assessment results. The EMI about NH Investment & Securities’ ethical standards, Code of Ethics, and Employee Code of Conduct on the company’s website the review, which is conducted through self inspection consists of ten categories, and is assessment measures whether ethical (www.nhqv.com). telephone surveys, in order to ensure connected to the company’s internal whistleblower management is effectively being applied in objectivity. center so employees can report information when the real business environment and results relevant. Thanks to a vigorous promotion of ethical are reflected in the NACF’s management management, the implementation of the self status evaluation. inspection practice has led to 100% participation from employees. Whistleblower System We operate a whistleblower system that allows employees to report the violation of regulations, corruption, misconduct, or wrongful actions without fear of being exposed. The system can be used internally by employees as well as externally by customers, counterparties to contracts, and other interested persons to report the company or its employees. When it is difficult or infeasible to Ethical Management Declaration Ceremony use our whistleblower system, NACF also has an anonymous whistleblower system available online (www.nonghyup.com ▶ ‘Clean Reporting’ Center ▶ Helpline). We institute a mandatory internal whistleblower period twice a year, and added stickers with QR codes in restrooms at the head office and branches to minimize the time and effort it takes to submit reports to make the process Internalization convenient for whistleblowers. Ethical Management Action Program of an Ethical We operate a variety of systems to help us practice ethical management. Early on in each year, we hold the ‘Resolution Rally for the Management Practice of Ethical Management’ attended by management and department heads or above. We have also designated November 2 Whistleblowing Channels as Ethical Management Day, and on that day, we send out a letter from the CEO, distribute ethical management brochures, pin on Culture ribbons celebrating Nonghyup’s integrity, and hold other events designed to raise employees’ ethical awareness and help a clean Common (internal/external) •Interview with compliance officer (NHIS head office, 10th floor) •Mail, telephone, fax corporate culture take root. We also require all employees to submit an ‘Ethical Management Action Pledge’ and ‘Anti-graft Law •NHIS website Whistleblower Center Internal/External Report Compliance Pledge’ every year. Employees in charge of construction/service/sales contracts are further required to submit pledges •QR code scan mobile website Whistleblower Center promising to enter into contracts of integrity. The Contract of Integrity Compliance Pledge was previously submitted once yearly, but has been required twice yearly since 2017 to help strengthen ethical awareness in employees involved in contract-related activities. Miscellaneous •Employees: Company intranet (Nhow Compliance Plaza Internal Report) •Counterparties to contracts: Scan of QR code on the bottom of survey (Surveys are sent after the contract has been fulfilled.) All employees also complete an ‘Ethical Awareness Self Evaluation’ yearly, the results of which are used to rectify shortcomings and establish ethical management action plans. During the major holidays such as the Lunar New Year and Chuseok, each department or branch operates a Gift Return Center so that ill-gotten gifts can be immediately returned or donated to social facilities. Thanks to efforts to raise ethical awareness, cases of returns and donations are on the decrease. 34 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 35 Risk Management & Compliance Internal In order to prevent financial accidents, we have established internal control policies and compliance monitoring programs. Implementation results are reported internally to the Board of Directors (once yearly) and Internal Control Committee (twice yearly) Sustainable Growth Control as well as externally to our holding company NH Financial Group at regular intervals to strengthen the execution of the measures. System for the We also drew up ‘Internal Control Strengthening Measures’ intended for all employees to prevent the occurrence of accidents or Prevention enable early detection. Our Compliance Division includes a real-time inspections team that checks whether all the departments and branches are complying with regulations and monitors for unfair transactions that violate the stock exchange rules. Moreover, the of Financial branches and head office departments are working to prevent financial crimes and accidents by performing regular inspections and Accidents strengthening inspection categories and monitoring functions depending on the nature of the work or product. Anti-Money Laundering (AML) System 2017 Anti-money laundering is not only about reporting cases but refers to a whole process that begins with identifying suspicious Key Performance transactions or ones that involve large sums of cash, such as may occur in the course of concealing illegal funds into legitimate funds through financial institutions. Financial crimes and corruption such as tax evasion, foreign exchange crimes, stock •Acquired 100% stake of the local subsidiary in Vietnam •Achieved best global performance to date manipulation, fraud, embezzlement, malpractice, habitual gambling, bribery, drug-related crimes, and terrorist financing have an •Created a department dedicated to digital finance adverse effect on individuals, society and the nation. Preventing such crimes is of the utmost importance. •Introduced bio-certification service •Launched NAMUH-C app In February 2018, we completed and began operating the industry’s first risk-based approach (RBA) system. The RBA system will increase our anti-money laundering efficiency by carrying out more meticulous inspections of transaction risks. Internal Control Training We provide an online training program for all employees to enhance their understanding of internal control activities and to increase their awareness of compliance. Besides the online program, CM and team leaders receive regular half-yearly training. We also invite outside lecturers to continue improving the quality of the training programs. We provide additional training on ethical management, anti-graft laws, and internal control as needed to specific departments and positions. In 2017, a total of 258 employees participated The financial investment industry is affected not only by the economic situation and business fluctuations within a country, but also in 19 training sessions (excluding online training). 1 by external variables including political, social and cultural factors. With the recent signs of synchronized movement of the global economy, the industry is further affected by the financial markets in other countries. Market fluctuations lead to high earnings volatility in the industry. Thus, it is important to build a response system based on thorough analysis of the business environment and secure Why is it a stable profit structure. As both the volume of domestic financial assets and interest in a variety of investment products continue to Important? grow, the financial investment industry is expanding beyond the border to the global stage. Meanwhile, the rapid development of big data, AI, IoT, and other new technologies is also changing the industry and it is necessary to respond strategically to such changes in order to survive the fierce competition. We seek earnings growth and stability by diversifying our business portfolio giving due consideration to the characteristics of the 2 financial investment industry and by entering new business areas. A decision-making body enables us to make decisions swiftly and to strengthen our professionalism, while management performance analysis meetings are held regularly to help achieve balanced growth in all business areas and thorough oversight over performance. We established the direction of our digital strategy to take the What is our lead in responding to digital innovations and created a new department assigned to phasing in the transition to a data-based digital Approach? platform. In addition, we are proactively responding to the digital trend with development/release of digital-related products and services, formation of a digital wealth management platform, reorganization of mobile services, participation in the fintech/digital bank industries, digital marketing, and more. Internal Control Homepage Warning Letter Issued by Compliance Officer 3 •Response to changes in financial regulations Material •Economic performance We provide an online training program for all employees to enhance their understanding of internal control activities and to increase •Expansion into global markets and strengthening the business portfolio their awareness of compliance. Besides the online program, CM and team leaders receive regular half-yearly training. We also invite Issues •Digitalization of finance outside lecturers to continue improving the quality of the training programs. We provide additional training on ethical management, in 2017 anti-graft laws, and internal control as needed to specific departments and positions. In 2017, a total of 258 employees participated in 19 training sessions (excluding online training). 4 •Respond to changes in the financial environment and implement risk management that reflects market situations •Revise rules and set up risk management process in preparation for entering short-term financing sector, expanding credit business, etc. Our Next •Continue expanding presence in the global market steps •Build big data platform and carry out digital innovation projects •Participate in digital/fintech pursuits via holding company 36 Sustainable Growth Economic Value Creation In the domestic investment and securities industry, M&As between securities firms and key competitors’ capital expansion have laid down the foundation for the birth of mega securities firms. The boundaries separating banking, securities, insurance, and other financial sectors is weakening, which is also leading to fiercer competition. On top of this, fintech companies are entering the market Responding Economic and Interest Rate Outlook armed with convenience, price competiveness, and brand familiarity among the digital generation. They have been a factor in raising to the In 2018, Korea’s export environment is expected to improve steadily as the effects of economic stimulation in developing countries materialize and the global economy continues to recover. The domestic economy is expected to follow the general direction of 2017 customer expectations and lowering fees, and thus pose a threat to the industry. Business and stay on a recovery path. However, with stricter real estate regulations, we have neutral expectations for domestic demand and Environment predict domestic GDP growth in 2018 to remain steady at 3.0%, the same as 2017. System and Policy Outlook Financial investment is a regulated industry and thus heavily influenced by the direction of policies of the government and financial The rise in interest rates from late 2016 to early 2017 put an end to the mid-term downtrend of interest rates, but the global authorities. Recently, the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) began revising various systems to strengthen the ‘investment bank’ economy has been slower to recover than expected and it appears likely that interest rates will climb in earnest after 2018. In light role of securities firms. It also established and began implementing policies to increase the transparency of financial companies of the global interest rate cycle, we expect interest rates to increase in 2018. However, real estate regulations and concerns of a and strengthen protection for financial consumers. Government policies designed to nurture SMEs and venture companies focus slump in domestic demand will make it difficult to fully apply the scale of US interest rate hikes in Korea. on securities firms’ functionality in distributing venture capital, while the aging population has prompted other policies to focus on products to grow wealth. As a result, a variety of financial products, including retirement/personal pensions, ISA, etc. are available on the market. With such domestic policies and financial systems, we expect greater autonomy and business opportunities but also Korea’s GDP Growth Rate, % higher compliance costs for the financial investment industry. 10.0 NH Investment & Securities’ Response 8.9 The financial investment market can be said to represent 8.0 perfect competition. The participants in the Korean market, 7.4 which include not only the domestic players but also 6.5 foreign companies, face unlimited competition. Even as the 6.0 pressure becomes more intense, NH Investment & Securities 5.5 5.2 is looking for new earning opportunities by establishing 4.9 4.5 growth strategies that make the most of its unique qualities 3.9 4.0 3.7 and advantages. Although the growth of each business 3.3 2.9 2.8 2.9 2.8 2.8 3.0 3.0 segment is important at a financial investment company, 2.3 so is developing services through organic connections and 2.0 synergy between the segments. Only then can a company 0.7 differentiate itself and provide investors with innovative financial services. Accordingly, we strive to achieve balanced 0 progress in all business areas and maintain the highest level 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018(E) of competitiveness across the board. * Source: International Monetary Fund (IMF) We also established a long term digital strategy based on our belief that how a financial investment company responds to the new digital generation will determine its future growth. Industry and Market Outlook Taking the economic cycle and monetary policies into account, the global stock markets are expected to be bullish in the first half In order to reinforce product competitiveness, we are of 2018 but move sideways or decline in the second half. The outlook for the domestic stock market is positive thanks to favorable expanding our lineup of in-house products using investment corporate earnings and mitigation of uncertainty in the financial markets. Foreigners are expected to lead the market’s rise, whereas banking/trading capabilities and diversifying our product domestic individual and institutional investors are likely to limit their buying. In the brokerage market, low brokerage fees are range to foreign/alternative investments. Going forward, we becoming a fixture due to the competition to lower fees and the increase in online/mobile transactions. will fortify our business model based on our competitiveness in all business units and fulfill our role as the leading The low interest rate environment is lowering the return on existing products while demand is on the rise for medium risk, medium comprehensive financial investment company in Korea’s return products. Consequently, we predict growth in the markets for products related to private equity investment and overseas/ capital market while putting customer value first. Based alternative investments. With earlier retirement ages and longer life expectancies, forming long-term relationships with customers on unique products and professionalism, we will meet our will become increasingly important, and we expect a greater need for wealth management services. customers’ every financial need and connect them with optimal capital market solutions. In doing so, we will take our place as a leading platform player and effectively respond to the financial market’s changing paradigm. 38 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 39 Sustainable Growth Strengthening Creating Synergy through M&A Expansion into Global Markets Business From the beginning as Hanbo Securities to the launch of NH Investment & Securities, we have grown through a series of successful mergers. Since the merger in 2014, we have carried out a comprehensive integration that goes beyond the physical combining of We currently have six local subsidiaries and two overseas offices in six countries. We are working to strengthen their functionality as the supply channel for foreign assets and products and to emerge as a key player in the local markets. The Hong Kong subsidiary is Capabilities business units to include the combining of human resources and labor unions. This has allowed us to solidify our role and position engaged in investment banking (IB), trading, and equity sales. Its focus is on brokering foreign bonds to domestic customers and IB as a member of NH Financial Group. Despite the fast-changing competitive landscape of the securities industry, we drew strength deal sourcing. It recorded strong results anchored by IB and trading thanks to cooperation with NH Investment & Securities in Korea from years of experience to continue bolstering our fundamentals. We also formed creative partnerships with various stakeholders and is driving our global performance forward. to fulfill our role as the leading comprehensive financial investment company in Korea’s capital market. The New York subsidiary operates Global Securities Trading Solutions (GSTS), our platform for trading foreign shares, while providing We are leading the way in generating synergy with NH Financial Group based on solidarity within the tight-knit organization. NH global equity solutions optimized for customers at home and abroad. It has seen its overseas stock brokerage volume grow at Financial Group has independent companies in banking, insurance, asset management, and other areas of finance. Making the an average annual rate of 36% during the past three years and plays a vital role in outbound operations. We are also expanding most of this backdrop, NH Investment & Securities is at the forefront of efforts to increase earnings through synergy between our presence to new markets in Southeast Asia based on our experience leading the domestic securities market. The Indonesian 6 countries Global Network affiliates. The combination of our market-leading wealth management competencies and asset management knowhow and NH subsidiary has successfully settled into the local brokerage market and is posting greatly improved results. It will expand its scope to Financial Group’s extensive customer network and funding power is creating synergy across the board in all business segments. bond brokerage and IB so it can grow into a comprehensive securities firm. NH Absolute Return Partners, our hedge fund operator Consequently, we achieved our best ever operating results in 2017. in Singapore, draws on its vast experience to provide domestic and foreign investors with the most favorable wealth management No. of local subsidiaries 6 products and acts as an outpost for product sourcing in Southeast Asia. We will continue to utilize the synergy between all NH affiliates to explore earning opportunities and provide comprehensive financial solutions to suit the investment needs of our customers based on the experience we have accumulated over the years. We will also At the end of 2017, we acquired a major stake in the Vietnamese joint venture to gain managerial control. The subsidiary will focus No. of overseas offices 2 focus on developing financial products and services unique to NH Financial Group to stand out as the industry’s most competitive on investment and brokerage once it has established a local business infrastructure. Our plan is to nurture the subsidiary into a and capable company. financial company that will lead the Vietnamese capital market. We will continue expanding our global network, sharpen capabilities for sourcing products and providing financial solutions, and strive to make our global business platform the first choice of customers. Merger History April 1 Case Study: Launch of NH Securities Vietnam (NHSV) Merged with Woori June 27 We first stepped into the Vietnamese market by acquiring a 49% stake in CBV Securities, a November 4 Securities, changed Change in largest shareholder Merged with Lucky name to Woori local securities firm. This was operated as a joint venture with a local partner until we acquired (Woori Financial Group → NH Financial Group) Securities, changed name Investment & Securities the remaining 51% stake and carried out a rights offering in early 2018. In February 2018, NH to Lucky Securities October 1 December 31 Securities Vietnam was launched as a wholly owned subsidiary of NH Investment & Securities. January 16 Merged with LG Merchant Merged with NH Nonghyup Securities, Establishment of Hanbo Bank, changed name to LG launch of NH Investment & Securities In the beginning, NHSV leaned on brokerage for business stability but has now expanded to Securities Investment & Securities corporate finance and principal investment with plans for investment banking for privatization IPOs and Korean companies in Vietnam. It also built an online sales platform in response to domestic demand for investment in Vietnamese securities, and provides real estate, social overhead capital (SOC), and other alternative investment products. In addition to increasing research into the local market to stimulate outbound brokerage, we hope to create synergy in corporate finance by connecting NHSV with the IB unit in Korea. To coincide with the launch of NHSV, we discussed joint research on fintech technologies with the 1969 1975 1983 1995 1999 2004 2005 2014 State Securities Commission of Vietnam that would contribute to the progress of fintech in Vietnam. By using NHSV as an opportunity to gain local investment experience and promoting NHSV as a Vietnamese investment platform for domestic customers, we will redouble our efforts to become Vietnam’s leading comprehensive securities firm. July 1 December 24 Merged with Saengbo Change in largest shareholder Securities, changed (LG Group → Woori Financial Group) name to Daebo Securities March 2 Changed name to LG Securities 40 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 41 Sustainable Growth New Growth Businesses We established a strategy based on analysis of our competencies in different business areas and market outlook to respond to the Digital Innovation rapidly changing external environment. We continue to enter new areas so we can discover new profit sources that follow market changes and sharpen our competitive edge. In 2016, we used our trading knowhow to become the first in the industry to enter the hedge fund business. We are seeing excellent Digital Digital Transformation Strategy results, including 2017 rate of returns that ranked among the top among large hedge funds. We also entered the recently licensed Transformation Innovation in digital technology, notably in mobile, cloud, IoT, AI and robot technologies, has accelerated advances in automatic and new technology financing* business in search of new profit sources to tap into the explosive growth potential of SMEs and venture intelligent systems. This, in turn, is demanding new approaches and endeavors to corporate management, customer management, companies before they go public. As a result, we are able to offer customers more diverse investment opportunities through new business models and operational processes. Digital transformation is permeating the entire financial industry, and in order to venture investment portfolios and more faithfully live up to our role as a securities firm by supplying venture capital to SMEs and respond to the digitalization of finance, a company must be ready for complete change accompanied by innovation in everything venture companies. from the organization to the system configurations. Consequently, we established a digital strategy and created a unit dedicated to helping us navigate the new market environment in a proactive and preemptive manner to achieve sustainable growth. Additionally, As the population continues to age and financial assets grow, financial companies and customers are developing long-term to secure processing capabilities linked to big data, which forms the basis of the digital paradigm shift, we are pursuing innovations relationships. In response to the growing importance of the pension business, we are concentrating our sales capacity on pension in customer platforms and internal operating infrastructure. products to secure a long-term customer base and improve the competitiveness of our products. Our performance in each business sector can be viewed in real-time through the business management system. The system is also used to continually monitor productivity (profitability), sales results, risk factors, etc. Strengthening Digital Capabilities * New technology financing: Providing investments/loans and management/technology guidance to new technology businesses (SMEs, venture companies); establishing and managing capital for New Technology Business Investment Association Expansion of IT Process Expand Big Data Case Study: Mega Financial Center Infrastructure Upgrade Application In January 2017, we opened the Samseong-dong NH Finance PLUS Finance Center. It is the third NH Finance Plus Center, following the Finance Center in Gwanghwamun and the Sales Finance Center in Yeouido. The Samseong-dong branch offers one-stop comprehensive wealth management and consulting services, with some 60 professionals offering financial solutions in all areas, including private banking, tax, We are developing an all-purpose We support data-based decision-making Using big data, we operate a service system that real estate, and legal counsel. The mega centers allow us to use our unique knowhow and professional competencies to maximize customer platform that incorporates everything with efficient data processing and continue analyzes data concerning customer behavior, satisfaction. We are also increasing our bank-securities branch-in-branches (BIB), and plan to expand our network into key regional locations. from data collection to visualization to make business improvements through use of products/services, etc. and responds as well as expanding a big data AI applications. We are upgrading our to customer needs in real time. The system is infrastructure capable of processing data management system by building an available onand offline. Our goal is to closely specialized data. We will move our infrastructure that makes data collection, track what kind of experience customers want big data project forward in stages to analysis, and application easier. This will from varied point of contact channels and to optimize it for business use so workingallow us to use data in a timely manner, provide services from the customers’ perspective. level employees can easily manage and consolidate the variety of data created data. within and outside the company to develop We signed an MOU with Microsoft Korea, composite data applications. We will Thomson Reuters Korea and AgileSoDA to periodically inspect the current data-based develop a market prediction model based on business model and redesign products, machine learning*. This agreement has made it services and business models in response to possible to directly apply technological innovation the changing digital environment as part of like AI, big data, and machine learning to our effort to provide differentiated value. financial investment, based on which we plan to expand into services that provide customers with improved satisfaction and value. * Machine learning is a technology that makes predictions by identifying specific patterns based on expansive data analysis. 42 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 43 Sustainable Growth Digital Finance Products and Services Case Study: NAMUH Case Study: Portfolio Market NH Investment & Securities is going beyond leadership in financial investment to become a major player in financial digital We endeavor to keep in step with the fourth industrial revolution as represented Portfolio Market provides users with algorithm-based portfolios according to innovation. Based on detailed big data analysis, we strive to ramp up our competitiveness in products and services, and realize our by technological advancements like big data and AI by pursuing fast innovation, investment targets and methods. It offers customized investment strategies based principle of providing financial solutions that offer real value to our customers. and release services geared toward the emergence of new markets and financial on an individual’s investment preferences. The entire investment process, from consumers. analysis to trading, can be carried out online (MTS and website). We partnered with a fintech company to create Robo Advisor through PoC*. A product that uses big data to provide personally customized investment information, Robo Advisor** is exclusive to NH Investment & Securities and has been approved by the NAMUH is the industry's first mobile wealth management platform. NAMUH is the Along with Portfolio Market, we developed the ‘QV Global Robo Advisory Account’ Financial Services Commission. We will make further developments to provide customers with a wider variety of products. Korean word for tree and evokes an image of trees that grow to create a flourishing that is based on global ETF asset allocation algorithms. Robo-advisors help users forest. Likewise, our NAMUH platform is designed to bring us closer to our who want to directly invest in overseas markets but encounter difficulties in We are also making a steady and persistent effort to strengthen online services. It is our belief that ‘by challenging preconceived customers, mainly our target customer base of the 'mass and young' generation choosing investment targets. ideas about investment and striving toward a new kind of finance, we can enable everyone to lead a simple and convenient financial in their twenties and thirties. The multifaceted platform gives users a simple way With the launch of the advisory product and Portfolio Market, NH Investment & life.’ We provide quick and easy services customers can access any time or place, with an emphasis on non-face-to-face channels to incorporate finance into daily life by helping them manage investments and Securities is solidifying its position as a leader in digital wealth management. spending to increase their wealth. like NAMUH, our mobile wealth management platform. The number of consumers used to a mobile environment is increasing, making mobile channels and platforms more important. To respond to these changes and reflect our differentiated strategy, we NAMUH features PIN numbers, mobile OTP, fingerprint certification, and a variety launched a new investment and banking service called ‘NAMUH C’, geared toward the 'mass and young' generation in their twenties of other services for enhanced user convenience. The simpler certification in and thirties. NAMUH C promotes healthy financial habits through features that help users cut down on daily expenditures or put particular is attracting young customers. away money like a mobile piggy bank. It also provides a convenient environment for anyone to start making investments. NAMUH The H in NAMUH stands for 'human,' and it represents our aim to humanize digital C was awarded the UX/UI*** Innovation Award at the Smart App Awards 2017 organized by the Korea Internet Professional services. With that in mind, NAMUH is establishing itself as the mobile platform Association. that contributes to customers' financial lives and happiness. We offer 'Portfolio Market,' an online wealth management platform that connects customers with independent financial advisors. Awarded the UX/UI Innovation Award at the Smart Even with small sums, users can sign up for discretionary or advisory services while we expand our base for online wealth App Awards 2017 management. Moreover, we implemented a 'no commission fee' policy so customers can increase their assets through securities transactions at no extra cost and carried out an UX/UI overhaul of mobile channels to enhance user convenience. Case Study: Bio (Palm Vein) Certification Service Customers usually have to carry ID and take multiple steps to prove their identity * Proof of Concept (PoC): Process of demonstrating that a product, technology, information system, etc. can carry out the assigned task. It is used in preliminary verification of new products. before accessing financial services. To eliminate such inconveniences and streamline the process, we introduced the industry’s first bio-certification system ** Robo-advisor: Compound of ‘robot’ and ‘advisor,’ referring to independent financial advisors. Name of service that uses AI software algorithm to manage assets entrusted by investors or to provide them with asset management advice. at branches nationwide using only palm veins in January 2017. *** User eXperience (UX) / User Interface (UI): UX refers to the overall experience of IT service users, including their feelings, attitudes, and behavior. UI refers The service enables customers to simply place their palms on a special vein to the screen design and layout of IT services like mobile apps, HTS, and websites. Case Study: Crowdfunding reader at the counter to make money withdrawals and deposits, along with stock and financial product transactions, all without a physical ID card. The To help outstanding farms and agricultural processing companies secure sales storage and management of palm vein data is shared with the Korea Financial channels and increase their income, we provide a crowdfunding service for Telecommunications & Clearings Institute to safeguard against the exposure farmers who have been recommended by NH Creative Agriculture Support Center and loss of personal data. Approximately 47% of customers with accounts use and the NH Future Agriculture Support Center. As of the end of 2017, KRW 73.28 the bio-certification service. We plan to expand the service to eventually cover all million has been invested through reward-based crowdfunding. We will continue operations at branch offices. to expand our crowdfunding service for farmers as a member of the NH Financial Group based on our belief in the Nonghyup philosophy of supporting Korea's agricultural progress and enhanced quality of life for farmers. 44 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 45 Service Leadership Service Leadership Client Centricity ConsumerConsumer-Centered Management Framework Centered Our goal is to maximize customer satisfaction and provide the highest value through products and services that reflect the diverse demands of customers and is founded on customer participation. We established a vision and strategy for consumer-centered Management management (CCM) based on an analysis of the management environment and diagnosis of the current conditions. We follow a 2017 management by objectives (MBO) process to carry out the related strategy. We are also working to increase understanding and Key Performance appreciation for CCM within the company as well as propagating and sharing CCM externally through a variety of communication channels including media, official SNS accounts, company newsletter, slogan context, company broadcast, etc. We will maintain •First in the securities industry to obtain Customer-Centered open communications with customers and gain their trust through industry leading products and services while simultaneously Management (CCM) certification pursuing CCM for win-win growth so that we can relieve customers of even the smallest inconvenience. •No. 1 securities firm as chosen by consumers (Korea Finance Consumer Federation) •Best fund distributor two years running (Korea Financial Investors Protection Foundation) Consumer-centered •Established securities linked service with NH Bank’s All One Bank management vision Leading financial investment company that stands by the customer •Adopted mobile OTP •Zero cases of personal data leaks or electronic financial fraud Create companywide Build consumer Improve civil complaints Consumer-centered Prevent mis-selling CCM culture communication system and VOC management strategy Slogan contest, company Formation of customer Improve civil complaints/VOC Strengthen mystery shopping newsletter postings participation system system Strengthen informed sales Training for all employees Vitalize online system for open -E  ncourage suggestions and process training CCM proclamation ceremony suggestions system improvements Strengthen onsite training Change CS paradigm and Improve customer accessibility through financial consumer strengthen training leaders Due to changes in the financial market environment, financial products are becoming increasingly complex and varied, making it difficult for consumers to understand the inherent risks and profit structure. What is more, information acquisition is harder 1 Consumer-Centered Management Organization for individual consumers than for institutions. This has resulted in increased customer dissatisfaction and damages, as well as unnecessary social costs. As the financial industry cannot create value without customer satisfaction, differentiated capabilities We operate a unit within our organization dedicated to the systematic promotion of customer-centered management. The Financial Why is it and customer-focused management activities are essential. There is growing demand for stronger customer rights, development of environmentally/socially conscious financial products, and stronger protection of customer assets and information. Also, the reduction Consumer Protection Division assists the CEO and CCO (Chief Consumer Officer) by acting as the control tower in consumerImportant? of branches and the expansion of non-face-to-face channels have raised customer expectations for customized services unrestricted centered management. Its duties include operation/management of the VOC (Voice of Customers) system, informed sales and CS by time or place. To meet the demands of the changing times, it is necessary to advance into new markets and provide services that training, and the development/operation of a financial consumer protection system. In addition to releasing a ‘Financial Consumer deliver on convenience and customer satisfaction. Protection Charter’ for the protection of consumers’ rights, the division established a CCM Task Force Team comprising the Financial Consumer Protection Council, the head of the Financial Consumer Protection Division, and working level employees from relevant At NH Investment & Securities, we seek to establish trust with customers, practice consumer-centered management with services 2 that provides value and happiness, and prepare for the advent of a responsible digital finance era. We have established strategies departments to discuss important pending issues related to CCM. Through such efforts, we are creating a corporate culture that can and plans to that end, which are being pursued by the Financial Consumer Protection Division and the relevant department within the raise employee value alongside customer and company value. Digital Business Division. We focus on strengthening competencies through employee training based on the principle of responsible What is our investing, increasing customer participation, conducting customer satisfaction surveys, and providing customer satisfaction products Approach? and services through VOC operations. We continue to improve the process for opening non-face-to-face accounts, web trading, QV/ NAMUH MTS, etc. with consideration for user convenience. We also operate a quick accident response system as well as an effective control system to protect personal data. 3 •Diversifying customer demand •Development of products and services that reflect market changes Material •Improving access to financial services •Stronger product and service responsibility CCM TFT Issues •Protection of customers’ personal information in 2017 •Tighter IT security, growing demand for prevention of financial accidents/crimes •Establish process for fully informed sales of financial products 4 •Strengthen activities for civil complaints prevention •Reinforce training for propagation/classification/strengthening of CS standards •Develop and expand socially/environmentally conscious products Our Next •Enhance preliminary inspection process and inspection categories for new products steps •Reorganize response manual for accidents related to data protection •Make preparations/inspections for information security management system (ISMS) certification renewal review NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 47 Service Leadership Consumer-Centered Management Organization Expanded Customer Participation We utilize surveys, civil complaints, VOC, and more to reflect consumer opinions when planning/developing financial products and CEO services. In 2017, we initiated an on/offline customer panel system meant to expand customer participation and allow market changes and customer demands to be reflected during the product development stage. In September, we released a ‘gains transfer securities trust’ product based on a survey about inheritance/gifts-related trust products. We also promoted our bio-certification Chief Consumer Officer (CCO) Responsible for overseeing financial consumer service based on an assessment of customers’ awareness. For new products and services, we conduct surveys about three months protection after their release to determine how the customers are responding. We also collect the opinions of sales employees who are active at the point of contact with customers. Their feedback opens our eyes to fresh new ideas and needs that come from onsite Organization chaired by CCO that facilitates inter-departmental discussions Financial Consumer Protection Council on various consumer protection issues experience, which we reflect in developing unique financial products. Decisions on direction of financial consumer protection policies / Discussions on establishing basic plans, improving the system, etc. (Compliance Department) Customer Panel System Operations in 2017 Independent unit headed by CCO Financial Consumer Protection Division Preliminary review during new product development from perspective of financial consumer protection Content No. of Times Conducted Various activities for fully informed sales of financial products Online Panel Survey, including comparative analysis with competitors’ products/services 8 Work related to the prevention, handling, and management of civil complaints Offline Panel Survey about inheritance/gifts-related trust products 2 Strengthening Consumer-Centered Competencies Responses to Consumer Opinions We provide a wide variety of customer satisfaction (CS) training programs designed for employees, departments and branches. Consumer Opinion Product/Service Development and Improvement Our goal is to strengthen our CS competitiveness with regular training programs optimized for different locations, situations, and characteristics. We have improved our program by expanding its content to build professional expertise in consumer related areas 2015 Civil Complaints Reflect financial consumers’ opinions regarding Released New Heart ELS product and by implementing mandatory for-credit courses. With employees who recognize the importance of CS and the customer’s point ELS knock-in VOC Request for online printout of financial income Provided online printout function for financial income of view, we will continue to upgrade the quality of our services for better customer experience and benefits. statement statement Request for en bloc purchases of NH Portfolio Provided en bloc purchasing function after portfolio planning CS Competency Strengthening Programs 2016 Civil Complaints Increasing need for ELS with greater stability Released Safety Belt Rescue ELS Request for addition of principal payment condition Program Participants Main Content VOC Request for HTS improvements Improved HTS design, chart, and search function Onsite Visiting CS consultation Lowest ranked branches CS monitoring and consulting with onsite visits to relevant branch / drawing 2017 Civil Complaints Request for longer cancellation period during public Allowed ‘next-day cancellation’ throughout public subscription Training out solutions for improvement, CS lecture from professional speakers subscriptions period Customized CS training Branches that received VOC Customized training based on request from branch VOC Request for fix to fault in OTP Hybrid NAMUH Completed improvements by switching manufacturers complaints or requested training check card In-house CS broadcast All departments and sales CS White Paper case studies of good customer responses / Request for lower fees for personal IRP Lowered fees after coming to agreement with relevant branches in-house broadcast production department Classroom Team leader training Team leaders CS mindset, skills for responding to customer complaints, etc. Training Employee training Team members New employees, employees changing positions, etc. / CS training to improve customer response skills Customer Satisfaction Survey Propagation BSM training Business Support Division BSM CS training at regular BSM meetings and onsite opinion gathering We conducted the 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey so that we could better reflect customer opinions and boost our Providing CS training materials on visits to BSM branches competitiveness by improving employees’ customer-focused mindset. The survey measured customer satisfaction levels in different CS Day All employees Sharing lesson plans for case studies of model CS PLUS+ customer responses / Use of branch’s own CS training materials areas as well as changes in customer needs based on 1:1 telephone interviews with customers of KRW 10-plus million services in Consumer protection All employees Sharing exemplary VOC cases and complaints, examples of civil complaints some 90 branches. We will increase customer satisfaction by steadily resolving the problems revealed by the survey. In the future, monthly report and disputes we will also revise the survey channels and methods to obtain more accurate results as the prevalence of non-face-to-face channels undermines surveys that only address customers who visit branches. Preemptive Customer Response System Customer Satisfaction Survey Categories and Results We collect customer feedback through various on/offline channels and operate a Voice of Customer (VOC) system to quickly process the feedback. The VOC system receives requests for improvements to online channels, businesses/systems, products, branches, or Survey Items Score (Points) customer support center services. The customer suggestions are used to improve operations in all areas, from automatic transfers Business Service (3) Friendly response, promptness/accuracy, enthusiasm of response 94.25 to other banks to photographing IDs when opening non-face-to-face accounts. On December 2017, we opened a new VOC system Sales Service (5) Friendly response, enthusiasm, professionalism, explanatory ability, customer relations 92.96 that uses big data. The new system categorized VOC into three stages depending on the nature and importance of the case, and Loyalty (2) Overall satisfaction, likelihood of recommending to another 91.74 reorganized the categorization of businesses used to identify the frequently occurring VOC on a monthly/weekly basis. These improvements gave us a VOC early warning system, which in turn allowed us to establish a VOC database and analytic system for Customer Feedback Customer opinions regarding unsatisfactory aspects or areas needing improvement 87.72 preventing or preemptively responding to customer complaints. Total 93.36 ※ This customer satisfaction survey was conducted in 2016. No survey was conducted in 2017. 48 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 49 Service Leadership Strengthening Improvements to Non-face-to-face Channels Information Protection Activities of Financial We operate a variety of systems and channels that we established to make it simpler and more convenient for customers and stakeholders to receive accurate information not only about our company but also our financial products and services. We further The CPO convenes a monthly Personal Credit Information Council so that we can protect customer information and create a safe environment for electronic transactions. The Council reports on and discusses the results of monitoring for misuse of personal data, Access enhanced customer convenience by expanding and augmenting non-face-to-face channels on the website, HTS, smart phone, rundown of personal data protection inspections/projects, and more. We have also designated the second Friday of every month tablet, and call center so that customers can conduct business without having to visit a branch. as ‘Information Protection Day’ to raise awareness among employees, and voluntarily carry out inspections related to personal data and information protection on that day. Every year, employees participate in the online information protection training provided by It is now possible to open non-face-to-face comprehensive trading accounts used not only for trading stocks but a variety of the Financial Security Institute. In addition, we issue a quarterly newsletter on the topic and have a campaign to improve awareness products. We also expanded the range of products available online and simplified the application process to save customers in order to help the company internalize a culture of information protection. time and expenses. Our home trading system (HTS) offers open API* and customized services to suit individual needs through a professional trading channel as well as real-time automatic trading according to the conditions set by the investor using system trading. The mobile channel has upgraded trading, investment information, and other services, and we adopted simplified and Electronic Financial Fraud Prevention fingerprint certification methods for safe and easy mobile transactions. Our call center adopted mobile remote support and visible We operate a fraud detection system (FDS) based on big data to prevent damages caused by telecommunications-based financial ARS functions to minimize the difficulties disabled, elderly, or otherwise disadvantaged customers experience in using non-face-tofraud. FDS is used to detect irregularities and preemptively block customers’ accounts from being used in fraudulent cases face channels. or customer information from being hacked and misused. FDS is fully focused on ensuring the safety of customers’ electronic transactions. We also strengthened the security verification process which now includes a designated device service that assigns We also introduced securities-related service to NH Bank’s All One Bank, allowing customers to open non-face-to-face accounts or a specific device for financial transactions as well as a SNS withdrawal security notification service so that customers can make check their balances, as a way of increasing the effect of financial synergy within Nonghyup. transfers through non-designated devices without additional certification and receive notifications on SNS. Thanks to such efforts, we did not have a single case of customer information protection breach, hacking, or electronic financial fraud in 2017. * Application Programming Interface (API): Language or message used to communicate between operating system and application program. Case Study: Website Accessibility for Disabled Customers In accordance with the Anti-Discrimination Against and Remedies for Persons with Disabilities Act, we are Responsible Financing working to improve the accessibility of our website for users with visual, auditory, or physical impairments that make it difficult for them to use input devices. By extension, we hope to increase overall accessibility of the website for a wider audience. In 2014, the NAMUH website was revised for improved accessibility and obtained Responsible Principles of Responsible Investment the Korea Institute of Web Accessibility Certification and Value’s Web Accessibility mark. In 2015, we employed responsive web design* to make it easier for users to enjoy the same services regardless of the size of the Investing We strive to provide financial solutions that enrich our customers’ lives while taking into consideration their effect on society and the environment. In order to fulfill our responsibilities to employees, customers, shareholders, environment, and all of society Web Accessibility Mark device, from tablets to desktop computers. For our efforts, we received the award for Best Mobile Marketing as a financial investment company, we consider the economic, social, and environmental impact of our activities, from product in the financial sector at the 2015 Web Award Korea. The NH Investment & Securities website was revised development to sales to postliminary management. We adhere to the principles of responsible investing so that we can offer in 2016 for improved trading service accessibility and in 2017 for improvements to all services, as the result products and solutions that minimize financial and non-financial risks while reflecting customer needs. These principles also help of which it received the Web Accessibility mark in February 2018. Since then, we are carefully managing the us achieve stable earnings while taking social and environmental effects into account. By doing so, we will increase the company’s contents to ensure we do not violate the certification standards, and we continue to raise customer satisfaction value in the long-term and grow as a company sincerely trusted by all stakeholders. with our online services. * Responsive web design: Approach to web design that automatically changes the display based on the type of the We have a strict process for minimizing the risks that can occur when planning a financial product, being evaluated for approval, device or screen size on desktop computers, smart phones, tablets, etc. promoting the product to customers, or at any other stage. We thoroughly analyze the purpose of managing the funds, nature of the funding, investment period, and other relevant factors; listen to the opinions of research centers and global investment banks; and consider the regional and market conditions from multiple angles. Only then do we classify and manage our products based on risk and return. For products that we structure and those we source externally, we share details on the adequacy, marketability and Financial Information Security Management System risks of the product’s development and sales. If the product development or sales efficacy needs improvement, we put the product through the Product Approval Committee’s deliberation process. NH Investment & Securities’ financial products and solutions are Consumer We understand that protecting personal data and preventing data leaks are central to our management activities, and strive to protect customers’ financial transactions and information assets. To that end, we acquired the Korean Information Security reviewed/evaluated not only for trends and profitability but also timeliness, stability, and soundness. Objective and proactive followProtection Management System (ISMS) Certification in 2015 and operate an information protection system with recognized stability and up measures further increase a product’s profitability and reliability. reliability. We also operate a customer information detection & leak prevention system, network access control system, document security, distributed denial of service (DDos) defense system, and intrusion detection system as part of our extensive set-up for the advance detection of and response to internal/external security risks. Product Deliberation Process Product Approval Committee’s approval Convening of the committee Information Security Department Request for Product Approval Department applying for deliberations Product Approval Committee Secretariat Sub-committee’s approval In order to protect our customers’ information and assets more securely, we established a new department devoted to protecting Convening of the sub-committee deliberations (current Product Planning Division) customer information operating directly under the CEO’s purview. The head of the Information Security Department also serves as the chief privacy officer (CPO), credit information administrator and protector (CIAP), and chief information security officer. This Feedback on whether deliberations General approval will proceed Approval of electronic-document system makes it possible for us to respond quickly in the event of personal data leaks or information protection accidents, and to carry out effective internal control. 50 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 51 Service Leadership Sustainable Socially Responsible Investment Funds Workforce Financial As stakeholders become more aware of corporate social and environmental responsibilities, there is correspondingly growing and Talent demand for socially/environmentally conscious financial products and services. We recognize such concerns, and as a financial Products and investment company, we try to contribute to solving social/environmental problems through finance through socially responsible Services investment (SRI) funds. SRI funds invest in companies with long-term sustainability as measured by environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. We offer the NH-Amundi Long-term Growth Representative Company Equity C2 Fund, which concentrates investments on key domestic companies with potential for midto long-term growth. We will continue to develop and operate socially/environmentallyfriendly financial products and services, and also gradually expand our investment in technology to counteract climate change and other environmental issues. 2017 Key Performance • 172 new employees SRI Investment Fund Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) • Training hours per employee: 111 (male) / 117 (female) • NH Leader’s Wednesday Lecture: 10 sessions, some 2000 attendees Product Name Balance • 35 corporate culture campaign activities SHBNPP Tops Beautiful SRI Security Feeder No. 1 (Equity) 0.21 HI SRI Securities Investment Trust 0.05 MIDAS Responsible Investing Securities Investment Trust 22 NH-Amundi Long-term Growth Representative Company Equity C2 Fund 62.3 Samsung Global Clean Energy 1 (Equity-fund of funds) 1.5 1 As the financial environment in Korea changes rapidly and competition becomes more intense, hiring/retaining a capable and creative workforce is emerging as an important factor in a company’s sustainable growth. To create long-term value and increase satisfaction for the company and customers, it is essential to respect employees’ individualities and diversity, and strengthen their professional Why is it competencies. Doing so will produce employees who can lead the future by responding to the speed of change and shifting Important? environment. Providing a workplace that makes work-life balance possible, supporting childbirth and childrearing, and creating quality jobs are also ways a company contributes to society. Products Designed to Support Farmers In 2017, we released specialized products designed to raise funds in support of farmers as a way of expanding our role in supporting 2 agriculture and rural communities and sharing the differentiated value we pursue as a socially responsible corporation. Based At NH Investment & Securities, we practice open recruitment because we believe in giving a wide variety of people the chance to Fund in support of farmers on the sales amount of products like (CMA) MMW, (ISA) DLB, and (Agricultural and Livestock Cooperatives’ Savings) MMT, we will exercise their abilities. We have a transparent and fair performance evaluation and compensation plan to encourage employees to set aside funds every year to be given to public interest groups that assist farming communities, such as the National Agricultural What is our do their best and be proactive about self-development. We offer various training programs so employees can improve job skills and MMW 419.9 Cooperative Federation's 'I Farm Love.’ As of February 2018, we have sold KRW 419.9 billion worth of MMW, KRW 6,891.0 billion of pursue personal development. Employees are also given opportunities to try different jobs according to their preference and abilities. KRW billion Approach? We are reinforcing the welfare and benefits system as well so employees can find health, happiness, and a work-life balance. MMT, and KRW 20.3 billion of ISA. MMT KRW 6,891.0 billion Product Development and Services for the 100-Year Life Generation ISA DLB With the aging population in Korea, over 50% of the population is expected to be 65+ years old by 2050. A superaged society 3 20.3 •Securing talent and strengthening competencies KRW looking at an average life expectancy of 100 years will mean many changes to issues of health, children’s education, retirement, billion real estate, and financial investment. Yet many customers have difficulty in responding systematically to the changes. In particular, Material •Respect for employee diversity and equal opportunity the baby boomer generation began entering retirement recently, calling attention to the importance of post-retirement wealth Issues •Growing demand for employee welfare/rights (work-life balance) management. in 2017 NH Investment & Securities operates the Longevity Research Institute to study the changing society and needs of the times to help customers enjoy a prosperous old age. The institute focuses on various areas of life such as health, leisure, and other topics related 4 •Discover talent with global knowledge and IT capabilities to retirement that are used to develop financial investment products for an aging society and financial services for retirees. To help •Host NH Leader’s Wednesday Lecture series featuring experts from diverse fields customers secure funds for old age, we released various products that pay monthly, counteract low interest rates, and more that •Nurture global asset allocation experts and operate training course to prepare for digitalization of finance offer customers a wide array of choices and satisfaction through optimal financial solutions. We also offer education and consulting Our Next •Expand leadership training at multiple levels for better communications to customers facing retirement in our capacity as a socially responsible company. steps •Adopt 52-hour workweeks and flexible working hours, and expand Family Day 52 Workforce and Talent Talent Management Talent Talent Development and Promotion System We lead innovation and create opportunities from a global perspective based on a strong customer-centric sense of responsibility Development and creative thinking. Our core belief is in pioneering the market paradigm and creating new financial value through unmatched and professionalism and optimal financial solutions, and this allows us to grow as the industry’s finest financial solution provider. To Hiring/ Ideal Employee Strengthening achieve this, we develop and support a variety of training courses so all our business units are equipped with the highest level of competencies. Retaining The ideal NH Investment & Securities employee must clearly understand and carry out six core values based on faith in one’s own infinite potential. In doing so, the ideal employee contributes to the company’s vision: “We are aiming for beyond No. 1 and creating Competencies Talent new history in the capital market as Korea’s representative financial investment company.” Training System NH Investment & Securities’ Ideal Employee Professional Academy Leadership Academy Commitment to the WM Head Office Creativity Professionalism Fundamentals Teamwork Class Leadership Values/Vision Common (Self-development) A person who seeks challenges A person who does the A person who is respectful and A person who cooperates with and creates new things through best they can by cultivating considerate of others, and who colleagues and contributes to Innovation (Operation of innovative organization/system) creativity and critical appraisal professional competencies in makes promises to customers the progress of the company of existing framework and their field and fulfilling their their top priority and society practices responsibilities Employee Competency Strengthening Programs Open Recruitment Self-directed Learning Culture through Strengthening WM Competencies We strive continually to secure and nurture talented employees and diversify our workforce based on NH Financial Group’s Diverse Channels HR policy of ‘equal opportunity hiring and respect for employee rights.’ We practice open recruitment where we focus on real workplace competencies, and do not discriminate on the basis of region, education, age, or gender. We are working toward gender We operate a systematic educational course designed to enhance We are establishing a voluntary, self-directed learning culture through WM advisors’ comprehensive wealth management competencies. various channels with the goal of fostering experts who can adjust to equality by increasing the ratio of female employees and managers in stages. We also strive for social balance in our recruitment The course is structured around 8 learning tracks* based on the the rapidly changing financial environment and prepare for the future. practices so we can reflect diverse values and give consideration to disabled persons, veterans, graduates of regional schools, and four fundamental competencies of wealth management, product All employees can select a program that works for the responsibilities underprivileged individuals. When hiring for regional positions, we recruit from vocational school graduates to expand employment knowledge, customer management, and market understanding. of their own jobs and take an online course. In addition to professional The learning tracks cover a wide range of topics, including life cycle training, these courses include humanities/general education subjects opportunities to high-school graduates. We also help women reenter the workforce by offering reemployment opportunities to financial planning, taxes and real estate, product trends, understanding so that employees can build knowledge about the economy, society, women with discontinued careers. of private equity and structured products, analysis of economy and and culture outside of work. The NH Leader’s special lecture series is economic indices, etc. and enhance professional expertise in wealth held once a month, offering insight into recent social and economic management through a process that combines theory and practical issues. In 2017, there were ten lectures attended by some 2,000 applications. With the growing prominence of asset allocation in the employees. We also encourage employees to expand their knowledge Job Security and Efforts to Attract Talent global market, there is a need to focus on cultivating the ability to through SERI CEO’s book learning courses and operate a WM training diversify investment not only in the domestic market but also different course to guide employees who have moved from support to sales We aim to provide job security and prevent talent drain because we believe people are the source of a company’s competitiveness regions and assets. Starting in 2018, we will operate a differentiated functions adjust to the transition. and the foundation of sustainable growth. We offer contract employees the chance to transition to an open-ended contract after professional course for global asset allocation, which will evolve into field-centered training to cover diverse contents and impart workingthey have worked for us for over a year. This allows our employees to continually and independently exercise their abilities in a stable level knowledge. work environment. We are also making an effort to improve labor conditions so contract employees can receive the same welfare * 8 Learning tracks: Financial planning, advisory, commodity (theory), commodity (practical), sales skills, communication skills, market/corporate, stocks/futures/options and benefits as full-time employees. In our efforts to secure talent with global knowledge, we hold an annual job fair for overseas MBA graduates. We participate actively in financial industry job fairs hosted by related organizations and are ready to hire talented people who have work experience in a Leadership Strengthening Head Office Competencies variety of fields. Due to voluntary resignations during the normalization of the workforce following the 2014 merger, the retiree ratio rose slightly YoY from 11.3% in 2015 to 11.6% in 2016. However, the ratio of employees leaving the company fell significantly to 6.0% in 2017 thanks to the promise of job security and efforts to secure talented employees. Leadership for effective communications is crucial for a group to Each business unit identifies its required competencies and carries sustain growth and establish a principled corporate culture. We offer out training to strengthen their ability in those areas. We are nurturing a leadership course and trend training on the kind of horizontal talented employees who can provide expert solutions by supporting leadership that leads to voluntary participation from employees. We internal and external training courses to suit the characteristics of each Fair Performance Evaluation and HR System have courses for executives and division/center directors that focus business unit. Some of the main training programs are the IB/Trading on realizing a leadership of communications and harmony as well as Academy, alternative investment expert course, and corporate value We provide all employees with fair opportunities according to their abilities and talents based on our performance-focused culture. leadership training for all levels, from first-time employees and interns to evaluation course. In 2017, we had some 170 employees enrolled in newly promoted employees, newly hired experienced employees, team external training customized for the head office business units. The Actual results are judged objectively and compensation is based on the level of the individual or group’s contribution. To improve leaders and more. We also have a ‘youth board of directors’ system to fourth industrial revolution has triggered changes in global trends, and the timeliness of the evaluation and compensation, we regularly carry out personnel evaluation twice a year. Our multifaceted generate fresh, innovative ideas in management. In 2017, we operated in response, we have a training program designed to foster employees evaluations link personal performance to the group’s performance, and incorporate peer reviews to help us aspire to an a CEO course, MBA course, and a leadership course for division/center with global insights and the ability to analyze future industries. directors and team leaders which attracted 270 enrollees. individualistic culture while producing results based on teamwork. Related to the evaluation results, we operate a feedback system and appeal system to protect employee rights from unfair evaluations. Moreover, the Talent Development Committee, which is overseen by the CEO and meets regularly to select/nurture talented employees, further motivates employees to take the initiative in self-development. 54 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 55 Workforce and Talent Workforce Well-Being Health Support We help employees immerse themselves in work through physical and mental health programs. We support medical expenses and sick leave for various illnesses, and checkups to employees and their families. Through our group accident insurance system, we make the insurance payment in the event of death or diagnosis with one of the three major diseases (cancer, stroke, ischemic Work-Life Programs for Enhanced Quality of Life heart disease). We also support health management plans and efforts to provide health-related information in order to improve our employees’ health. Balance We operate a variety of benefit and welfare systems to cultivate a workplace environment that will raise the quality of life and satisfactions levels of employees by enabling them to achieve work-life balance. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Due to the nature of the financial industry, employees suffer from significant mental stress. Mental stress has a negative effect not only on job efficiency, but also on efforts to create a happy workplace. We provide professional counseling services to help employees find solutions to problems that occur in the course of carrying out their duties or in daily life. The system enables us to resolve employees’ work-life imbalance, Family Life Sabbatical Year Severance Pay raise employee satisfaction, and increase efficiency at work. Employees and their family (spouse and children) are allowed up to 8 counseling Support and Vacation and Pension Plan sessions per person at the company’s expense. Personal records and the session contents are strictly private and confidential. We provide our employees with various The sabbatical system gives employees extra Our severance pay and pension plan seeks forms of support for childbirth and childdays off equal to their annual leave as an to strengthen severance pay rights and rearing, including paid and unpaid leaves opportunity for employees to take extended guarantees the funds for a stable life in old EAP Consultation Areas during pregnancy and after birth, the use vacations. Long-serving employees qualify age. Employees can choose between defined of a feeding room, and leave of absence for for sabbatical every five years, and their benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC) Category Consultation Topics fertility treatments. In February 2017, we name is entered into a list in January each pension plans and apply to either one. They Work-related Conflict in the workplace, career development, time management, motivation, etc. opened a workplace childcare center, the year. In addition to the legally prescribed also have one opportunity of changing to a first of its kind in the securities industry, to vacation days, our system allows employees DC plan during their term of employment. Psychological/Emotional (Mental wellness) Personal relationships (communication), mental health (depression, anxiety, rage), help ease the burden of child-rearing and to take half-days and days off for physical stress management, etc. as part of our corporate social responsibility. fitness, rest and relaxation, or other personal Family and children Spousal/relationship/marital issues, other family-related issues, child-rearing, etc. Employees with a child aged one to five reasons. years old can apply for admission by Miscellaneous Financial management, legal advice, health lottery. By offering an excellent childcare environment with a professional teaching staff, we hope to discourage working moms from discontinuing their careers and help our employees’ children grow up safe and Labor-Management Balance healthy. We guarantee our employees the three basic labor rights as stipulated in Article 33 of the Constitution. The labor union was first established in 1981, and as of end of December 2017, we have 2,050 employees (71.6%) eligible to join. Of these, 2,049 (99.9%) are members of the union. Every year, we sign a collective wage agreement through the union with terms that apply to all employees. Miscellaneous Employee Benefits The labor-management council meets on a quarterly basis to discuss management issues related to the company and employees. Program Details Besides the council, we have secured a variety of official/unofficial communication channels that facilitate smooth communications between labor and management to help us maintain a cooperative relationship. Housing Support Housing finance loans to help employees who do not own a home achieve residential stability Boarding allowance for employees appointed to a regional office (not in employee’s hometown) Child Education Support Admissions fee and tuition support for employees’ children currently enrolled in middle and high school and college Educational expenses support for children below school age; applies to 3 years immediately preceding enrollment in elementary school Support for IG Activities Operational expenses support for intra-company informal groups (IG); available to 21 IGs in 4 areas: hobbies & interests, health & fitness, regional mountaineering, and volunteer work Family Day Establish family-friendly culture with twice monthly practice of leaving work at 5pm (every 2nd, 4th Friday) Signing ceremony with union 56 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 57 Community Investment Community Corporate citizenship Investment Nanoom Nanoom Management Philosophy Management In line with Nonghyup’s Nanoom Management that aims to promote the welfare of farmers and development of local communities, NH Investment & Securities is operating a differentiated and systematic companywide CSR initiative. Guided by the slogan System ‘Bright World, Together with Us,’ we are pursuing employee-led programs under three core themes of dream, hope and future. Going forward, we plan to expand our role and scope of corporate social responsibility with projects that reflect our business characteristics. 2017 Key Performance Nanoom Management Organization •39 company volunteer groups In order to implement industry-leading corporate philanthropy and offer organized and systematic programs, we set up the Social •6,481 Nanoom Management participants Contribution Division, directly under the CEO in 2010. We are spreading the culture of giving and sharing value through the •33,015 hours of participation in Nanoom Management employee volunteer corps. Operated through employee donations and corporate CSR fund, the volunteer corps, which is divided into •2017 Sponsors Night, Yeongdeungpo-gu Council Chairperson Award 39 groups according to business divisions, is making a difference in our communities through a wide range of activities. •2017 KEF/AKJ Sustainability Management Awards, Minister of Health and Welfare Award in the social contribution category Nanoom Management Organization CEO 1 In a time of worldwide economic weakness, widening wealth gap, and growing urban-rural disparity in income and progress, the social impact of corporations is expanding. With interest and demand for corporate social responsibility likewise growing among stakeholders, Social Contribution Division Donation Review Committee Why is it the company’s role is to build a shared society by understanding/managing its impact on society and actively participating in local Important? community issues. Gangnam Regional Gangbuk Regional Gangseo Regional Dongbu Regional Central Western WM Division Other Business Management Under direct control 2 Support 2 Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Divisions We conduct business in many regions in Korea and abroad, and we are aware of the effect we may have on the local community Headquarters of CEO and the lives of residents. We have chosen to focus on three key areas, and mainly through the company’s volunteer groups, we Regional Headquarters are systematically pursuing social contribution activities that utilize the nature and professional expertise of our business. We also What is our collect feedback from internal and external stakeholders of Nanoom Management to measure the satisfaction and discover areas of Approach? improvement, based on which we carry out Nanoom Management that reflects the needs of the local community. We will continue 5 6 3 3 6 4 4 6 implementing activities with sincerity, persistence, and consistency to build a better, warmer world. 3 NH Investment & Securities launched the CSR website to boost employee engagement and spread the culture of giving. The website’s intuitive and simple layout makes it easier for employees to connect and communicate with each other and gives them an opportunity to share their stories of helping others. Material •Participation in and contribution to local communities http://1004.nhwm.com or NHow → Life → CSR Issues in 2017 4 •Pursue social contribution activities that utilize nature of the securities industry •Expand activities through voluntary participation from employees •Improve effect of activities through selection and concentration Our Next •Pursue global social contribution activities steps NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 59 Community Investment Nanoom Angel Fund Management NH Investment & Securities has been operating Angel Fund to help our underprivileged neighbors and children since 2005 in conjunction with NGOs. Angel Fund gathers donations from employees’ monthly wages. Employees can designate the amount they Activities want to give and programs they want to support through the intranet. The company also makes a contribution to the fund. Working closely with NGOs such as the Community Chest of Korea, Miral Welfare Foundation and Children’s Cancer Foundation, Angel Fund is committed to improving the lives of children and our neighbors in need. Its work involves improving the nutrition of children of 25 low-income families so they can reach their full potential, providing financial assistance to children with cancer so they can get early treatment, and offering health service to residents of rural farming areas that lack healthcare access. Angel Fund (Unit: KRW 10 million) Another Town Another Town, which started in 2016, is an innovative model of cooperation designed to promote close ties and exchanges between the company and farming communities. The CEO and senior executives take part as ‘honorary town representatives’ and all other employees as ‘honorary residents.’ As of 2017, we have set up 29 such towns. Rather than one-off activities, we provide ongoing 146.4 146.4 support through long-term endeavors such as markets where farmers can directly sell their produce. Our urban-rural initiative also promotes information and cultural sharing, which is helping to create a positive image of the agricultural sector. Going forward, we 123.0 will add more Another Towns to help breathe life into local communities. We plan to increase the number of the towns to 30 in 2018. Another Town 2016 2017 No. of towns 5 29 2015 2016 2017 No. of town visits 6 51 No. of participants 418 1,571 Participation rate (%) 14 59 Grants & Scholarships Every year, we select 40 high-performing high school students from low-income families and offer them grants for tuitions and school-related expenses. In addition, we give KRW 1 million in rewards when they enter college. As of 2017, 487 students benefited from our scholarships. Moreover, we have in place a mentoring program in which our employees work with scholarship students to offer them advice on school life and future careers. The scheme is aimed at providing real support so the mentees can develop into future talent. Since 2017, we focused on giving priority to high-achieving students from low income families in the farming regions so they can be nurtured into community leaders. 60 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 61 NH Investment & Securities is pursuing diverse strategic activities to make a foothold for sustainable growth. By boosting profitability with Sustainability better operational efficiencies of existing businesses and customerfriendly financial services, we are committed to Performance implementing an advanced financial system. We are also encouraging customer involvement in green activities by developing and selling products that create environmental value. Economic Performance / Social Performance / Environmental Performance Sustainability Performance Economic Performance (Unit: KRW 1 million) Summary 2015 2016 2017 Consolidated Cash and cash equivalents 1,284,399 724,626 597,111 Statement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 28,816,805 27,879,611 25,239,638 Derivative assets for hedging purposes 309 1,662 5,899 of Financial Available-for-sale financial assets 1,910,894 4,221,533 6,311,849 Assets Net income ROE Position Held-to-maturity financial assets 20,020 Loans and receivables 9,100,901 9,541,903 11,107,593 349,633 7.2 Investments in associates 64,614 57,240 66,287 43,892,739 236,221 Fixed assets 293,811 307,505 300,349 42,970,595 214,240 5.1 41,706,316 4.7 Investment properties 72,069 52,373 53,401 Intangible assets 27,166 25,769 20,500 Current tax assets 33,316 3,752 3,783 Deferred tax assets 1,607 75,295 91,482 Other assets 80,405 79,326 94,847 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total assets 41,706,316 42,970,595 43,892,739 Deposits due to customers 1,978,468 2,372,114 3,080,583 43,892,739 349,633 7.2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 16,201,905 17,448,043 14,926,262 (Unit: %)* Derivative liabilities for hedging purposes 38,130 29,327 7,881 (Unit: KRW 1 million) (Unit: KRW 1 million) *Based on equity capital Borrowings 16,268,019 15,274,807 14,993,801 Debentures 1,298,485 1,897,608 3,499,901 2017 Economic Value Creation and Distribution Other liabilities 1,266,354 1,165,936 2,443,852 (Unit: KRW 1 million) Provisions 5,561 6,383 4,584 Current tax liabilities 43 58,850 6,684 150,610 2,370 Deferred tax liabilities 40,602 811 Shareholders Local communities (Dividend) (Donations) Other liabilities 58,205 68,749 92,173 Total liabilities 37,155,772 38,321,817 39,056,532 Controlling interest 4,542,296 4,638,816 4,830,600 Total Capital stock 1,531,275 1,531,275 1,531,275 1,061,366 501,971 92,915 Other paid-in capital 1,518,286 1,518,286 1,518,635 Employees Government (Salaries and wages, severance (Income tax) Other capital components 223,572 204,697 167,129 and retirement benefits, other employee benefits, early retirement allowances) Retained earnings 1,269,163 1,384,558 1,613,561 Non-controlling interest 8,248 9,962 5,607 Total equity 4,550,544 4,648,778 4,836,207 247,838 65,662 Customers * (Interest expenses) Suppliers (Electronic data professing *Including investors of expenses, business process borrowed capital outsourcing, commissions paid) 64 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 65 Sustainability Performance Summary 2015 2016 (Unit: KRW 1 million) 2017 Social Performance Consolidated Operating revenues 7,003,662 8,841,546 9,545,474 Statement of Operating expenses 6,689,531 8,539,599 9,086,270 Comprehensive Operating income 314,131 301,947 459,204 Net income before income tax expense 282,192 301,971 Income 442,548 Income tax expense 67,952 65,750 92,915 Average training expense per person 100-Year Life Academy Net income 214,240 236,221 349,633 Other comprehensive income 883 -19,752 -37,637 Total comprehensive income (loss) 215,123 216,469 311,996 27 (Unit: %) 637 Stability 2015 2016 2017 520 600 18 Current ratio (3-month accumulated) 182.90 167.80 123.90 Average training Debt-to-equity ratio 126.80 106.10 84.90 expense per person No. of sessions Net capital ratio * Based on closing balance of equity 771.00 1342 1811 637 27 (Unit: KRW 1,000) (Unit: session) (Unit: %) Profitability 2015 2016 2017 Operating margin 4.5 3.4 4.8 2015 2016 2017 2016 2017 Gross margin 3.1 2.7 3.7 Return on assets 0.5 0.5 0.8 Return on equity 4.7 5.1 7.2 CSR (Unit: %) Growth 2015 2016 2017 Revenue growth 45.1 26.2 8.0 Fixed asset growth 2.3 4.7 (2.3) Net income growth 163.6 10.3 48.0 Company donation No. of CSR participants Hours participating in CSR Total asset growth 1.6 3.0 2.1 2,350 6,481 33,015 Operating income growth 150.4 (3.9) 52.1 (Unit: KRW 1 million) (Unit: Person) (Unit: Hour) 2,350 (Unit: KRW 1 million) 8,566 33,194 Economic Stakeholders Items 2015 2016 2017 779 8,465 33,015 Value Shareholders Employees Dividend Salaries and wages, severance and retirement 120,677 527,310 120,677 418,655 150,610 501,971 615 6,481 31,732 Creation and benefits, other employee benefits, Distribution early retirement allowances Customers * Interest expenses 326,230 285,593 247,838 Local communities Donations 623 2,783 2,370 Government Income tax 67,952 65,750 92,915 Suppliers Electronic data professing expenses, business 74,618 68,360 65,662 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 process outsourcing, commissions paid Total 1,117,410 961,818 1,061,366 * Including investors of borrowed capital 66 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 67 Sustainability Performance (Unit: case) Gift Return 2015 2016 2017 Outsider 2015 2016 2017 Center No. of returns 5 1 2 Reporting No. of reports 1 1 2 Operation No. of donations 5 1 0 Channel No. of remedies/replies 1 1 2 Reply rate (%) 100 100 100 (Unit: person) Ethics/ Participants No. of participants (Unit: case, %) Compliance2015 2016 2017 related Regular ethics All department CMs & team 648 537 524 VOC 2015 2016 2017 Training compliance training chiefs Operation No. of reports 850 574 692 Outside lecturer Related department No. of cases handled 850 574 692 700 425 750 training employees Handling rate (%) 100 100 100 On-demand training New employees, upon 72 205 302 department request Total 1,420 1,157 1,576 ※ Above figures include group training only and exclude video ethics training for all employees (40 times per year), money laundering prevention training (once per year) and fair trade prevention training (once per year). Customer Communication Channels 100-Year Life Academy Regulation Violations No. of cases (Unit: session, person) Violations in Related to program trading 3 2015 2016 2017 2017 Related to conflicts of interest 5 No. of sessions 18 27 Related to order record maintenance 9 No. of participants (average) 43 41 Related to unfair trade practices 5 ※ The 100-Year Life Academy was launched in Feb. 2017 and is overseen by the Longevity Research Institute. Violation of money transaction between employees 11 The Academy is a lecture series open to the public, providing educational contents that help customers manage their lifetime assets. ※ Above cases are items detailed in “Compliance office notice” issued upon minor breach of company regulations. 100-Year Life College (Unit: session, person) 2015 2016 2017 Law Violations Agency Date Details Reason No. of sessions 2 2 2 in 2017 Financial Supervisory Service May 18, 2017 Institutional caution, fine of KRW 77.5 million Violation of ban on receiving unjust gains Violation of ban on using insider No. of participants (average) 77 73 70 Financial Supervisory Service Sep. 1, 2017 Institutional caution information ※ The 100-Year Life College is held twice a year and is overseen by the Longevity Research Institute. The College is a program designed to prepare for happy and healthy post-retirement life developed jointly by NH Investment & Securities and Seoul National University. ※ Above are sanctions imposed on the company and employees (director, auditor, person instructing task execution, executive and important employees carrying out the task) from external inspection. Investment Seminars for Customers (for over 100 People) (Unit: session, person) 2015 2016 2017 Whistleblowing 2015 2016 2017 No. of sessions 4 6 Channel No. of reports 2 No. of participants (average) 500 375 No. of remedies/replies 2 Reply rate (%) 100 ※ Maekyung Overseas Investment Forum, overseas bond seminars (Brazil/Russia/Mexico, etc.), derivative linked Securities (ELS/DLS) seminars, NH Research Forum, etc. 68 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 69 Sustainability Performance (Unit: person, hour) (Unit: %, person) Information 2015 2016 2017 Employee 2015 2016 2017 Protection No. of participants 2,958 2,793 2,764 Diversity Female leadership Position Percentage of females among total workforce 38.5 38.5 38.9 Training Training hours 21,236 15,986 17,097 Percentage of females among total managerial workforce* 18.3 19.1 19.9 ※ Only includes Financial Security Institute’s privacy and information protection online training Employment Percentage of females among contract-based workers 26.0 25.6 25.8 status Percentage of females among regular workers 42.1 42.6 43.1 Others High school graduates (%) 232(7.5%) 206(7.1%) 211(7.4%) (Unit: case) Veterans (%) 110(3.6%) 100(3.5%) 91(3.2%) Personal 2015 2016 2017 Disabled (%) 30(1.0%) 32(1.1%) 30(1.0%) Information No. of leaks 0 0 0 Leaks * Above section chief (Unit: case) Electronic 2015 2016 2017 Training Hour Unit 2015 2016 2017 Financial No. of fraud cases 0 0 0 and Expense Average training hour per person Male Hour 124 110 111 per Person Female 134 121 117 Fraud Average training expense per person KRW 1000 520 600 637 (Unit: person, % ) Employee 2015 2016 2017 (Unit: hour) Status Total no. of employees 3,079 2,888 2,863 Training Hour 2015 2016 2017 New hires Male (%) 80(49.1) 69(50.7) 82(47.7) Female (%) 83(50.9) 67(49.3) 90(52.3) per Person Average training hour per person Branch sales staff 142 115 117 According to Branch support staff 138 124 117 Attrition Male (%) 235(7.6) 180(6.2) 112(3.9) Employee Status (resignation/ Head office sales staff 108 103 90 retirement) Female (%) 114(3.7) 155(5.4) 83(2.9) Head office support staff 116 117 108 Employment Regular 2,452 2,258 2,252 status Non-regular 627 630 611 (Unit: person, %) Region Domestic 3,066 2,875 2,853 Overseas 13 13 10 Maternity 2015 2016 2017 Position Executive 43 48 52 Leave No. of leave users Male 2 1 2 Female 65 86 69 Managerial 1,635 1,595 1,630 No. of returnees Male 2 1 Rank-and-file 1,401 1,245 1,181 Female 22 66 65 Age 20s (%) 205(6.7) 118(4.1) 121(4.2) No. of people remaining for Male 2 30s (%) 1,303(42.3) 1,253(43.4) 1,209(42.2) 12 months after their return Female 20 50 57 40s (%) 1,248(40.5) 1,202(41.6) 1,151(40.2) Return rate Male 100.0 50.0 Over 50s (%) 323(10.5) 315(10.9) 382(13.3) Female 97.2 91.2 85.5 Gender Male (%) 1,894(61.5) 1,777(61.5) 1,748(61.1) Retention rate Male 100.0 Female (%) 1,185(38.5) 1,111(38.5) 1,115(38.9) Female 90.9 75.8 87.7 70 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 71 Sustainability Performance Health CheckUnit 2015 2016 2017 Environmental Performance Largely due to characteristics of the financial service sector, NH Investment & Securities’ negative impact up Health check-up Persons 2,921 2,866 2,697 on the environment is relatively small compared to other industries. However, as a responsible member of society, we are fully aware of the seriousness of global environmental issues and the need for urgent action to address climate change. Accordingly, we are committed to reducing our environmental footprint through such activities as energy and resource conservation and greenhouse gas and waste reduction. CSR Unit 2015 2016 2017 We will continue to make eco-friendly choices to ensure a better tomorrow by focusing on creating an environmentally conscientious workplace, pursuing energy saving activities, and developing green financial Support CSR funding Company donation KRW 1 million 615 779 2,350 products and services. CSR fund (Employee KRW 1 million 70 97 92 volunteer corps) No. of CSR participants Person 8,465 8,566 6,481 Hours participating in CSR Hour 31,732 33,194 33,015 Energy Use Unit 2015 2016 2017 City gas (LNG) 1,000 m3 35.711 37.997 40.043 Diesel oil kℓ 9 3.6 2.4 Supply From bidding to payment, NH Investment & Securities use an electronic procurement system (NICEDocu, www.nicedocu.com) in accordance with outsourcing rules for greater convenience and transparency in transaction with our suppliers. We forbid preferential Electricity Kwh 8,807.193 7,060.629 6,530.391 Network evaluation that restricts bidding according to the size of registered firms and suppliers and promote transparency by adhering to Management clear standards. To pursue transparent transactions, we sign an Integrity Agreement with 40 registered firms and 128 suppliers before entering into a contract. After signing a contract, we conduct an ethics awareness survey drawn up by the compliance department to reaffirm laws and procedures with the person in charge. There was no incidence in which a contract was terminated due to corruption or violation of laws connected to suppliers during the reporting period. Greenhouse Unit 2015 2016 2017 Gas Emission Direct emission (scope I) 393.9 68.3 88.5 Indirect emission (scope II) tCO2eq 4,106.3 3,284.5 3,046.2 Total 4,512.8 3,046.2 3,147.4 Water & Unit 2015 2016 2017 Paper Use Water use Ton 38,197 38,984 38,329 Paper use 97.5 96.25 100.5 NH Investment & Securities' electronic procurement system Waste Unit 2015 2016 2017 Disposal Industrial waste 300 300 300 Specified waste Ton 60 60 60 Waste recycled amount 108 120 120 ※ The scope of environmental reporting covered only the head office and branches in Korea. Affiliates, subsidiaries, suppliers and overseas branch offices have been excluded. 72 28 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 73 Appendix Third Party Assurance To NH Investment & Securities Management and Stakeholders ■ Foreword NH Investment & Securities commissioned the Korean Standards Association (hereinafter referred to as “the auditor”), to undertake independent assurance of the NH Investment & Securities’ Sustainability Report 2018 (the “Report”). KSA reviewed feasibility of data included in the report prepared by NH Investment & Securities and presented our independent assurance. The sole responsibility for claims and performances included in the Report lies with NH Investment & Securities. ■ Independence The auditor is an independent assurance agency that has no stake in NH Investment & Securities’ business activities other than providing third party assurance, nor has any relationship that may damage its independence or that is for the purpose of profit-making. Appendix ■ Standards and Level of Assurance The Assurance Engagement was carried out at a medium level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) of AccountAbility as an assurance standard based on the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of data included in the report as well as in accordance with the principles for defining report quality set forth in GRI Standard. ■ Type and Scope of Assurance The auditor performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) of AccountAbility as an assurance standard. This means that the accuracy of NH Investment & Securities’ claims and performance data presented in the report has been verified. The scope of the assurance engagement was for the reporting period of January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 with the focus on NH Investment & Securities’ sustainable management system and activities including its goals, policies, performances, projects and standards. Meanwhile, environmental and social data as well as financial data for the broad sense of economic performance were verified. Verification regarding stakeholder engagement was limited to the review of the materiality assessment process. ■ Verification Method The auditor used the following methods to collect information, data and evidence related to the scope of assurance. •Examined and analyzed media reports on NH Investment & Securities’ sustainability initiative •Examined the company’s reporting issues selected in consultation with NH Investment & Securities •Visited NH Investment & Securities headquarters and interviewed persons in charge of sustainability and specific issues •Reviewed management system and process used in improving sustainability performance and preparing the report •Reviewed whether the audit report on financial data and consolidated financial statements aligned with disclosure information •Followed up on and examined internal documents and basic data Third Party Assurance GRI & ISO 26000 Content Index UN Global Compact Accolades and Affiliations NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 75 Appendix Third Party Assurance ■ Verification Results and Opinion (Verification Principle/Process) ▷ Topic-specific Standards The auditor reviewed the draft of the report and provided feedback which led to its revision. In addition, we did not find any The auditor confirmed detailed disclosure items for the material topics generated through the reporting item decision process and significant errors or inappropriate depictions in the report. The auditor’s opinion on the NH Investment & Securities’ Sustainability verified the following disclosure items. Report 2018 is as follows. •Economic topics: 201-1, 205-3 •Social topics: 401-3, 404-1, 405-1, 413-1, 418-1 ▷ Inclusivity Did NH Investment & Securities include stakeholders in coming up with sustainability strategy? ■ Recommendation for Improvement (Implementation Results/Issues) It has been confirmed that NH Investment & Securities, in pursuing sustainable management, recognizes the importance of To implement a companywide sustainability strategy and take appropriate actions in sustainability issues, the auditor recommended engaging core stakeholders and is working to implement the engagement process. NH Investment & Securities’ core stakeholder NH Investment & Securities to review the following. groups consist of customers, shareholders, investors, employees, government agencies and local communities. The auditor verified that the company operates communication channels for each stakeholder group and collects diverse opinions through these •We confirmed that NH Investment & Securities is committed to various actions related to risk control, ethical management, channels. consumer-centered management, development of sustainable financial products and services, and social contributions as it aims to effectively cope with the rapidly changing paradigm of the financial market and reinforce sustainability. ▷ Materiality •Socially and environmentally responsible investment has been designated by many global financial firms as a material sustainable Did the report contain important information to facilitate stakeholders’ informed decision-making? issue as they race to deal with the matter proactively. We recommend that NH Investment & Securities improve its awareness on We believe NH Investment & Securities did not omit or exclude any material information that may influence the decision-making the issue and implement policies on responsible investing as well as strengthen environmental performance management and process of stakeholders. Moreover, we conclude that NH Investment & Securities conducted materiality assessment on major issues reporting. generated from internal and external environment analysis and reported according to the assessment results. •Going forward, we ask that NH Investment & Securities reinforce performance management and impact measurement for strategies and action plans of each stakeholder group to build a highly-advanced framework for sustainability. Moreover, we hope ▷ Responsiveness the company will continue to share its sustainability goals and results with stakeholders through publication of the Sustainability Did NH Investment & Securities take appropriate action towards stakeholder concerns and demands? Report. We confirmed that NH Investment & Securities made an effort to respond to stakeholder demands and concerns by including collected stakeholder opinions in the report. Moreover, we did not find any evidence that NH Investment & Securities’ actions on major stakeholder issues were reported inappropriately. ■ GRI Standards Application Level Review April 2018 The auditor verified that the report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards’ Core Option. Moreover, we confirmed that Lee Sang-jin reporting on the following Universal Standards and Topic-specific Standards indicators were accurate based on data prepared and KSA Chairman & CEO presented by NH Investment & Securities. ▷ Universal Standards The auditor confirmed that the report complies with requirements in the Core Option’s universal standards and verified the following disclosure items. 102-1 to 102-13 (Organization profile), 102-14 (Strategy), 102-16 (Ethics and Integrity), 102-18 (Governance structure), 102-40 to 102-44 (Stakeholder engagement), 102-45 to 102-56 (Reporting practice), 103 (Management Approach) The Korean Standards Association is a special corporation founded in 1962 in line with the Industrial Standardization Act. It is a knowledge service provider that distributes and educates Korean companies on industrial standards, quality management, sustainable management and KS/ISO certification. In particular, it has contributed to sustainable development of the Korean society as the domestic administrator of ISO 26000, GRI designated education institute, AA1000 verification agency, KSI operator, UN CDM operating body, and GHG reduction registry office. 76 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 77 Appendix GRI & ISO 26000 Content Index GRI & ISO 26000 Content Index Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards External GRI 102: General Disclosures Disclosures ISO 26000 Page assurance External Disclosures ISO 26000 Page GRI 200 Economic topics assurance Organizational profile 103 Management Approach 37 ● Economic 102-1 Name of the organization 8 ● 6.8.1-6.8.2 / 6.8.3 Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 66 ● 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 15~19 ● / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 ● 103 Management Approach 30 ● Anti-corruption 102-4 Location of operations 8~9 ● 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 68, 72 ● 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8~9 ● GRI 400 Social topics 102-6 Markets served 6.3.10 / 6.4.1-6.4.2 8~9 ● 103 Management Approach 53 ● 102-7 Scale of the organization / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / 6.4.5 8~9, 65~66 ● 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 70~71 X Employment 102-8 Information on employees and other workers / 6.8.5 / 7.8 8~9, 70~71 ● 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.4.4 / 6.8.7 56~57 X 102-9 Supply chain 72 ● 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 71 ● 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes ● 103 Management Approach 53 ● Training and 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 31~33 ● 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 71 ● Education 102-12 External initiatives 13, 79 ● 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 6.4.7 / 6.8.5 54~55 X 102-13 Membership of associations 80 ● Diversity and Equal 103 Management Approach 53 ● Strategy Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.2.3 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 20, 54, 70~71 ● 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4~5 ● 103 Management Approach 58 ● 4.7 / 6.2 / 7.4.2 Local Communities 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 33, 38~39 X 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 6.3.9 / 6.5.1-6.5.2 / 6.5.3 / 59~61 ● Ethics and integrity 103 Management Approach 6.8 46 ● Customer Privacy 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 34, Homepage ● 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.1-6.7.2 / 6.7.7 51, 70 ● 4.4 / 6.6.3 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 34~36 X Governance UN Global Compact 102-18 Governance structure 6.2 / 7.4.3 / 7.7.5 20~21 ● Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22 ● 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 57 ● Since joining the UN Global Compact in September 2011, NH investment & Securities has been abiding by the UNGC’s ten principles 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 22 ● in the four major areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. The world’s largest corporate sustainability 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 23~25 ● initiative is a call to companies to align their strategies and operations with the ten universal principles and take actions that 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 23~25 ● advance societal goals. As such, NH Investment & Securities has been incorporating the principles to uphold human and labor Reporting practice rights, address the global environmental challenge, and establish a culture of integrity to root out corruption. In addition, we are 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 8~9 ● sharing related activities and performances through our Sustainability Report. Our commitment to enact and comply with the ten 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 26~27 ● UNGC principles will continue into the future. 102-47 List of material topics 27 ● Area Principle Page 102-48 Restatements of information N/A ● Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A ● 34~35, 56~57, 68, 71 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 102-50 Reporting period About This Report ● 7.5.3 / 7.6.2 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report ● 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report ● 54, 56~57, 71 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report ● 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report ● 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 102-55 GRI content index 78~79 ● Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 102-56 External assurance 75~77 ● 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 51~52, 73 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 34~36, 68~69 78 NH Investment & Securities Sustainability Report 2018 79 Appendix Accolades and Affiliations Major Awards Date Sponsor Award category in 2017 2017.01.11 Hankyung Business 2016 2H Hankyung Business, Best Research Securities Firm 2nd Place 2017.01.14 Korea Digital Enterprise Association 2016 &Award, Digital Media/Digital Contents Category – Grand Prix Award 2017.01.24 the bell 2017 thebell League Table Awards Best Equity House (Best House_ECM) 2017.02.02 The Korea Economic Daily The 8th Korea IB Awards – ECM Market Insight 2017.02.09 Financial Services Commission 2017 Maekyung Securities Awards – First Prize, Securities Firms 2017.02.22 Korea Employers Federation 2017 Add Happiness CSR Awards – Health and Welfare Minister Prize in the CSR category Association of Korean Journalists 2017.02.23 the bell 2017 Korea Wealth Management Awards Fund Distributor of the Year 2017.02.28 Korea Financial Investment Association The 8th Asia Fund Awards – Best Distributor 2017.03.02 Korea Exchange 61st Anniversary of Korean Stock Market Opening – Achievement Award 2017.03.17 Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2016 2H Best Government Bond Dealer Awards – Best Securities Firm 2017.07.17 League of American Communications 2016 VISION AWARDS Platinum Award Professionals (LACP) 2017.07.18 Hankyung Business 2017 1H Best Securities Firm/Analyst Awards – Top Prize, Best Securities Firm 2017.08.02 Korea Finance Consumer Federation 2017 Best Securities Firm Awards – Overall No. 1 2017.08.18 JoongAng Ilbo 2017 Consumer Brand Awards – First Prize, Mobile Division 2017.09.22 Korea Business News 2017 Global Financial Awards – Korea Financial Investment Association Chairman Award 2017.10.26 the bell 2017 thebell Risk Manager Awards – Grand Prize 2017.10.26 Asia Business Daily The 7th Asia Mobile Trading System Awards – First Prize, MTS 2017.11.24 Yeongdeungpo-gu Office 2017 Sponsors Night – Yeongdeungpo-gu Council Chairperson Award 2017.12.01 Fair Trade Commission The 22nd Consumer’s Day Ceremony – KFTC Chairperson Commendation 2017.12.12 Maekyung Media Group 2017 Consumer Star Brand Awards – Wealth Management Services 2017.12.14 Aju Business Daily 2017 Aju Business Daily Financial Securities Awards – Overall First Prize, Securities Firm 2017.12.19 Asia Economic Daily Asia Capital Investment Awards – Grand Prize, IB 2017.12.20 EToday The 7th Market Leader of the Year Awards – Top Prize, Wealth Management Affiliated Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Listed Company Audit Seoul FX Market Operation Baby Bond Members Associations PEF Council (Seoul Chamber of Commerce Association Council Council and Industry) Human Development Institute Korea Capital Market The Federation of Compliance Council Securities Friday Group HDI CEO Study Group Institute Korean Industries Korea Options, Swaps & Securities and Money Market Retirement Pension The Institute of Internal Derivatives Association Korea Exchange Association Development Council Auditors (KOSDA) Korea Management Korea Mecenat Korea Listed Companies Korea Employers Federation Korea CEO Forum Association Association Association Korea Investor Relations Korea M&A Association FOREX CLUB Member firm Seoul IB Forum UN Global Compact Service 80
