Sustain —ability Report 2018 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress THIS COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS HAS BEEN DISCUSSED, REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY OUR Contents BOARD AND ALL OUR 1. About Alliance EMPLOYEES. THIS REPORT 2. About Global Compact 3. The Principles IS PUBLISHED ON THE 4. Statement of Continued Support 5. Living the principles 6. Achievements in the report period UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WEBSITE 7. Sustainable design in our projects 8. Our Goals for the next year UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG AND OUR OWN WEBSITE 2018 — Design & illustrations by Alliance architecture studio ALLARK.NO About Alliance Alliance is a Norwegian architecture studio established in June 2005, with offices in both We make Oslo and Stavanger. The studio collaborates with various offices and disciplines, and we frequently participate in strategies. This represents the energy and an attitude that inspire us in our daily work. architecture architectural competitions. We also have a set of values that we strive to implement in all we do: curious, responsible The scope of our work spans from case studies and challenging. and area planning to the development and completion of building projects. Our projects In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural range from detailing a 50 m² boat house office in Norway, we became members of the to developing 470 000 m² area plans. We UN’s Global Compact, where members commit for a better primarily work with new construction, but to aligning their operations with ten principles are also involved in renovation, restoring and concerning environment, anti-corruption, extensions to existing structures. The majority human rights and labour. of our commissions consist of residential and commercial developments. We do development Our involvement so far is mainly concerned design from concept to completion. with environmental sustainability and labour standards. Furthermore, we promote the role Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ of architecture as a trigger in encouraging world horizontal structure and we continuously seek the public to participate in environmental to collaborate with groups and individuals and social issues. As architects, we aspire to from other disciplines. We believe that such encourage the discourse on our current and collaboration contributes to a positive synergy future urban development, where the interests effect as well as adding inspiration and learning of private developers may diverge from the to the work processes, resulting in creative needs of the society. Our stated vision: we methods and original results. We carefully make architecture for a better world. assemble teams with the necessary requested experience in combination with innovative More about us on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Alliance architecture studio — Sustainability report The world’s About Global Compact largest The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted corporate principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of stakeholders from over 163 countries, it is sustainability globalisation, can help markets, commerce, the largest voluntary corporate responsibility technology and finance advance in ways that initiative in the world. The Global Compact is benefit economies and societies everywhere. a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability As social, political and economic issues — at policies and practices. Offering participants a home or in other regions — increasingly affect wide range of work streams, management tools business, many companies recognise the need and resources, the framework is designed to to collaborate with governments, civil society, help advance sustainable business models and initiative labour and NGO’s like the UN Global Compact. markets. This ever-increasing understanding reflects in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. With over 37.000 corporate participants and other More about GC on the UN website https://www.unglobalcompact.org The Ten Principles THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AntiLabour corruption 2. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Alliance is committed to protect labour rights, including freedom of association, abolition of forced and child labour, and the elimination of any type of discrimination. of the right to collective Alliance fulfils all its responsibilities 1. Businesses should work Alliance is committed to working bargaining. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance has against corruption in all its forms. against corruption in all its appointed employee representatives forms, including extortion 3. The elimination of all forms in both office locations as council and neutral support for employees on and bribery. of forced and compulsory issues regarding salary negotiation and contractual dispute. labour. Alliance sees great value in geographical and ethnic diversity 4. The effective abolition of among its work force and we currently employ people from 13 different child labour. nationalities. 5. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. More about the Ten Principles https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles Human EnvironRights ment 6. Businesses should support Alliance is committed to the protection of international human rights within our 8. Businesses should support a Alliance is committed to the promotion of greater environmental responsibility and respect the protection sphere of influence. precautionary approach to and precautionary approaches to environmental challenges in our sphere of internationally proclaimed Alliance fulfils all its responsibilities environmental challenges. of influence. human rights. according to Norwegian law, including implementing a health and safety We seek to involve users and management system. The company 9. Undertake initiatives stakeholders at an early project stage. We design for a healthy living, working holds a third party certification 7. Make sure that they are not as a “Sustainability lighthouse” to promote greater and social environment, and believe this complicit in human rights (Miljøfyrtårn), with obligations on health and safety management beyond environmental responsibility. is key to a sustainable society. abuses. the legislative minimum. Progress is We make an effort to reduce our resource and energy use in our reported annually since 2012. 10. Encourage the development running of the office and the project and diffusion of development. environmentally friendly We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international technologies. building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. More about the Ten Principles https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles The Office of Sustainability The Architectural Industry of Norway has labelled us «the Office of Sustainability» and “the Challenger”. This motivates us to continue to contribute to an environmentally as well as financially sustainable architecture and urban development! Statement of continued support Challenging Architecture, as a part of the building industry, is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas our clients’ emissions worldwide. Every time we design a building, we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 years. attitude on This emphasises why the building industry and architecture is so critical, and why our membership in The Global Compact is a vital and relevant tool for our practice. to improve our social impact. Furthermore, we have attended different network meetings and seminars on sustainable design. We participate in the public debate concerning environmenarchitects’ social responsibility and role Since the office was launched in June 2005, in society and strive for an innovative we have been focusing on how to utilize the architecture. ten principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, We believe that the social and environmental partners and collaborators to act likewise. components are crucial in the development After nine years of Global Compact activities, of long term profits and competitive it’s clear to us that even a small architectural advantages, and we plan to continue and tal design office can make a considerable contribution further develop our commitment to the in our common efforts to improve the world. Global Compact principles. During the last few years, our most successful strategy towards the principles has been Additionally, we continue to seek ways to through changing our client’s attitude on develop our work and proficiency through environmental design. Parallel to this, we workshops, courses, a wide range of interdishave increased our knowledge on sustainable ciplinary collaborations, study trips, literature design, offering a broader range of services as well as the constant exchange of ideas and to our clients. This has led to a more experience. environmentally sound project portfolio. We have implemented different internal measures More about our vision on our website Asger Hedegaard Christensen https://www.allark.no/studio CEO & partner Living the principles As architects we have a remarkable opportunity Following to influence the building industry in areas considering the contractual framework, design, methods and materials. We take advantage of this opportunity as often as we can. the GC It is now more than ten years since we took on board The Global Compact in our office. The first years, we grew fast in both project volume and staff, including setting up a second office in Stavanger. Following the G.C. principles, ber of the Norwegian Green Building Council which manages BREEAM in Norway. We also work with other environmental standards such as the passive house standard or area specific sustainable programs. We seek to develop new principles we have put a lot of effort into developing areas of expertise through education and coursboth a good workplace and great projects. es, strategic cooperation with other companies This has required a continuous process of and by encouraging staff to enter the public defining, reaching for our goals and developing arena through debates, lectures, and teaching. a framework of implementation. One of our Now that we have settled as a medium size main achievements to date has been achieving company with some years experience, we also a third-party certification as an environmentally have a growing understanding for diving deeper more than sound business practice that we continue to into the Global Compact and more resources improve. We also regularly map staff priorities at hand. We are committed to raising the bar for the resources at hand and put them into on both the types and number of projects with life, such as a shorter workweek and a better high sustainable qualities, and in terms of depension scheme. We have put extra effort into veloping skills in our organisation and a stronghealth and safety issues such as optimizing the er management framework. We welcome the workspace through consulting an occupational initiative from G.C. to take onboard emerging therapist and investing in our hardware, and sustainable global issues through the Global 10 years providing a good health insurance for the staff. opportunity report, where the five most signifWe offer yoga in the office and a Citybike icant global sustainable threats are identified. subscription to our employees. We have included new goals within fields relevant to our business in our annual goals update The office has developed a fixed salary system and will work towards reaching these in the for the first eight years of practice, securing a current report period. We have focused on “acfair salary development in the initial years of celerating transport emissions”, “a generation practice, regardless of gender, parental leave wasted” and “global food crisis” as areas where or negotiation skills. The office practices comwe have means to contribute. petence mapping of the staff in addition to obligatory annual individual talks to ensure that We have participated in the Global Compact the competence at hand is used wisely, uncovNordic Network (GCNN) forum that facilitates er needs and wishes for new skills and career outreach, learning, policy dialogue, collective directions. In terms of securing high standards action and partnerships. We hope to for sustainability in our planning and building engage further in the network and explore More about our vision on our website projects, the office has chosen BREEAM as the opportunities for partnerships for concrete https://www.allark.no/studio preferred platform for environmental impleinitiatives and projects in the current period. mentation and assessment, and we are a memIn 2017 we set specific goals for the principles for the next year. Our goals and achievements are described in the following. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION Inhouse Inhouse Goal Goal Measure the quality of the indoor climate Continue with a transparent economy Achieveregarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. and company administration open to all Also, increase the number of green plants employees. in the office in order to improve the indoor climate. Have presentations of both ongoing Result and finished projects to inspire and share All staff have open access to our knowledge between co-workers. Encourage administrative materials not underlying any the use of public transport and bicycles to/ pledge of confidentiality. The office economy ments in from work and during the workday. and strategies are shared with the staff on a regular basis as part of office philosophy Result to have everyone on board to tackle We have moved to our new office in Oslo opportunities and challenges. with a much better daylight exposure for everyone and better environmental control. We have not measured the quality of the ANTI-CORRUPTION indoor climate regarding oxygen levels In building projects the report during this report period. We have, however, continued with our office clean-up, and Goal changed our routines to strive for almost Continue to promote the principles by complete digital archiving. We intend to implementing our ethical standard in increase the number of plants during the next contracts, in dialogue with our project report period. groups and through our publications and social media activities. period LABOUR Result In building projects We have achieved our goal for 2017 and will pursue this goal further for the next report Goal period. Define at least one innovation factor in each project to promote learning and quality awareness. Share the knowledge obtained within the office, and where feasible, with our clients and the public. Result We have several projects where we have managed to implement innovation/learning factors, but can improve both on the percentage of projects and on making these factors evident to the entire staff and to our clients. We uphold this goal for the next period. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Goals & achievements HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Inhouse Inhouse In building projects Goal Goal Goal Establish a partnership relation for a specific Decrease the number of flights per year. We Increase our focus and mapping of results We have offered BREEAM certification to project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO aim to reduce our flights with 10 % and to on sustainable development in area planning a large number of projects. We uphold this working with human rights. increase the number of video conferences or and building projects. goal for the next period. alternative communication by 10 %. Result Always offer BREEAM certification to our While creating zoning plans and early We have had promising talks with several Make sure that most of our purchases are projects. feasibility studies; energy, traffic and use of NGOs and continue to pursue the issue in our eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. materials are important issues to achieve efforts for the current year. Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. Reduce the amount of waste on construction objectives of high urban and architectural site by challenging the suppliers and quality and a low environmental strain and Focus on reducing food waste and increasing contractors when it comes to material climate footprint in a life cycle perspective. HUMAN RIGHTS the number of meat-free lunches. consumption and recycling. Also, consider We emphasise aesthetics and quality In building projects Continue to use less electricity in the office. recycling for the future when choosing building, beneficial urban spaces and quality materials. of living supporting sustainable residential Goal Result environments, simultaneously focusing Recommend materials where human rights We have since 2016 continually managed Investigating the possibility of binding on flexibility while taking into account are considered in the producing process. to decrease our number of flights. We CO2 in building projects, for example development in mobility. For example, have increased our focus on having Skype further explore the use of wood (CLT) as as a rule while creating zoning plans, we Result meetings whenever this is possible and we construction method. consequently reduce required space for car The company continues to disseminate facilitate this much better in both our offices parking at the same time increasing space knowledge on sustainable and responsibly now. Continue to focus on smart farming and for bicycle parking both to an increased sourced materials within its staff, and urban food production in our projects. extent than required by overall guidelines. actively suggests such material alternatives We continue to choose eco-labelled, organic Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable In our projects we seek, for instance, in our projects, including awareness on and Fairtrade-products, and have increased development/research. innovative solutions on how to handle local recognized material certification. the number of suppliers in this group since storm water, both on roofs and on terrain, to 2016. We have also increased the number of Establish a partnership relation with a higher degree than the authority’s lowest suppliers that are environmentally certified consultants/a network who are leading requirement. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION (ISO/EMAS, the Nordic “Svanen”, the EU in their field of knowledge regarding Inhouse Ecolabel “Blomsten” or the Norwegian Ecosustainable development. In our projects there is often a prerequisite Lighthouse) from 2016. for high quality roof terraces which Goal Result proliferate urban food production. We have Participate in at least four events on As the Oslo office has moved to a new We have and are working on a number of instigated work on building projects where architectural issues related to the principles, office building, we realised that they don’t area plan schemes and building projects with emissions have been reduced by over 50 % in and in particular on environmental support sorting of waste, we are in a positive strong sustainable profiles. We also continue comparison with reference projects and we sustainability. dialog with the owner and the other tenants to promote sustainable development in a nuwork with building sites that are fossil free. to accommodate us with full recycling mber of public arenas and to our clients. We We do our utmost in promoting sustainable Result possibilities. We mention the importance of have BREEAM Communities urban planning energy solutions, i.e. use of energy wells. We have failed this reach this goal, we did using the public calendar, so we can order project on its way, and several other plans In one of our ongoing building projects, we however participate in Oslo Urban arena, the correct amount of lunch weekly, and the with strong sustainable monitoring plans as have suggested using recycled brick from and other smaller events, but we will need to food waste has decreased. Every computer is part of the development. We continue to one of the buildings that will be demolished. focus more on ones with an environmental set on 2-page printing to reduce paper waste. promote sustainable materials and energy The bricks will now be used in the outdoor and sustainability profile. efficient solutions where possible. We uphold space. this goal for the next period. Sustainable design in our projects SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN WE STRIVE TO CREATE OUR PROJECTS PRINCIPLES THAT MAKE ROOM FOR THE CHANGES TO SOCIETY & TECHNOLOGY An increasing share of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility IN OUR NEAR AND DISTANT studies that lay down the framework for future buildings. FUTURE. AT THE SAME TIME, Getting the regulatory framework right is key If we want the end-users to change their ways to optimising the future buildings in terms of in a sustainable direction, we have to provide THE SOLUTIONS WE BRING sustainable issues. We see a need for a broader the tools, the room for involvement and and more holistic approach to sustainable influence, and attractive incentives from the planning that includes management of the start. sustainable issues through the process and securing the implemented qualities beyond For our building projects, we have a growing FORTH IN OUR PROJECTS the planning process. For this reason, we have portfolio where sustainability has been a central started to use BREEAM Communities as a tool focus, and we have brought forward offices, in several of our planning projects. schools and housing with qualities we are proud of. We strive towards a wider range and volume Our philosophy embraces urbanisation as a of sustainable projects, and for ever increasing MUST BE FEASIBLE & means for a more sustainable future, and to ambition in our sustainable goals. systematically challenge best practice and the restraints concerning what is possible in a In the following is a short introduction to some task. Focus on the development process is key, of our planning and building projects and how including a clear strategy for working progress, we have implemented the Global Compact SECURE THE DESIRED sensible phasing and for securing quality and principles in the work. involvement for the users during development. SOCIAL, ECONOMIC & ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITIES OF A PROJECT. ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS 2020-01 Stavanger …and this is how you achieve BREEAM excellent The office building 2020-01 is environmental certificate climate, transport, pollution the first of many new buildings degree BREEAM Excellent. and sustainable project surrounding the previous Together with Skanska Norway management. location of Tou Brewery at AS we have developed the Forus East in Stavanger, tools for supervising the The project is planned in BIM Norway. BREEAM process and guiding with an integrated design the project group, which was process, characterised by Alliance have developed the absolute success criteria to an early multidisciplinary the building plan and been achieve the high environmental approach for optimising the responsible architect ambitions. Sustainable issues solutions. We have assisted throughout the entire process. given particular attention Skanska Norway AS in efforts 2020-01 is among the first are energy use, materials, to assure the quality of the in Norway to achieve the ecological impact, indoor engineering. See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/2020-park-stavanger ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Kulimport —tomten Paradise in Stavanger Kulimporttomten is part of part, it creates multifarious outdoor spaces for the private a vast new development residential mix and ensures courtyards, playgrounds area in Stavanger, called good sun conditions in public and public promenade. The Paradis. It is situated in the outdoor areas. Diversity of promenade along the sea side immediate vicinity of the sea flexible settlement structures extends to several different by Gandsfjord. will allow different flat levels throughout the site, solutions that will become connecting regulated quayside By keeping building volumes homes for young, elderly, small on the northern part and big as low as possible on the street and large families, couples green areas on the southern side, higher structures on and singles. The landscape part. the sea side and positioning between the building volumes the high-rise on the northern ensures various qualities of See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/kulimporttomten-stavanger ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Økern Center The future center of Oslo East The objective of the zoning to develop a project adding designed to bring qualities and corresponding zoning qualities to its surroundings, to residents both within and provisions is to regulate provided for by establishing outside the project through and transform the 12,7 five separate buildings a variation of spatial and acre plan area into an opening to the landscape. The material qualities and a attractive residential area residential complex increases juxtaposition of volumes at the in accordance with overall the availability to the Øverland same time yielding light and guidelines on densification and river and the adjacent green space to both vegetation and transformation in collaboration areas to the local community. outdoor, recreational areas. with property developer Vedal. The new project facilitates an Overall goals are to absorb The illustration project shows increased width of the zone at the increase in traffic mainly between 150-170 apartments. the river’s edge, creating new through public transportation, playgrounds along a common bicycling and walking. An important pre-condition foot path, meandering through for the landowner has been the area. The buildings are See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/okern-center-oslo ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Signo Andebu Housing project for deafblind NGO Signo has asked Alliance so before Easter we delivered The quality of movement to work on a housing project a feasibility study based on and choice of materials are for deafblind in Sandefjord. the idea of a village. The core of course paramount in this concept is to design a safe project. They are eager to build a place that can be explored with home and not an institution, hands and feet. ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Harbour Area A4 Urban link between the old town Kvadraturen and the new town Bjørvika We have collaborated with Kvadraturen (old town) and HAV Eiendom AS looks upon the property developer HAV Bjørvika (new town). The this task as a necessary city Eiendom AS in developing office building will be modern repair that will ensure the Fiskebrygga, a site located and environmentally friendly, premises for a sustainable near the former harbour area. with functions for the public. and contemporary settlement For the past 10 years, it has Fiskebrygga will make it easier within the area. been an open space used for to grasp how close the old parking. Our goal has been to town actually is extending to achieve an urban link between the seafront. See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/oslo-harbour-area-a4 ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Nordre Gate Rebuilding with CLT In collaboration with aid pollen-bearing insects e.g material – wood cladding in the property developer Aspelin bees, thus reinforcing one of back yard and burned wood Ramm we have designed 40 the city’s main green corridors cladding towards the street. Six contemporary apartments for insects. Residents gain a geothermal wells to aid with with business premises at green oasis of fruit trees and general heating. ground floor in one of Oslo’s berry bushes at roof level and most vibrant, young and hip quite a substantial area has The building will open to the quarters; Grünerløkka. The been reserved for growing vestreet through shops and a main construction is made getables. The project focuses restaurant at ground level. An up of cross laminated timber on facilitating informal social arcade facilitates al-fresco (CLT), partly revealed in meeting spaces and arenas for serving without occupying the the interior thus benefitting developing a good neighbosidewalk. The backyard will the indoor climate of the rhood through quality design. be accessible to all residents apartments. in the neighborhood and load bearing structure in will give space to a common Verdant roof terraces facilimassive wood CLT (exposed playground, completing the tating a full range and variety inside for better indoor climate) green elements as well as other of plants and the possibility in the stair and elevator core as recreative elements. for nurturing trees. Pollination well as swallows and balconies friendly plants at roof level, in massive wood CLT. Facade See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/nordre-gate-oslo ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Brugata Dwellings Interwine between preserved buildings The proposal comprises an project borders with Prinds considerate, city-friendly expansion with a total area Augusts Minde, a hidden “infill” that includes the of 4 900 m2 with three new green oasis in the middle of relation to the preservationbuildings that intertwine Oslo town centre. All residents worthy neighbouring buildings between some of the oldest will have access to common and the upgrade of existing preserved buildings in Brugata. roof gardens and flats on the buildings, combined with new ground floor will have their construction. The general There will be new passages own gardens. An important application has been delivered and spaces further into the priority of the project has in January 2018. quadrangle. Towards north the been to accommodate a See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/brugata-oslo ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Harestad School Phase Two — Healthy learning Harestad school is planned as multifunctional hall for cultuof 16 000m² is set for 2019. both a primary and a secondaral purposes and comprises Space efficient and flexible ry school, for a total of 1150 around 9000 m². plans, with a great focus on pupils. the possibilities of social We have now started on interaction, are designed to We have now finished the first the the second phase of the provide a good platform for phase which consists of the project. Completion of the learning. secondary school, as well as a whole complex with a total See more of this project on our website https://www.allark.no/projects/harestad-school-randaberg ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE DESIGN IN OUR PROJECTS Kalfar —veien 77 Places to be experienced The building is situated on for Consul Peter Jebsen from Each resident has their own an inclination overlooking 1869. Historical maps reveal private unit and there are the beautiful lake, Store evidence of a larger complex common meeting spaces in Lungegårdsvann. The from earlier years. both the interior and exterior. compartmentalisation of the The form of the building mass building mass into smaller The former wagon shed is in generates a wide variety units adapts to the scale of a poor state and is planned to of spaces, deadends and the surrounding single-houses be torn down. However, there nooks, creating a series of inarea. Adjacent to the site lies is a plan to reuse material and between places ready to be the Bergen Center for the Deaf, historical elements of value in experienced. former Summer residence the proposed building. ALLIANCE ARCHITECTURE STUDIO — SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Goals for the next report ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Inhouse Inhouse Decrease the number of flights per year. We Establish a partnership relation for a specific aim to reduce our flights with 10 % and to project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO increase the number of video conferences or working with human rights. We have made alternative communication by 10 %. some headway in this and will continue. Make sure that most of our purchases are eco-labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. In order to track our progress on Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. HUMAN RIGHTS In building projects promoting the ten principles, we Continue to use less electricity in the office. Recommend materials where human rights have set specific goals for the coming Focus on reducing food waste and having are considered in the producing process. report period. meat-free lunches. ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENT Inhouse LABOUR LABOUR In building projects Inhouse In building projects Continue with a transparent economy Increase our focus and mapping of results and company administration open to all Measure the quality of the indoor climate Define at least one innovation factor in each on sustainable development in area planning employees. regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. project to promote learning and quality and building projects. Also, increase the number of green plants awareness. Share the knowledge obtained in the office in order to improve the indoor within the office, and where feasible, with Always offer BREEAM certification to our climate. our clients and the public. projects. ANTI-CORRUPTION In building projects Have presentations of both ongoing and Reduce the amount of waste on construction finished projects to inspire and share site by challenging the suppliers and Continue to promote the principles by knowledge between co-workers. contractors when it comes to material implementing our ethical standard in consumption and recycling. Also, consider contracts, in dialogue with our project Encourage the use of public transport recycling for the future when choosing groups and through our publications and and bicycles to/from work and during the materials. social media activities. workday, and introduce yoga in the office for stress handling and reduction. Investigating the possibility of binding CO2 in building projects, continue further to implement the use of wood (CLT) as EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION construction method. Inhouse Continue to focus on smart farming and Participate in at least four events on urban food production in our projects. architectural issues related to the principles, Aiming for projects focusing on sustainable and in particular on environmental development/research. sustainability. Establish a partnership relation with We will start creating public lectures consultants/a network who are leading and/or workshops to share and strengthen in their field of knowledge regarding our knowledge focusing on sustainabily. sustainable development. More about our vision on our website https://www.allark.no/studio Thank you for reading studio@allark.no +47 223 64 044 © Alliance arkitekter AS
