How will BP respond to global change? BP Sustainability Report 2017 We want to build enduring relationships with governments, customers, partners, suppliers and communities in the countries where we work. Engaging with each of you is essential to operating our business responsibly. In this report we respond to your top questions. The energy transition How is the energy transition changing BP? 1 H  ow are you making your operations fit for 12 a low carbon future? What are your plans for growing your renewable 17 and low carbon businesses? How will electric vehicles affect demand for 24 your products? Which policies do you think are necessary 28 to make a 2°C world a reality? S  afety How does BP maintain safety in a 31 competitive environment? Human rights Has your human rights policy changed the 37 way you do business? Value to society How do you measure the value that you bring 45 to communities and countries? Managing impacts How do you take into account sustainability factors 53 when you enter new regions? E  nvironment What are your top environmental issues at a local level? 58  ur people and ethics O What is BP doing to advance diversity in the workplace? 66 Governance and risk What role does your board play in leading BP towards 72 a sustainable future? Stakeholders, materiality and data 76 The energy transition Q How is the energy transition changing BP? A What you see in our strategy and the new targets we have set is a business that is focused – in everything we do – on meeting the dual challenge of more energy with fewer emissions. And, when we all work together towards a common goal, there’s nothing we can’t achieve. Bob Dudley Group chief executive, BP The energy transition The scale of the challenge The transition to a low carbon economy We believe that, to meet global climate goals, is one of the great challenges of the world should prioritize: our time. R  educing emissions rather than promoting any one fuel as the answer. The world will need all forms of energy for a long time to The 2015 Paris Agreement set expectations around come, so we need to make all fuels cleaner. the world for the transition to a low carbon future. BP understands the urgency and supports the aim  Improving energy efficiency, where the of the agreement. And, we are dedicated to being greatest reductions in emissions can be part of the solution. achieved. Advances in technology for everyone – from industry to individuals – are creating No one company or sector alone can deliver a huge opportunities to achieve gains over the low carbon future. Everyone, from consumers coming years. to corporations to governments, needs to take responsibility.  Carbon pricing as one of the most significant steps that can be made. The more governments can do to bring about clear, stable pricing frameworks, the greater the incentives for innovation and lower carbon choices. If we respond collectively, even a challenge as complex as climate change can be met. Oil and gas are going to be a substantive part of a future rich in energy for the world’s growing population; we, at OGCI Climate Investments, are working to make it a low emissions one. Pratima Rangarajan Chief executive officer, OGCI Climate Investments 2 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition The changing energy mix The demand for energy continues to Gas offers a much cleaner alternative to coal grow – largely driven by rising incomes for power generation and can lower emissions at scale. It also provides a valuable back-up for in emerging economies and a global renewables intermittency, delivers heating at population heading towards nine billion the high temperatures required by industry and by 2040. is increasingly used in transportation. Oil is the primary fuel for transport today. We At the same time, the energy mix is changing as expect its share of the total energy mix will technology advances, consumer preferences shift gradually decline as we see more energy efficiency and policy measures evolve. Renewables are now in traditional engines, greater use of biofuels and the fastest-growing energy source in history and natural gas, and growth in fully electric and hybrid we estimate that they could account for 14% of all vehicles in the years ahead. energy consumption in 2040 – if not more. That said, With oil and gas in high demand for years to oil and gas could meet at least 40% of the world’s come, it’s essential that action is taken to reduce energy needs in 2040 – even on a course that’s emissions from their production and use. consistent with the Paris goal of limiting global warming to less than 2°C. Energy consumption – 2040 projections Evolving transition 33% 24% 28% 4% 7% 4% In this scenario, government policies, Actual energy mix technology and social preferences evolve 2016 in a manner and speed seen in the recent past. The growing world economy requires more energy but consumption increases Evolving transition less quickly than in the past. 2040 27% 26% 21% 5% 7% 14% Faster transition This scenario sees carbon prices rising Faster transition faster than in the evolving transition 2040 25% 22% 13% 7% 8% 25% scenario, with other policy interventions encouraging more rapid energy efficiency gains and fuel switching. Even faster transition 2040 22% 19% 10% 8% 8% 33% Even faster transition This scenario matches carbon emissions similar to the International Energy 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Agency’s sustainable development scenario, which aims to limit the global Billion tonnes of oil equivalent. The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding. temperature rise to well below 2°C. Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables Visit bp.com/energyoutlook for more information on our projections of future energy trends and factors that could affect them out to 2040. BP Sustainability Report 2017 3 The energy transition Our strategy for the energy transition Society is demanding solutions for Each year, we reinvest about one tenth of the more energy, delivered in new and capital employed in new opportunities. At current rates, we produce our proved reserves over better ways for a low carbon future. 11 years on average. Our rolling programme of Our strategy is designed to meet activity gives us significant flexibility to redefine this dual challenge. our business as the world’s energy needs evolve. When making strategic decisions, we consider Although we can’t predict the future, insights from different potential medium-term supply and demand our Energy Outlook and Technology Outlook help scenarios – including a faster transition to lower shape our strategic thinking. We consider how carbon sources. To be prepared for uncertainties policy, consumer behaviour and advances in and opportunities, we test whether a potential technology could affect the pace of the energy investment makes commercial sense using a range transition and how we produce and use energy of oil, gas and carbon prices. in the coming decades. We believe this approach – actively planning how All our projections see renewables growing at we can contribute to and be competitive in the a fast pace – but with oil and gas continuing to energy transition – gives us resilience, whatever the play a prominent role over the next two decades. pace and path the world chooses. To reinforce this That’s why our portfolio is a balance of advantaged belief, we base part of our long-term executive oil and gas, a competitive downstream, the trading compensation on delivery of this strategy. of all forms of energy and a wide range of low carbon businesses. 4 BP Sustainability Report 2017 1. How do Energy scenarios Market scenarios 2. How do we we think the We consider various scenarios, with We consider various market scenarios, see energy energy mix different assumptions about policy, with different assumptions about markets technology and consumer behaviour. supply and demand. could look evolving? in 2040? Evolving transition Return to oil price volatility Faster transition Oil and gas demand rises lead to Even faster transition a supply crunch and higher prices. Ban on sale of cars with internal Oversupply of oil and gas combustion engines Oil and gas remain cheaper in the Greater policy push for renewables  long term. Less policy support for a coal to gas switch. Faster energy transition Driven by policy and advancements Impact on CO2 emissions (billion tonnes) in renewables and energy efficiency. 40 30 20 10 1992 2016 2040 Source: BP Energy Outlook. Embracing the dual challenge 3. What are Our strategy Progress and reward 4. How do our our strategic We pursue a strategy that’s resilient We reward based on the delivery top leaders get priorities? to a broad range of energy and of our strategy for the evolving rewarded on market scenarios. energy landscape. lower carbon Growing gas and advantaged We base 20% of our longer-term progress? oil in the upstream share awards on progress against our Invest in more oil and gas, strategic priorities. This includes measures producing both with on our performance in gas, renewables, increasing efficiency. venturing and renewables trading. Market-led growth in As an underpin, the board considers the downstream progress on issues such as reducing Innovate with advanced products emissions, improving our products and and strategic retail partnerships. creating low carbon businesses – as well as total shareholder return, safety and Venturing and low carbon energy other environmental factors – before Pursue new opportunities to meet determining the final vesting outcome evolving technology, consumer for these longer-term awards. and policy trends. BP’s board and executive team annually Modernizing the whole group review our strategy. Simplify our processes and enhance our productivity through digital solutions. BP Sustainability Report 2017 5 The energy transition Our commitment to advance a low carbon future The world’s rising demand for energy We will deliver this commitment by reducing is a real opportunity to expand our emissions in our operations, improving our products and services, and creating low carbon businesses. business and deliver higher returns for This is just the latest step in our 20-plus year our investors. But as we grow, our net journey – but a significant one and one we plan operational emissions won’t – and we to build on in the years to come. will help others to curb their emissions. By setting tough targets and aims – and sharing them – others can monitor our progress. We’ll review these regularly so we can keep them up-to-date with changes in our portfolio, protocols and other factors. Our low carbon ambitions Reducing Improving Creating emissions in our operations our products low carbon businesses Zero net growth in operational Provide lower Expand low carbon and emissions out to 2025 emissions gas renewable businesses 3.5Mte of sustainable GHG emissions Develop more efficient and $500 million invested in reductions by 2025 lower carbon fuels, lubricants low carbon activities each year and petrochemicals Targeting methane intensity of 0.2% Grow lower carbon offers for customers Collaborate and invest in the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative’s and holding it below 0.3% $1 billion fund for research and technology Our accreditation programme for lower carbon activities Visit bp.com/targets for specifics on these nine goals and bp.com/energytransition for information on our wider programme. 6 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition Using carbon offsets to support our low carbon ambitions With carbon offsets, a reduction in Our Target Neutral programme provides a means greenhouse gas emissions in one for individuals and organizations to reduce their carbon footprint through offsetting. Over the past place compensates for emissions made 10 years, we have built up significant expertise in elsewhere. BP is a leader in developing carbon management projects around the world. and using offsetting programmes. We plan to offset any increase in our operational And, we will use offsets to underpin emissions above 2015 levels that’s not covered by our low carbon ambitions. our sustainable reductions activity. This means that, out to 2025, we’ll have no net increase in our carbon footprint, even as our production grows. Carbon offsets are created through investment in activities that reduce greenhouse gas emissions We currently offer more than 20 carbon neutral or absorb carbon dioxide (CO­2). That could be products and services to our customers, using initiatives that provide lower carbon alternatives, like Target Neutral to offset the emissions. renewable energy or cookstoves to replace open And, we are helping to grow markets for carbon fires. Or it could be projects that protect or enhance credits through the sale and purchase of credits natural resources that soak up CO2 from the and by increasing their overall supply. We are able atmosphere, such as land and forests. to use our powerful market insights and innovative Carbon offsetting is essential for reaching the Paris platforms to help companies meet their own goals – and we consider it a valuable supplement emissions reduction commitments, while providing to our own emissions reduction activities. income to the people who run the projects. In 2017 alone, we financed low carbon projects that resulted in emissions reductions of more than 12 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. How offsetting works Carbon reduction Carbon emitters Carbon offsets investments 1 carbon credit = 1 tonne of CO2 equivalent BP helps people and companies BP supports a diversity of BP uses carbon credits to: reduce their carbon footprint for: projects, including: • Offset our own operational • Compliance needs • Forest protection emissions growth • Corporate responsibility • Biogas initiatives • Make some of our products • Individual choice • Cookstoves carbon neutral • Trade with companies to meet their compliance and voluntary needs BP Sustainability Report 2017 7 The energy transition Accrediting our lower carbon activities BP’s new Advancing Low Carbon Qualifying activities range from emissions reductions accreditation programme is specifically in our operations to carbon neutral products, from investments in low carbon technologies to our designed to encourage every part of BP renewables businesses. We undertake these activities to pursue lower carbon opportunities, through our own businesses as well as in partnership by providing a framework for us to with others. highlight activities that demonstrate Deloitte has assessed our programme and criteria a better carbon outcome. and independently assured the activities and their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions savings or offsets. Our Advancing Low Carbon programme highlights many, but not all, of BP’s actions on low carbon. Assessment criteria The activities must: Deliver a better carbon outcome by doing one of the following: • Reducing GHG emissions • P  roducing less carbon than competitor or industry benchmarks • Providing renewable energy • Offsetting carbon produced •  urthering research and understanding F to advance low carbon  •  nabling BP or others to meet their low E carbon objectives. Go beyond what is required to meet relevant carbon emissions regulations. Be either directly delivered by BP or by a BP partner. Be up and running. Comply with Advancing Low Carbon programme requirements on GHG calculation methodologies. Deliver a carbon outcome that is intended to be irreversible. Visit bp.com/advancinglowcarbon for more details on each activity and our accreditation programme. BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition 33 18m activities accredited tonnes of CO2 equivalent estimated to be saved or offset through activities delivered by BP 4.3m tonnes of CO2 equivalent estimated to be saved or offset through activities delivered by BP partners Accredited activities in the first year of the programme Reducing GHG emissions Providing renewable energy Furthering research and • Academic partnerships – BP supports independent research • Sustainable GHG emissions • Brazil biofuels and biopower. understanding to advance programmes at Princeton, reductions – actions to improve • Wind energy. low carbon Harvard and Tufts universities. energy efficiency and reduce  nhydride – a chemical feedstock • A methane emissions and flaring Offsetting carbon produced BP’s participation in: with a lower carbon footprint. in our operations.  O Capture Project. • Air BP into-plane fuelling services. • C • Butamax – a joint venture 2 Producing less carbon • BP and Aral fuel cards – help with DuPont to develop • Climate and Clean Air Coalition’s than competitor or fleet customers offset their advanced biofuels. Oil and Gas Methane Partnership. carbon emissions. • Castrol GTX ECO – a motor oil that  il and Gas Climate Initiative. • O industry benchmarks • PTAir Neutral – a carbon neutral delivers a 10% CO2 reduction over • World Bank’s Global Gas Flaring • BP biojet – jet fuel made chemical feedstock. the product’s life cycle, compared Reduction Partnership and Zero with recycled cooking oil. • Castrol EDGE Bio-synthetic and with Castrol GTX Diesel 15W-40. Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. • Oil tankers – new, more energy Castrol MAGNATEC Bio-synthetic  EXCEL – an oil cell that is • N efficient ships. Enabling BP or others – carbon neutral engine oils designed to reduce CO2 emissions  astrol low viscosity lubricants • C manufactured using 25% by helping oil to warm up to meet their low – which help improve vehicles’ plant-derived oil compounds. more quickly. carbon objectives fuel economy. • Castrol Optigear – carbon neutral • Solidia – investing in producing  P Global Environmental Products • B • Onyx InSight – investing in lubricants for the wind industry. concrete with a lower carbon business – investing in forestry improving the maintenance • Castrol Professional – carbon footprint. projects to reduce emissions and efficiency of wind turbines. neutral engine oil.  ricoya Technologies – investing • T generate carbon credits. • PTAir – a chemical feedstock in producing more durable • Castrol Transmax – carbon neutral • BP Target Neutral – developing with a lower carbon footprint wood products. transmission fluids. carbon neutral products than the average European PTA. • Carbonfree Chemicals – • Castrol VECTON – a carbon neutral and services. range of lubricants for the investing in a new technology  ncourage Capital’s EKO Green • E commercial trucking industry. that captures carbon emitted Carbon Fund – investing in during cement production. forestry projects that generate carbon offsets. We estimate the total emissions saved or offset from the accredited activities using a variety of methodologies and baselines. The figures are aimed at illustrating the impact of the programme as a whole rather than a quantification of specific savings made by BP or by BP partners. The scope of accredited activities is wider than, and unaligned with, the scope of activities giving rise to emissions within BP’s operational emissions boundary. Therefore, the figures are not directly comparable to BP’s reported emissions. BP Sustainability Report 2017 9 The energy transition Two decades of taking action on climate change 1998 1999 BP pilots an internal BP is a founding 1997 emissions trading member of the BP’s chief executive, CO2 scheme, helping to International Lord Browne, calls for demonstrate the Emissions Trading precautionary action viability of emissions Association. to cut greenhouse gas trading for the industry. (GHG) emissions. 1998 2000 BP sets target to cut BP initiates the CO2 emissions from our Capture Project with operations to 10% other companies and below 1990 levels governments to develop by 2010. We met carbon capture and this target in 2001. storage (CCS) technology. 2011 2009 2009 2007 BP becomes the BP begins using BP and DuPont form BP commissions largest operator of a carbon price in joint venture Butamax its first wind farm. Brazil biofuels among investment decisions. to develop bio-isobutanol, our oil and gas peers. an advanced biofuel. 2015 2016 2015 2015 BP starts up Zhuhai 3 BP is the world’s first 2014 BP signs up to the BP joins the Climate petrochemical plant, supplier of commercial BP starts participating World Bank Zero and Clean Air delivering 65% lower jet biofuel using in the Oil and Gas Routine Flaring by Coalition’s Oil and Gas GHG emissions than existing infrastructure at Climate Initiative. 2030 initiative. Methane Partnership. comparable plants. Norway’s Oslo airport. 10 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition 2002 2003 BP begins tracking Tsinghua-BP Clean sustainable GHG Energy Research and reduction activities Education Center from our operations. launches in China. 2000 BP partners with Princeton University on the Carbon Mitigation Initiative, set up to find solutions to the carbon and climate problem. 2004 BP and partners launch a CCS project at the In Salah gas 2006 2005 field in Algeria. BP launches Target Neutral, BP launches Alternative our carbon offsetting Energy business. programme for customers. 2017 2017 BP, via its Butamax 2017 2017 BP becomes a founding joint venture, acquires 2018 2018 BP signs up to the BP partners with member of the Climate an ethanol plant in BP introduces BP sets targets for Methane Guiding Lightsource to develop Leadership Council, Kansas in the US Advancing Low sustainable GHG Principles, with seven and manage largea US group pushing to commercialize Carbon accreditation reductions and peer companies. scale solar projects. for carbon pricing. bio-isobutanol. programme. methane intensity. BP Sustainability Report 2017 11 The energy transition Q How are you making your operations fit for a low carbon future? A We are looking at everything from how we make our operations more energy efficient to how we can reduce flaring and methane emissions. We also factor carbon into decisions for future projects – this is where we have the greatest opportunity to manage GHG emissions in the years ahead and to maintain a portfolio that is sustainable and resilient. Sue Ford Director, regulatory compliance and environment, upstream health, safety and environment, BP The energy transition Limiting emissions BP is targeting zero net growth We have set a sustainable emissions reductions in our operational emissions. target of 3.5 million tonnes out to 2025. Our operating businesses will deliver this through improved energy efficiency, fewer methane The International Energy Agency estimates that emissions and reduced flaring – all leading to energy efficiency could contribute around 40% permanent, quantifiable GHG reductions. of the emissions reductions needed to stay below the 2oC goal. We are playing our part by improving We are aiming for zero routine flaring by 2030, the efficiency of our existing operations and as part of an initiative by the World Bank. designing our new major projects to emit And, to ensure that as our business grows, our fewer greenhouse gases (GHGs). carbon footprint does not, we’ll offset any increase in emissions above 2015 levels that’s not covered by our sustainable reductions activity. Optimizing process heat Reducing fuel Redesigning gas recovery Improving jet fuelling Digital technologies are consumption We reduced the amount of infrastructure helping us to reduce energy We’ve introduced oil tankers gas flared from our oil and We introduced stop/start by improving how we heat with more efficient engines gas processing terminal in technology on our fuelling seawater for use at our and advanced energy Azerbaijan by re-engineering vehicles and improved Deepwater Gunashli platform management systems. the gas recovery unit. our waste management in Azerbaijan. systems in supplying fuel to the aviation industry. Using robots for inspections Reducing methane Retrofitting technology Using co-generated power We are using autonomous emissions We upgraded technology We now use electricity from vehicles to inspect and We’ve switched gas-driven at our Cooper River our co-generation facility to clean the hull of our floating pneumatic pumps to electric petrochemicals plant in the power the turbines used to production, offload and ones in parts of our US US, which will significantly pump water to the cooling storage vessel in Angola – operations, which has led to reduce the site’s energy tower at our Whiting refinery reducing emissions from fewer methane emissions. use and emissions. in the US. diver support vessels. BP Sustainability Report 2017 13 The energy transition Our GHG emissions performance We saw a slight decrease in our We also track GHG intensity, which is the quantity direct greenhouse gas emissions of GHG emitted per a defined unit of production or processing. in 2017. In 2017 we saw an improvement in our upstream GHG intensity, mostly due to changes in two This reduction was primarily due to operational countries. In Angola, emissions reduced due to changes such as planned shutdowns at several of increased gas being captured and exported to the our refineries for maintenance and actions taken liquefied natural gas facility. And, we increased by our businesses to reduce emissions in areas production in Egypt as we started up the first phase such as flaring, methane and energy efficiency. of our West Nile Delta development. Our sustainable GHG emissions reductions amounted to 0.5Mte in 2017. However, we saw increases in the total volume of flaring – the controlled burning of gas during oil and gas production – in our upstream business. This was mainly due to the start up of our Khazzan gas development in Oman. Direct greenhouse gas emissions a Greenhouse gas intensity b Energy efficiency (MteCO2 equivalent) (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) (indexed to 2010) Upstream (per thousand barrels of oil equivalent) Upstream (production/consumption loss) 50.5 30.4 101.0 51.4 34.7 102.4 51.2 32.7 98.3 0 10 20 30 40 50 0 25 50 50 75 100 2017 2016 2015 Refining (per utilized equivalent distillation capacity) Refining (energy intensity index performance) 923 104.4 951 103.1 944 103.8 GHG emissions by source a 0 750 1,500 50 75 100 (MteCO2 equivalent) Petrochemicals (per thousand tonnes) Petrochemicals (energy intensity) 2017 304 79.9 2016 287 82.3 2015 290 94.5 0 10 20 30 40 50 0 250 500 50 75 100 Carbon dioxide Methane 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 a Comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by BP. b Comprises our share of BP’s consolidated entities and equity accounted entities, other than BP’s share of Rosneft. 14 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition Tackling methane The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change data suggests that methane Working with others accounts for around 20% of manmade We are partnering with our peers, non-governmental greenhouse gas emissions. Since organizations (NGOs) and academic institutions to advance how the industry as a whole can detect, quantify and methane is the primary component reduce emissions. of natural gas, BP is committed to taking a leading role in addressing the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative methane challenge. OGCI is investing in technologies to reduce emissions and aiming to Investment in work towards near-zero methane Methane has a shorter lifetime in the atmosphere than technology and emissions from the gas value chain. carbon dioxide, but it has a higher global warming data collection potential. So, we are targeting a methane intensity of 0.2%, and holding it below 0.3%. This includes the Methane Guiding Principles methane emissions from our operations where gas BP and seven peers have agreed goes to market as a percentage of that gas – accounting to five principles for reducing methane for more than 90% of methane emissions from our emissions across the gas value chain. The principles were developed by a operated oil and gas assets. We don’t include methane Industry coalition of industry, institutions, emissions that result from gas that is only reinjected, principles academics and NGOs. recycled or associated with assets where BP doesn’t produce the gas. Oil and Gas Methane Partnership We inspect our major operations for leaks at least This initiative – part of the Climate and annually and often more frequently, depending Clean Air Coalition – looks at methane on the technique used and regulatory requirements. emissions at an operational site level Review of In many locations, we use technology like infrared primary sources which will help to inform actions we cameras to identify and help prevent small seeps of emissions can take to reduce emissions. from becoming more hazardous leaks. At our Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan, we trialled The Environmental Partnership infrared cameras with specialized software to detect and BP’s US onshore business has signed more accurately quantify methane emissions. This will up to this API initiative, in which member help us prioritize leak repairs and improve our reporting. companies commit to minimize methane Best practice emissions and to share information on sharing with Thirteen of our 22 major projects scheduled to be technology deployment. US peers delivered by 2021 are gas, so we’re designing them in ways that should reduce methane emissions from the outset. As one example, our Khazzan site in Oman Carbon Mitigation Initiative We’re supporting Princeton University has a central processing facility so there’s no need for in its work to enhance the scientific processing equipment at each well site. Fewer understanding of methane and its processing sites lowers the potential for emissions. Research into contribution to global warming. methane and global warming BP Sustainability Report 2017 15 Assessing risks to our facilities Tackling methane in our We seek to address the potential Lower 48 business impacts of a changing and We are one of the largest natural gas unpredictable climate – such as producers in the US and many of our heatwaves, storms and rising sea 9,000 wells are in remote locations with levels – on our new projects from limited access to the electricity grid. the design phase. This means that our facilities rely on gas to power the equipment, making this part of our business responsible for around For our Clair Ridge project in the North Sea, half of BP’s total operated methane we considered the physical resilience of the emissions. So, we’ve made methane operation over its lifetime, as we expect it to reduction here a priority. be in use for around four decades. We designed the two platforms to withstand possible changes More than a decade ago, we began in sea level and wave patterns. swapping out our high-bleed controllers with ones that emit less methane. Since Our operations and projects can draw on then, we’ve replaced 10,000 devices. guidance, including in-house meteorological We are now in the final stretch, looking expertise, to help them manage potential at ways to replace the last 1%. risks from a changing climate. And, by drilling horizontal wells, Some of our sites are located in areas prone to we reduce the number of production severe weather, such as hurricanes, and have facilities, along with their associated specific measures in place to manage these emissions. risks. Our Cooper River petrochemicals plant in the US, for example, increases its inventory of We periodically remove liquid from raw materials during hurricane season and has our wells so gas can flow. Methane back-up systems for emergency power supply. can be emitted during this process, so we’re using new technologies, such We are working to review projections of severe as enhanced automation, to reduce weather events and climate conditions to these emissions. evaluate how these may affect our projects and operations in the future. We are also trialling pumps powered by solar energy rather than gas, as well as the use of drones and truck-mounted laser sensors to detect and quantify methane leaks. The actions we’ve taken to permanently reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our Lower 48 business led to a reduction of 56,000 tonnes in 2017. 16 The energy transition Q What are your plans for growing your renewable and low carbon businesses? A It’s an exciting time for BP. While we’re building up our renewables business and growing gas in our portfolio, we are exploring new business models. The key thing is that we want to invest in the right opportunities at the right time – so we’re constantly scanning the horizon. Lamar McKay Deputy group chief executive, BP The energy transition Expanding our renewables business Renewables are the fastest-growing Our largest biofuels mill is certified to Bonsucro, energy source in the world today, on an independent standard for sustainable sugar cane production. course to provide at least 14% of the global energy mix by 2040. BP has Advanced biofuels Butamax technology, developed in partnership been in the renewables business for with DuPont, converts sugars from corn into an more than 20 years – we’re one of energy-rich biofuel known as bio-isobutanol. It can the largest operators among our be blended with gasoline at higher concentrations peers and we’re expanding as we than ethanol and transported through existing fuel see more opportunities. pipelines and infrastructure. Butamax plans to upgrade its recently-acquired ethanol plant in Kansas to enable it to produce Biofuels bio-isobutanol to demonstrate the technology We believe that biofuels offer one of the best largeto ethanol producers. scale solutions to reduce emissions from transportation. We produce ethanol from sugar cane in Brazil. This ethanol has life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that are 70% lower than conventional We must employ disruptive thinking and transport fuels. In 2017 our three sites produced innovation to unlock the power of renewable 776 million litres of ethanol equivalent. raw materials. Butamax is taking the next step Brazil is one of the largest markets globally for forward in advancing the bioeconomy, which ethanol fuel. To better connect our ethanol production supports economic growth and opportunity with the country’s main fuels markets, we are in rural communities. partnering with the world’s leading ethanol and sugar trader, Copersucar, to operate a major ethanol storage terminal. The terminal is located William F. Feehery close to key transport networks and pipelines. President, DuPont Industrial Biosciences 18 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition Biopower Wind energy We create biopower by burning bagasse, the fibre that BP is one of the top wind energy producers in the remains after crushing sugar cane stalks. Around 70% US. We operate 13 sites in seven states and hold an of the biopower generated is exported to the local interest in another facility in Hawaii. Together they electricity grid. have a net generating capacity of 1,432MW. This is a low carbon power source, with the CO2 emitted from burning bagasse offset by the CO2 absorbed by sugar cane during its growth. We founded Lightsource to lead the Solar energy solar revolution and chose to partner Solar could generate 10% of total global with BP because, like us, their power by 2040. ambition is to build and grow this BP has partnered with Lightsource, Europe’s company for the long term. Solar largest solar development company, which focuses power is the fastest-growing source on the acquisition, development and long-term of new energy and we are excited management of large-scale solar projects. We are to be at the forefront of this bringing our global scale, relationships and trading development with BP. capabilities to drive further growth across the world. Nick Boyle Chief executive officer, Lightsource BP 2.9m tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided through our renewables business in 2017 Biofuels Biopower Solar Wind Our ethanol production avoided emissions equal to 70% $200m The net generating capacity from our portfolio is enough 260,000 of biopower generated at investment over three years to power almost fewer European cars our biofuels sites goes to the local electricity grid. in Europe’s largest solar development company. 400,000 homes. on the road in a year. BP Sustainability Report 2017 19 The energy transition Producing more natural gas Gas produces around half the carbon BP is active in finding and producing gas, as well as dioxide (CO2) emissions of coal when its transport, storage and sale. This puts us in a good position as the gas market grows and becomes burned to generate power. increasingly competitive. And, by tackling methane emissions, we are helping to make sure that gas is That means gas can make a major difference, a major lower carbon resource for years to come. as happened in the US, where abundant use of See page 26 for information on our gas from shale has helped drive the country’s renewable gas fuel. CO2 emissions back down to 1990s levels. Gas is the ideal complement to renewables as it can be a lower carbon, cost-effective back-up to the variability of wind, solar and hydropower generation. A world that engages in deep Emitting fewer pollutants, it is also better for decarbonization is a world that’s going air quality. to become a lot more electrified. That Just as importantly, gas is widely used for heating puts gas at the centre – as a major homes and businesses as well as delivering the high source of generating electricity. temperatures needed in heavy industries like steel, cement and metals. And, gas is becoming more accessible around the world thanks to a growing David Victor global gas market connected by ship and pipeline. Leading contributor to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Focus on the Southern Corridor The Southern Gas Corridor, one of the largest projects in BP’s portfolio, will connect gas from the Caspian directly to Europe for the very first time. Gas will travel 3,500 kilometres from our Shah Deniz field in the Caspian Sea across five countries to Italy. We plan to deliver gas supplies to Turkey in 2018 and to European markets in 2020. Once it reaches peak production, this project will provide enough natural gas to meet the needs of every capital city along the Southern Corridor – more than twice over. 20 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition BP’s growing natural gas portfolio UK: North Sea Azerbaijan Egypt Trinidad & Tobago India Oman Mauritania Indonesia and Senegal Australia Key 2017 gas start-ups Expected gas start-ups 2018-2021 Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Focus on Tangguh At our Tangguh operation in Indonesia, we convert natural gas into liquid form to make it more practical and commercially viable to transport domestically and to other countries. This can help countries in the region move more quickly towards gas, rather than using coal. Some of the gas is going to China, where we helped build the country’s first LNG import terminal, and some is making its way to South Korea. And, with our latest expansion activity at Tangguh, we’ll up the output by 50% – much of which will be for use in Indonesia. BP Sustainability Report 2017 21 The energy transition Investing in low carbon ventures and start-ups Innovation has the potential to disrupt That’s why BP is investing in this company and and have big impacts. For example, many others, so we can learn fast and scale up where we can. one company’s technology for carbon reduction in concrete could reduce We plan to invest around $200 million every year to help incubate and grow lower carbon solutions. manmade greenhouse gas emissions This is all part of our near-term plan to allocate at by 1%, if deployed globally. least $500 million a year for low carbon activities, which also includes our renewables businesses and acquisitions. We view these activities as core to our strategy – with the potential to make a real contribution to our future. Carbon management Advanced mobility With the world needing oil and gas for much By 2040 over 30% of kilometres travelled by of its energy for decades to come – possibly 40% passenger cars could be powered by electricity. of all energy used in 2040 – we are investing in And, we think more and more people will take ways to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide advantage of ride sharing and car pooling. that is emitted into the atmosphere. Charging points for electric vehicles Enabling carbon offsets We are partnering with FreeWire, which develops We are one of the world’s largest carbon traders smart battery systems for fast charging of electric and we are making investments that help vehicles. And, we are piloting charging points businesses and other organizations offset their at retail sites from the US to Europe and carbon footprint through emission-reducing projects. New Zealand. See page 7 for more on our Digitally connected convoys carbon trading activities. We’re investing in Peloton, whose technology enables two or more trucks to travel closely Turning carbon into concrete but safely together. This reduces aerodynamic Cement production accounts for 5-7% of total drag, generating savings in fuel use and global carbon emissions. We’ve invested in Solidia, carbon emissions. which uses technology to produce lightweight concrete in a way that can reduce its carbon footprint by up to 70%. 22 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition Bio and low carbon products Digital transformation There is increasing demand for lower carbon Artificial intelligence, faster data processing and versions of fuels, industrial materials and other other digital technologies have great potential for products. The aviation industry, for one, expects increasing efficiency and driving down emissions. a growth in air travel but is pledging to cut its Castrol’s joint venture with Onyx InSight provides emissions in half by 2050. engineering and software services to wind farm Aviation fuel from waste operators so that they can monitor the condition Our partner, Fulcrum BioEnergy, has developed of wind turbines and avoid breakdowns. a jet fuel made from household waste that has 20% of the carbon footprint of its conventional equivalent. We will distribute and supply biojet Low carbon power and storage into aircraft at key hubs across North America. Nearly two thirds of the projected growth in world Sustainable building materials energy demand over the coming decades could We’re working with Tricoya to produce a less come in the form of electricity. carbon-intensive alternative to concrete, metals and plastics. Using acetylation to change the BP is looking at ways to meet customers’ power chemical properties of wood, we can create and storage needs, for example through developing a weather-resistant construction material that advanced battery technology. does not swell or shrink. BP Sustainability Report 2017 23 BP Confidential The energy transition Q How will electric vehicles affect demand for your products? A The shift to electric vehicles will take time to have an impact on fuel and lubricants demand. At BP, we have a team focused on emerging mobility models and we are actively pursuing options. This, along with our innovations in products, makes us well-positioned to meet our customers’ needs today and in the future. Roy Williamson Vice president, Advanced mobility unit, BP The future of electric vehicles Electric vehicles have great potential including fast, convenient charging. We’ve invested for improving air quality, particularly in FreeWire – which produces an electric charging station on wheels – with plans to roll them out at in urban centres. some of our retail sites in Europe. Over 85% of cars on the road in 2040 are likely to Over the past decade, we’ve seen the number of still be using an internal combustion engine. electric vehicles on the road grow exponentially, So, gains in fuel and vehicle efficiency are along with an expanding choice of makes and tremendously important in reducing greenhouse models. We see this growth continuing; there could gas emissions. That’s why BP is always looking be more than 300 million electric cars on the road for ways to improve its products – making them by 2040. And, in a world with more car sharing and more efficient, producing biofuels and offering autonomous vehicles, this could mean that about ways to offset their emissions. 30% of passenger car kilometres could be powered by electricity. Some forecasts are higher, some are lower than ours. But, whatever the pace, we estimate that Our Mobi Charger can be quickly and cost effectively for every 100 million electric cars, oil demand could go down by around one million barrels deployed across vast transportation networks. of oil a day. The integrated storage reduces strain on the electrical grid while providing a great fast-charging As part of the mobility revolution, BP is exploring experience for the electric vehicle driver. how our network of 18,300 retail sites around the world can serve our customers’ changing needs by offering a range of products and services, Arcady Sosinov Chief executive officer, FreeWire Technologies Kilometres driven by passenger cars by fuel type 97% 3% 1% 2016 92% 3% 5% 2025 67% 2% 31% 2040 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Trillion kilometres. The sum of the share of kilometres travelled may not equal 100% due to rounding. Source: BP Energy Outlook. Oil Gas Electricity BP Sustainability Report 2017 25 The energy transition Advanced fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals We are improving our products to help We provide customers with fuel for transport, consumers lower their emissions. energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items as diverse as paints, Around 80-90% of carbon dioxide emissions clothes and packaging. from oil and gas products are from their use by consumers in transportation, power plants, Many of our products and services have been industries and buildings. So one of the biggest accredited with our Advancing Low Carbon contributions we can make to advance the programme in 2017 – see pages 8-9. energy transition is by providing products and services that help consumers lower their carbon footprint. Carbon neutral lubricants Reducing plastic Lower carbon chemicals Supplying biofuel Our Castrol Professional in packaging Our PTAir, used to make to airports lubricants – supplied to car In the US, we’ve redesigned items such as clothes and We make jet biofuel dealerships for use in some of our Castrol engine oil plastic food packaging, has available using existing servicing cars – are certified packaging to use less plastic, a carbon footprint almost fuelling infrastructure at as carbon neutral in resulting in a reduction in CO2 30% lower than the average Oslo and Bergen in Norway accordance with PAS 2060. emissions of about 2,000 European PTA. We are also and Halmstad in Sweden. tonnes a year. assessing technologies for producing renewable and recycled PTA. Working with vehicle Renewable gas from food Offsetting emissions Jet fuel made from manufacturers and agricultural waste with our fuel cards household waste In Europe, Ford’s EcoBoost We are the largest producer Customers can use our Aral We are working with engines are engineered of renewable gas fuel for and BP fuel cards in Austria, Fulcrum BioEnergy to with advanced Castrol US transport. This fuel can Germany, the Netherlands supply biojet fuel at oils, to help improve reduce greenhouse gas and the UK to offset their key hubs across fuel efficiency. emissions by around 70% carbon emissions. North America. compared with gasoline or diesel-fuelled vehicles. 26 BP Sustainability Report 2017 The energy transition Target Neutral We offer customers the opportunity to offset their carbon emissions through BP Target Neutral, which invests in emissions reduction projects around the world. To date, we’ve developed more than 20 carbon neutral products and services to help our customers reduce their impact. And, over the past decade, BP Target Neutral has offset more than three million tonnes of CO2 equivalent; that is the same as taking 1.3 million cars off UK roads for a whole year. We estimate that the projects we supported in 2017 are helping to improve the livelihoods of more than two million people through better access to energy, health, education, and jobs, as well as protecting 40,000 hectares of globally significant habitat. An independent selection panel considers each project’s carbon abatement attributes, as well as their contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As part of a comprehensive targetdriven strategy, consistent with achieving a net zero carbon world, offsetting can channel much-needed finance to carbon reduction projects and the expansion of sustainable land use management. Mark Kenber Mongoose Energy CEO and Chair of the BP Target Neutral Advisory and Assurance Panel BP Sustainability Report 2017 27 The energy transition Q Which policies do you think are necessary to make a 2°C world a reality? A That’s easy: carbon pricing. It’s the most comprehensive and efficient way of reducing carbon everywhere in the economy. Plus, to get promising low carbon technologies like renewables and carbon capture, use and storage up and running, they need additional targeted support for a limited period of time. Paul Jefferiss Head of policy, BP The energy transition Advocacy for carbon pricing We believe that carbon pricing provides BP has played a major role in helping governments the right incentives for everyone design their trading systems, and we’ve been active as a trader in the world’s current emissions – energy producers and consumers trading systems since their inception. alike – to play their part in reducing Pricing carbon adds a cost to our industry’s emissions. It makes energy efficiency production and our products – but it also benefits more attractive and makes low carbon the sector by providing a roadmap for future solutions, such as renewables and investment and a level playing field for all carbon capture, use and storage, energy sources. more cost competitive. We became a founding member of the US-based Climate Leadership Council in 2017. The council A fifth of the world’s GHG emissions are now is considering a carbon tax that would be returned covered by carbon pricing systems, double to citizens in the form of dividends. the coverage from just five years ago. We are also working with our peers and other We expect around two thirds of BP’s direct companies, governments and civil society to help emissions will be in countries subject to support the expansion of carbon pricing through emissions and carbon policies by 2020. the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. Our internal carbon price To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements In designing our new Glen Lyon vessel in the affecting our GHG emissions, we use a carbon North Sea, for example, we introduced a flare gas cost when evaluating our plans for large new recovery system to reduce GHGs reaching the projects and ones where there could be material atmosphere and we recover waste heat from the emissions costs. vessel’s turbines for use in operations. In industrialized countries, our internal carbon price is currently $40 per tonne of CO2 equivalent, and we also stress test at a carbon price of $80 per tonne. BP Sustainability Report 2017 29 The energy transition Carbon capture, use and storage CCUS has a vital role to play in meeting At BP, we are exploring near-term opportunities the objectives of the Paris Agreement. to deploy CCUS in our own operations, projects and products. For example, as part of a joint venture It can achieve deep emissions reductions in the United Arab Emirates, we are using CO2 in existing power infrastructure and from industrial processes to enhance oil recovery. energy-intensive industries that rely See page 22 for information on how our partner Solidia, on the use of fossil fuels. is turning carbon into concrete. Collaboration is required to make CCUS a reality. The technology has been in use for more than 20 years, but needs governmental support – through We know that we face an unprecedented a carbon price and other policy measures – to challenge in meeting climate goals. Without accelerate its deployment. Through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, we are working to identify CCUS, this challenge will be infinitely greater. the policy mechanisms that may best enable the We also know that this is essentially roll-out and scale-up of CCUS on a regional basis. a policy question. BP has worked on the development of CCUS for many years with a project in Algeria, as well International Energy Agency as through the CO2 Capture Project, which is piloting technology and demonstrating secure geological containment. How CCUS works CO2 capture CO2 use Building materials CO2 storage Carbon is captured and stored, typically in underground geological formations. The captured carbon can be injected into oil fields to stimulate production or be used to create building and other materials. 30 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Safety Q How does BP maintain safety in a competitive environment? A We’re using technology to take people out of harm’s way. For example, we can use drones to carry out inspections rather than have people working at height. We are also reinforcing a culture of care where everyone is looking out for each other – and that doesn’t change whatever the oil price. Fawaz Bitar Head of global operations organization, Upstream, BP Safety Preventing incidents We aspire to no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to Our approach the environment. To deliver this, Key issues for our industry: we carefully plan our operations, • preventing accidents and incidents identifying potential hazards and • monitoring security managing risks at every stage. • keeping people safe. We focus on all of these so people We design our facilities to appropriate industry can go home safely. standards and manage them throughout their lifetime. Training together Human performance in safety Through simulation exercises we help prepare People, and how they interact with equipment, both staff and contractors for the unlikely event processes and each other, are fundamental to a of real-life safety incidents. Working with Maersk safe working environment. We have introduced Training, our drilling teams tackle scenarios based techniques for teams to analyse and redesign tasks on wells that crews are drilling or preparing to to reduce the chance of mistakes occurring. An drill. The simulator replicates a series of abnormal example of this is when the team working in the situations, such as a fire, a person overboard, or control room at our Tropical biofuels mill in Brazil a helicopter crash on the flight deck. redesigned the way data is presented to make This industry leading training builds the crews’ it easier for them to monitor operations. technical skills, reinforces the importance of clear Managing contractor safety communication and procedures, and emphasizes non-technical skills to identify and manage risks More than half of the hours worked by BP are related to human error. carried out by contractors. So, their skills and performance are vital to our ability to carry out  Visit bp.com/maersktraining our work safely and responsibly. Our standard model contracts include health, safety and security requirements. Through bridging documents, we define how our safety management system co-exists with those of our We believe that this is the future for training contractors to manage risk on a site. And for our operational teams and crews and BP is, contractors facing the most serious risks, we together with Maersk Training, showing conduct quality, technical, health, safety and the way for the industry. security audits before awarding contracts. Once they start work, we continue to monitor their safety performance. Johan Uggla Chief executive officer, Maersk Training 32 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Safety Improving safety with technology Digitalization and visualization technologies are proving increasingly useful in making the world safer and more efficient. At BP, our wells data platform ARGUS holds historical and real-time data on nearly all of the 2,500 wells that we operate globally, giving our engineers the ability to access and analyse alerts quickly and remotely. This enables early identification and rapid response should an issue arise. Automation is changing the way we access and monitor our operations in difficult to reach areas. For example, we are testing an autonomous pipeline survey system along our Clair field pipeline in the UK North Sea. Unmanned vessels use artificial intelligence to inspect the pipeline, gather data and provide almost instant alerts if they detect anything unusual. 1km Microsub 2km 3km BP Sustainability Report 2017 33 Safety Keeping people safe We focus on keeping employees and Security contractors safe and alert to potential As a global business, BP monitors for hostile hazards that could occur in their work. actions that could harm our people or disrupt our operations. We particularly look at operating areas affected by political and social unrest, Nothing matters more than every one of our terrorism, armed conflict or criminal activity. people returning home safely each day. Tragically, we suffered one fatality in 2017, when a firefighter Our 24-hour response information centre keeps died in the course of his duties at our biofuels watch over global events and related developments, business in Brazil. We deeply regret this loss and providing real-time information and accounting for continue to work towards eliminating injuries staff’s whereabouts. This meant that in March 2017 and fatalities in our work. we were aware of the terrorist attack in London’s Westminster almost immediately. Within minutes Everyone working at BP has the authority to stop we knew which employees had scheduled meetings unsafe work. Our leaders are accountable for or travel plans in the surrounding area, so we were helping to build this culture of care in their teams able to confirm their safety and provide advice. and every employee is responsible for keeping themselves and each other safe. Cyber threats We work with our peers to create industry-wide Cyber attacks are on the rise and our industry standards. For example, dropped objects are one is subject to evolving risks from hacktivists, of the most common hazards in the oil and gas cyber criminals, terrorists and insiders. We have industry. This is because a lot of our work is done experienced threats to the security of our digital at height and uses heavy equipment. Within infrastructure, but none of these had a significant industry group IPIECA, we have developed a global effect on our business in 2017. performance standard to help us monitor and We collaborate closely with governments, law improve prevention programmes, investigate enforcement and industry peers to understand incidents and implement corrective actions from and respond to new and emerging threats. lessons learned. To encourage vigilance among our employees, our cyber security programme covers topics such as email phishing and the correct classification and handling of our information. We have a strong speak-up culture. It is the catalyst that inspires people to take ownership, not only for their personal safety, but also for the safety of others. Joel Johnson Safety committee chair, BP’s Cherry Point refinery 34 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Safety 650+ employees affected by flood damage Keeping our people safe during Hurricane Harvey Houston, Texas, is home to BP’s US 800+ employees reached out to headquarters. With around 4,300 people, the storm assistance team it is also our largest employee base in the world. In 2017, Hurricane Harvey dumped historic levels of rainfall on the city with flooding damaging hundreds of our employees’ homes and several of our office buildings. Our immediate priority was the safety of our employees and their families. BP’s storm response teams, comprising hundreds of company volunteers, supported rescue and recovery efforts in the area. BP also helped employees clean up and dry out their homes. Our headquarters were severely flooded, but our contingency plans for natural disasters meant that we were able to keep our businesses running. For example, before the hurricane hit, we moved around 200 of our traders and their families to our back-up trading site in Dallas. During this difficult time, employees rallied together to support each other and the company. When Harvey struck land, none of us could have predicted the road ahead. In the face of extraordinary conditions, the BP family has been – quite simply – extraordinary. I couldn’t be prouder to work with this team. As we’re witnessing, natural disasters can bring tremendous physical destruction, but they also can bring out the best in people. John Mingé Chairman and president, BP America BP Sustainability Report 2017 35 Safety Our safety performance We track our safety performance we use leading indicators, like inspections and using industry metrics and work to equipment tests, to monitor the strength of controls to prevent incidents. What we learn continuously improve personal and from performance insights helps us focus our process safety across BP. safety efforts. For example, we are implementing actions to support the performance and reliability In 2017 we continued to see a reduction in of our people, with the express aim of reducing the overall number of process safety events, the chances of mistakes occurring. despite a slight increase in tier 1, the more serious events. We also saw a small increase Proactively managing equipment corrosion is in our recordable injury frequency and day also a focus for us and we believe this is helping away from work case frequency. to deliver improvements in process safety in our upstream and downstream businesses. Improving safety in our operations is a high priority and we are working on it right across V  isit the business. bp.com/hsechartingtool for safety data. We investigate safety incidents and near misses to identify any potential underlying themes and Process safety eventsa Recordable injury frequency b c Day away from work case frequencyb d (number of incidents) – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) 150 0.60 0.15 0.40 0.10 100 0.20 0.05 50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Workforce 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 Workforce 0.070 0.081 0.061 0.051 0.055 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employees 0.25 0.27 0.20 0.19 0.20 Employees 0.074 0.091 0.063 0.050 0.056 Tier 1 20 28 20 16 18 Contractors 0.36 0.34 0.28 0.22 0.23 Contractors 0.066 0.072 0.059 0.052 0.054 Tier 2 110 95 83 84 61 American Petroleum Institute US benchmark American Petroleum Institute US benchmark Tier 1 Tier 2 International Association of Oil & Gas International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark Producers benchmark a Tier 1 process safety events are losses of primary containment of greater consequence, such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment, or exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence. b API and IOGP 2017 data reports are not available until May 2018. c The number of reported work-related incidents that result in a fatality or injury. d The number of incidents that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day (or shift) or more. 36 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Human rights Q Has your human rights policy changed the way you do business? A Before we launched our policy in 2013 our work was focused mainly on specific sites. The policy reinforced our responsibility to respect human rights and has helped shape our approach across BP. Importantly, it also informs how we seek to influence our partners and suppliers. Nili Safavi Manager, human rights and social performance, BP Human rights Respecting human rights Respect is one of BP’s values and Our current focus areas include the recruitment, guides how we interact with all working and living conditions of contracted workforces at our sites, responsible security, those who come into contact with community grievance mechanisms and channels our operations. for workforces to raise their concerns. We encourage employees, contractors, We are committed to identifying and addressing communities and other third parties to speak up human rights risks and impacts directly linked if they see something they think could be unsafe with our business activities, including the rights or unethical. At our worksites we help make sure of our workforce and those living in communities people are aware of our confidential global helpline affected by our activities. OpenTalk, our community complaints systems and workforce grievance mechanisms. • The International Labour • The International Bill • UN Guiding Principles Organization’s Declaration of Human Rights on Business and on Fundamental Principles Human Rights and Rights at Work International standards and principles Our human rights focus areas Labour rights Security and Rights of people • Health and safety human rights in communities • Forced labour and • Interaction between • Livelihoods and local human trafficking security forces, employment communities and • Consultation and • Fair working and living workers grievance mechanisms conditions • Non-discrimination • Socio-economic, health and environmental • Channels to raise impacts concerns Our own standards • Code of • Human rights • Expectations • Operating conduct policy of suppliers management system 38 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Human rights Labour rights assessments • activities that rely on manual labour, such as construction, catering, cleaning and certain types We conduct labour rights audits or assessments of manufacturing when appropriate. Focus areas tend to be working hours, recruitment processes, freedom of • factors related to the vulnerability of the workforce, movement, employment contracts and channels such as poverty levels; ethnic, religious or gender for workers to raise complaints without retaliation. minorities; and migrant workers. Where we find an issue, we try to work with the Using this approach, we prioritized 17 businesses contractor to resolve it so as to improve the situation for modern slavery risk reviews in 2017. We then of the people affected. If a serious breach is found mapped our supply chain in these cases to identify and no corrective action is taken, we reserve the high risk contractors. In some instances, this initial right to terminate contracts. screening led to further assessment through questionnaires or on-site labour rights assessments, Modern slavery risk reviews including worker interviews. Some parts of our supply chain may pose a higher The assessments focus on key warning signs, such risk of labour rights and modern slavery issues than as passport retention, recruitment or other fees, others. We take a risk-based approach to monitoring wage deductions, employment contracts, working our contractors and suppliers by considering: hours, shift patterns and living conditions. • countries that pose a high degree of risk, as Visit bp.com/modernslavery identified by risk analytics firm Verisk Maplecroft and other data sources Fast facts 17 businesses prioritized 1,000+ people participated in 44 human rights for modern slavery training on labour rights training events risk review and modern slavery 40 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Human rights Labour rights Our employees, as well as our As one example, we provided training to contractors contractors and suppliers, should and sub-contractor teams working on our Tangguh expansion project in Indonesia. We discussed work in safe, healthy, secure and the risks faced in our industry and emphasized fair conditions. the individual role we all play in spotting potential signs and reporting concerns. Employees Drawing on our work with industry peers, we developed a human rights due diligence process Respect for employees’ human rights is integral that can be used to screen suppliers in a consistent to our recruitment, management and diversity and way anywhere in the world. Following a pilot of the inclusion processes. Our code of conduct requires process, we are now using it with suppliers on a employees to report any human rights abuses in risk-prioritized basis to understand how they manage our operations or those of our business partners. these risks in their business and supply chain. Working with contractors and suppliers We operate in 70 countries and have around 60,000 suppliers, with thousands more supporting them. All of our workforce, and the workforces We expect contractors and their employees to act of those who support us, should be in accordance with our code of conduct, human rights policy and our expectations of suppliers. Our treated with respect and dignity. standard procurement contracts include requirements for suppliers to respect internationally recognized Bob Fryar human rights, with a specific ban on the use of Executive vice president of safety forced, trafficked or child labour. and operational risk, BP We held supplier events to communicate our expectations on labour rights in a number of locations in 2017, including Brazil, Indonesia, Iraq and the UK. We discussed the action we are taking, the need to raise concerns and the importance of our suppliers communicating this to their own employees, suppliers and business partners. BP Sustainability Report 2017 39 Human rights Focus on Georgia Our South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion project will transport gas from Azerbaijan to markets in Europe. In Georgia alone, around 5,000 people helped to construct three facilities and a pipeline, with around 10% of the workforce originating from other countries such as India and Thailand. We assessed the labour rights practices of our construction contractors and certain sub-contractors. We found no instances of forced labour, but we identified some labour rights concerns, such as not having documents in the workers’ native languages. The assessment reinforced the importance of: • clear contract clauses on employee relations and labour rights • a monthly on-site labour management forum so workers can share concerns or ask questions • regular reviews of employee terms and conditions, welfare and grievances by experienced employee relations professionals within the contractor organizations. We are sharing what we learned from this assessment with our businesses around the world. It was essential for us to work closely with the contractors as they employ the majority of the workforce. The strong support we had from all parties including contractors, sub-contractors and the workforce was key to conducting the review. Kelly Goddard Environmental and social manager, South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion project, BP BP Sustainability Report 2017 41 Human rights Focus on Saudi Arabia One of our joint ventures is setting up a plant that will blend Castrol lubricants. Our partner is building the plant, and the peak of construction will involve more than 250 workers, largely made up of migrant labour employed through four or five major contractors. We have worked closely with our partner to support them in assessing the risk of modern slavery – both before and after contracts are awarded. As a result, our partner has: • checked the recruitment, working practices and worker grievance mechanisms of shortlisted companies • held meetings with contractors on worker rights and welfare during site visits • added detailed human rights contract clauses that prohibit passport retention, contract substitutions and charging workers recruitment fees. After construction work began, the joint venture discovered that a few companies had sub-contracted work without authorization and in some cases delayed payments to those sub-contractors. As a result, people were brought together to request that no further unauthorized sub-contracting takes place. Our partner is monitoring contractor and sub-contractor performance through regular site visits and labour rights training. The guidance and support that BP shared as part of the venture on how they identify human rights risks influenced us significantly. It helped us address new areas of concern relating to work practices in the local industry and our project is now progressing in the right way. Suleiman Abdullah Director, Al Khorayef Lubricants Manufacturing Company Limited 42 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Human rights Livelihoods and communities We recognize that our activities could In Trinidad & Tobago, for example, we conducted adversely impact the rights of people seismic surveys to develop our Juniper gas field. This affected people working in the local fishing in communities close to our sites. industry as it meant they could not work in the area for safety reasons. Following consultations We work hard to prevent and reduce any negative with fishing associations and communities, we impacts on the livelihoods, land, environment, made payments for temporary loss of livelihood culture, health and wellbeing of people in to those affected. communities near our activities, including In Azerbaijan, the state leased or purchased land indigenous peoples. We screen our major projects from its owners and transferred it to the South to identify and manage any potential impacts, Caucasus Pipeline Company, which is a consortium including human rights. of energy companies including BP. As part of our If we do cause, or contribute to, adverse impacts process, we are restoring the land and have paid on the human rights of communities near our compensation, which included a livelihood operations, we are committed to providing for, restoration allowance for possible loss of crop or co-operating in, making it right. productivity after the land had been reinstated and returned. Security and We provide training on the principles for our employees accountable for managing security and conduct assessments to identify areas where we human rights can improve. One example is our Castellón refinery in Spain. National law requires that we use armed security and provide two days of training a year. Providing security for our assets around Through our own security review, we decided to the world can be complex, especially double the number of training days. in locations where there is a higher As another example, we assessed potential securitylikelihood of conflict or violent crime. related risks to the human rights of neighbouring communities in Mauritania and Senegal, where we are planning new projects. The findings identified BP works with security forces who protect our the need to discuss the importance of the Voluntary facilities to reinforce the importance of respecting Principles and BP’s commitment to them with local human rights. We support the Voluntary Principles security forces. on Security and Human Rights. These principles guide how we work with the security forces that Visit protect our facilities. They emphasize the need to bp.com/vpshr for more information about our progress on security and human rights. understand and respect the human rights of our workforce and people living in communities near our operations. BP Sustainability Report 2017 43 Human rights BP and human rights – our progress 2000 2017 BP is a founding member of the UN Global Compact and the • BP publishes our expectations of suppliers on the way they Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. do business with and for BP, including respect for human rights. • BP develops guidance and screening tools for businesses to use in assessing modern slavery risk. 2002 • BP delivers additional human rights training specifically on BP sets up the Tangguh Independent Advisory Panel to monitor the modern slavery. impact of our liquefied natural gas project in Indonesia on indigenous people, security and human rights. We also commission the first human rights impact assessment in our industry. 2016 2003 • BP develops a due diligence process to assess the human rights practices of our suppliers. BP establishes the Caspian Development Advisory Panel • BP includes human rights in impact assessment to provide independent advice on our management of requirements for certain projects. human rights and other issues during construction of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline. • BP begins a systematic review of the risk of modern slavery in our businesses and supply chain. 2006 2015 BP publishes group-wide guidance on human rights. BP incorporates human rights clauses into the standard model contracts we use for new agreements with suppliers. 2010 BP integrates major project requirements to screen for potential 2014 impacts on workforce welfare and to consult with indigenous BP integrates human rights considerations into guidance for our peoples into our operating management system. mergers and acquisitions teams to use when assessing opportunities. 2013 BP launches its human rights policy and begins training employees and leadership teams. 2011 Independent human rights experts review alignment of BP’s policies and practices with the UN Guiding Principles. They highlight that our operating management system is a good foundation and provide recommendations for further improvement. 2012 BP creates a formal governance structure for managing human rights issues and an action plan for aligning our business processes with the UN Guiding Principles. 44 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Value to society Q How do you measure the value that you bring to communities and countries? A It’s not as easy as measuring barrels of oil, or how many people we employ, or how much we spend on social investment. Putting a value on the contributions we make to vibrant and dynamic societies is harder. For me, the best measure is the reaction of our employees, host governments and the communities themselves. Peter Mather Group regional president, Europe and head of country, UK, BP Value to society Powering economic growth The energy we produce helps power We enable countries, from Brazil to Oman, economic growth and improve the and from the US to Indonesia, to grow their domestic supplies of energy and boost their quality of life for millions of people. energy security. This, in turn, creates jobs, drives economic We make a significant contribution to societies development and generates revenue for around the world, providing heat and light for governments. The value we create can homes, fuel to get people to their destinations transform communities, even nations. and power for industry. The value we deliver to society $245.5bn $15.9bn Economic value Suppliers Employees Capital providers Governments Communities Economic value generated by BP Sourcing goods Providing jobs Paying finance Contributing Supporting retained by BP and services from for 74,000 people costs to our to economies efforts to improve around 60,000 around the world. lenders. through the standards of living. companies. taxes we pay. $203.6bn $10.2bn $9.9bn $5.8bn $0.1bn 46 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Value to society US UK Egypt Azerbaijan China We employ around We support one Together with our Our programmes have We helped deliver 14,000 people and in every 260 jobs partners, we produce enabled local firms to around 38% of all support more than when you count our around 50% of gas secure contracts with the gas supplied to 100,000 jobs across employees and those consumed in the BP worth in excess Guangdong, the most our supply chain in of our suppliers. country. of $530 million. populated province the US. in China. Brazil Angola India Indonesia Our biofuels A total of 88% of our We are one of the Gas from our Tangguh sites produce enough workforce in Angola largest foreign plant helps generate renewable energy are nationals. investors in India’s electricity for local to power all the growing energy sector. communities, reducing homes in a city of their reliance on diesel. 1.3 million people. BP Sustainability Report 2017 47 Value to society Supporting local workers and suppliers We are committed to creating jobs Addressing the skills shortage and growing local businesses in the In Georgia, BP has been running technical communities in which we operate. development programmes for local workers for many years, supporting a government priority to address skill shortages. We try to recruit our workforce from the community or country in which we are based. While some In 2017, we partnered with the Georgian Technical governments require us to do so, we try to do this University to establish a training centre for higheverywhere we operate because we believe it’s not voltage electrical engineering, industrial automation, just good for the local community, it’s good for BP. mechanical engineering and other technical areas. The first group of more than 70 students started And when certain skills are in short supply, such as in November 2017. engineering or technical abilities, we offer training programmes and on-the-job development. $ Advancing the local economy Nationals employed Our enterprise development programme in Azerbaijan helps local companies build their skills so that they meet international standards and improve their competitiveness in the market. Since its inception more than a decade ago, the programme Azerbaijan 91% has led to local businesses securing contracts with Trinidad Egypt 83% BP worth more than $530 million. Oman 70% & Tobago 95% Indonesia 97% Angola 88% Promoting supplier diversity BP operates in a wide variety of communities and we look for opportunities to source goods BP’s supplier diversity team has been and services from diverse suppliers. stewarding our company through the years. In the US, we partner with organizations, like From 75 people when we started working the National Minority Supplier Development with BP in 2003, we now have around Council, to provide mentoring and training 200 employees – with about a quarter programmes to businesses so that they can of them working on BP projects. develop their skills and become more competitive when bidding for our contracts. We spent $478 million with more than 200 minority and Robert Valdes women’s business enterprises in 2017. President, Valdes Engineering 48 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Value to society Developing a local workforce BP began producing gas in Oman in 2017 and the Khazzan field will eventually supply around 40% of the country’s daily gas needs. As well as helping to meet Oman’s growing energy needs, we are providing opportunities for Omani nationals to develop their technical skills. We established a multi-year training programme to do this, which starts with participants learning skills such as mechanical and electrical engineering, before completing assignments in our oil and gas fields to gain practical hands-on experience. So far, more than 70 Omanis have graduated and are working at the Khazzan field. I was the first of two Omanis to join the operations team when our Khazzan plant was sanctioned. I got the chance to work with BP teams in the UK and the United Arab Emirates, where I learnt new technical and leadership skills. I went on to help design our Khazzan facilities and now lead a team of 29 people. Salim Al Kalbani Operations team leader, BP Oman BP Sustainability Report 2017 49 Value to society Investing in communities We work with governments, BP’s community investment by type communities and non-governmental organizations to implement social investment programmes that can have Environment a sustainable beneficial impact. We support biodiversity and conservation programmes, as well as initiatives to advance We invest in community projects that align with scientific understanding of species and habitats. local needs and our business activities. We consider how these projects support the UN Sustainable Angola Development Goals. Since 2010, we have partnered with Agostinho Neto University to study and conserve critically endangered marine turtles. To date, the project BP’s community spend by region ($ million) has recorded around 23,400 turtles and has helped more than two million hatchlings make their way to the sea. US and Canada 29.5 Sub-Saharan Africa 20.5 US Middle East We have supported conservation studies on and North Africa 14.2 Europe 14.1 Alaska’s North Slope for many years. For example, Asia Pacific 6.5 we work with local non-governmental organizations South and to monitor nesting birds on the tundra to better Central America 4.7 understand the potential impact of climate change and predators. Value to society Education Economic development Many of the education programmes that we support Our activities contribute to local economic encourage young people to consider careers in development and we help communities science, technology, engineering and mathematics develop entrepreneurial skills to create more (STEM) and we also participate in initiatives to sustainable livelihoods. develop the next generation of leaders. Trinidad & Tobago China We support the Beyond Borders programme, We support a one-year scholarship programme which provides training to people living in at Tsinghua University for future leaders, which disadvantaged communities in Trinidad. Since focuses on China’s expanding role in the world. 2010, the programme has set up more than More than 200 people from countries such as Brazil, 100 community-based organizations and local China, the US and Zimbabwe have joined since 2016. businesses, creating new jobs in catering, marketing, graphic design and other areas. India This has provided life-changing employment We work with local non-governmental organizations opportunities and some communities have to provide STEM education for underprivileged even seen a drop in crime. children in Mumbai. Many of these children do not go to school and have limited access to books and Turkey resources. Together with Door Step School and We are equipping women living in rural areas Masoom, we hold workshops where children close to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline with can learn about science and technology through entrepreneurial skills so they can set up their own practical curricula. More than 850 children businesses, or grow existing ones. We provide participated in 2017. training and small grants. This enables them to play an active role in the socio-economic life of their communities. In 2017, more than 250 women participated in training and we supported Engagement around 25 start-ups. We want to make art more accessible for audiences Visit and communities. In the UK, we have supported bp.com/casestudies for more examples arts and cultural activities for more than 50 years. of our social investment programmes. We have long-term partnerships with the British Museum, the National Portrait Gallery, the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal Opera House. We are investing an additional $10 million in these institutions over five years from 2018. BP Sustainability Report 2017 51 Value to society Promoting revenue transparency Transparency helps citizens hold public authorities to account for the way they use funds received through taxes and We appreciate the opportunity to engage other agreements. with EITI as we pursue our work in Mauritania and Senegal. This can make a real difference We support transparency in the flow of revenue by bringing citizens’ groups, companies and from oil and gas activities to governments. governments together to build a framework for transparency. We are a founding member of the Extractive Industries’ Transparency Initiative (EITI), which requires disclosure of payments made to and Geraud Moussarie received by governments in relation to oil, gas Head of country, BP Senegal and mining activity. In 2017 we supported EITI implementation in a number of countries where we operate, including Iraq and Trinidad & Tobago. In addition, we disclose information on payments to governments for our upstream activities on a country-by-country and project basis under national reporting regulations, such as those in effect in the UK. 52 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Managing impacts Q How do you take into account sustainability factors when you enter new regions? A We need to understand the views of people in the places where we work. This is an ongoing process that starts from the moment we enter a region and continues throughout the life of our operations. We look at multiple factors – environmental, social and political. For me, being transparent, demonstrating mutual benefit and building trust are critical. Ayana McIntosh-Lee Vice president, communications and external affairs, BP Mauritania and Senegal Managing impacts Our environmental and social impacts We work hard to avoid, mitigate and manage our environmental and social impacts over the life of our operations. Project planning How our businesses around the world understand and manage their environmental and social impacts is set out in our operating management system – which underscores the importance of consulting with stakeholders who may be affected by our activities. We identify actions we need to take to manage potential impacts from our activities in areas such as labour rights, land acquisition, local communities and protected areas. BP is working with Kosmos Energy to develop natural gas resources off the coast of Mauritania and Senegal. Our offshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility will supply gas to both domestic and global markets, generating revenues and new energy supplies for the two countries. As we progress with our work, we’ve been keen to understand the concerns and expectations of the people living there. Over the course of 2017, we met with more than 2,600 community members in the two countries. We discussed issues ranging from local employment to our ability to respond to an oil spill. These consultations will contribute to an environmental and social impact assessment in 2018. 54 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Managing impacts Operations Decommissioning At our major operating sites, we review We consider environmental factors such performance each year and set local as the reuse of materials and appropriate improvement targets. These can include disposal when closing down a site. measures on flaring, greenhouse gas emissions and the use of water. When we began planning our liquefied natural gas When it was time to decommission our Miller plant in Indonesia in 2002, we set up an independent platform in the North Sea after 15 years in panel to monitor our progress. operation, we evaluated how we could use UK suppliers to carry out the work and what The Tangguh Independent Advisory Panel (TIAP) opportunities there were to recycle materials. continues to review our performance in areas such as human rights, security and governance. • A  bout 70% of the engineering and removal work is going to UK suppliers. Visit bp.com/id for TIAP reports and BP’s responses. • U  p to 97% of the materials, the majority of which is steel, will be reused or recycled. We are also participating in a joint industry research The North Sea accommodates around 1,300 petroleum programme, called INSITE, to better understand installations and 1,800 wind turbines. We set up INSITE the long-term effect of manmade structures on to help us further our understanding of their effect the marine environment. on the ecosystem. For example, our researchers are Visit studying how marine organisms move from structure insitenorthsea.org to structure. We can then study how removing the structures will affect these colonies. Richard Heard Programme director, INSITE BP Sustainability Report 2017 55 Managing impacts Engaging with communities We work with local communities in an open and constructive way. When planning new projects we assess the potential impacts on communities, such as health and safety, resettlement, labour rights, use of water and local livelihoods. This helps to identify early on whether any activities could affect the rights of people living in nearby communities and to find ways to prevent or mitigate those impacts. We consult with communities so that we can understand their expectations and address concerns. Through this, we hope to resolve potential disagreements, avoiding negative impacts on others and disruption to our activities. We require our businesses to identify and respond to concerns, as well as record and act on any commitments. In 2017, most of the concerns raised by communities living near our operations were to do with damage to crops, property or other infrastructure. Community complaints Focus on Nova Scotia In Canada, we met with fisheries associations  amage to crops, property D and indigenous communities to discuss our plans or other infrastructure for offshore exploration drilling. Nuisance (odour, noise and dust) They asked questions about the impacts on Security arrangements fisheries and migratory species, such as salmon Job opportunities and eel. Through working with independent marine Community investment Flaring biologists, we were able to show that any impacts Other on marine life from our proposed drilling would be limited. 56 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Managing impacts Focus on the West Nile Delta We consulted the local community in Egypt before beginning work in the West Nile Delta, where much of the population depends on fishing to earn their living. We held sessions with local people and government officials to get their feedback. In the sessions, we discussed why we needed to establish a safety zone around our operations and actions we could take to mitigate the impacts on the fishermen’s livelihoods. We had concerns when BP announced it was setting up an exclusion zone around its offshore operations as it is an area where we fish and we depend on that income. But BP listened to our concerns and worked earnestly to come up with solutions – from providing interestfree loans to help us set up new businesses, to hiring us to work on their guard vessels. Abdou Attia Local fisherman, West Nile Delta BP Sustainability Report 2017 57 Environment Q What are your top environmental issues at a local level? A The climate challenge is one of the most critical issues we face globally, but other more localized environmental concerns are also very important. The communities where we work rely on the land, air, water and biodiversity around them. So we spend a lot of time on the ground identifying the issues and taking action to avoid and reduce our impact. Tyrone Kalpee Environmental director, safety and operational risk, BP Environment Sensitive areas We support the conservation of sensitive areas that house our planet’s rich natural and cultural heritage. We would never enter a region if we didn’t believe we could manage our In circumstances where our activities occur in impact. Technology and stakeholder places that have cultural significance, are home engagement have helped us reduce to threatened or protected species, or have outstanding our footprint in sensitive areas. biological, geographical or social value, we take action to mitigate the potential impact of our work. Dominic Emery Vice president, group strategic planning, BP International protected areas Four of our major operations have activities in international protected areas, including two pipelines that pass through World Heritage sites. We evaluate new projects to determine whether planned activities could affect protected areas. If our screening process shows that a proposed project could enter or affect an international protected area, we conduct a detailed risk assessment. We then require executive approval before any physical activities can take place. In 2017, no new project sought permission to enter an international protected area. Visit bp.com/protectedareas for more information on our sites in and close to protected areas. Major operating sites in and around international protected areas Note: A site may exist within or near more 4 5 9 12 than one type of protected area. sites sites sites sites Inside the Adjacent Near Close boundary within 1km 1-5km 5-20km BP Sustainability Report 2017 59 Environment Biodiversity We work with conservation organizations, such as The Nature Monitoring the impact We avoided peak migration season and had seal experts Conservancy and Fauna and Flora of seismic surveys monitor the area before and International, to understand biodiversity in the Caspian Sea during the seismic work. trends, issues and threats. Some of our most recent Prior to the start of each exploration activities in survey, our vessel crew At our liquefied gas plant in Indonesia, for example, Azerbaijan took place near monitored the area and if we worked with local ornithologists to successfully the Absheron National Park, seals were observed the relocate endangered black-billed scrubfowl eggs an international protected area work was delayed to give before recent expansion work. and key migration area for the them time to move on. endangered Caspian seal. We have an extensive deepwater portfolio and We have since shared we work to understand how our operations may As part of our work, we our approach with disturb marine habitats or sensitive areas. We often conducted a seismic survey government officials, conduct marine mammal monitoring during our to understand the geological academics and scientists offshore operations to understand any potential structure thousands of feet to improve understanding impacts, such as those associated with sound, beneath the seabed. This was of seal movements. from our activities. To improve the amount and within three kilometres of the The baseline data will also quality of this data we are testing autonomous national park. We met with inform our plans for any vehicles fitted with underwater microphones scientists and regulators to exploration drilling. and cameras. agree the safest way forward. The Amazon basin BP has plans to operate one exploration block in the Foz do Amazonas basin, 160 kilometres off the coast of Brazil. We carried out baseline studies of this block as part of our environmental impact assessment and oil spill response planning, in partnership with other operators in the area. We undertook water and sediment sampling, monitoring of sea currents, as well as bird, fish and marine mammal surveys. In 2017, we held sessions with more than 1,500 local stakeholders, including indigenous people, universities, non-governmental organizations, industry and government representatives, in northern Brazil, to discuss the project’s potential environmental and social impact. 60 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Preserving cultural heritage Our South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion project spans more than 480 kilometres, taking gas from Azerbaijan to the Georgian border with Turkey. The region is home to some of the world’s most ancient cultures. We uncovered cultural heritage sites, including a medieval settlement, ancient graves and artefacts as part of our pre-construction environmental and social surveys. In many cases, we were able to avoid these sites by modifying the route of the pipeline. Where this was not possible, the BP team and government archaeologists investigated and excavated the sites before construction began. The wealth of artefacts and sites discovered is contributing to the broader knowledge of past civilizations. Black Sea Georgia Azerbaijan Turkey Shah Deniz field BP Sustainability Report 2017 61 Environment Water Water is one of the planet’s most In our gas operations in Oman – an area where the precious resources, which is why availability of fresh water is extremely scarce – we use saline water from a local underground aquifer. we actively manage its use. We desalinate the water and use it for drilling and hydraulic fracturing, as well as for washing and other We have operations in many different countries domestic uses. We continue to look for ways in and the availability of water in areas where we which we can reduce our demand, such as reusing work can vary greatly. That’s why it’s important treated wastewater. to look at local conditions, such as water stress In 2017, we saw increases in our freshwater and scarcity, in order to manage our impact. withdrawal, consumption and wastewater volumes primarily due to increased production in our How we evaluate water risk upstream operations and refineries. Each year we review water risks in our portfolio, considering the local availability, quantity, quality Visit bp.com/hsechartingtool for water performance data. and regulatory requirements. We estimate that around half of our major operations withdraw fresh water in areas where its availability is considered stressed or scarce. These operations account for 21% of our total freshwater withdrawals. 62 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Water use Water is required for drilling, hydraulic fracturing and other upstream production processes, and it is an essential component in refining, petrochemical and biofuels production. We use non-fresh water, such as seawater, in our oil and gas production and treated wastewater at some of our refineries. Freshwater consumption Wastewater and The volume of fresh water that produced water is not returned to the environment Produced In our upstream operations, 91m is considerably lower than the water we generate produced water, m volume withdrawn. 102m 3 which comes to the surface m3 during oil and gas production. Wastewater In many of our operations, Freshwater withdrawal particularly in our downstream We withdraw fresh water from 80m business, we manage rivers, lakes and aquifers. m3 wastewater from the site. 276m m 3 Onshore production Offshore production Refining, petrochemical and biofuels production Two thirds of freshwater withdrawn is returned to the 67% environment. Management of wastewater and produced water • Reinjected back into the oil and gas reservoir. • Treated to applicable regulatory standards and returned to rivers, lakes and the sea. • Disposed of through other permitted means. Air emissions For example, we are seeing the development of new regulations drilling rigs and hydraulic stimulation equipment which reduces sulphur in countries such as China and dioxide emissions. Trinidad & Tobago. Tackling local air quality is And in shipping, we are introducing six increasingly important to We monitor our air emissions and liquefied natural gas (LNG) carriers with put measures in place to reduce the energy efficiency enhancements. They communities, governments potential impact of our activities on are designed to use approximately 25% and other stakeholders, the surrounding community. As one less fuel and emit less nitrogen oxides driven mainly by public example, in our unconventional gas than our older LNG ships. health concerns. operations in the US, we use lower sulphur fuels in the engines of our BP Sustainability Report 2017 63 Environment Local impacts of unconventional gas We remain focused on producing Water contamination unconventional resources in We design, operate and decommission a safe and responsible way. our wells in a way that reduces the risk of water contamination. We install multiple layers of steel into each well and cement above and below any Almost half of our current gas portfolio comes freshwater aquifers. We then test the integrity of from unconventional resources including shale each well before we begin the fracturing process gas, tight gas and coalbed methane. We have and again at completion. unconventional gas operations in five US states and in Oman, where we began producing gas in 2017. Emissions Water use We work to reduce our greenhouse gas and other emissions. As an example, in Oman our The volume of freshwater withdrawn by our central processing facility reduces the need for unconventional gas operations was 2.1 million m3 processing equipment at individual well sites, in 2017, which represents 0.8% of the group total. which can be additional sources of methane We look at ways to reduce freshwater use and emissions in gas production. support industry efforts to identify new water treatment technologies. For example, we have invested in a water company that manufactures desalination management systems. 64 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Chemicals Earth tremors The water and sand that make up 99.5% of the Hydraulic fracturing creates very small earth injection material used in hydraulic fracturing are tremors that are rarely felt at the surface. Before mixed with chemicals that help reduce friction and we start work, we assess the likelihood of our bacterial growth in the well. We list the chemicals operations causing such activity. For example, that we use at each site. We also submit data on we identify natural faults in the rock. This analysis their use in our hydraulically fractured wells in the informs our development plans for drilling and US, to the extent allowed by our suppliers, who hydraulic fracturing activity and we design our own the chemical formulas, at fracfocus.org, operations to mitigate this risk. or other state-designated websites. Hydraulic fracturing process Fracturing fluid is pumped Recovered water is stored Water tankers Storage tanks into the well head in lined pits and/or tanks Well is isolated with pipe and cement Water table 5,000-10,000ft Gas flows along well below the from fractures water table Shale Fissure BP Sustainability Report 2017 65 Our people and ethics Q What is BP doing to advance diversity in the workplace? A We start early by working with schools and universities to encourage more females and minorities into science, technology, engineering and maths subjects. Then it’s about having the right systems in place to promote diversity in our employment practices. Once on board, we need to make sure every employee feels included and can thrive, whatever their gender, sexual orientation or ethnicity. Lucy Knight Global head of diversity and inclusion, BP Our people and ethics Addressing the gender balance Our goal is for women to represent This gap is largely due to a higher proportion of at least 25% of our group leaders – men in senior levels of the organization and specific roles, such as offshore work, that attract higher pay, our most senior managers – by 2020. bonuses or allowances. We are taking action to address this disparity. The gender balance across BP as a whole is steadily Visit improving, with women representing 34% of BP’s bp.com/ukgenderpaygap population, compared with 33% in 2016 and 32% Many of our jobs rely on science, technology, the year before. We’re working to improve these engineering and maths (STEM) skills, which numbers further by, for example, developing historically have attracted more men. To understand mentoring, sponsorship and coaching programmes why some students – girls and boys – don’t to help more women advance. That said, we still choose STEM subjects, we developed a five-year have work to do at the executive and senior levels. programme with King’s College London, University We pay equal pay for like or equal work. We College London and the Science Museum. The published 2017 data on our gender pay gap in the research informs our work with schools, from UK, which shows a difference in overall average pay employee volunteering to producing STEM-related between male and female employees. teaching resources. BP employees by gender (%) All staff Graduate hires Experienced hires Group leaders Board of directors 34 45 42 21 23 66 55 58 79 77 We participate in We work closely We support We are on track for Our goal is for industry mentoring with universities programmes that women to represent women to represent programmes to to attract women enable women to a quarter of our most 30% of board advance gender into scientific and resume their careers senior managers membership diversity. engineering roles. after a break. by 2020. by 2020. BP Sustainability Report 2017 67 Our people and ethics Increasing women’s representation in Brazil Since introducing our gender equality programme in Brazil in 2013, the number of women working in operational roles in our biofuels business has more than doubled. The majority of the jobs at our mills involve administrative, agricultural, industrial and maintenance activities, but back in 2013 only 7.5% of them were filled by women. We held forums to find out what challenges local women faced in joining the workforce. We learned that access to good quality childcare is a particular problem. So we trained more than 40 people living in communities around our largest mill to help them become teachers and childcare assistants. Lack of experience was another issue, so we introduced a programme to train women as tractor drivers. To date, we have hired 50 women drivers as part of the programme. Having the right policies in place Our diversity and inclusion policy promotes diversity in our job shortlists and on our interview panels. To attract and retain the best men and women, We provide agile working arrangements where we need to put great policies into practice possible to support the flexibility that employees for all. As leaders we must show that these need to manage their work/life balance. We offer policies work so we create a culture that support to those returning to work after an extended people want to be part of. period of leave. Industry principles Louise Kingham Chief executive, The Energy Institute We are working with our peers to close the gender and board member, POWERful Women gap in our industry. As part of the World Economic Forum’s oil and gas group, we jointly agreed to a set of principles to promote the development of women’s careers. 68 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Our people and ethics Creating an inclusive and engaging workplace Our business is built on the passion Human Rights Campaign, the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and talent of our people, which is why transgender and queer rights organization, named BP among its top scoring companies in its Corporate we look to attract, motivate and retain Equality Index in 2018. the very best that the world has to offer. We believe that to succeed, we must create an environment in which everyone is included and Diversity of people brings diversity treated with respect and dignity. To promote an inclusive culture, we provide leadership training of thought, while an inclusive culture and support employee-run advocacy groups in allows your best talent to flourish. areas such as gender, sexual orientation, parenting, Together, diversity and inclusion disability and ethnicity. As well as bringing are essential for sustainable, employees together, these groups support BP’s profitable growth. recruitment programmes and provide feedback on the potential impact of policy changes. Each group is sponsored by a senior executive. Suki Sandhu CEO, EMpower and OUTstanding Attract and retain Engage Reward We were pleased to be named We survey our employees to We reward our employees based the UK’s leading recruiter in the gauge how they feel about BP. on what they deliver and how oil and gas sector in The Times The overall employee engagement they demonstrate behaviour newspaper’s Graduate Employer score in 2017 was 73% – up that reflects our values. rankings in 2017. from two years ago, where we All employees must set priorities saw a decline that coincided with A total of 314 graduates joined on their contribution to safety and the uncertainties of a low BP in 2017, up from 231 creating value. oil price environment. graduates in 2016. Pride in working for BP increased We invest in our employees’ to 75% in 2017, compared with development – with an average 73% in 2016 and 68% in 2015. spend of around $3,300 per person. This includes online and We are considering how to classroom-based courses and address employee dissatisfaction resources, supported by a wide with opportunities to develop range of on-the-job learning and their skills – which had lower mentoring programmes. scores in 2017. BP Sustainability Report 2017 69 Our people and ethics Conducting our business ethically Our code of conduct is based on our OpenTalk cases (by code of conduct chapter) values and sets clear expectations for how we work at BP. Operating safely, responsibly and reliably Our code applies to all employees and members Governments and communities of the board and we expect and encourage our Our people contractors and their employees to act in a way that Our assets and is consistent with our code. We take appropriate financial integrity action if those expectations are not met. Our business partners Each year, our employees and board members certify that they understand the code, have fulfilled BP has zero tolerance for retaliation against their responsibilities and reported any breaches. anyone who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports Our code specifically prohibits any form of abuse misconduct or participates in an investigation. or harassment. We train our employees on applying The consequences for misconduct or retaliation the code in their daily work. This includes training range from coaching and performance management on harassment awareness and prevention. through to dismissal. Speaking up Our businesses dismissed 70 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or We want our employees, contractors and other third unethical behaviour in 2017. This excludes parties to feel comfortable speaking up whenever dismissals of staff employed at our retail they have a question about our code or see service stations. something that they feel is unsafe or unethical. To this end, we encourage employees to discuss Promoting ethical behaviour with our suppliers their questions or concerns with their managers, We hold sessions with suppliers on our code of supporting teams, works councils (where relevant) conduct. For example, in 2017, we held an event or via BP’s confidential helpline, OpenTalk. A total in Azerbaijan and invited companies who we of 817 concerns or enquiries were received through thought would benefit from extra guidance, such OpenTalk in 2017, down from the previous two as those working in multiple countries or who use years. The concerns most commonly raised are sub-contractors. Around 50 suppliers participated. about fair treatment of people, creating a respectful, We discussed possible scenarios, including harassment-free workplace and protecting privacy examples of breaches, and shared lessons learned. and confidentiality. Visit bp.com/codeofconduct to read our code. 70 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Our people and ethics Anti-bribery and corruption We operate in some of the world’s highest risk countries from an anti-bribery and corruption perspective. Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or corruption in any form. Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures include measures and guidance to assess risks, understand relevant laws and report concerns. We provide training to employees appropriate to the nature or location of their role. We assess any exposure to bribery and corruption risk when working with suppliers and business partners. Where appropriate, we put in place a risk Lobbying and political donations mitigation plan or we reject them if we conclude We prohibit the use of BP funds or resources to that the risks are too high. support any political candidate or party. We recognize the rights of our employees to participate in the We also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits political process and these rights are governed by the on selected suppliers when contracts are in place. applicable laws in the countries where we operate. For example, our Upstream business conducts audits on a number of suppliers in higher risk regions We are members of multiple industry associations to assess their compliance with our anti-bribery and that offer opportunities to share best practices and corruption contractual requirements. We issued a collaborate on issues of importance to our sector. total of 36 audit reports in 2017. We take corrective Their positions don’t always reflect our own – action with suppliers and business partners who fail given that they reflect a compromise of the assorted to meet our expectations, which may include views of the membership. We feel it is important terminating contracts. to participate to make our views known. 12,500 employees completed anti-bribery and corruption training in 2017. BP Sustainability Report 2017 71 Governance and risk Q What role does your board play in leading BP towards a sustainable future? A Our role, working closely with the executive team, is to provide strategic direction, oversight and assurance. And, the level of access we’re given into the operational side is extensive. On site visits, we look for ourselves and ask questions, and then we engage with the executive team on what this may or may not mean for the objectives we’ve set. Alan Boeckmann Chair, safety, ethics and environment assurance committee and non-executive director, BP Governance and risk Board oversight We are committed to upholding the Cherry Point refinery, US highest standards in all we do, including Board members met with site leaders and discussed safety, risk and operating culture operating in a safe and sustainable way. at the refinery. With almost half of the workforce Our board is responsible for the overall made up of contractors, they focused on how conduct of the group’s business. the site makes everyone aware of BP’s principles and safety mindset. They also heard from teams about the refinery’s community and BP’s board of directors reviews and monitors environmental programme. performance against our long-term strategy and confirms that the processes for identifying Glen Lyon, UK and managing key risks – both financial and The Glen Lyon floating production vessel in the non-financial – are in place. North Sea processes and stores oil and gas from the west of Shetland. Board members discussed With global business experience, and backgrounds the safety measures taken by the vessel before as diverse as academia and the US Navy, our and after production started in 2017, such as the non-executive directors bring wide-ranging and use of our operating management system to check invaluable expertise to the table. the integrity and flow of the pipelines. The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee (SEEAC), one of our six board committees, looks at the processes that BP’s executive team use to identify and mitigate operational and non-financial risk. Field visits Members of the board visit BP operations giving them first-hand experience of our assets and the chance to observe and question operating teams. In 2017 they visited our operations in Hungary, Norway, the UK and the US. Our board and its committees in action – some 2017 highlights Low carbon future Cyber security Human rights Diversity Discussion on BP’s Multiple briefings to Review of how BP Review of board strategy including the the board and two of is managing modern composition transition to a low its committees on slavery risks. and diversity carbon economy. cyber security risks. throughout BP. BP Sustainability Report 2017 73 Governance and risk Executive accountability The executive team reviews Executive pay is linked to performance with safety, BP’s strategy with the board reliable operations and financial performance accounting for one-third of executive bonuses on a periodic basis. – as they do for all employees. Tier 1 process safety events and recordable injury frequency are the two The executive team worked with the board in 2017 safety performance measures for executive reward. to understand the implications of the transition to Progress against our strategic priorities accounts a low carbon economy. They reviewed our Energy for 20% of the longer-term share awards for our Outlook, which looks at energy trends over the next group chief executive and chief financial officer. two decades, and discussed the strategic direction Many performance measures, including those of the group. related to gas, renewables, venturing and Supported by dedicated committees, our executive renewables trading, contribute to this. team oversees BP’s performance in a wide range Visit of areas. bp.com/annualreport for more information on governance and remuneration. • The group operations risk committee reviews progress on carbon management, safety performance and potential modern slavery risks. • The group people committee looks at employee issues, including capability, reward and diversity. • The group ethics and compliance committee reviews breaches against our code of conduct. Our executive team in action – some 2017 highlights Low carbon future Cyber security Human rights Diversity Assessment of Participated in an Review of BP’s plans to Focus on gender BP’s low carbon exercise to test manage potential risks pay gap reporting ambitions. response to a cyber of modern slavery. and strategy for security incident. the way forward. 74 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Governance and risk Operating businesses Our operating businesses are Setting expectations of our partners responsible for identifying and BP often partners with other companies in managing risks and our operating our business activities – sometimes we are management system (OMS) helps the operator, and sometimes our partner manages the operations. them do this in a consistent and rigorous way. In joint ventures where we are the operator, our OMS, code of conduct and other policies apply. We aim to report on aspects of our business Our OMS brings together BP requirements on where we are the operator, as we directly health, safety, security, the environment, social manage the performance of these operations. responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as maintenance, contractor Where we are not the operator, our OMS is relations and organizational learning, into a available as a reference point for BP businesses common management system. when engaging with operators and co-venturers. We have a group framework to assess and manage We update the OMS from time to time to reflect BP’s exposure related to safety, operational, and BP’s priorities and experience. New guidance bribery and corruption risk from our participation assesses socio-economic factors related to in these types of ventures. unplanned events, such as an oil spill or a community opposition. We consider the effects We monitor performance and how risk is on livelihoods, cultural heritage, community managed in our joint ventures, whether we disruption and workforce welfare. are the operator or not. 43% of our upstream production in 2017 was from joint ventures where BP is not the operator. Our operating businesses in action – some 2017 highlights Low carbon future Cyber security Human rights Diversity Actioned sustainable Multiple exercises 40+ training sessions 45% of graduate GHG reductions conducted to test held for around 1,000 hires and 42% of totalling 0.5 million recovery and employees on the experienced hires tonnes. response capability. risk of modern slavery. were women. BP Sustainability Report 2017 75 Stakeholders, materiality and data Working together We engage with many people around Industry associations the world – as an energy provider We work with our peers to address complex to millions, as an employer of many energy challenges and to share best practices. thousands and as a company that helps For example, we are a member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, the American Petroleum Institute boost local economies through jobs and IPIECA, the global oil and gas association for and revenue. environmental and social issues. Communities Non-governmental organizations We engage with local communities through public We interact with local and international NGOs to consultations, as well as more ad hoc meetings. discuss issues as diverse as climate change and These relationships are important for all our energy policy, human rights, revenue transparency activities, but particularly for major new projects, and operating in sensitive areas. where our presence may bring about changes, such as job opportunities but also impacts on Shareholders and analysts local resources and infrastructure. We have an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and analysts through our programme of Employees roadshows, one-to-one meetings, webcasts Through websites, town halls and other and our annual general meeting. We keep them communications channels, we keep our employees informed of our strategy and plans from both informed about BP’s strategy, performance and financial and non-financial perspectives. external context. And, employees at many BP sites around the world make their views known through union involvement. Governments We work with governments on a range of issues from carbon pricing to environmental permitting to community investment. 76 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholders, materiality and data Issue prioritization We include issues in our Sustainability Subject matter experts from across BP complete Report if we assess them as being of the initial prioritization of issues. Then, our assurance provider Ernst & Young and our board high importance in terms of business committee responsible for sustainability-related impact and stakeholder concern. issues validate these findings. Our material issues in 2017 Climate Our commitment Environment Sensitive areas 59 to advance a low change and carbon future 6 Water 62 the energy Greenhouse gas Air quality 63 transition emissions 14 Hydraulic fracturing impacts 64 Renewable energy 18 Innovation and venturing 22 People Skills and capability 69 and ethics Diversity and inclusion 69 Safety Preventing accidents 32 Business ethics 70 Personal safety 34 Anti-bribery and Cyber security corruption 71 and security 34 Governance Governance of Human Worker welfare 39 sustainability issues 73 and risk rights Rights of people Risk management 75 in communities 43 Security and human rights 43 Society Social contribution 46 Revenue transparency 52 Community engagement 56 In preparing this report, we met with around 100 different organizations, from investors to NGOs to business partners, to hear what issues matter most to our stakeholders. We also held sessions with employees to find out how they use our report and what they would like us to cover. BP Sustainability Report 2017 77 Stakeholders, materiality and data Sustainability frameworks We aim to shape our reporting around the issues that are material to our stakeholders. External frameworks often provide helpful insight in how to do this. UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN SDGs aim to overcome global challenges such as poverty, hunger, inequality and climate change. Our core business of delivering energy to the world contributes directly to goals 7, 8 and 13. Ensure access to affordable, Promote sustained, inclusive Take urgent action to combat reliable, sustainable and and sustainable economic climate change and its modern energy for all. growth, full and productive impacts. employment and decent Advancing the Advancing the energy work for all. energy transition 1 transition 1 Powering economic Keeping people safe 34 growth 46 Labour rights 39 Value to society 45 Our people and ethics 66 The way we operate supports the implementation of many of the other goals. Ensure availability and Ensure sustainable Protect, restore and promote sustainable management of consumption and sustainable use of terrestrial water and sanitation for all. production patterns. ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat Water 62 Limiting emissions 13 desertification and halt and Tackling methane 15 reverse land degradation, Build resilient infrastructure, Advanced fuels, lubricants and halt biodiversity loss. promote inclusive and and petrochemicals 26 sustainable industrialization Sensitive areas 59 and foster innovation. Carbon capture, use Biodiversity 60 and storage 30 Our commitment to advance a low Conserve and sustainably carbon future 6 use the oceans, seas and Investing in low carbon marine resources for ventures and start-ups 22 sustainable development. Advanced fuels, lubricants Our environmental and and petrochemicals 26 social impacts 54 Value to society 45 Biodiversity 60 Water 62 78 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholders, materiality and data Task Force on Climate-related Industry guidance Financial Disclosures (TCFD) We use reporting guidance from IPIECA, the The Financial Stability Board established the TCFD industry association for environmental and social with the aim of improving disclosure of climateissues. It combines the subject matter expertise related risks and opportunities. We support of companies with the specialist knowledge of transparency in this area, as well as the need stakeholders engaged with the sector. We adhere to improve the quality and consistency of these to their climate reporting framework, which helps disclosures. Our reporting provides information facilitate disclosure of climate-related risks and relevant to each of the four TCFD recommendations greenhouse gas emissions performance data and will develop over time. relevant to our industry. International reporting standards Governance Annual Report 70 We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Sustainability Report 73 Initiative’s G4 core guidelines and the UN Global Strategy Annual Report 12 Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, Sustainability Report 4-5 environment and anti-corruption. Energy Outlook 3-5 Visit Risk Annual Report 55 bp.com/reportingstandards management Metrics and Sustainability Report 6,14 targets This Sustainability Report concentrates on performance and activities from 1 January to 31 December 2017. We aim to report on all aspects of our business, including joint ventures where we are the operator. Where appropriate, we also seek to provide an overview of joint venture activities where we are not the operator, but where we have significant influence on our partners. BP Sustainability Report 2017 79 Stakeholders, materiality and data Performance data Safetya 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fatalities – employees 4 0 0 0 1 Fatalities – contractors 2 3 1 3 0 Day away from work cases – workforce 130 145 108 94 97 Day away from work case frequencyb (DAFWCF) – workforce 0.070 0.081 0.061 0.051 0.055 Recordable injuries – workforce 578 547 428 385 384 Recordable injury frequencyb (RIF) – workforce 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 Tier 1 process safety eventsc (number) 20 28 20 16 18 Tier 2 process safety eventsc (number) 110 95 83 84 61 Loss of primary containmentd (number) 256 214 202 200 205 Oil spillse – number (> one barrel) 185 156 146 149 139 Oil spills contained 111 93 91 91 81 Oil spills reaching land and water 74 63 55 58 58 Oil spills – volume (million litres) 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.7 0.9 Oil unrecovered (million litres) 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 Severe vehicle accident ratef (per million kilometres driven) 0.12 0.13 0.11 0.05 0.03 Total vehicle accident rate (per million kilometres driven) 1.20 1.18 1.08 1.04 1.08 Greenhouse gas emissions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Operational control g Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (Mte CO2 equivalent (CO2e)) – 54.1 51.2 51.4 50.5 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes (Mte)) – 51.6 48.5 48.4 47.8 Direct methane (Mte) – 0.12 0.11 0.12 0.11 Methane intensityh (%) – – – 0.2 0.2 Sustainable GHG emissions reductionsi (Mte CO2e) – 0.1 0.2 0.7 0.5 Indirect emissionsj (MteCO2e) – 7.5 7.0 6.2 6.1 Flaringk (upstream) (thousand tonnes of hydrocarbons) 2,028 2,188 1,863 1,896 1,987 Equityl Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (Mte CO2 equivalent (CO2e)) 50.3 48.7 49.0 50.1 49.4 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes (Mte)) 47.0 45.5 45.1 46.1 45.8 Direct methane (Mte) 0.16 0.15 0.16 0.16 0.15 Sustainable GHG emissions reductionsi (Mte CO2e) 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 Greenhouse gas intensity (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) Upstream (per thousand barrels of oil equivalent) 30.1 32 32.7 34.7 30.4 Refining (per utilized equivalent distillation capacity) 995 978 944 951 923 Petrochemicals (per thousand tonnes) 283 291 290 287 304 Indirect emissionsj (MteCO2e) 6.7 6.8 6.9 6.2 6.8 Customer emissionsm (MteCO2) 422 406 402 395 412 Carbon dioxide avoided through our renewables businessn (MteCO2e) 2.9 3.2 3.3 3.1 2.9 80 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholders, materiality and data Value to society 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Benefits to employees – including wages, salaries, share-based payments, benefits and pensions ($ million) 13,654 13,936 12,928 11,233 10,204 Taxes to governments – comprising income taxes and production taxes paid ($ million) 13,904 7,980 3,516 2,174 5,797 Total dividends distributed to BP shareholderso ($ million) 6,911 7,168 7,301 7,469 7,867 Contribution to communities ($ million) 103.8 85.0 67.2 61.1 89.5 Environment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Freshwater withdrawal (million m3) Group 289 280 285 257 276 Upstream 10.3 7.6 6.8 5.7 6.4 Downstream 271 263 264 239 259 Other businesses and corporate 7.9 9.9 13.5 12.2 10 Freshwater consumption (million m3) 106 93 92 87 91 Percentage of withdrawal 37 33 32 34 33 Water consumption – group intensity p (tonnes water/tonnes production) – 0.37 0.38 0.36 0.38 Discharges to water – Upstream Mass of produced water managed per unit mass of productionp – 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.7 Discharges to water – Refining and chemicals Wastewater treatment measured as chemical oxygen demand (mg/l) 46 52 40 49 41 Air emissions – nitrogen oxides (thousand tonnes) 129 129 123 125 122 Air emissions – sulphur oxides (thousand tonnes) 41 39 36 36 35 Air emissions – non-methane hydrocarbons (thousand tonnes) 102 99 94 91 87 Environmental expenditure ($ million) 4,288 4,024 8,017 536 971 Environmental and safety fines ($ million) 2.5 1.0 0.6 15.0 3.6 a This represents reported incidents occurring within BP’s e Oil spills are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release We report the total hydrocarbons flared from our k  operational HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary of more than, or equal to, one barrel (159 litres, equivalent upstream operations. includes BP’s own operated facilities and certain other to 42 US gallons). l Comprises our share of BP’s consolidated entities and locations or situations. The 2016 and 2017 figures are based on our new definition f  equity accounted entities, other than BP’s share of Rosneft. b DAFWCF and RIF are the annual frequency per 200,000 which aligns with industry practice. m Based on BP’s total reported production of natural gas, hours worked. g Comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are natural gas liquids and refinery throughputs. c We report tier 1 process safety events, which are losses operated by BP. Data for emissions on an operational n Based on BP’s total ethanol production and wind generating of primary containment of greatest consequence – causing control basis was not reported in 2013. capacity. The 2017 figure decreased primarily due to the harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to h This includes the methane emissions from our operations divestment of two wind farms and lower wind power equipment or exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 events where gas goes to market as a percentage of that gas – generation overall at our sites in the US. are those of lesser consequence. accounting for more than 90% of methane emissions from o This includes dividends paid in cash and scrip dividends. d Loss of primary containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled our operated oil and gas assets. We do not include methane release of oil, gas or other hazardous materials from a tank, emissions that result from gas that is only reinjected, p Water consumption intensity data and mass of produced vessel, pipe, truck, rail car or other equipment used for recycled or associated with assets where BP does not water were not reported in 2013. storage, separation, processing or transfer. Historical and produce the gas. Data was not reported prior to 2016. current data for the LOPC metric was restated in 2017 to i Previously referred to as real sustainable reductions. exclude incidents where there is a safe release of gas to This measure reflects actions taken by our businesses the atmosphere from our US Lower 48 operations, from that reduce their GHG emissions. See page 13. a hung dump valve in a remote location. j Indirect emissions are those associated with the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling into our operations. BP Sustainability Report 2017 81 Stakeholders, materiality and data Our people and culture 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees – group 83,900 84,500 79,800 74,500 74,000 Number of employees – group leadership 530 501 431 394 394 Women in group leadership (%) 18 18 19 22 21 Women at management levelq (%) 27 27 28 29 30 People from racial minorities in UK and US group leadershipr (%) 8 9 10 11 11 People from beyond the UK and US in group leaderships (%) 21 21 21 23 24 Employee engagement (%) 73 73 71 73 73 Employee turnover t (%) 15 12 16 16 12 OpenTalk casesu 1,121 1,114 1,158 956 817 Dismissals for non-compliance and unethical behaviour v 113 157 132 109 70 q Includes employees who are group leaders, senior level s Figures for 2013-16 have been amended. leaders or in other management positions. t These figures relate to non-retail employees only. In 2017 r The 2013-16 figures have been restated as our calculation voluntary turnover (resignations and retirements) was 4%. now divides the number of UK and US racial minorities u Any employee, contractor or other third party can contact by the total population of these nationalities, instead of our confidential helpline, OpenTalk. the total number of group leaders. v Excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail sites. Data tool Visit bp.com/hsechartingtool to filter and analyse our health, safety and environmental data. 82 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Independent assurance statement We have performed a limited assurance 3. Carried out the following activities to review • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us engagement on selected performance data and HSE data samples and processes: to believe that BP management has not applied its statements presented in the BP p.l.c. (‘BP’) a. Reviewed disaggregated HSE data reported processes for determining material issues to be Sustainability Report 2017 (‘the Report’). by a sample of 27 businesses to assess included in the Report. Respective responsibilities whether the data had been collected, Completeness and accuracy of consolidated and reported accurately. performance information BP management is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information within the Report. b. Reviewed and challenged supporting How complete and accurate is the HSE data BP management is also responsible for the design, evidence from the sample of businesses. in the Report? implementation and maintenance of internal controls c. Tested whether HSE data had been collected, • With the exception of BP’s share of Rosneft in relevant to the preparation of the Report, so that it is consolidated and reported appropriately at relation to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, free from material misstatement, whether due to group level. we are not aware of any material reporting units fraud or error. 4. Reviewed the coverage of material issues that have been excluded from the group-wide Our responsibility, in accordance with BP management’s within the Report against the key sustainability HSE data. instructions, is to carry out a ‘limited level’ assurance issues raised in external media reports and the • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us engagement on selected data and performance claims outputs from BP’s processes for determining to believe that the HSE data has not been collated in the Report (‘the subject matter information’). We do material sustainability issues. properly from group-wide systems. not accept or assume any responsibility for any other 5. Reviewed information or explanations about • We are not aware of any errors that would purpose or to any other person or organization. Any selected data, statements and assertions materially affect the data as presented in the reliance any such third party may place on the Report is within the Report regarding BP’s sustainability Report. entirely at its own risk. performance. How plausible are the statements and claims What we did to form our conclusions The limitations of our review within the Report? Our assurance engagement has been planned and Our evidence gathering procedures were designed • We have reviewed information or explanation on performed in accordance with ISAE3000 (Revised).1 to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set selected statements on BP’s sustainability activities The Report has been evaluated against the out in ISAE3000 Revised) on which to base our presented in the Report and we are not aware of any following criteria: conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering misstatements in the assertions made. procedures performed is less than that of a • Whether the Report covers the key sustainability Our independence issues relevant to BP in 2017 which were raised in reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of We have implemented measures to comply with the the media, BP’s own review of material sustainability assurance is provided. applicable independence and professional competence issues, and selected internal documentation. rules as articulated by the IFAC Code of Ethics for • Whether the health, safety and environment (HSE) Our work did not include physical inspections Professional Accountants and ISQC1.2 Ernst & Young’s data presented in the Report are consistent with of any of BP’s operating assets. independence policies apply to the firm, partners and BP’s Environmental Performance Group Reporting Our work did not include an assessment of the professional staff. These policies prohibit any financial Requirements and HSE Reporting Definitions. data reported under the Advancing Low Carbon interests in our clients that would or might be seen to • Whether sustainability claims made in the Report accreditation programme, as presented on impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are consistent with the explanation and evidence page 9 of the Report. are required to confirm their compliance with the provided by relevant BP managers. Completion of our testing activities has involved firm’s policies. placing reliance on BP’s controls for managing and We confirm annually to BP whether there have been any Summary of work performed reporting HSE information, with the degree events, including the provision of prohibited services, The procedures we performed were based on our of reliance informed by the results of our review of that could impair our independence or objectivity. There professional judgement and included the steps the effectiveness of these controls. We have not were no such events or services in 2017. Our assurance outlined below: sought to review systems and controls at BP beyond team has been drawn from our global Climate Change 1. Interviewed a selection of BP’s senior those used for HSE data. and Sustainability Services Practice, which undertakes managers to understand the current status of engagements similar to this with a number of significant Our conclusions UK and international businesses. safety, social, ethical and environmental activities, and progress made during the reporting period. Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: 2. Reviewed selected group-level documents Ernst & Young LLP, London relating to safety, social, ethical and Materiality 16 April 2018 environmental aspects of BP’s performance to Has BP provided a balanced representation of understand progress made across the organization material issues concerning BP’s sustainability and test the coverage of topics within the Report. performance? • We are not aware of any material aspects Visit concerning BP’s sustainability performance bp.com/assurance for Ernst & Young’s that have been excluded from the Report. specific observations. 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE3000) Revised, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 2 Parts A and B of the IESBA Code; and the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC1). BP Sustainability Report 2017 83 Advancing the energy transition Sustainability Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 How the energy world is changing and Covers our sustainability performance Details of our financial and operating how we’re helping advance the transition. with additional information online. performance in print and online. bp.com/energytransition bp.com/sustainability bp.com/annualreport BP Energy Outlook BP Technology Outlook Provides our projections of future How technology could influence the energy trends and factors that could way we meet the energy challenge affect them out to 2040. into the future. bp.com/energyoutlook bp.com/technologyoutlook Cautionary statement BP Sustainability Report 2017 and bp.com/ expressed in such statements, depending on word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. BP Annual sustainability contain certain forward-looking a variety of factors including those set out in Report and Form 20-F 2017 may be downloaded from statements – that is, statements related to future, the ‘Risk factors’ in our Annual Report and Form bp.com/annualreport. No material in this Sustainability not past events and circumstances – which may 20-F 2017 and other matters referred to at Report forms any part of that document. No part of relate to the ambitions, aims, targets, plans and bp.com/energytransition. this Sustainability Report or bp.com/sustainability objectives of BP – as well as statements related constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an to the future energy mix, the future of electric Material is used within this document to describe invitation or inducement to invest in BP p.l.c. or any vehicles and future emissions and carbon policies issues for voluntary sustainability reporting that are other entity and must not be relied upon in any way and plans relating to the diversity of our workforce. considered to have the potential to significantly in connection with any investment decisions. BP p.l.c. Forward-looking statements involve risk and affect sustainability performance in the view of is the parent company of the BP group of companies. uncertainty because they relate to events and the company and/or are expected to be important Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the eyes of internal or external stakeholders. between the activities and operations of the parent in the future and are outside of the control of BP. Material for the purposes of this document should company and those of its subsidiaries. Actual results or outcomes may differ from those not, therefore, be read as equating to any use of the 84 BP Sustainability Report 2017 Acknowledgements Design: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Typesetting: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Printing: Pureprint Group Limited, UK, ISO 14001, FSC® certified and CarbonNeutral® Photography: Arnhel De Serra, Chris Moyse Marc Morrison, Mehmet Binay, Richard Davies Stuart Conway, Zuhair AlSiyabi Paper: This report is printed on Munken Polar Smooth paper and board. This paper is made from elemental chlorine free pulps. Munken Polar Smooth benefits from the highest level of environmental certification, including FSC® chain of custody, EMAS and ISO 14001, the pulp is sourced from sustainably managed forests. You can order BP’s printed publications free of charge from: bp.com/papercopies US and Canada Issuer Direct Toll-free: +1 888 301 2505 bpreports@issuerdirect.com UK and rest of world BP Distribution Services Tel: +44 (0)870 241 3269 Fax: +44 (0)870 240 5753 bpdistributionservices@bp.com Feedback Your feedback is important to us. You can email the corporate reporting team at corporatereporting@bp.com Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their printing technology. BP p.l.c. 1 St James’s Square London SW1Y 4PD bp.com/sustainability © BP p.l.c. 2018
