Communication on Progress TGS Global 2018 © 2018 TGS Global COP 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT TGS Global 24 rue de Surène 75008 Paris, France October 2018 Dear TGS Global Members and wider TGS Ecosystem, I am pleased to confirm that TGS Global reaﬃrms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As you know, ‘sustainability’ is more than something TGS members aspire to include their day to day actions, it’s why TGS was created, it’s what we do, it’s in our DNA and it’s in our name: Think Global Sustainability. In this, our first, annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This is a roadmap of our intentions and the beginning of an exploration of how our intentions can be measured. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Marc Desjardins President and CEO, TGS Global © 2018 TGS Global COP 2 CONTENTS WHO ARE TGS? .............................................................................. 4 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC ..............................................5 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ................................... 7 TGS GLOBAL, PRINCIPLES and SDGs ...........................................8 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES................................................. 16 © 2018 TGS Global COP 3 WHO ARE TGS? We aim to deliver sustainable, long term excellence in service delivery. We nurture transparent, honest relationships with our members and clients and work with integrity and accountability. The United Nations Global Compact was set up to encourage a serious and continual look at how to address the urgent environmental, social, and governance challenges our world faces. TGS Members know that business success is part of, TGS is a dynamic global business network of not separate from, the success of the independent firms providing accounting, audit, tax, communities and landscapes in which they business advisory and commercial legal services. operate. We can act responsibly and we can also be Currently operating with 52 members from 52 entrepreneurial in the way we look at sustainability: countries. these two perspectives are mutually beneficial and With over 3000 professional staﬀ, TGS member firms the most important levers of future success. support clients by designing global, sustainable TGS is deeply committed to implementing solutions and providing a one-stop-shop for responsible business practices and developing business advisory, audit, tax, legal and accounting solutions with a positive impact on society. services. Our expertise fuels local and international growth, informs innovation and positions clients on TGS Global is ready to deliver and we’ve already the marketplace. Our expertise also safeguards started. businesses against financial and organisational risks and helps to value and maintain assets. At TGS, sustainability is at the heart of everything we do. ‘TGS’ stands for Think Global Sustainability. Marc Desjardins President TGS Global More than 50 members worldwide. © 2018 TGS Global COP 4 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC Human Rights TGS Global members respect and support international human rights. We encourage and Principle 1 adopt relevant principles into practices and values in the network. We work with respect, valuing Businesses should support and respect the diversity among our clients and in our workplaces. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; TGS is committed to upholding the UN Global Principle 5 Compact Principles in relation to labour. The network is dedicated to ensuring that all labour The eﬀective abolition of child labour; and standards are an active component of our people’s Principle 6 daily working environment and experience. We will implement policies and practices that encourage The elimination of discrimination in respect of the adoption of such standards. employment and occupation. © 2018 TGS Global COP 5 Environment TGS and TGS Member firms care about the work we do for our clients, the way we treat our people and the impact we have on our society and Principle 7 environment. We support the UN Global Compact Businesses should support a precautionary Environment Principles and are committed to the approach to environmental challenges; protection of the world around us, including the Principle 8 prevention of pollution and the minimisation of our environmental impact through our operations and Undertake initiatives to promote greater services. environmental responsibility; and We continually review and change the way we work Principle 9 so we can make a positive diﬀerence in the world Encourage the development and diﬀusion of around us. environmentally friendly technologies. TGS Global believes in business but we take risks with care. What’s more, we take the risks associated with corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery extremely seriously. Our members have procedures in place to assist in Anti-corruption the detection of fraudulent activity within our Principle 10 businesses. All our member firms are fully committed to ensuring that as soon as areas of Businesses should work against corruption in all its corruption are identified, appropriate and necessary forms, including extortion and bribery. corrective action is taken. As a network of professional service firms including lawyers, certified auditors and other accountancy and advisory professionals, TGS Global is wellplaced and especially committed to the UN Global Compact Principle No.10. © 2018 TGS Global COP 6 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The 10 principles of the UNGC can be subdivided into 17 Sustainable Development Goals. As a professional services organisation, TGS Global is best suited to support a limited number of SDGs such as Quality Education, Gender Equality, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure: 5 out of 17. We do this but TGS Global are more sustainably ambitious than this. TGS engages to embrace and track each of the 17 SDGs. TGS Global sees the whole suite of SDGs as important. We aim to demonstrably engage with all 17 of the Sustainable Development goals. If there’s anything auditors, accountants and business advisors are good at, it’s keeping track of complex information, finding root causes of problems and co-creating sustainable solutions with clients. TGS will keep track of their engagement with the SDGs, identifying the areas where we can make the biggest diﬀerence and finding ways to engage where we are currently inactive. The SDGs will become the TGS Code. © 2018 TGS Global COP 7 TGS GLOBAL, PRINCIPLES and SDGs This Communication On Progress marks the ‘go’ point of our engagement with the UNGC principles. As good business advisors, we endeavoured to make our first report SMART: Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Time-based. Our actions are described in three main areas that best describe the scope and character of the TGS Global Network. Where we currently have data, we share it. Where we don’t have data, we make a plan to find it. With more than 3000 staﬀ from 52 firms across 7 continents currently serving more than 200 000 businesses worldwide, our opportunity to collect data is vast. TGS Global commits to doubling the data we collect, analyse and share every year until 2024. TGS Structure Member Actions As an organisation grows, its form changes and we Individual members of the TGS Global network are will endeavour to respect the values of the UNGC independent firms and are active in their own in every structural decision we take. region. There are many positive sustainable actions we can learn from each other. TGS Structure and Governance Best Practice forum TGS Values Pro-Bono and charity work Equality Spotlight 52 weekly member CSR UNGC COP workshops and reports review. Young Leader program TGS Service Lines Where we co-create services as a group we can build SDGs in at the root. Ethical Audit (and checklists) Sustainable BPO TGS Label © 2018 TGS Global COP 8 TGS STRUCTURE and GOVERNANCE We will endeavour to respect the values of the UNGC in every structural decision we take as the network TGS is made up of: grows from 50 to 100 members and onwards. Members TGS is a network of independent member firms, but Active Member unlike other comparable networks, each of our Founding Member members has the opportunity to become a shareholder and to access the network’s financial data. Our goal is to achieve a fully transparent, member-owned network. Strategic Council Each TGS Global member firm is involved, is responsible TGS Board and participates in the decisions aﬀecting strategy and TGS Assembly day-to-day operations. Each member has a strong voice in the direction of the network and this is reflected in the network structure. TGS VALUES and SDGs TGS was founded on a robust and sincere set of values: ethical behaviour, agile working practices, clientcentred approach to business and collaboration. Each of these values is a working tool far beyond a simple marketing proposition. TGS Values and how they translate into day-to-day actions are reaﬃrmed by members in their initial and ongoing TGS Peer Reviews. Each member firm is peer reviewed before membership and after a period of 4 years. Do they uphold the TGS Values? What actions should they be taking to better adhere to TGS Values and the SDGs? © 2018 TGS Global COP 9 EQUALITY & DIVERSITY The world of accounting, auditing and business advisory is a traditionally male-dominated work environment. Each of our members is engaged to achieve a 50/50 gender split, equal pay for equal work and to provide opportunities for minority groups. TGS Operational Team The TGS team reflects this ambition and has a international team with a 50/50 gender balance. The TGS Equality & Diversity Census is currently being designed and will provide figures for monitoring this engagement. Results of this survey will appear in the 2019 COP. TGS Equality & Diversity initiatives include: Gender neutral job advertising all members Conference speaker selection 50/50 target TGS Global Socia 3 TGS France South African YES 4 Youth campaign TGS South Africa Womennovator KG Somani, India. © 2018 TGS Global COP 10 UNGC WORKSHOPS and REPORTS TGS members are obliged to participate in two The workshops are formal training about how to conferences per year. Each conference is in a implement and measure actions that can be and are diﬀerent global location and each has an exploratory being undertaken to uphold the 10 sustainable training workshop dedicated to our participation in development principles. the United Nations Global Compact. We aim to Our most recent workshops: include an actor from the local UNGC oﬃce or active participant at each session. Brussels, May 2018 These workshops are a visible sign of our ongoing Miami, May 2018 commitment to the SDGs and a showcase and New Delhi, May 2018 inspiration for best practice and sharing ideas on Dubai 2018, November sustainable practices. © 2018 TGS Global COP 11 ETHICAL AUDIT and CHECKLISTS TGS is creating and improving ‘ethical audit’ Among other applications, TGS Ethical checklists are checklists. How far does a business or other a service which could include an audit of investors organisation uphold ethical business practice? How and a review of either side of blockchain do they rate among similar actors? transactions. TGS Ethical checklists will also ensure the respect of local laws and a demonstrate Individual TGS member firms have their own commitment to anti-corruption. country-specific audit practices. The advantage of an international network is the capability to harmonise TGS also has checklists for Social Media Posts. How best practice. As each firm increases their quality, many posts contain information about the UNGC the overall quality of the network increases and in and how our actions relate to the SDGs? turn this increases the quality and value of each individual firm. This virtuous quality circle is proof that the SDGs are good for business in a non-zero sum perspective. There are no winners and losers in TGS Global business there are people helping each other improve. TGS SUSTAINABLE BPO Business Process Outsourcing and Near Sourcing are increasingly used as they can be very cost eﬀective and improve a firm’s eﬃciency. BPO services can sometimes be exploitative. Work can be ruthlessly and mindlessly outsourced to countries and firms where labour is cheap. The TGS Sustainable BPO project is a simple and unique idea. Our services will be slightly more expensive than other providers but the extra investment will reflect quality of service and the working conditions, training and opportunities of the staﬀ providing the work. TGS Sustainable BPO will also have a focus on extreme quality of client experience. © 2018 TGS Global COP 12 TGS LABEL Much as energy labels can help companies and individuals be aware of and improve energy consumption, the ‘TGS label’ for businesses and business services could help clients feel more confident that they are engaging with a firm who respects the principles behind the United Nations Global Compact. TGS will be setting up a working group in early 2019 to analyse and kickstart this project. PRO BONO and CHARITY Potential uses of the TGS Label. To conform to EU legislation For company marketing Most TGS firms do a certain amount of work pro bono and all member firms are involved in charity Identify and evaluate ethical investors and work. investments. The TGS network oﬀers the perfect opportunity to Identify and evaluate eﬃcient use of money in get better at giving. Many charities are not optimally charitable donations. eﬃcient and do not always have the best use of time, money and eﬀort. TGS values and audit expertise can help boost the eﬀects of charitable and altruistic actions. TGS firms are eﬀective business advisors but we are also eﬀective altruists. © 2018 TGS Global COP 13 ENVIRONMENTAL BEST PRACTICE FORUM TGS has an online hub, myTGShub, where members share ideas and information. MyTGShub is a private online space where firms are This idea was inspired by the Groupe Soregor ‘Aloe’ free to communicate about their operations and project which created an internal network of key strategy without fear of bad publicity or competitors. people to raise awareness among all employees of Our SDG Forum in MyTGShub has interviews, sustainable development and eco-gestures and to webinars and articles about best practice within the encourage the implementation of concrete actions network with regards to the SDGs. across each of the firm’s oﬃces. What is your firm doing to support the SDGs? How The TGS SDG Forum is being modified and scaled-up could you do more? What problems have you found for use within the TGS network. This initiative was a when trying to rollout such initiatives? direct idea that came out of our Brussels 2018 SDG workshop. A single country initiative can have a vertical and exponentially positive eﬀect as it is rolled out on a global scale! © 2018 TGS Global COP 14 TGS CSR Spotlight member SDG review TGS has a networked global communication TGS CSR Spotlight has a secondary objective. TGS platform: web, hub, social media, national and interns working in this initiative will receive local press in 52 countries. training to ensure that their involvement with TGS Global and the UNGC principles leaves an Every month TGS will highlight the work being indelible imprint and continues with them to their done on the SDGs by a TGS Global member with a further career. video, article and social media posts. My internship was a good experience: I had some freedom in my work, I had varied tasks and I learned a lot about Corporate Social Responsibility thanks to TGS Global’s involvement with the UNGC. Gauthier Ritter TGS Intern 2018 © 2018 TGS Global COP 15 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES TGS SDG DASHBOARD The TGS SDG DASHBOARD is available for anyone All the figures in this report are contained in the to see and for anyone to comment on. We will be TGS SDG DASHBOARD. The dashboard is open and delighted to hear your comments, criticisms and can be freely consulted by any of our stakeholders. suggestions. The dashboard will be continually updated throughout the year as our projects grow, as we carry out further surveys and as we analyse existing data. ONE PAGE PLAN The fist sheet in the TGS SDG Dashboard is a One Page Plan (OPP). The one page plan is a simple tool that shows where we are now, where we plan in the future, and how we will get there. The how analysis lists the strategies, action plans, responsibilities and target timing for the key activities. This is a simple tool which is easy to complete and will be updated bimonthly. © 2018 TGS Global COP 16 Watch a presentation of TGS Global’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. www.tgs-global.com © 2018 TGS Global © 2018 TGS Global. All rights reserved. COP 17
