Corporate Sustainability Report 2018 Table of Contents Contents Statement from the Managing Director…………………………………..…………………………………...2 Acronyms…………………………………………………………………………………………...................3 Background……………………………………………………………………………………………………4 Social Reporting: Sustainable Development Priorities……………………………………………………….5 The UNGC 10 Principles……………………………………………………………………………………...6 Corporate issues in Fiduga Ltd Strategic Plan 2016-19………………………………………………………7 Strategic Linkages to Sustainability Priorities at Fiduga Ltd………………………………………..………..8 Photo Splash…………………………………………………………………………………………………..9 1. HUMAN RIGHTS………………………………………………………………………………………...10 Achievements:............................................................................................................ 2. LABOUR STANDARDS: Achievements: 3. ENVIRONMENT. Achievements: 4. CORPORATE INTEGRITY (ANTI-CORRUPTION) 5. HOW THE COP IS GOING TO BE COMMUNICATED TO DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS. Statement from the Managing Director: In 2017, Fiduga Ltd continued to be proactive in corporate sustainability and made excellent progress towards the achievement of our sustainability targets. Fiduga Ltd is quietly earning respect and recognition for the integrity and depth of its corporate sustainability programs, and we are actively ensuring that we pave a way for other individuals and companies that have direct or indirect role in Fiduga operations to follow and adopt more sustainable work practices. For this reason, it is essential that we continue to be proactive in corporate sustainability and make excellent progress towards the achievement of the company’s business agenda and sustainable targets. This Communication on Progress (COP) Report documents our respect for the impact of our company’s actions on our own lives and on the lives of our colleagues, customers, partners and the communities we all share. We recognize the need to set down basic standards for embodying them in our day-to-day experiences. As Fiduga Ltd, we will innately continue progressing in adhering to the UNGC principles, some of which have been showcased in this report. Kind regards, Jos Meulenberg, Managing Director – Fiduga Ltd Acronyms: CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility FL: Fiduga Limited ICT: Information Communication and Technology ILO: International Labour Organisation ISO: International Organization for Standardization MPS-GAP: Milieu Programma Sierteelt-Good Agricultural Practices MPSQ: Milieu Programma SierteeltSocially Qualified OSH: Occupational Safety and Health ROI: Return on Investment SOPs: Standard Operation Procedures UNGC: United Nations Global Compact VCT: Voluntary Counseling and Testing for HIV Background: Fiduga Limited operates under Dümmen Orange, Dutch Company that specializes in the breeding and propagation of Chrysanthemums. The Company was incorporated in Uganda on 29 th October, 1998 with the objective of producing and exporting exclusive and environmentally friendly cuttings that qualify to international markets. Fiduga Limited employs 850 workers. We are ISO 9001:2008, MPS-GAP Certified and have been qualified for Free Zone Certification in Uganda. Currently we have 19 hectares in full production and export over 500 million cuttings annually. This Corporate Sustainability Report 2018 informs stakeholders about the course of the financial year 2017/18 and summarizes the way the company handles corporate responsibility and sustainability. In the previous year, the company has intensified its dialogue with relevant stakeholder groups in preparation for this latest report. Our commitment to integrity has remained steadfast. Integrity means acting out of and in accordance with our basic principles: doing as we say, and saying as we do. We act honestly, responsibly and lawfully in all matters of business. We respect the universal rules of competition. We uphold our company name and reputations as well as those of our parent company—Dümmen Orange. Commitment to integrity is also about creating a climate for continued success. It is about creating an environment where people can make good decisions. It is about doing what is right in every business situation. The objective of this publication therefore, is to identify and promote good practices relating to the use of human rights obligations and commitments to inform, support and strengthen environmental policy making, especially in the areas of environmental protection and management. Simultaneously, this COP should build up momentum to profile the contextually of our corporate sustainability strategy and help us make excellent progress towards the achievement of the company’s business agenda and sustainable targets. Social Reporting: Sustainable Development Priorities Understanding our stakeholders and what is important to them. Stakeholder Their Expectations Fiduga’s Expectations Staff Remuneration, Welfare Performance, Creativity and Loyalty Shareholders ROI, Business Stability Resources and Continuity and CSR Clients Quality products, Constructive feedback, Long-term relationship and Competitive pricing and contractual fulfillment obligation reliable supplies Supplier Constructive feedback, Quality products, Competitive Pricing, Reliable supplies Long term relationship and Compliance to all applicable laws and contractual fulfillment obligation Community Assistance and Involvement and participation of community members. compliance to local laws Government Compliance to Fair trade practices, Conducive political environment applicable laws and and Good infrastructure provision of employment Umbrella Involvement and Fair and beneficial Representation Organizations compliance Financial Institutions Long term relationship Quality products, Competitive pricing and reliable and contractual supplies fulfillment obligations Union Good governance Good industrial relations The UNGC 10 Principles are: 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not in complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Below is an index of our reporting against the UN Global Compact Principles with in the content of this 2018 Sustainability Report. EXPENDITURE ON IMPACT PILLARS 12 24 HUMAN RIGHTS 12% LABOUR STANDARDS 34% ENVIROMENT 30% 34 CORPORATE INTEGRITY 24% 30 Corporate issues in Fiduga Ltd Strategic Plan 2016-19 In 2018, we invested USD 908,193 in our impact zones as follows: Employee (444,642, 49%), Product (138,652, 15%), Process (145,922, 16%) and Community (178,977, 20%). These corporate issues are extracted from the company Strategic Plan 2016-2019. As Fiduga seeks to consolidate her market leadership position, we are investing in transforming systems into an analytical competitor in the region with social analytics as follows: 120 100 80 EMPLOYEE 60 PRODUCT PROCESS 40 COMMUNITY 20 0 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIROMENT CORPORATE INTEGRITY Employee: This corporate issue arose from the need to increase workplace productivity and employee satisfaction. The employees are the competitive advantage that Fiduga has over its competitors. Product: As a farming business with very stringent quality needs from clients, Fiduga has sought to continuously improve the quality of its product. Process: Owing to the meticulous process of producing and handling the cuttings for export, we have invested in process and systems as a way of guaranteeing our project sustainability. Community: As a socially responsible company, ensuring achievement of the global sustainability targets is very key in securing our good corporate image. We have invested in the form of contribution to achievement of these targets as embedded in our Code of Conduct. Strategic Linkages to Sustainability Priorities at Fiduga Ltd. Below are strategic linkages between Fiduga Ltd corporate issues (Personnel, Product, Process and Community) and the United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Development Priorities Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Corporate Integrity on our road to becoming a Sustainability Leadership Company. Corporate Sustainability Priorities for 2016-2019 linked to UNGC Initiatives Issues 1.PERSONNEL Enhancing the knowledge, the skills and abilities of our employees. (Employee) Marching jobs with people for career development and management. Supervision and Performance Management. Cross functional mentoring program which may include peer to peer communication and Knowledge sharing. Star program to identify and develop potential, young academics. 2. PRODUCT Training in Product Management Fully functional Breeding Centre in Uganda. Maintain top quality leadership in the Chrysanthemum production. Continuous improvement in product quality. 3. PROCESS Skills training in line with standardized performance metrics : PAT System Achieve 100% Compliance requirements as applicable in each context (Legal, HR, Finance /Tax, Safety, Environment and all acceptable SOPs. 4.PEOPLE Promote Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI). (Community) Promote Principles of Social Investment (PSI). Promote Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME). Participate in the Supply Chain Sustainability Initiative. Photo Splash Fiduga employees donating blood at the Annual Fiduga Community Health Fare: Fiduga Community Health Fare / Sensitization. The following are UN Global Compact Principles showing how our basic business principles translate into specific expectations and applications in the course of everyday business. These principles help us to visualize our values in action, and give us a deeper, real-world understanding of the standards to which all Fiduga Ltd employees are trusted to hold themselves and each other. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS. Right to Health: HUMAN IMMUNE VIRUS / ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (HIV/AIDS) POLICY: Fiduga Ltd has developed a workplace policy on Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The key elements of the policy are to: a) To provide health information to employees on HIV/AIDS, its magnitude, impact and preventative measures. b) To implement non-discriminatory policies, procedures and practices in managing individuals who have HIV/AIDS. c) To approach individuals who have HIV/AIDS in the same manner as those with any other progressive debilitating illness and provide support to them. d) To clearly define HIV/AIDS policies and procedures taking into account local practices, procedures, culture and legislation. Policy Objective: The objective of the HIV/AIDS policy is to minimize, monitor and manage the impact, spread and consequences of HIV/AIDS disease in as far as it affects the employees and the operations of the Company Policy Applicability: The policy applies to all employees of the Company The Need for an HIV/AIDS Policy: The HIV/AIDS policy has been developed for the following key reasons: Social Responsibility: The actual and potential growth and impact of HIV/AIDS disease on people of productive and economically active age poses an enormous business challenge. The Company considers that it has a Corporate Social Responsibility to support HIV/AIDS preventative efforts and to protect the basic Human rights of those in the workplace who are HIV positive. Employee Health and Well Being: The Company is committed to the protection and maintenance of its employee’s health and wellbeing within affordable limits. Non-Discriminatory Policies, Procedures and Practices Misconceptions and misinformation regarding HIV/AIDS can contribute to discriminatory management policies, practices and behaviors resulting in panic, and poor employee morale and working relationships between employees and those infected with HIV/AIDS. The Company therefore recognizes a need to disseminate standard, consistent and factual information on the HIV/AIDS disease and to educate our employees to minimize and manage HIV/AIDS infection. Workplace as an Educational Centre Employees spend a considerable part of their lives in the workplace. The workplace therefore has an advantage as a location, the Company can use to establish, implement and promote HIV/AIDS prevention strategies and programs Managing HIV/AIDS within the Company The Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer and will not carry out HIV testing when recruiting job candidates. The Company will ensure that job candidates who are known to have HIV/AIDS are treated no differently from those who may have any other life-threatening and non-contagious disease. Fitness to perform a job will be the only criterion that shall apply. HIV Testing and Screening: a) The Company does not consider HIV testing and screening of employees to be necessary or desirable. Some countries however require an HIV free status for work permit applications and for business travel. Suppliers of Medical Insurance and Pension Schemes may also demand testing. b) Where testing is required under the above circumstances, the Company will comply with the requirement but will ensure that the testing is authorized by the employee and accompanied by pre-and post-testing counseling. c) Should a test prove positive then the outcome must be regarded as a matter between the patient and the doctor concerned. Confidentiality of HIV/AIDS information: Employees are under no obligation to notify the Company of an HIV/AIDS infection. The Company considers medical information including HIV/AIDS status confidential, unless disclosure is required and only under following circumstances. a) The information is legally required. b) The employee’s health is affecting their own and hence the Company’s performance. c) Long employee absence necessitates management to obtain the employee’s medical status with the employee’s written permission. d) Anonymous information may be given to a public body for the express purpose of studying the epidemiology of HIV. In all the above circumstances, disclosure on HIV/AIDS status should only be made with the written approval of the Human Resources Manager and only after obtaining a written authority from the individual staff concerned. Should it become known that an employee is HIV+ then; Management shall ensure the absolute confidentiality of this information and make every effort to protect that person from stigmatization and discrimination. To ensure maintenance of confidentiality these policy and procedure statements should be communicated to the medical practitioner handling the Company’s staff and to all those that handle personnel information. Any unwanted disclosure by any employee will be treated as an act of misconduct warranting disciplinary action. Counseling of HIV/AIDS infected employees: Counseling services may be made available for employees with HIV and AIDS at designated Medical Health Centres. Co-workers: Where for reasons outside the Company’s control, fellow employees become reluctant, unwilling or resist working with an affected colleague, they will be counselled that their attitude in appropriate circumstances is unwarranted, unreasonable and not medically or scientifically justified, in an effort to alleviate their fears and concerns. HIV/AIDS and Disciplinary Measures: The Company recognizes that HIV/AIDS infected employees are vulnerable to discriminatory policies, practices and behaviors, and loss of training, promotion and career opportunities. This can cause great distress and alienation. The Company regards any form of discrimination and harassment, directly or indirectly, towards HIV/AIDS infected employees as a gross misconduct. AIDS and separation from employment Any employee who is incapable of working on account of AIDS shall be managed in accordance to the Sick Leave Policy. Review The Human Resource Manager shall ensure that this policy is reviewed periodically to align it with the changing HIV/AIDS working practices in the international and national realm. 2. LABOUR STANDARDS: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY. The Company acknowledges that it can only realize and achieve its documented mission by primarily creating a safe workplace through a well-coordinated OSH management system. This in line with the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2006 (OSHA) and underlying regulations. The Company is mandated by law to have an OSH policy aligned to its operations and developed with worker participation and communicated across the board. Fiduga Ltd has set forth an Occupational Health and Safety Policy that workers should be protected from sickness, disease and injury arising from their employment. The policy measures relate to machinery safety and ergonomics, handling and transport of materials, sound management of chemicals, and protection against biological risks, welfare and accommodation facilities. Management shall have overall responsibility for ensuring the safety and health of workers and the general public affected by the Company’s operations. The OSH Management System shall be in accordance with the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. We will do our part to preserve and promote an environment in which we can all thrive. We are committed to knowing and complying with all current health and safety regulations and emergency plans. Freedom of Association. Fiduga Ltd promotes the Freedom of Association and ensures that workers and employers associate to efficiently negotiate work relations. Combined with strong freedom of association and sound collective bargaining practices Fiduga Ltd ensures that employers and workers have an equal voice in negotiations and that the outcome is fair and equitable. Equal Opportunity and Non Discrimination Policy. Fiduga is an equal opportunity employer. Therefore, Fiduga shall apply objective and fair criteria to ensure that staff members are selected, assessed, promoted and treated on the basis of their merit, abilities and experience relevant to their post. No suitable job applicant or staff member shall receive less favourable treatment than others in similar circumstances on grounds of tribe, race, colour, nationality, social or ethnic origin and language, gender, marital status, disability, class, age, political or religious belief or HIV status. The principle of equal opportunity shall form the fundamental framework for human resource development and shall be integrated into all policies and practices affecting Fiduga.Fiduga shall pay male and female employees equal remuneration for work of equal value. Social Security Policy. Fiduga Ltd provides security for its employees and protects them not only from disease, but also from the insecurities related to making a living through work. Social security systems provide for basic income in cases of unemployment, illness and injury, old age and retirement, family responsibilities such as pregnancy and childcare, and loss of the family breadwinner. Such benefits are important not only for individual workers and their families but also for their communities as a whole. By providing health care and income security, social security enhances productivity and contributes to the dignity and full realization of individual workers. Our social security policy also promotes gender equality through the adoption of measures to ensure that women who have children enjoy equal opportunities at our place. The policy has helped us to maintain a stable workforce adaptable to change. Staff Development Policy. Fiduga limited regards its staff as the most valuable resource. In order for Fiduga to carry out its work effectively, it needs to have skilled, committed and resourceful staff. The company further acknowledges that at times staff members may lack specific skills required to carry out their assigned tasks satisfactorily. The Company will make an effort to see that all Employees are provided with the necessary training that enables them to perform their duties effectively. Fiduga also recognizes the value of staff development in terms of promoting motivation and commitment among staff. It can be a powerful motivator in the organization when staff members feel that they are able to carry out their work well and have opportunities for professional and personal development. Maternity Policy Female employees are entitled to paid maternity leave of 90 working days as a consequence of pregnancy or miscarriage. Female employees due for maternity leave shall inform their team leaders/supervisors. The employee and their supervisor shall then proceed to the human resource office to fill in the maternity leave form clearly indicating the start date and end date of the leave. Leave beyond 90 working days must be approved by the respective departmental head together with the human resource manager and will be treated as annual leave if the employee has any unused annual leave days or as leave without pay. During maternity leave, the employee shall continue to receive all benefits previously provided and shall be eligible for salary increases and bonuses. Eligibility for promotions shall not be affected in any way by the fact that an employee has been on maternity leave. A female employee who seeks to exercise any of the rights mentioned in this section shall, if requested by the Company, produce a certificate as to her medical condition from a Certified Medical Doctor or Midwife. Achievements:  Over 75% of the labour force has under gone in-house training on various topics conducted by the Human Resource Team.  4 senior supervisors are under going on job training (2 In Busitema Agricultural College and 2 at HAS University Netherlands).  563 staff given on leaves: Maternity (34), Paternity (33), Sick Leave Hours (11,286).  Conducted 2 trainings for Fiduga Occupational Safety and Health Committee.  Zero tolerance for child labour: no children hired.  28 children aged (3-24 months) cared for in the daycare service.  30 Staff Meetings held by Managing Director’s ,September, 2016  15% of the 563 employees are unionized.  2 health talk session held for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers on hygiene standards and child care.  26 PLHIVs (Persons living with HIV) supported with food supplements, school fees and scholastics for their children.  46 referrals made to major hospitals for specialist care.  6 study trips organized for managers to Germany, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, and Netherlands. Fiduga Clinic Doctors at Work. Photo Splash: 3. ENVIRONMENT. Fiduga Ltd cares about the health of our planet and is committed to working sustainably. We strive to understand measure and improve the ecological impacts of our company’s products, processes and practices. Dedication to sustainability also impacts our individual choices. Our ultimate goal is to protect our environment and also enhance the lives of our workers, as they are free from unhealthy and toxic pesticides. We will continue to work together to build a better and more sustainable future and lighten our footsteps on the planet. Achievements:  We have recycled crop waste and weeds.  Installed a new pump for efficiency water usage and management; computerized irrigation system, Installed new water efficient fixtures, equipment and technology.  Invested US7, 277 to procure a new steam boiler waste management: safe disposal of waste.  79 Employees trained in safe use and handling of pesticides has been provided to sprayers and stores employees; 77 Sprayer Men trained and 2 Stores staff. Instituted a Green Care Project. Greencare hygiene practices and our aim. Although we were working with procedures on the farm, the Green care project has given us straight forward guidelines and understanding of the importance of Phytosanitary procedures. Training all people on the farm has enlightened and empowered every one with our focus on the same goals. Aim: Our goal is to avoid spreading and entry of plant diseases. By implementing these GC hygiene minimum requirements in each greenhouse/entity the chance on disease outbreaks will decrease or be eliminated.  At Fiduga we have got various areas which needed to be improved on hygiene e.g. Elite increase (Stock House), Elite basic stock, Breeding house and Production at large.  Since implementation of GC, we managed to improve some of those areas and others are still in progress. Greencare implementation and progress.  Made a general hygiene and protocol poster for the whole production farm.  Tested one greenhouse with a fully functional double entry.  Designed new work wear and movement of materials for each greenhouse to enable each GH to be a Phytosanitary Entity.  Built a full – shower in shower out double entrance for our Elite increase.  Moved our Elite basic stock into the Elite increase. Same Green care status.  Built a double entry with basins for GH 10 – this house is the next increase level of our farm.  Built a proper wash bay for farm equipment to ensure only clean machinery enters the different entities. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Team, sharing a light moment inside Fiduga Green House: Fiduga Ltd Management Team Fiduga Employees attending a Child Labour sensitization in September, 2017 Managing Director handing over a bull to best performing employees, 2017. 4. CORPORATE INTEGRITY FIDUGA LIMITED ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY. 1. INTRODUCTION This Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (the “Policy”) establishes certain minimum standards concerning the prevention of corruption and is intended to ensure that Fiduga Ltd conduct its activities ethically and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in respect of anti-bribery and corruption. These laws and regulations include, without limitation, national and international anti-corruption laws such as the articles section 18(1) and (2) of the Acts of Parliament Act (Cap.2) of the Constitution f Uganda, Articles, 126, 177 and 178 of the Dutch Penal Law, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the anticorruption laws of every country in which we have clients. 2. SCOPE This Policy covers all activities and interactions with external individuals and organizations, irrespective of their jurisdiction or business. These may include all employees, suppliers, customers, governmental officials, third party representatives, and other business partners. 3. APPLICATION This Policy applies to:  Members of Fiduga Ltd Management Team;  Members of Fiduga Ltd Extended Management Team (Departmental Heads and Supervisors);  All procurement and stores employees;  Employees responsible for import and export;  The engagement of third-party service providers by Fiduga Ltd or any individual or corporate entity associated with Fiduga Ltd (for example contract producers and other suppliers, and agents). This Policy applies to all public and private sector transactions in which Fiduga Ltd is engaged. 4. POLICY At Fiduga Ltd we comply with the following standards: Bribery / Improper payments Fiduga Ltd does not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption in the course of its business. We never – directly or indirectly – give, offer or promise anything of value for the purpose of improperly obtaining or retaining business, securing a business opportunity, or influencing any other decision or action by the recipient. Fiduga Ltd does not tolerate corruption regardless of local customs or traditions. Fiduga Ltd’s zero tolerance for corruption applies to our relations with everyone. Fiduga Ltd also prohibits facilitation payments. These are small payments of cash or anything of value to a government official to secure or speed up a routine government action, such as clearing our products through customs. Ethical business practices Fiduga Ltd is committed to doing business the right way. We comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and avoid situations that are contrary to our Business Principles or that may damage our reputation. In order to prevent bribery, improper payments or corruption, we make sure that all of our activities and payments:  Have a legitimate purpose and are not intended to gain an improper advantage;  Are appropriate and reasonable; and  Comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Charitable donations must not be provided for a promotional purpose or to gain an improper advantage. Charitable donations may only be rewarded to reputable not-for-profit organisations, and must always be made directly and not via another party or individual. Unfair business practices Fiduga Ltd complies with all applicable antitrust and competition laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are intended to promote the preservation of competitive free market by prohibiting unreasonable restraints on competition. Certain interactions with competitors (including potential competitors) could be deemed unlawful. In order to ensure reasonable and appropriate competitive business practices at Fiduga Ltd:  We never communicate with actual or potential competitors about commercially confidential information, unless we have prior written approval from our Head Office (Dümmen Orange) Legal Department. Such commercially confidential information includes, but is not limited to, commercial strategies, business opportunities, and any aspect of pricing, costs or market allocation.  If we are at any meeting and competitors start discussing (commercially) confidential information, we leave immediately, making sure that everyone present in the meeting recalls that we left upon refusing to exchange such information and have this recorded in the minutes of the meeting, if any. Fiduga Ltd Layers must be notified immediately of any such event.  We never agree or cooperate in any way with competitors to fix any price related conditions and terms of trade, share or allocate markets in respect to specific, products, customers, fix sale or purchase volume, etc. Political Contributions No political contribution to a candidate for public office, an elected official, a political party or political action committee, can be made, on behalf of Fiduga Ltd Accurate books and records At Fiduga Ltd we are accurate and transparent in our books and records. We comply with local finance and accounting policies and procedures. False or misleading entries in books and records or “off-the-books” accounts are prohibited at all times. It is our cardinal aim to make this Communication on Progress available to all of our stakeholders through the UN Global Compact and our website.We urge our stakeholders to visit the sites and support Fiduga Ltd goals. Additionally the 10 principles guiding this Communication on Progress were included in our second edition of our Company News Letter for the year 2012. Charitable Donations Funds can only be donated in Fiduga Ltd’s name for charitable purposes when appropriate due diligence is conducted and written agreement is obtained from line management. Any charitable donation must always be made directly to a recognized charitable Organisation and not via another party or individual. 5. BREACH If anyone knows of an actual incident or breach of this Policy or any attempt to bribe or otherwise engage in corruption, he or she must report immediately in accordance with the Fiduga Ltd Whistleblowing Policy. 6. AUDIT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION Fiduga Ltd monitors and conducts self-assessments to test compliance with this Policy. These monitoring activities and audits are intended to ensure that Fiduga Ltd.’s policies, procedures and internal controls are effective in preventing and detecting any violation of this Policy, other corporate responsibility policies and procedures and applicable laws and regulations. 5. HOW WE INTEND TO COMMUNICATE THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS. We will provide the details of this Communication on Progress (COP) in employee departmental meetings as well as induction briefings for new employees. We also intend to make this Communication on Progress available to all of our stakeholders through the UN Global Compact and our website. We urge our stakeholders to visit the sites and support our Company sustainability programs. Additionally, we have integrated the details of this Communication on Progress in to the Fiduga Facts Magazine that is published annually and distributed to all employees. Last but not the least we have under taken to translate the 10 principles guiding this Communication on Progress in the local language that is best understood by our employees and other stakeholders.
