Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Saab – A step ahead Contents Vision and mission 1 MARKET Why invest in Saab 2 A strong local presence Chairman’s statement 4 built on collaborations, partnerships, longevity CEO comment 6 and responsible busiExternal factors 8 ness strengthens our market position and VALUE CREATION 10 growth. Strategy – A step ahead 12 Long-term targets 14 Saab creates value 16 Perspectives on value creation 18 Saab’s share 20 MARKET 22 Defence and security market 24 Stronger local presence 26 Zero tolerance for corruption 27 PERFORMANCE 28 Digitisation 31 PERFORMANCE Business-oriented culture 32 Our focus is on making functional processes more Sustainable solutions for the future 33 efficient, creating a more INNOVATION 34 business-oriented culture and developing leaders Forefront of technology 37 and employees. Innovation partnerships 38 Attracting and retaining talent 39 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 40 GRI Index 41 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report 44 INNOVATION ADMINISTRATION REPORT 45 We concentrate our product Group – Financial Review 2017 46 portfolio on innovations in systems integration and in Business areas 47 five core areas and strongly Other significant events 53 believe that diversity drives innovation. Risks and risk management 54 Corporate governance report 58 Board of Directors and Auditors 64 Group Management 66 Other information 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 72 DIVIDEND MOTIVATION 128 PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS 2017 129 AUDIT REPORT 130 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 136 MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW 138 GLOSSARY 139 SAAB IN THE WORLD 140 Cover: Fredrik Wising, PhD in Nuclear Plasma Saab publishes an integrated annual and sustaina­ Calendar Fusion, Business development and strategy, bility report, inspired by the IIRC’s framework for Annual General Meeting 10 April 2018 business area Surveillance. See interview with integrated reporting, with additional information in Interim Report Jan – Mar 26 April 2018 Fredrik Wising on how Saab develops future the Sustainability fact book at www.saabgroup. Interim Report Jan – Jun 20 July 2018 technology on page 36. com. The formal annual report comprises pages 45–129. Certain figures have been rounded off, so Interim Report Jan – Sep 23 October 2018 Right: North American wilderness tables and calculations do not always add up Year-end report Jan – Dec 15 February 2019 exactly. A printed copy of the annual report can be ordered from servicecenter@servistik. II S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 MISSION To make people safe by pushing intellectual and technological boundaries. VISION It is a human right to feel safe. It is a basic human need and a human right to feel safe. Safety is subjected to many different types of threats, however. This includes military threats, terrorism, accidents or natural disasters. Saab develops innovative, high-tech and cost-efficient systems to increase security for societies and individuals. At the same time, there is a realisation throughout the business that some of the systems and solutions that contribute to greater security are not only used in a state of peace, but can also be used in conflict. This entails a large responsibility. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we build the confidence of customers, employees and society and contribute to a safer world. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 investment case Why invest in Saab? Saab AB has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1998 and on the Large Cap list since 2006. Ticker: SAAB B ISIN code: SE0000112385 On the ground close to customers Saab has expanded its marketing organisation in recent years and created a stronger local presence and relationships with customers in selected markets. The ability to build long-term industrial partnerships provides us with greater insight into what is in demand and helps us to further develop technologies and end products in order to provide customers with the new technology and sustainable solutions they want. Cost efficient Saab is working constantly to shorten lead times and increase efficiency in its production. This has resulted in lower costs for Saab and for customers. Cost efficiency is always integrated as a parameter back when products and solutions are designed, and Saab is continuously making processes more efficient through automation and digitisation. Highly innovative Technological development is accelerating and competition intensifying. Staying on the forefront of technology, combined with cost efficiency, is in Saab’s DNA. Cutting-edge expertise, talented employees and business strategy drive Saab and its customers to stay a step ahead and meet future challenges. Financial highlights (MSEK) Order bookings 2017 2016 2015 and sales Order backlog at year-end 106,849 107,606 113,834 SEK m Sales 31,394 28,631 27,186 90,000 Operating income (EBIT) 2,155 1,797 1,900 80,000 Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.9 6.3 7.0 70,000 Net income 1,438 1,175 1,402 60,000 Of which Parent Company's 50,000 shareholders' interest 1,407 1,133 1,362 40 000 Earnings per share, SEK (after dilution) 13.10 10.60 12.79 30,000 Free cash flow 852 2,359 -726 Dividend per share, SEK 5.50* 5.25 5.00 20,000 Equity/assets ratio, % 32.2 32.3 36.8 10,000 Internally funded R&D, share of sales, % 6.6 7.2 6.5 0 13 14 15 16 17 Number of employees at year-end 16,427 15,465 14,685 Sales * Board of Directors' proposal Order bookings 2 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 The road to profitable growth The road to profitable growth has been paved by Taken together, this has laid a stable foundation conscious choices over the years, with strategic for profitable growth, which is also a prerequisite investments in the development of new technofor creating long-term value for shareholders, logies and products as well as a new strategy customers, employees and the communities to closely partner with customers through the Saab serves. marketing organisation. 2 Performance Saab is becoming more efficient and focused on pro­ ject execution, marketing and sales. Strategic investments 1 Market A local presence close to customers creates stronger A step Profitable relationships and alliances and ahead growth greater insight into their needs. Long-term value creation 3 Innovation Greater insight into customers’ needs creates opportunities to develop the right combination of products and solutions. Share Six Five of sales business areas market areas 84% defence-related Saab’s operations are Aeronautics, 22% To ensure a presence in key Europe, 57% products and services divided into business areas Dynamics, 16% local markets, Saab has five Middle East & Africa, 14% 16% civil products and based on products and Surveillance, 24% market areas: Europe, Middle North America, 9% services technologies. Learn more Support and Services, 19% East & Africa, North America, Latin America, 8% about Saab’s business Industrial Products and Latin America and Asia Pacific. Asia Pacific, 12% areas on pages 47-52. Services, 9% Kockums, 9% S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 3 C hairman ’ s statement Internationalisation, flexibility and speed will decide the future My fellow shareholders and others interested in Saab, we live in a world of conflicts, extremes and growing tensions. A world that is less stable than the one we had grown used to in recent decades. Globalisation, cooperation and openness are being called into question, but at the same time we are seeing how individual regions are integrating their societies and economies even more and how technological breakthroughs are linking various parts of the world together. 2017 was a year marked by terrorist attacks and escalating geopolitical threats. In times like these, the focus shifts to security, and the defence of national sovereignty and basic human freedoms and rights becomes more important. Saab celebrated its 80th anniversary during country's defence capabilities, is just as tionally. It is important, however, that we grow the year. The company was founded with a important today, but now Saab also has large where we have the potential to further develop mission to safeguard Swedish air combat parts of the world as its market. our business in a way that benefits both the capabilities and thereby became an important new and old customers. Growing through suspart of Swedish security and neutrality. This Internationalisation will remain a watchword tainable business is also a critical factor. And mission, to supply the Swedish Armed Forces for Saab as we look to the future. We are buildwe have to grow with strict profitability requirewith high-tech systems that increase the ing on established businesses in a number of ments to be able to handle the major investcountries and will continue to grow internaments needed to stay a step ahead. High-tech expertise and innovation are the very foundation of our international competitiveness. Saab has a technological depth and breadth few others can match. This is a result of strategic, long-term and extensive investments in research and development, thanks to which we now have some of the most modern systems on the market. But to stay internationally competitive at a time when technological advances are being made at an astonishing rate we have to encourage innovation in every possible way and place high demands on efficiency at every level of the business. To grow and collaborate internationally are essential for Saab to remain a competitive high-tech Swedish company in the future. In addition, we must benefit from industrial digitisation. Saab is a unique company and the Important events 2017 Order for next generation anti-ship missile First successful flight for Gripen E Saab signed a contract with the Swedish Defence Material On June 15, Gripen E took off on its maiden flight. Its flight Administration (FMV) in March for the development and produccharacteristics and embedded functions were tested while airtion of the next generation anti-ship missile. The contract incluborne and the aircraft performed exactly as expected. The flight des the development of an anti-ship missile in both air-launched was achieved with fully qualified software for the new avionics and ship-launched configurations. The next generation system system. Flight test activities will continue and in 2019 delivery will be integrated on the Swedish Armed Force’s new Gripen E will begin to the Swedish and Brazilian customers. fighters and in the Swedish Navy’s Visby class corvettes. The order value amounted to MSEK 3.2 billion and deliveries take place in 2017–2026. 4 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 complexity of large development projects such as next generation submarines, combat aircraft systems and airborne early warning and control systems demands project execution of the highest order. » High-tech expertise and 2017 was a successful year. Order bookings innovation are the very were again strong in airborne early warning and control systems and support, and orders for foundation of our international the development of the next generation of competitiveness.« products are important signs that we are headed in the right direction. Operating income and operating margin strenghtened and Saab took another step towards reaching its long-term financial goal of a 10 per cent operating margin. Medium-sized orders increased as well, which is very gratifying. This is the path we will continue to follow in 2018 and beyond. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I want to express my sincere appreciation to Saab’s CEO, Group Management and all of our employees and partners. Stockholm, February 2018 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Modification and upgrading of Swedish corvettes Changes in Saab’s Group Management In late June, Saab signed a contract with the Swedish Defence During the first quarter Ulf Nilsson resigned as Head of Business Materiel Administration (FMV) for the modification and upgrading Area Aeronautics and was replaced by Jonas Hjelm, former Head of of the Swedish Marine’s Gävle-class corvettes. The contract Business Area Support and Services. During the third quarter Ellen includes a general inspection and the modernisation of the ships Molin was appointed the new Head of Business area Support and with a new, advanced combat system. The order value amounts Services an Jessica Öberg was appointed the new Head of Busito SEK 1.249 billion and the work will be carried out during the ness Area Industrial Products and Services. Dan Jangblad, former period 2017–2020 at Saab in Karlskrona and Järfälla within the Head of Business Area Industrial Products and Services, left Group business areas Kockums and Surveillance. Management to take a position as Senior Advisor to the CEO. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 5 C E O comment We create profitable growth by staying a step ahead In 2017, we focused on continued profitable growth and improving efficiencies. When Saab grows, we face more demands. We have to continuously challenge ourselves to be better, more productive and stay a step ahead. In this way we can reach our long-term goal of a safer and more secure world and make our customers even better. Continued strong development Operating income amounted to MSEK 2,155 trial expertise. In 2017, we announced plans to The year was distinguished by strong develand the operating margin was 6.9 per cent. manufacture the T-X trainer aircraft in the US if opment in the markets where we are active. Operational cash flow amounted to MSEK 1,388. Boeing and Saab win the tender to supply this Demand is growing in civil security as well at advanced aircraft to the US. We also signed an an anxious time when threat scenarios are Today, Saab has large ongoing projects develagreement with Nanyang Technological Unibecoming more complex. 2017 was an imporoping a new generation submarine, A26, a new versity in Singapore to extend our research tant year when Saab further strengthened its combat aircraft system, Gripen E, next genercollaboration in air traffic control. The latter position as an international leader and partner. ation airborne early warning and control sysis just one of many examples of the so-called Last summer, Gripen E, the world's most modtem, GlobalEye and a new anti-ship missile to triple helix model, where value-added is ern jet fighter, made its historic maiden flight, Sweden. It is of utmost importance for Saab ­created collaboratively between industry, and in the autumn Saab was selected by the that we execute these large complex projects ­universities and the government. Australian government as a potential supplier efficiently and that everyone delivers at the of the tactical combat management system highest level. During the year, a number of In a turbulent world taking long-term for its future frigates, among other applicaefficiency improvement projects has been responsibility is growing more important tions. In addition, Saab received two major implemented within the company, where we It remains a turbulent world. War, terrorism, orders during the year in airborne surveillance, for example focus on streamlining functional geopolitical threats and cyberattacks are makand Sweden ordered the development of proprocesses. Mainly the business area Dynamics ing people worried. As threat scenarios duction of the next generation of anti-ship and operations related to airborne early change and become more complex, borders missiles, the modification and upgrade of the warning and control systems and support are gradually being erased between what has Swedish Navy's Gävle-class corvettes, a new operations improved profitability in 2017. traditionally been considered military versus Special Purpose Ship for Signal Intelligence civil threats. Saab’s capabilities and core com(SIGINT), and continued support and mainteIn 2018, the focus on efficiency improvements petence in systems integration, sensors and nance of Gripen C/D. will continue. This is an important factor for cybersecurity are therefore growing in demand. Saab to reach its long-term goal of a 10 per We received major orders in several areas durcent operating margin. In times of instability, our shared responsibility ing the year and order bookings rose 41 per is to stand up for freedom, safety and security. cent to SEK 30.8 billion. At year-end 2017, Collaborations are a key to success We want to help make the world a safer, more Saab’s order backlog was SEK 106.8 billion, of Various types of collaborations not only secure place for people and society. As a busiwhich 63 per cent was orders from outside strengthen our business, but are a way for us ness with a long-term perspective, we will Sweden. Our order backlog is now 3.4 times to create jobs, social cohesion and increased always make sustainable choices and act in higher than our sales, which positions us well trade between countries. We also see that to a accordance with the company's values, code for further growth in the years to come. Sales large extent this is demanded by customer of conduct, regulations and processes, where amounted to SEK 31.4 billion. countries, as it contributes to the developanti-corruption and defence exports are two ment of their defence capabilities and indusimportant areas. Sustainable and responsible Important events 2017, cont. Order in Airborne Early Warning and Control Armasuisse selects Saab for next generation Light Anti-Tank Weapon system In January, Saab received an order in the airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) segment. The order value amounts to Saab received an order in June from the Swiss Federal Office for approx. MUSD 236 and deliveries will be made during 2019–2021. Defence Procurement, Armasuisse, for deliveries of the Next geneThe AEW&C system provides access to detailed situational awareration Light Anti-Tank Weapon system (NLAW), associated training ness and can be used for border surveillance, search and rescue equipment such as drill rounds, indoor training simulators, and operations, and for tackling terrorism and organised crime. Work support and maintenance of the training equipment, to the Swiss will be undertaken within Saab’s business area Surveillance and Army. The order value amounts to SEK 1.035 billion with deliveries business area Support and Services. during the period 2018–2021. 6 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 » We have to continuously challenge ourselves to be better, more productive and stay a step ahead. In this way we can reach our long-term goals and make our customers even better. « business is essential to remain profitable. of cybersecurity, we are now working on When we grow, the demands we face increase, ­During the year, we further integrated sustain­concrete innovations and technical solutions. which means that we have to build on our sucability in our operations and business strategy. This is one of many challenges ahead of us. cess by further strengthening sales, winning The UN Global Compact's principles on new orders and delivering on all our projects. human rights, labour, the environment and In line with our business energy, we are now anti-corruption are an important foundation. established in more locations than ever We look forward with confidence to the before. In Australia, we created a strong ­coming years and believe we will see further Our global environment is another major ­platform during the year for future growth and growth, strong technological development ­challenge we have to manage in various ways. further consolidated another home market. and new advances. None of this would be One example of how we are constantly chalWe also took an important step in the United ­possible without our over 16,000 employees. ­ lenging ourselves is that in 2017 we successArab Emirates to expand our position by It is their skills, engagement, and range of fully conducted a number of test flights of ­inaugurating a new centre to develop and properspectives and backgrounds that are Gripen D on biofuel. The flights went off as duce sensor systems. In the US and several driving our business forward. planned and our continued efforts in this area other countries, we are working to strengthen are helping to further advance our positions our presence and build closer relationships. Stockholm, February 2018 and ensure Gripen's future. This is a natural step as we grow. Looking a Håkan Buskhe Increased internationalisation number of years ahead, we will have larger President & CEO is critical to our strategy operations outside Sweden than today. FurOur innovative strength, combined with a ther internationalisation, efficiency improvepresence close to customers around the ments and a focus on being local where our world, gives us a unique ability to share insight customers need us are the keys to our strategy. and know-how with customers. In the process, we can also stay a step ahead and constantly We have to constantly challenge ourselves meet their needs for new solutions. In the area and be more efficient in everything we do. Combat management system for Australian Navy In early October, the Australian government identified Saab to provide the tactical interface for the Royal Australian Navy’s (RAN) fleet of nine Future Frigates. Saab was also selected to supply the 9LV Combat Management System for the future Offshore Patrol Vessels programme. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 7 E X T E R N A L FA C T O R S External factors Saab sells products and services in many countries around the world. The geopolitical landscape has shifted in recent years, which has led to growing demand for security and defence capabilities. At the same time, technological developments are leading to new and more effective solutions that improve the ability of governments to protect their societies. External factors Impact and our position Geopolitical conditions and macro factors Geopolitical turmoil around the world has forced many countries in recent When new economic and geopolitical conditions arise, sources years to reassess their defence capabilities, both their own and in multiof conflict and security needs change. Customers want integrated national alliances. The European defence market has been impacted solutions from suppliers that understand the global context as by, among other things, Russia’s military build-up. This perceived threat, well as specific situations in local markets. Saab has expanded coupled with the challenges facing European society due to terrorism, its marketing organisation in recent years and created stronger has led to increased defence budgets. At the same time, more resources relationships with customers, which in many countries is a are being allocated to protection of various kinds. prerequisite to be considered as a supplier. Interoperability and collaborations Although we are seeing a tendency to focus more on defence of domestic The trend toward international cooperation requires Saab to develop borders and territory, it is still important today to have a military that can open, cost-efficient and intelligent systems that can be coordinated take part in international missions. Demand is increasing for systems that and integrated with other systems. Close collaborations and deveare designed to easily work together with others. When the militaries of lopment together with various customers has helped to shape us more than one country operate together, it has to be easy to coordinate from the beginning. Saab’s systems and solutions are designed and integrate their systems. It is becoming increasingly common that large today for interoperability and systems integration, which are Saab’s defence materiel and systems are developed collaboratively between core competence. companies and countries, in part to share development costs. Cost-efficient products and solutions Demand for modern defence materiel is growing at the same time that Saab has always had to integrate cost efficiency as a parameter defence spending is limited. This is driving demand for advanced prowhen designing products or solutions. As a result, Saab has for ducts with a lower initial price and that are cost-efficient to operate and many years offered multifunctional products that fill several needs. maintain. At the same time, there is growing need for shorter lead times We are working continuously to shorten lead times and increase for advanced systems. efficiency in production. This has resulted in lower costs for Saab and for our customers. Technological development Information and communication technology, ICT, is permeating every Saab’s core competence is systems integration. This largely means dimension of today’s society. Processes at various levels of society integrating ICT for applications with multiple functions and creating are being digitised, which increases vulnerabilities. Robust and secure security and robustness in systems. Saab reinvests a large part of systems are an absolute necessity. Rapid technological developments its sales in research and development. A continuous, close dialog are changing how capabilities are developed as well as planning and with customers, partners and universities ensures that we drive procurement processes. Shorter decision-making and development technological development forward in line with our priority areas. cycles and increased predictability require timely deliveries. With the help of new technology, Saab is working actively to be more efficient in its deliveries. Sustainable business In a global world with limited energy resources and climate threats, To ensure that we act responsibly and transparently, we have companies are increasingly expected to address social and environmenprioritised a number of key issues for our sustainability work that we tal sustainability. Reporting and transparency demands are growing as annually report and monitor. Saab helps to develop solutions that well. In 2015, the UN introduced new sustainable development goals combine better energy performance with lower costs and less and challenged the business community to do its share. environment impact. Through innovation, industrial partnerships and technology transfers, we also contribute to technological and economic developments in the markets where we are active. Build up domestic capabilities More and more countries are demanding industrial cooperations in Saab’s systems and solutions are distinguished by interoperability connection with the purchase of defence materiel. This cooperation and systems integration. This enables us to meet demands for can mean transfers of technology or knowledge, research partnerships cooperation and technology transfers. In recent years, Saab has or assistance in building up the local industry. The aim is to develop strengthened its local presence in selected markets. With employees the domestic capability to maintain and grow defence systems. on the ground in the local market, Saab gains a better understanding of how the market and local procurement processes work. 8 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 The importance of digitisation to the defence industry Technological developments In Gripen, we have completely separated the safety-critical part and can verify it separately. are advancing at a rapid rate. The result is much shorter development times Digitisation in society is reducing and the ability to more flexibly develop new the cost to store and distribute ­tactical functions without sacrificing aviation safety. large amounts of information, at the same time that information He also mentions that Saab’s systems are and tools for data processing ­becoming more complex and entail more soft­ are available wherever we want. ware for each new generation that is developed. Producing all this software ourselves will be But what does this really mean for impossible in the future and the resources won’t Saab, which has world-leading be available to maintain sufficiently high quality. technology in many areas? Saab therefore has to be much more efficient in developing complex software-based systems. For Saab, digitisation is clearly a watchword for the future. In some areas, Saab has already Our vision is to develop on our own only the benefited from technological developments; software that makes our systems unique; 95% in others there are tremendous future oppor­ we can get somewhere else,” says Pontus De tunities. Laval. “This creates very specific demands, however, in terms of the development environ­ There are two fundamental features that ment and tools to assure the quality of external are shared by all of Saab’s major software software (open source, etc.). These are areas systems: virtualisation, i.e. that software is we are now focusing on. The results, we expect, made independent of the underlying hardware, will not only be more effective development and separation of safety-critical data. capabilities, but also interesting new products such as extremely secure cloud environments A good example is Gripen’s aircraft systems,” for military and safety-critical applications. says Pontus De Laval, Chief Technology Officer at Saab. “Verification of software in In the long run, we believe this will pave the way a combat aircraft is a classic bottleneck that to manage sensitive data (radar, signals intelli­ can lead to years of development delays. gence, sonar, etc.) with artificial intelligence. The reason is the rigorous handling of safe­ ty-critical functions that’s necessary. If these functions are mixed with tactical functions (e.g. radar capabilities, electronic self-protec­ tion systems, etc.), verification becomes both more extensive and time-consuming. » For Saab, digitisation is clearly a watchword for the future. In some areas, Saab has already benefitted from techno­ logical developments; in others there are tremendous future opportunities. « Pontus De Laval, Chief Technology Officer S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 9 Value creation Value creation By consistently taking a long-term approach and being finan­ cially stable, we create value in line with our vision to increase security for societies and individuals. Our aim has always been to stay on the forefront of technology, which is made possible through investments in research and development and various collaborations. In 2017, we continued to grow, and we will do so again in 2018. We are strengthening our local positions and improving productivity so that we can develop, produce and deliver more efficiently in a shorter time. The photo above shows remote air traffic control. 10 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 / 12 Strategy – A step ahead / 14 Long-term targets / 16 Saab creates value / 18 Perspectives on value creation / 20 Saab’s share Value creation A step ahead – Saab’s strategy is based on three priority areas To stay a step ahead and meet customers’ needs in an optimal way, Saab has prioritised three areas: market, performance and innovation. In practice this means staying close to customers and working more effectively with innovation as a guiding principle in all our businesses. At the same time, sustainability affects everything Saab does, and engaged employees are the key to our continued growth. Innovation Market The product portfolio is concentrated on innoThrough a strong local presence partnerships and vations in five core areas* where diversity and ­collaborations, we focus on areas where we have a engaged employees drive innovation strong market position and on strengthening our ­position in areas with good growth opportunities. *Learn more about our five core areas on page 37. ­Sustainable business creates stronger relationships and greater insight and opportunities to meet future demand for products and services.. n LE PE io OP PE OP Inno ket LE va ar t M SUSTAINABILITY Pe r fo r m a n ce PEOPLE Performance The focus is on continously making functional processes more efficient, developing, producing and delivering more efficiently in a shorter time to meet customer demand and increase their capabilities, implementing an even more business-oriented culture, and developing leaders and employees. 12 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Security and defence capabilities are the foundation of Saab’s commitment to sustainability Saab was founded 80 years ago at a turbulent time in the world when Sweden had to better protect its borders. Since then, Saab has SUSTAINABILITY ­developed into an international partner that contributes to increased security and defence capabilities in Sweden and other countries. This is the foundation of our commitment to sustainability. To contribute to increased security and defence capabilities in a responsible way, we have prioritised a number of issues for Saab’s sustainability work (see below). For detailed information on each issue, see the Sustainability fact book on www.saabgroup.com/responsibility. Responsible business Reduce environmental impact Employer of choice Contribute to society • Zero tolerance for corruption • Reduce climate impact • Develop leaders and • Industrial partnerships and • Export compliance • Phase out hazardous employees technology transfers • Responsible supplier chemical substances • Attract and retain employees • Research and development relationships • Environmentally sustainable • Gender equality and diversity • Promote education and an • Information security innovations • Health and safety interest in technology • Product safety S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 13 Value creation Meeting our long-term targets Based on the three priority areas in its business strategy, Saab has identified long-term targets, which activities are required to reach them and how performance will be tracked. Saab’s priority sustainability issues are integrated in the strategy work. Prioritised Long-term Getting there areas targets • Be well established in selected • Industrial partnerships and technology transfers, markets and have a strong local page 24. ­presence. • Focused marketing, page 26. Market • Organic sales growth will average • Increased local presence and partnerships, page 26. 5 per cent over a business cycle. • Increased order bookings medium-sized orders, page 26. • Compliance with export regulations, page 27. • Zero tolerance for corruption, page 27. • The operating margin (EBIT) will • Digitisation and automation, page 30–31. average at least 10 per cent over a • Information security, page 31. Performance business cycle. • Responsible supplier relationships, page 31. • Equity/assets ratio will exceed • More efficient processes, pages 31. 30 per cent over a business cycle. • Develop leaders and employees, page 32. • Reduce environmental impact. • Reduce GHG emissions, page 33. • Phase out hazardous chemical substances, page 33. • Be an industry leader in innovation. • Invest in pioneering technologies, page 36. • Have a product portfolio consisting • Concentrate the product portfolio on innovations of technologically leading solutions in five core areas, page 37. Innovation and products adapted to the • Increase R&D collaborations with selected market’s needs. ­customers internationally, page 37. • University partnerships, page 38. • Attract talent and promote education and an­ ­interest in technology, page 39. • Promote diversity, page 39. 14 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Results 2017 Connection to the UN’s Global Goals 55 • 55 per cent of order bookings and Sustainable industry, 63 per cent of the order backlog innovation and infrastructure with were outside Sweden. a target of supporting domestic • 18 per cent of our employees % technological development, order bookings research and innovation. were outside Sweden. outside Sweden • Organic sales growth was Peace, justice and strong 10 per cent. ­institutions with a target of ­substantially reducing all forms of corruption. 6.9 • The operating margin Climate action. was 6.9 per cent. • The equity/assets ratio was 32.2 per cent. % operating margin • GHG emissions decreased by 26 per cent as related to sales from 2007. 36 • Invested 23 per cent of sales in R&D. Quality education for all. • Globally, 25.2 per cent female managers and 23.2 per cent female employees in total. PhD candidates In Sweden, 28.4 per cent Gender equality. female managers and 23.1 per cent female employees in total. • 36 PhD candidates during the year. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 15 Value creation Saab creates long-term value For Saab, global relationships and partnerships are a way to bring people, technologies and businesses together, but also to contribute to national and international security. By acting sustainably in working to create profitable long-term growth, we build trust among shareholders, customers, employees and society, and contribute to a more secure world. External Assets/ 2 Performance factors: Resources: Saab is becoming more efficient and focused on project execution, • Geopolitical prerequisites and • Employees marketing and sales. macro factors • Collaborations • Interoperability • Financial capital • Cost-efficient products and 1 solutions • Brand Market • Technological development • Specialised expertise A local presence close to customers creates stronger rela­ A step • Sustainable solutions and a • Systems integration tionships and collaborations and ahead resilient business greater insight into their needs. • Build up domestic capabilities 3 Innovation Greater insight into customers’ needs creates opportunities to develop the right combination of products and solutions. Fred Andersson at Saab in Järfälla is one of several employees who during the year served as a mentor to students in socially disadvantaged areas. “It’s exciting to meet young people and teach them about life in the workplace. It has also been really positive to see how happy the students and staff in the schools are when we visit. Obviously, it’s also nice to get out and have a change of pace from what we usually do.” 16 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Created value: 7.3 Customers Increased security and defence SEK billion capabilities Research and development Technology transfers Compliance with export regulations Strategic investments Zero tolerance for corruption Employees 10.0 SEK billion Employee salaries Skills development Salaries and benefits Profitable Programmes to increase diversity and gender equality 2.8 SEK billion growth Society Increased security and defence Taxes paid to society Long-term capabilities Innovation and spreading knowledge Job opportunities 563 SEK billion Dividend to shareholders value creation Products that help to reduce 145 climate impacts Owners SEK billion Stable return Interest paid to lenders Sustainability integrated in operations Suppliers and partners Commitment to sustainability in the supply chain 15.8 Supplier costs SEK billion Long-term relationships Saab acquired Kockums in 2014. Since then, the business area has experienced good growth and profitability, which in turn has led to extensive hiring needs in production in Karlskrona and on the island of Muskö as well as in development and design in Karlskrona and Malmö. Since the acquisition, the number of employees has nearly doubled. In 2017, over 200 people joined Kockums. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 17 Value creation Perspectives on how Saab creates value Profitable growth is a prerequisite for Saab to continue to create long-term value for its various stakeholders. Here a few of them discuss how Saab contributes from their perspective. Financial analyst What sets Saab apart among the companies you analyse? Saab has a unique profile compared to other manufacturing companies in the region. The combination of high technology, research and development intensity, and the long lead times and size of its projects creates challenges, but more importantly great opportunities. Are there any sustainability issues where you have higher expectations of Saab? Because Saab is active in aerospace and defence, it faces high demands and expectations in terms of business ethics, specifically in fighting corruption, cooperating with export control agencies and working long-term to increase ­transparency by suppliers and customers in the industry. Erik Golrang, Equity analyst, SEB Lender – SEK Are there any areas that are especially Are there any sustainability issues important for you to be pleased with where you as a lender have higher Saab as a partner? expectations of Saab? Our role at SEK is to finance Swedish SEK expects Saab to have effective exports. For us it is important to have an anti-corruption systems in place and open and close dialogue on the deals that we can maintain a positive dialogue we finance and how Saab manages on this work. We also see good opportu­corruption risks in its operations. nities for Saab to use its expertise and This dialogue with Saab has worked technology in the field of sustainable very well. urban development. Johan Henningsson, Head of Sustainability SEK 18 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Customer – Brazilian Air Force What do you consider especially important for Saab to create value for the Brazilian Air Force as a customer? Gripen is a highly complex programme comprising the entire chain from aircraft development to delivery and support. There are many parties involved, and it is very important that all of us live up to and deliver on our part of the contract. This requires open and transparent communication through effective channels. I am very pleased to say that with Saab we have all that. Are there any sustainability issues where you have higher expectations of Saab? We are totally comfortable knowing that Saab has implemented all the relevant and necessary policies throughout its operations and that they are being complied with. Paulo Rogerio Sobrinho, Gripen Project Manager, Brazilian Air Force Employee – Australia Is there anything that is especially important for you to be pleased with Saab as an employer? For me it is important to have the freedom to think outside the box when necessary. Doing exactly what everyone else is doing can lead to poorer outcomes and mean falling behind the competition. What I like about Saab is that we keep our eyes and ears open to new perspectives. We appreciate alternative ways of seeing things, because we want to be the best and challenge the unknown. It is a stimulating learning environment where everyone works together. Are there any sustainability issues where you have higher expectations of Saab? I have to know that my employer is ethical and that its values agree with mine, so I am fortunate to work for Saab, whose mission is to create secure societies and individuals. We truly care about local communities. In Australia, we support so many fantastic social initiatives. We know that a safe and healthy environment is critical in order to flourish and that we have to respect it for the benefit of future generations. Mandy Barlow, Marketing Communications, Saab Australia S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 19 Value creation Saab’s share Share capital and number of shares Distribution of shareholders, 31 December 2017 Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 Number of % of shareNumber of % of share December 2017, comprised of 1,907,123 unlisted Series A Number of shares shareholders holders shares capital ­shares and 107,243,221 listed Series B shares. Series A shares 1– 500 36,769 88.5 3,714,701 3.4 have ten votes each, while Series B shares have one vote each. 501– 1,000 2,557 6.2 2,012,555 1.8 The quota value per share is SEK 16. The Series B share is listed 1,001– 5,000 1,864 4.5 3,645,269 3.3 on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Large Cap list. All Series A shares are 5,001– 10,000 134 0.3 988,430 0.9 owned by Investor AB. 10,001– 20,000 92 0.2 1,324,371 1.2 Shares and votes, 31 December 2017 20,001– 50,000 57 0.1 1,859,704 1.7 50,001– 84 0.2 83,081,562 76.2 Number of Number of Share class shares % of shares votes % of votes Anonymous shareholders 12,523,752 11.5 Series A 1,907,123 1.7 19,071,230 15.4 Summa1) 41,557 100 109,150,344 100 Series B 107,243,221 98.3 104,916,6591) 84.6 1) Including 2,326,562 repurchased Series B shares. Total 109,150,344 100 123,987,889 100 Source: Modular Finance 1) Number of votes excludes 2,326,562 Series B shares repurchased to secure the Group’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. The repurchased shares are held as treasury shares. Trading volume and statistics Source: Modular Finance A total of 60,869,967 of Saab's Series B shares (53,789,976) were traded on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2017, or about 40.3 per cent of Saab’s Ownership structure traded Series B shares. On other trading platforms, about 43.1 per Saab had 41,557 shareholders (36,137) at year-end 2017. Swedish cent of Saab’s Series B shares were traded on Cboe, 9.1 per cent on investors accounted for 74.5 per cent (73.7) of the capital stock and London Stock Exchange and about 2.9 per cent on Turquoise. Remain78.0 per cent (77.2) of the votes. ing shares were traded in smaller quantities across a number of different platforms. The share price reached a high of SEK 455.4 on 2 June Saab’s largest shareholders, 31 December 2017 and a low of SEK 339.6 on 9 January in Nasdaq Stockholm trading. Number of % of share % of Owner shares capital votes1) Investor AB 32,778,098 30.0 40.3 Saab B, Share price performance in the last five years Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 9,590,087 8.8 7.7 SEK Volume Swedbank Robur funds 4,901,334 4.5 4.0 500 400,000 AFA Försäkring 2,425,011 2.2 2.0 350,000 Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia 1,965,641 1.8 1.6 400 300,000 Handelsbanken funds 1,961,295 1.8 1.6 250,000 Norges Bank 1,859,716 1.7 1.5 300 200,000 Unionen 1,840,640 1.7 1.5 150,000 Alliance Bernstein 1,519,383 1.4 1.2 200 100,000 Fidelity 1,513,600 1.4 1.2 50,000 Andra AP-fonden (AP2) 1,244,266 1.1 1.0 Lannebo Fonder 1,100,000 1.0 0.9 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Vanguard 1,060,760 1.0 0.9 B share SIX General Index Average daily turnover Gladiator 950,000 0.9 0.8 per month Source: SIX FAM AB 926,853 0.8 0.7 Subtotal 15 largest shareholders 65,636,684 60.1 66.9 Saab B share price performance in 2017 Other Swedish shareholders 21,617,789 19.8 17.3 Other international shareholders 7,045,557 6.5 5.7 SEK Volume Anonymous shareholders 12,523,752 11.5 10.1 500 500,000 Repurchased shares 2,326,562 2.1 400,000 Total 109,150,344 100 100 1) % of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, 300,000 at year-end.. 400 Source: Modular Finance 200,000 100,000 300 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec B share SIX General Index Average daily turnover per month Source: SIX 20 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Saab’s long-term incentive programme Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employ2017 resolved to authorise the Board of Direcees the opportunity to participate in a voluntors to decide to repurchase Saab Series B tary Share Matching Plan. Purchases are made shares up to a maximum of 10 per cent of all through salary deductions of 1–5 per cent of the shares in the company. The purpose of the the employee’s monthly salary, after which authorisation is to be able to adapt the comSeries B shares in Saab are purchased on pany’s capital structure and thereby contribNasdaq Stockholm during a twelve-month ute to increased shareholder value as well as period. If the employee retains the purchased to enable continuous use of repurchased 5,903 shares for three years after the investment shares in connection with potential company date and is still employed by the Saab Group, acquisitions and for the company’s sharethe employee will be allotted a corresponding based incentive programmes. Repurchases number of Series B shares free of charge. may be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. DurSince 2008, senior executives and other key ing 2017, the Board of Directors did not make persons have had the opportunity to particiany decisions to exercise either of the two of Saab’s employees joined the pate in a Performance Share Plan. repurchase mandates. Both repurchase Saab Share Matching Plan 2018. ­mandates apply until the Annual General Some of them are participating in The Annual General Meeting held in 2017 Meeting 2018. several share plans. resolved in accordance with the Board’s proposal to adopt a long-term incentive programme 2017/2018, consisting of a Share Dividend and dividend policy Matching Plan 2018, a Performance Share Plan Saab’s long-term dividend policy is to distrib2018 and a Special Projects Incentive 2017. ute 20-40 per cent of net income over a busiFor more information on the incentive proness cycle. For the financial year 2017, the gramme, see the Administration Report on Board of Directors proposes a dividend of pages 68–69 and note 10. SEK 5.50 per share (5.25), corresponding to 42 per cent (49) of net income. Authorisation The Annual General Meeting 2017 also Five-year summary resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to For information on data per share, see decide to acquire not more than 1,340,000 www.saabgroup.com. Saab Series B shares to secure delivery of shares to participants in Saab’s long-term Analysts who cover Saab Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan For information on analysts who cover Saab, and Special Projects Incentive for subsequent see www.saabgroup.com. transfers to cover certain expenses associated with LTI 2017/2018, mainly social security costs. Repurchases may be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. INVESTOR RELATIONS Ann-Sofi Jönsson, Head of Investor Relations E-mail: ann-sofi.jonsson@saabgroup.com Phone: +46 8 463 02 14 Dividend per share Equity per share Earnings per share Yield at year-end after dilution SEK SEK SEK % 6.00 150 25 3.0 5.25 2.5 120 20 4.50 2.0 3.75 90 15 3.00 1.5 60 10 2.25 1.0 1.50 30 5 0.5 0.75 0.00 0 0 0.0 13 14 15 16 17* 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17* * Board of Directors' proposal. * Calculated on a SEK 5,50 dividend. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 21 M arket Market The market we are active in, both nationally and internationally, is changing rapidly, and we have to act faster to stay a step ahead. Our focus is on areas where we have a strong market position and on further strengthening our position in areas with good growth opportunities. Our global presence and diversity are further developed through partnerships and local cooperations, and we work actively to promote a thoroughly open and transparent market. 55% 18% of order bookings of our employees outside Sweden outside Sweden 63% 10% of the order backlog organic sales growth outside Sweden 22 / 24 Defence and security market / 26 Stronger local presence / 27 Zero tolerance for corruption 23 M arket Defence and security market Growing geopolitical concerns have been affecting the defence and security market for several years. At the same time, technological developments are leading to new solutions and systems. Capabilities in these systems and solutions affect and reshape how nations and organisations ensure their defence and security. Saab is carefully following market developments. Defence market defence spending, while China spent the secin Latin America and Russia are expected to Global defence spending increased for the ond most. Russia, Saudi Arabia and India also remain under pressure from lower oil prices. In second consecutive year in 2016 (Source: made the list of the top five countries. The Asia and Eastern Europe, growth is expected Stockholm International Peace Research Instilargest spending increase during the year was to remain firm, and in Western Europe and tute, SIPRI). In North America, it rose for the in India at 8.5 per cent. Saudi Arabia, on the North America defence budgets are expected first time in many years, and in Western Europe other hand, reduced its spending by 30 per to continue to rise. it increased for the second year in a row. In cent, driven by lower oil prices. Defence budg2016, the US again had the world’s highest ets in the Middle East, Africa, certain countries Upper figure: Projected average annual growth rate 2017–2021. Lower figure: Share of the global market for defence materiel 2016. Source: IHS Janes +2 +2 +6 RUSSIA 6% WESTERN EUROPE 12% +1 NORTH AMERICA 45% EASTERN EUROPE 2% +8 CHINA 11% +7 +5 +12 MENA 7% +4 APAC EX CHINA 15% LATIN AMERICA 1% SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA 1% Commercial Aeronautics Security and traffic management Technical consulting services The market for commercial aeronautics is The overall market for civil security is extenCombitech is an independent technical congrowing by about five per cent a year. A strong sive. Saab is mainly active in traffic managesultancy within Saab AB. Combitech is mainly driver is the fact that an increasing share of ment systems for air, land and sea as well as active in the Nordic market for technical conthe global population can afford to fly. Other security systems for critical infrastructure sulting services. The market has grown drivers include developments that reduce fuel such as prisons and emergency services. strongly in recent years, driven by demand for consumption, e.g. wing designs, and techno­ Annual growth in traffic management systems cutting-edge expertise and technical knowlogies that cut production costs, as well as is estimated at five per cent, and the market how combined with the industry expertise to smart materials such as structures with for critical infrastructure is growing by about create new solutions that address both enviembedded functions. Saab is a subcontractor eight per cent a year. The main drivers of the ronmental and security concerns. to the leading aircraft manufacturers. market are increased security needs and the Combitech's services include information expansion and modernisation of critical infrasecurity, systems integration, communicastructure. tions, mechanics, systems security, systems development, technical product information and logistics. 24 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Another step in the long-term partnership between Saab and Brazil After two years of focusing on the techno­ The factory will be responsible for producing aerostructures, such as the tail cone, airbrake, wingbox, front fuselage (for logy transfer programme for the Gripen’s both oneand two-seat versions) and rear fuselage of the development, Saab is now adding manu­ ­Gripen to the Brazilian Air Force. Operations will start after the site infrastructure has been prepared. facturing in Brazil to ensure continuity of the Gripen programme in the country, “The investment in the new plant is another step in the long­create new jobs and support the develop­ term partnership between Saab and Brazil,” adds Franzén. “The first two years focused on the development of the aircraft ment of the local defence industry. and launch of the technology transfer programme. As planned, we are now adding manufacturing in Brazil to ensure continuity The municipality of São Bernardo do Campo in São Paulo ­ of the Gripen programme in the country, create new jobs and state has been selected as the location for Saab Aeronáutica support the development of the local defence industry.” Montagens, a factory that will supply parts to the Gripen pur­ chased by the Brazilian Air Force. Initially, there will be 55 employees, a number expected to grow in coming years. The recruitment process has already The managing director of the facility is Marcelo Lima, an begun. After the selection process, some employees will be engineer with more than 23 years of experience in implement­ trained at Saab’s facilities in Linköping. The training begins in ing and managing manufacturing operations in the automo­ January 2018 and will last up to 24 months. After returning to tive, energy and other industries. Brazil, they will be ready to start working at the plant in São Bernardo do Campo. “Marcelo Lima is a highly-experienced professional with deep expertise in projects similar to our new plant. He will add local and international knowledge to this project, which is vital to the Gripen programme,” says Mikael Franzén, Head of business unit Gripen Brazil, within business area Aeronautics. » As planned, we are now adding manufacturing in Brazil to support the continuity of the Gripen programme in the country, create new jobs and support the development of the local defence industry. « Mikael Franzén, Head of business unit Gripen Brazil Mikael Franzén, Head of business unit Gripen Brazil S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 25 M arket Stronger local presence provides greater insight In an increasingly complex market, a local presence and greater business orientation are critical to win more strategically important deals. Saab’s stronger local presence creates more opportunities to offer the right combination of products and solutions. We continuously develop and evaluate our nesses with smaller orders is fairly evenly disengineers are on site together with around 20 offerings to increase growth opportunities in tributed over time, while profitability in large expats from Saab. The dialogue on site in both various markets around the world. Through our projects typically rises as a larger share of the countries is improving deliveries and broadenstrong base in Sweden and local presence in order is delivered and the risks decline. ing our competence. over 30 countries, we ensure close contact During the year, medium-sized orders In addition to industrial cooperations that with our customers. increased which is very positive since we have customers demand as part of large deals, In an increasingly complex market, a local maintained a local focus for some time in our Saab naturally participates in a number of presence and greater business orientation are various markets to grow the base where we other collaborations, including close developcritical to win strategically important deals, are active. ment partnerships with customers and suppliwhether for military or civil security solutions. ers. Saab also contributes to broad-based Since 2013, Saab's market organisation is We grow through cooperations and innovation partnerships between industry, ­divided into five market areas: Europe, North knowledge transfers academia and the public sector. These partAmerica, Latin America, Middle East & Africa Industrial cooperations are an important nerships expand Saab’s knowledge base while and Asia Pacific. This organisation has ­element in Saab’s international growth. When at the same time strengthening relationships strengthened Saab’s local presence in Saab signs large defence contracts, they with customers and gives greater insight and selected key markets. We concentrate our ­usually contain more than just a product sale. possibilities to develop technology and soluinvestments in markets where we already have Many countries also want technology and skills tions that meet their needs. a strong position and in areas with good transfers as well as various forms of ­industrial growth opportunities, cooperation. Through customised offerings, For customers, it means access to more Saab has contributed together with its partners specialised expertise, while Saab gains better to several successful projects that affect the insight into the market. Efficiency in the country's economy in a positive direction. ­marketing and sales process has improved For Saab, there are benefits to spreading through fewer redundancies and a clearer disknowledge through technology transfers. tribution of work. Now we work more closely People from different companies and organiwith customers and are better able to offer the sations meet and come up with new business right combination of products and solutions. ideas that create value for all the parties involved. This many times generates new busiLocal presence generates small ness. In connection with the Gripen contract and medium-sized orders with Brazil, Saab is bringing around 350 BrazilFor Saab, it is important to have a steady inflow ian engineers to Sweden over a period of of small and medium-sized orders. They can years to learn how to build fighter aircraft. be turned over and delivered to the customer To date, 110 engineers have completed faster than larger, more complex orders, and their training and returned to Brazil to impleas a result can converted faster to revenue. In ment the work package for Gripen at the new many of these projects, payment is received Gripen Design and Development Network upon delivery. Operating income in busi(GDDN). Around 100 Brazilian development Europe is Saab’s engine Europe is Saab’s native market. This has been evident in year-on-year order intake and 2017 was no exception. Although we are successful in winning business throughout the world, often far away from Europe, the European market, and the Swedish market in particular, is still the engine that drives Saab. As we grow in Europe we must look inward at Sweden and outward at countries like Australia to understand how to grow. The lesson is that our opportunities for growth are strongest where we have become embedded both in the local society and the industrial landscape. In other words in countries where we provide employment, technical know-how and security of supply. Magnus Lewis Olsson, Head of Market Area Europe 26 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Zero tolerance for corruption Saab is a long-term, reliable business partner Andy Keough, and promotes an open and transparent marManaging Director at Saab Australia ket. Corruption has negative consequences for society and business and is something Saab can never accept. We are guided by our fundamental values, the Code of Conduct, current laws, industry codes of conduct and Strong platform in Australia clearly defined internal processes to prevent Saab’s commitment to Australia generated a number of significant deals in 2017, which corruption risks. allows us to plan for further expansion. We carved out a unique position as the supplier of the combat management system for the Royal Australian Navy, signed contracts with Strict scrutiny of marketing consultants Australia’s largest prison and entered a number of new markets in hospital and police Prior to each deal, we perform a corruption risk security. Taken together, we now have a strong platform that allows us to recruit more analysis. If the risks that are identified cannot locally and also explore new areas in cybersecurity, healthcare and mining. be minimised and managed satisfactorily, we will withdraw from the deal. To gain entry to new markets, multinational companies often hire marketing consultants and other partners in the selling process. Saab Training is an important tool Sweden could not maintain its technological does as well. This can help us to understand Continuous employee training is an important expertise and defence capabilities. At the how a market works, but can also mean tool to minimise risks. In addition to training on same time, exporting defence materiel carries increased exposure to corruption risks. We the Code of Conduct, all employees receive with it a great responsibility and is therefore therefore apply a strict process in which coopseparate, web-based anti-corruption training. governed by strict rules. Saab has built up a erations with marketing consultants and other Employees in positions at particular risk, such dedicated organisation, Group-wide policies partners in the selling process are evaluated as marketing and sales, industrial cooperaand tools to facilitate compliance with the and approved by a central function at Saab tions and project management, also receive export controls that apply to the company’s that handles all such relationships. These in-depth classroom training. Every three years products and operations. partners also have to undergo special training the Board of Directors receives extensive and pledge to abide Saab’s ethical values and anti-corruption training. What we sell to whom guidelines. The contracts contain specific Employees who become aware of or susThe large part of Saab’s exports is from commitments with regard to business ethics pect non-compliance with laws or Saab’s ­Sweden, where the Swedish Agency for and permit continuous monitoring of the partCode of Conduct are expected to report this Non-Proliferation and Export Controls (ISP) ners through reporting requirements and audit through our whistleblowing system, which is determines on behalf of the government rights. During the year, Saab worked together administered by an external party. which defence products Saab may sell to with an outside law firm to draft guidelines and which countries. The export of defence matefurther develop a model to set and motivate Defence exports are a big responsibility riel requires a permit from the competent compensation for marketing consultants in For Saab, it is essential to ensure that the authority. Such permits can be issued if there major deals. We also began to implement a company complies with regulations on export are security and defence policy reasons for stronger process for assessing corruption controls. This is critical in order to maintain the export and it is consistent with Swedish risks in contracts with other than marketing trust in the business. foreign policy interests. Decisions on export consultants and third parties, including ­al The UN Charter establishes that every permits are made on a case-by-case basis sales cooperations, offset-related contracts country has the right – and obligation – to where ISP weighs a number of criteria in a and joint ventures. ­protect its citizens against acts of aggression. comprehensive assessment. ISP also takes A military defence is the ultimate expression of into account the type of product involved. this. For Sweden, a domestic defence industry is an important component in its defence capabilities, allowing it to be independent and participate in international collaborations in defence technology. Without the ability to sell to and cooperate with other countries, S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 27 P erformance Performance In a world of constant change and fierce competition, high efficiency and shorter lead times are essential in order to meet customer demands with technology and solutions that make them even better and increase profitability. We have to be able to deliver more for less, which is why increasing efficiency is a continuous process. The focus is on improving functional processes, developing leaders and employees, and implementing an even more business-oriented culture. 6.9% 26% Operating margin GHG emissions were reduced by 26 per cent as related to sales from 2007 32.2% Equity/assets ratio The photo shows training and simulation operations within business area Dynamics. 28 / 31 Digitisation / 32 Business-oriented culture / 33 Sustainable solutions for the future 29 P erformance » Instead of every country having its Faster, smarter, more own system solutions and processes, secure and updated we are developing HR processes that Digitisation and improving perforThe principal aim is to create modern, more work for the whole mance are two themes that touch ­uniform system support with standardised HR Group. « processes for recruiting, performance reviews, every part of Saab’s operations. talent identification, skills training and handling One example is the digital transforpersonal data. mation within Human Resources “Instead of every country having its own system that Saab is undergoing around solutions and processes, we are developing HR the world. That will lead to, among processes that work for the whole Group,” says other things, more efficient Helena Sollenberg, VP, Head of HR Operations. ­routines and provide a better With a flow-based digital routine and modern overview of our workforce. system solution, information can be automa­ tically transferred between HR processes. Effi­ ciency is improved by avoiding redundancies Helena Sollenberg, and unnecessary integrations between differ­ VP, Head of HR Operations ent systems. The new HR system also provides a better It is a big project to implement a comprehensive ­overview and status report on the number of system solution. Preparations have been employees, number of open positions, ­underway since 2016 and the plan is for a global employee turnover and how long a recruitment rollout in early 2019. The HR departments in all takes, and eventually will serve as a talent data­ large countries have been comparing progress base for the entire company. and finding shared processes that work for ­everyone. “Access to this source of information and con­ stantly updated data makes it easier to analyse For employees, the new system provides HR events and make well-informed decisions,” access to their records and allows them to adds Helena Sollenberg. update certain information through a self-­ service interface. 30 More efficient processes – a key to further growth In 2017, Saab improved its operating margin. Reaching the long-term financial goal while ensuring continued growth and extensive investment in new product development will require not only a focus on getting deals done and customer benefit, but also on continuously improving our performance. Saab is working continuously to refine proment delays. With Gripen, Saab has fully sepaSuppliers are an extension of cesses at various levels and operate more rated the safety-critical part of the software, our own operations efficiently. Major efforts were made in 2017 to resulting in much shorter development times Saab in most cases has close, long-term standardise a number of processes, which will and allowing for more flexible development of ­relationships with its suppliers, which is vital create a more consistent way of working that new tactical functions without sacrificing in order to provide customers with the worldrequires less resources and produces faster safety. In research and development on the class products. We see our suppliers as an and more convenient decision-making flows. next generation of products and concepts, this extension of our own operations and require The focus is on eliminating what isn’t needed, is happening in areas such as software develthat they take the same social and environimproving performance, listening to and learnopment and artificial intelligence, where new, mental responsibility we do. Systematic ing from each other, and sharing experiences smarter systems can process huge amounts measures to ensure that responsibility is being and skills. of data to facilitate better decision-making and taken in the supply chain not only minimises increase our customers' capabililties. risks, but also leads to improvements in the Digitisation and automation quality of the products we buy. Our supplier Technological developments, digitisation and Focus on information and IT security code of conduct, which is based on the UN artificial intelligence play a critical role in the In an increasingly uncertain world with growing Global Compact’s principles, is included in efforts we are making to work more efficiently cybersecurity challenges, it is important to all new agreements and contracts that are and smarter. Various programmes are being address information and IT security proacrenegotiated. In the code we express an used at the Group level to find administrative tively. In 2017, we continued the gradual expectation that suppliers will play similar efficiencies through standardisation and autoimplementation of Saab Security’s informademands on their subcontractors. In 2018, mation. On this count, different parts of the tion and IT security strategy, in part by we plan to recruit a person to work with organisation have made different degrees of strengthening the organisation by adding furresponsible p ­ rocurement and add expertise progress. ther resources in information security, improvin this area. In product development, it is essentially a ing information on the intranet and providing question of separating software from hardtraining for employees, since their conduct is ware. Saab’s systems are becoming more the most important protection. In addition, we complex, with each new generation using more continued to develop technological solutions software. Verifying safety-critical software is a and conducted audits of our IT systems. classic bottleneck that can lead to developSaab and Atlas Copco in cooperation to develop safe digital mining solutions During the autumn, the independent subsidiary Combitech, – The fact that a world-leading Swedish industrial company was selected digitisation partner to Atlas Copco. Expehas chosen us to be its digitisation partner feels like a real rience and technical platforms from Saab were crucial, as acknowledgment. The collaboration with Atlas Copco is an well as Combitech's experience from digitisation projects important step toward achieving our goal of becoming a of aerospace, defence and knowledge hub for the digitisation of Swedish industry, telecommunications. says Combitech's Deputy CEO, Lars Ydreskog, who is in Rationalising mining operations not only result in charge of digitisation at the company. substantial savings and productivity improvements; it also ensures greater security for Atlas Copco's customers. – Saab's and Combitech's total expertise in digitised The new collaboration includes digitisation efforts related development is very attractive for industry. This knowledge to autonomous mining control tower, cyber security and in combination with Combitech's leading position in Cyber ecosystem solutions. Security creates a strong offer to the market. The collaboration will build upon Saab's technical platforms and on the working methods and experience gained The cooperation already started and during the autumn in the course of digitising the Gripen E fighter aircraft – Combitech will build a demo of a subsystem in an auto­ an effort that cut development time in half while radically nomous mine, a proof of concept. The demo will be followed reducing costs. by several increments during the spring that will finally During the year, Combitech has intensified its efforts lead to a future digitised mine. Robert Raschberger is the regarding digitisation in industry, which is now paying off. project manager. Discussion of similar digital partnerships with other Swedish industrial companies are ongoing. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 31 P erformance Develop a business-oriented and element. Saab offers various forms of skills together set personal goals tied to the comperformance-based culture and leadership training. Some training is manpany’s overarching business objectives. The skills of our employees are important to datory for all employees and is provided flexiA prerequisite for higher performance is Saab’s ability to meet its business objectives. bly and cost efficiently through e-training. The that Saab offers a safe, secure and healthy For each employee to have an opportunity to biggest and most important part of an place of work. During the year, Saab began to maximise their potential and contribute to employee’s development, however, takes adapt its processes to the occupational health these objectives requires competent leaders. place in day-to-day interactions with coland safety standard ISO 45001 and to create Our aim is to develop an even more busileagues with whom they share knowledge. a global process. This work will be completed ness-oriented and performance-based culEmployees should clearly understand their in 2018. ture, where internationalisation to create expectations. Individual Performance Manopportunities for cooperation and underagement (IPM) reviews are an important tool standing between countries is an important where each employee and their supervisor Knowledge transfers an important part of working more efficiently When a contract is signed, it signals the have learned from a purely technical standhours. That’s a pretty good improvement if start of a series of activities. A very point is what Kalevi and my other colleagues you ask me.” important link in the chain from contract have taught me. Always focus on delivering to delivery are Saab’s production units, on time and quality. Just do one thing at a Kalevi still has a few years to go before retiwhich are responsible for quality and time, but do it faster.” ring. There are always new challenges and delivering on time. new colleagues to teach and learn from, Each little part in a unit requires skill, and it and the focus is always on the customer. While we obviously take advantage of the takes several years to learn all the parts in improvement potential that technological the transmitter-receiver unit. But Kalevi is “I am always thinking about how we can developments offer, a large part of improthe mentor in his area and he is proud of shorten delivery times without sacrificing ving performance and building skills is done his professional skills and the improvequality. If we don’t keep to schedule, it on a daily basis, in collaborations and knowments he and his colleagues are consisBild på Clean affects Skylink the next om in det finns the chainplats and has ledge sharing between colleagues. tently focused on. consequences. The customer should get what they ordered on time and with the Kalevi Ristolainen and Maddelejné Hou work “The best thing about this job is working right quality. It’s as simple as that.” in production in Göteborg. Kalevi has 32 together with my colleagues to see how we years on the job, Maddelejné has one. With can improve our flow while maintaining quahis long experience, Kalevi knows that perlity. And I think we’ve succeeded. It used to haps the most important thing he does is take 22–23 hours to produce our part of the share his knowledge with Maddelejné and transmitter-receiver unit, now it takes 16–17 other new colleagues. In this case what he knows about the transmitter-receiver unit in Saab’s airborne surveillance system ERIEYE. Which is something of a bigger challenge for Kalevi than for others. “My being deaf sometimes makes new colleagues a little tentative. It takes patience. It’s a little harder when I have to teach. There’s a lot of showing, pointing and writing, but I think it works.” That it works, and works well, is something Maddelejné Hou can attest to. It is Kalevi’s commitment and knowledge she has learned the most from. “I have taken some basic courses and done some reading, but what I 32 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Sustainable solutions for the future Phase out hazardous chemical substances A systematic approach to reducing environCertain chemicals that Saab uses in its operamental impacts is critical to Saab’s competitions are associated with risk to people and tiveness and survival. In keeping with the Paris the environment and may be regulated by Accord (COP 21), Saab wants to limit global authorities and customers. We are very active warming to less than 2° Celsius. Our goal is to in international organisations that, among reduce GHG emissions by at least 20 per cent other things, are devising industry-wide alteras related to sales from 2007 to 2020. At yearnatives to hazardous chemical substances. end 2017, we had reduced them 26 per cent. Fulfilling the climate target depends not only Research and development collaborations on actual greenhouse gas emissions, but also An important part of Saab’s efforts to reduce on annual sales and district heating suppliers' environmental impacts are the research and fuel mixes. development collaborations that are working During the year, we took a number of measto create sustainable solutions for the future. ures, including using space more efficiently, For example, Saab is one of the main suppliers installing energy-efficient lighting and solar to Clean Sky, Europe’s largest research propanels, and capturing surplus heat. The large gramme dedicated to reducing aircraft emisshare of Saab’s direct CO2 emissions comes sions. We have contributed an innovative airfrom business travel. As the business craft wing that reduces wind resistance with becomes more international, it becomes more laminar flow to cut fuel consumption. important to find a balance between the need to travel and the impact on the climate. We try in various ways to travel as efficiently as possible, including by encouraging the use of online meetings. Since 2006, Saab has been reporting greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent organisation that collects climate data. Saab received a grade of A-. For more information on CDP and Saab’s complete report, see www. Conny Einarsson in the production of an innovative aircraft cdp.net. wing for Cleas Sky, Europe's largest research programme. Carbon dioxide emissions from Greenhouse gas emissions within Saab Yearly comparison of various sources within Saab various emission sources in Saab’s facilities tonnes CO2 tonnes CO2 / MSEK sale tonnes CO 2 80,000 4 25,000 70,000 20,000 60,000 50,000 15,000 40,000 2 10,000 30,000 Own furnaces/processes and 20,000 accidents, 3% 5,000 Own vehicles and aircraft, 16% 10,000 Purchased electricity, 18% 0 0 0 Purchased district heating, 14% 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Electricity Heat Cars Air travel Purchased business trips, 43% Purchased goods transported, 6% Total emissions Relative target for GHG emissions – Rented premises, 0% Relative emissions 20% decrease between 2007 and 2020 2016 2017 Fulfilling the climate target depends not only on actual greenhouse gas emissions, but also on annual sales and district heating suppliers' fuel mixes. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 33 I N N O VAT I O N Innovation We have been shaped by fierce competition and strict requirements on low product lifecycle costs. We know what is needed and how to get there: the latest technology, the smartest solutions and the newest innovations. Our competent and engaged employees are the key, and we believe that diversity drives innovation. 23% of sales invested in R&D 36 PhD candidates during the year 23% 25% women globally female managers globally Louise Fuchs is one of Saab’s doctoral students. / 37 On the forefront of technology / 38 Innovation partnerships / 39 Attract and retain talent S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 I N N O VAT I O N Breaking the thought barrier – challenging the unknown What will happen in 15–20 years? ers need. This requires long-term relationships, The competitiveness of the product portfolio is collaborations and input from customers, also exemplified by the fact that Saab was one of How does Saab develop new defence academies and think tanks around the the first to introduce gallium nitride (GaN) in mili­technology – to stay a step ahead world. In combination with our own analyses, tary radar and electronic self-protection systems, and avoid, tackle and protect our plans and scenarios, we now have the foundation an area it has been researching since the late ’90s to develop the next generation sensor concept. and has won a prestigious award for. society against future threats? Today research is being done in areas such as Today’s generation of modern algorithms, software development and AI, where The technology offers longer reach and better ­product portfolios is built on longnew, smarter systems can collect vast amounts robustness for fighter radar, airborne surveillance term preparations made years ago. of data, make more accurate analyses and draw radar (GlobalEye) and the new surface radar famconclusions that provide better decision-making ily (GIRAFFE). It is also critical for the antennas on Right now a generational shift is underway in support.” the advanced self-protection system in Gripen E. AESA (active electronically steered array) radar. This is the product of long-term research and “The old parabolic antennas could only see in one “We still see strong demand for the updated verprocesses that sometimes take up to 20 years direction and had to be turned to pick up signals sions of technology that was developed in the from idea to finished product. In other words, the in other directions,” he continues. “The new gen’90s, and we have many years to come with the foundation of what is being sold today was laid eration of antennas can look in every direction at new generation of sensors,” says Fredrik Wising. back in the ’90s. Radar and electronic self-prothe same time, in real time. They are also multi“At the same time, we are researching today what tection systems are strategically important to functional and adaptable and allow the customer will come in 10 to 20 years.” Saab, and each year significant investments are to monitor the entire area and prioritise targets. In made in research and development. The research addition, they can be upgraded with new software has to be spread across a number of areas, from in just a minute.” hardware such as semiconductors and antennas to software such as signal processing algorithms Saab’s broad range of products under one roof and a decision-making support. creates synergies, reuse opportunities, higher efficiency, better performance and faster speed “When Saab looks at future needs and wants, we to market, a unique competitive advantage. do it from various perspectives and types of information, including what our customers think “Take, for example, our world-leading ability to and what the technology and its possibilities produce exceptionally pure microwaves. This is mean for the future,” says Fredrik Wising, PhD in critical in order to spot targets in complex envinuclear plasma fusion and working with business ronments, and we have been able to invest what development and strategy within business area we needed because it is so important to all our Surveillance. “Before we worked almost excluproducts. This is why our radar systems were able sively on behalf of the Swedish defence, but as its to warn of incoming terrorist rocket attacks in spending was reduced we have been forced in a Afghanistan, saving the lives of a large number of positive way to define the systems that customsoldiers.” » We still see strong demand for the updated versions of technology that was developed in the ’90s, and we have many years to come with the new generation of sensors,” says Fredrik Wising. At the same time, we are researching today what will come in 10 to 20 years. « Fredrik Wising, PhD, Nuclear Plasma Fusion, Business development and Strategy, Surveillance. 36 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Innovative and cost efficient solutions for the future Saab’s high-tech operations play an important role in driving technological development in society for the benefit of economic growth, security and sustainability. Saab’s advanced product development generates knowledge, technological solutions and innovations for the future. Changing threat scenarios, combined with RBS70 and our extensive radar family, we pitals, seaports and cities, and to protect rapid technological developments, require us strengthen our customers’ capabilities. Saab major events such as presidential visits and to continuously challenge, question and is also a pioneer in the integration of complex the Olympic Games. develop new innovations. Saab therefore systems such as GlobalEye. The airborne early SAFE, Remote Tower, TactiCall, OneView invests about a quarter of annual sales in warning and control system (AEW&C) builds and Aerobahn are examples of products that research and development. The strategy is to on our expertise in a number of areas includprotect borders and flows of people and concentrate R&D investments in five core ing radar, command, control and communicagoods. Today no less than 50 per cent of all areas: aeronautics, advanced weapon systion systems, aircraft integration, signals inteloperators of air traffic control systems use tems, command and control systems, sensors ligence and self-protection. There are few supSaab’s solutions. These systems help and underwater systems, with training and pliers in the world that can deliver this type of ­customers reduce their costs as well as CO2 support as integral parts. We invest in areas advanced system. emissions. We also collaborate with leading where we are, or can be, a market or technolAs our customer base changes, we concommercial aviation manufacturers such as ogy leader. tinue to expand our civilian portfolio. Through Boeing and Airbus to develop advanced From complete platforms such as the innovations and acquisitions, we can offer ­lightweight structures for more fuel-efficient ­Gripen fighter, the A26 submarine and the Ericompetitive systems in civil security. Our techaircraft. eye radar to systems such as Carl-Gustaf, nologies are used in airports, prisons and hosFIVE CORE AREAS 1 2 3 41. Aeronautics Development of advanced 2. Advanced weapon systems 3. Command and control systems 5 4. Sensors Airborne early warning and 5. Underwater systems The A26 submarine and military and civil aviation Anti-tank weapons, missiles Systems to control and coorcontrol ­systems, air defence, ­autonomous vehicles as well ­technology, including the and ammunition as well as intedinate military ­operations as ­surveillance and surfaceas underwater detection, ­Gripen combat aircraft grated command and control well as ­traffic management on based air defence. weapon, self-protection and ­system. systems and network solutions. land, at sea and in the air. communication systems. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 37 I N N O VAT I O N Cooperations and partnerships ations with universities and think tanks. To have an established ­presence on every build the foundation compete in key markets, we have to strengthen continent. Through partnerships and cooperations we our global presence, which ­enables us to Saab also builds relationships through a develop innovative solutions for both civil and work with local companies and participate global innovation programme. We bring our military applications that create value for us, in ­tenders that require local research and way of doing research and development in our customers and society. The partnership development. Sweden to new markets by building relationwith Boeing to develop a candidate for the We are shifting from techto customer­ships with universities, companies and the US Air Force’s future fighter pilot training sysdriven product development, which requires public sector. Primarily the programme is tem is a good example of a close collaboration us to be more systematic in our innovation. designed for countries where Saab wants that at the same time benefits two innovative To succeed, we have to be better at predicting to establish a long-term presence. companies. Another important factor for our customers’ future needs, which we can Saab’s innovative capabilities are our cooperonly do by being close to the market. Today we Research and innovation centre with Brazil Saab is one of the founders of the Swedish-Brazilian Research and Innovation Centre CISB. Its mission is to identify and support research and development in advanced technology primarily in the areas of the environment, defence and transportation. The organisation has 17 members and over 100 partners. Many potential customers want access to the technology and capabilities Saab can offer. At the same time, Saab has the opportunity to take part at an Jovice Ng Boon Sing leads the research collaboration with early stage in customer projects. Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. The cooperation focuses on digitisation and is an important step to ensure that Saab maintains its leading position in the field. University partnerships An important factor for Saab’s innovative capabilities are its partnerships with universities. Currently, Saab mainly works with KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, the Institute of Technology at Linköping University, Chalmers University of Technology in Göteborg, the Swedish Defence University in Stockholm, Aalto University in Esbo, Finland, and Nanyang Technological University in Singapore. Among other things, Saab employees have the opportunity to do research for a PhD, while researchers and students from the schools can get involved in Saab’s work. Saab currently has 36 doctoral students. Innovation contest To encourage innovation within the company, Saab annually arranges an innovation contest for all employees. Participants who qualify receive the support of innovation coaches every step of the way. The selected ideas are then evaluated by members of the management team, who name winners and provide them with the resources they need to drive their projects. 38 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 South Africa leads the way in diversity work Saab in South Africa has initiated several projects aimed at people who are having difficulty entering the job market, including development ­programmes to help young people find a job. The projects align with the government’s action plan to overcome social and economic imbalances in South Africa. Naome Sithole is a member of the transformation team that is promoting diversity and inclusiveness at Saab in South Africa. Gender equality and diversity parameter in leadership training and the global also working to increase interest in engineerdrive innovation recruitment process. It is important that all ing and familiarity with Saab among women in We at Saab have a firm belief, which is supemployees realise the importance of diversity order to broaden the recruiting base over time. ported by research, that the different perspecand appreciate every individual’s unique conOne example is our partnership with the tives diversity brings to the organisation are a tribution to the company. Swedish Equestrian Federation to build awaresource of innovation. For us, diversity means Gender equality is an important issue, and ness of Saab among young women. respecting the equality of every human being much of our focus is on increasing the share To help people with a foreign background regardless, for example, of age, gender, sexual of women in management positions. The goal enter the job market and create a fast track for orientation, religion, disability or ethnicity. It is is to increase the share of female managers those with the right education, we work with also a question of mixing people with different to 30 per cent globally and 35 per cent in various initiatives such as Äntligen arbete experiences and educational backgrounds. All ­Sweden by 2025. At the end of 2017, women (“A Job At Last”), the Stockholm School of those who work with recruiting receive training accounted for 25.2 per cent of our managers Economics’ Rapid Acceleration Management in diversity issues, and diversity is also a globally and 28.4 per cent in Sweden. We are Programme (RAMP) and Novare Potential. Better education for Indian children Saab Technical High School Saab started partnering during the year with the Indian learning Saab Technical High School is a national, three-year organisation Pratham, which is working to ensure that children not only programme Saab runs in cooperation with Vasagymnasiet attend school but also develop. The work is a collaboration with the and the municipality of Arboga. Saab employees serve as national government, local communities, parents, teachers and teachers and technical advisors in certain areas. Saab is volunteers. Thanks to contributions from Saab and a number of other also responsible for study visits, language studies abroad, Swedish companies, Pratham will be able to reach out to 30,000 children traineeships and summer jobs. This helps to expand the in Assam, a state in northeastern India, over a three-year period. base of employable engineering graduates. Attract and retain employees school students to pursue a higher education employees the opportunity to try new things To be even more competitive in the future, it by demonstrating the opportunities they can outside work. The focus of Saab’s social is important that we stay on the forefront of find in mathematics, technology and research. engagement is on promoting education and technology and that we lead and organise in At the university level, the focus is on positionan interest in technology, which is done as a way that encourages innovation. To do so, ing Saab as an employer of choice. In Univerfar as possible with the involvement of our we have to be able to retain and develop our sum's ranking of Swedish engineering stuemployees. They serve, for example, as math employees and attract new talent. Employee dents’ favourite places to work, Saab came tutors, teachers and class mentors, and raise engagement is therefore measured through in sixth. money for schools and orphanages near periodic surveys, the results of which serve as Saab's operations in South Africa and Kenya. the basis for a dialogue between employees Social engagement and their managers. Saab’s culture and the pride over being part Saab encourages primary and secondary of the company is strengthened by giving S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 39 S ustainability and G R I Sustainability management The Board of Directors adopts the Group’s Code of Conduct and sustainability reports. The Corporate Responsibility Council proposes priorities to Group Management. The Council is comprised of representatives from Saab’s Group Management and is led by the Executive Vice President, who is responsible for sustainability issues in Group Management. Saab’s Corporate Responsibility function coordinates sustainability work within the Group. For each priority sustainability issue a person is appointed each year to gather information within their area and report goals and results. Zero tolerance for corruption laboration with the HR functions within each The Board of Directors is responsible, through business area and is led by the HR staff. the Audit Committee, for overseeing the Code of Conduct and has ultimate responsibility for Contribute to society monitoring and evaluating business ethics. Saab’s contributions are guided by its vision The Ethics and Compliance Board leads and and business idea. Activities that contribute to draws up guidelines for this work, makes decisocial development should, according to the sions on ethical issues and follows up whistlestrategy for social engagement, mainly be carblowing cases. The board meets at least eight ried out with the help of Saab’s employees and times a year and is led by Saab’s General technologies and focus on encouraging Counsel, who reports to the Board of Direcyoung people to take an interest in technology tors’ Audit Committee. Two other important and education. functions are Ethics and Compliance, which is responsible for monitoring, coordinating and Policies developing efforts to prevent corruption and Saab’s sustainability work is managed through provides expertise in this area, and Market established policies and similar documents, Network Management, which, in collaboration such as the Code of Conduct, HR policy, enviwith the marketing and product functions, ronmental policy, occupational health and oversees the entire process of hiring marketsafety policy, procurement policy, diversity ing consultants and other third parties. policy, business travel policy and security policy. The Code of Conduct contains sections Reduce environmental impact on business ethics, information security, Responsibility for Saab’s strategic developsocial responsibility, the workplace, the enviment and environmental work rests with Group ronment etc. The Code is available in Swedish Function Environmental Management. Within and English. Saab also has a Supplier Code of the business areas, the work is led by the head Conduct based on the UN Global Compact’s of each business area, who bears ultimate ten principles and the International Labour responsibility. The goals set at the Group level Organization’s core conventions. Saab does are broken down for each business area and not have a separate policy for human rights, subsidiary. The Group Environmental Council since it is covered in the other policies. Group coordinates and monitors Saab’s environpolicies are available to all employees on mental work. Saab’s intranet. Saab’s global enterprise systems with central processes and guidelines Employer of choice are also available on the intranet. Saab is certiSaab’s Head of Group Human Resources has fied according to the ISO 14001 environmenoverarching responsibility for HR work within tal management system the Group. This work is managed in close colCollaborations, initiatives and memberships Saab has participated since 2011 in the UN Global Compact and has pledged to follow its ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As guidance in its sustainability work, Saab follows the OECD’s guidelines on multinational enterprises. In addition, Saab has chosen to participate in a number of sustainability initiatives and organisations. Examples include: • The business ethics committee of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD) • The steering committee of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC) • Environmental collaborations through the Swedish Security and Defence Industry Association (SOFF) • Environmental collaborations within Europe through the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association in Europe (ASD) and globally through the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) • Global Compact Network Nordic Countries • Carbon Disclosure Project • Global Reporting Initiative 40 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 GRI Index Saab reports its sustainability work in accordunless indicated otherwise The GRI table parts of the information concern the Global ance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), below contains page references to Saab’s Compact’s ten principles and the sustainabilat level “core”, the UN Global Compact and the Annual Report (AR), the Sustainability fact ity areas covered by the Annual Accounts Act. Annual Accounts Act. The report comprises all book (SFB) published on Saab's website, and Group operations for the financial year 2017, Saab’s ­website. The table also shows which STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND Governance and indicators Page Global Compact AAA ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO AR 6-7 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of organisation AR inside front cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and services AR 37 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters AR 138, SFB 35 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operate AR 138, SFB 35 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 20 G4-8 Markets served AR 3 G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR 2 G4-10 Workforce AR 39, 138, SFB 20, 35 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective In Sweden 100%, no Principle 3 Social conditions bargaining agreements information available on rest of the world G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain AR 40, SFB 9 Social conditions G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 2-7 G4-14 Precautionary approach AR 40, SFB 31 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives AR 40, SFB 31 G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or AR 40, SFB 31 international advocacy organisations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 45 G4-18 Process for defining the report content AR 40, SFB 31 G4-19 Material aspects AR 13, SFB 4 G4-20 Internal impact All the material aspects Saab has identified have an internal impact G4-21 External impact All the material aspects Saab has identified have an external impact G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in Non-applicable previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Non-applicable the scope and aspect boundaries ­ STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups www.saabgroup.com G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders www.saabgroup.com G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement www.saabgroup.com G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through www.saabgroup.com stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period AR 41 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle AR 41 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its AR 40, SFB 34 contents G4-32 GRI Content Index AR 41-43, SFB 32-34 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking AR 44, Auditor's report on the external assurance for the report statutory sustainability report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation AR 40, SFB 31 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of Conduct AR 40, SFB 31 Principle 10 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 41 S ustainability and G R I GRI Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material aspects Governance and indicators Page Global Compact AAA ECONOMIC IMPACT Economic Performance DMA Economic performance AR 2 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 17, SFB 30 Indirect Economic DMA Indirect economic impacts AR 17, SFB 30 Impacts G4-EC8 Understanding and description of significant indirect AR 17, SFB 30 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Energy DMA Energy AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principles 8, 9 Environmental impact G4-EN3 Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 8, 9 Environmental impact energy source G4-EN5 Energy intensity AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principle 8 Environmental impact G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and serAR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact vices Emissions DMA Emissions AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact G4-EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principle 8 Environmental impact G4-EN16 Total indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 8, 9 Environmental impact G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principle 8 Environmental impact G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 7, 8, 9 Environmental impact G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact and reductions achieved Effluents and waste DMA Effluents and waste www.saabgroup.com Principles 7,8 Environmental impact G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method www.saabgroup.com Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills were reported in 2016 Products and Services DMA Products and services AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principle 8 Environmental impact products and services, and results thereof Compliance DMA Compliance AR 33, SFB 13-14, 16 Principle 8 Environmental impact G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No significant fines non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport DMA Transport AR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting proAR 33, SFB 13-14 Principles 7, 8 Environmental impact ducts and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Supplier Environmental DMA* Supplier environmental assessment AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 8 Environmental impact Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 8 Environmental impact environmental criteria 42 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SOCIAL IMPACT – Governance and indicators Page Global Compact AAA LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational Health DMA Occupational health and safety AR 32, SFB 21 Social conditions and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, SFB 21 Social conditions lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region Training and Education DMA Training and education AR 32, SFB 18-20 Social conditions G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, and by AR 32, SFB 18, Social conditions employee category Saab does not consider number of hours a good measure of quality G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforOffered to everyone Principle 6 Social conditions mance and career development reviews Diversity and DMA Diversity and gender equality AR 39, SFB 20 Principle 6 Social conditions Gender equality G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of SFB 20 Principle 6 Social conditions employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment DMA Supplier assessment for labour practices AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 4 Social conditions of Labour Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 4 Social conditions labour practices criteria SOCIAL IMPACT – HUMAN RIGHTS Supplier Human Rights DMA Supplier human rights assessment AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 2 Social conditions Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers that were screened AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 2 Social conditions using human rights criteria, and actions taken SOCIAL IMPACT – SOCIETY Anti-corruption DMA Anti-corruption AR 27, SFB 6-7 Principle 10 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for AR 27, SFB 6-7 Principle 10 Anti-corruption risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Percentage of employees who have received training on SFB 6-7 Principle 10 Anti-corruption the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Supplier Assessment for DMA Supplier assessment for impacts on society AR 31, SFB 9 Anti-corruption Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using AR 31, SFB 9 Principle 10 Anti-corruption criteria for impacts on society SOCIAL IMPACT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing DMA Marketing communications AR 27, SFB 6-8 Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products AR 27, SFB 8 Customer Privacy DMA Customer privacy AR 31, SFB 10 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding AR 31, SFB 10, breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data For strategic reasons Saab does not report data Supplementary information Human rights Contact Definitions In 2017 Saab began to identify all of its risks assoEvalena Persson, Director Corporate We have combined the areas of social conditions, ciated with human rights, which will be completed Responsibility Coordination, human resources and human rights in the Annual in 2018. E-mail: evalena.persson@saabgroup.com Accounts Act into social conditions. Business model Risks and risk management Saab’s business model is described in AR 2017, Strategic risks associated with anti-corruption, the pp. 16-17. environment and labour practices are reported in AR 2017, pp. 54– 57. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 43 S ustainability and G R I Statutory sustainability report According to Chapter 6, 11 § of the Annual Accounts Act, Saab has prepared a sustainability report. The scope of Saab's sustainability report according to the Annual Accounts Act, is shown in the GRI Index on pages 41-43. It consists of pages 12-17, 26-27, 31-33, 39-40, 54-57 and 59 in this document. Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Saab AB, corporate identity number 556036-0793. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 in the summary above and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act . The scope of the examintion Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 2 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Hjalmarsson Authorised Public Accountant 44 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Administration report and financial statements CONTENT Group – Financial review 2017 46 Business areas 47 Other significant events 53 Risks and risk management 54 Corporate governance report 58 Board of directors and auditors 64 Group management 66 Other information 68 Financial statements and notes 72 Dividend motivation 128 Proposed disposition of earnings 2017 129 Auditor's report 130 Information to shareholders 136 Multi-year overview 138 Glossary 139 Saab in the world 140 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 45 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Group – Financial review 2017 Financial review 2017 Operations Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number As one of the world’s leading high technology 5560360793, has its registered address in companies, Saab offers products, solutions Linköping, Sweden. The head office's visiting and services for military defence and civil address is Gustavslundsvägen 42, Bromma, security. In 2017, the Group had customers in Sweden, with the mailing address Box 12062, over 100 countries, while research and develSE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden, through opment is concentrated in Sweden. The 27 March 2018. As of 28 March 2018, the Group's employees work mainly in Europe, ­visiting and mailing address is Olof Palmes South Africa, the US and Australia, with others gata 17, 5tr, SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden. in local offices in more than 30 countries The telephone number to the head office of around the world. Saab AB is +46 8-463 00 00. Saab was organised in six business areas Saab has been listed on Nasdaq Stockin 2017: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, holm since 1998 and on the Large Cap list Support and Services, Industrial Products and since 2006. The largest shareholder is InvesServices, and Kockums. tor, with 30 per cent of the shares, corresponding to 40 per cent of the votes as of Corporate 31 December 2017. The share of the votes is In addition to the business areas, Corporate calculated based on the number of shares, comprises Group staff and departments as excluding treasury shares, at year-end. The well as other operations outside the core total number of shares in the company is operations. 109,150,344, distributed between 1,907,123 Corporate reported operating income Series A shares with 10 votes each and of MSEK -455 (-356) in 2017. 107,243,221 Series B shares with one vote each. Long-term financial goals At year-end, a total of 2,326,562 Series B The long-term financial goals as of 2011 conshares had been repurchased to guarantee sist of goals for organic sales growth, operatthe Group’s share matching plans. The repuring margin (EBIT) and the equity/asset ratio. chased shares are held as treasury shares. Organic sales growth will average 5 per cent per year over a business cycle. In 2017, Corporate governance report organic sales growth was 10 per cent (5). In accordance with the Swedish Annual The operating margin (EBIT) will average at Accounts Act, Saab has prepared a corporate least 10 per cent per year over a business governance report. The corporate governcycle. In 2017, the operating margin (EBIT) ance report, found here on pages 58-71, conwas 6.9 per cent (6.3). tains the Board of Directors' report on internal The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per control of financial reporting, which includes cent. At year-end 2017, the equity/assets disclosures on both the Parent Company and ratio was 32.2 per cent (32.3). the Group. Dividend and dividend policy Sustainability report Saab has a long-term dividend goal to distribSaab has prepared a sustainability report ute 20-40 per cent of net income over a busiaccording to chapter 6, section 11 of the ness cycle to the shareholders. For 2017, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The scope of Board of Directors is proposing a dividend of Saab's sustainability report is shown in the SEK 5.50 (5.25) per share, corresponding to summary on page 44 in this document. 42 per cent (49) of net income. ­Supplementary sustainability information ­ can be found in the Sustainability fact book, Outlook 2018 which is available on www.saabgroup.com/ Sales growth in 2018 is expected to be in line responsibility. Together, these documents with Saab's long-term financial goal: annual comprise Saab’s integrated annual and organic sales growth of 5 per cent. ­sustainability report, which has been prepared The operating margin in 2018, excluding based on the requirements in GRI’s guidelines, material non-recurring items, is expected to G4, at level “core”. improve compared to 2017, bringing Saab a further step closer to its financial goal: an operating margin of 10 per cent. 46 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Business area Aeronautics Aeronautics is the innovative supplier of world-class military aircraft systems and is engaged in research, development and production of military aircraft systems. It also conducts studies as preparation for future manned and unmanned aircraft systems as well as further development of existing products. Services and solutions • Gripen is the world's most flexible and adaptable combat aircraft system. With its modular design, it can be upgraded and adapted to customers' requirements. • Unmanned/autonomous systems. • Boeing and Saab are jointly developing a series prototype for the next generation trainer aircraft for the U.S. Air Force's T-X program. Aeronautics includes the business units Gripen E/F, Gripen C/D, Gripen Brazil, Advanced Pilot Training Systems and Operations Contracts. Orders Saab received an order from FMV to provide were higher in 2017 compared to 2016. operational and development support for Gripen during 2017. A contract was also signed with FMV on the continued support Cash flow Aeronautics received large milestone pay22% and maintenance of Gripen C/D valued in total ments in the first and fourth quarters of 2017. at SEK 1.9 billion. The order value for AeroThe level of project activity and completion nautics amounted to MSEK 536 and deliveries was high throughout the year. will be made from June 2017 to December Share of sales 2017 2019. Sales, income and margin The activity level within the Gripen programme to Sweden and to Brazil remained high. Operating income was lower within Gripen C/D operations in 2017 due to a change in project mix. In 2017, significant development expenditures were again made in the T-X program, but at a lower level than in 2016. In 2018, the U.S. Air Force is expected to announce its choice for the T-X program. Due to the great interest in Gripen, marketing expenditures Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin SEK billion SEK billion % MSEK 2017 2016 40 8 9 Order bookings 3,295 1,789 35 7 8 Order backlog 50,154 54,127 30 6 7 Sales 7,267 7,138 6 EBITDA 528 576 25 5 EBITDA margin, % 7.3 8.1 5 20 4 Operating income, EBIT 478 535 4 15 3 Operating margin, % 6.6 7.5 3 Operational cash flow 1,264 435 10 2 2 No. of employees (FTE) 3,073 2,932 5 1 1 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 47 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Business area Dynamics Dynamics offers a market-leading product portfolio comprising ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles, training systems and signature management systems for armed forces. The product portfolio also consists of niche products for the civil and defence markets such as underwater vehicles for the offshore industry. Services and solutions • Ground combat weapons, including NLAW, AT4, Carl-Gustaf and Bill 2. • Land-based air defence systems, including RBS70, RBS70 NG and BAMSE. • RBS 15 air-to-surface missile and international missile programmes such as Meteor, Taurus, IRIS-T and GLSDB. • Underwater systems, including remotely operated and autonomous vehicles as well as torpedoes and underwater sensors. • Advanced camouflage systems, including the products Barracuda MCS, ULCAS and SOTACS. Products and solutions have been sold to more than 60 countries around the world. Dynamics includes the business units Sales, income and margin Ground Combat, Missile Systems, Underwater Sales increased due to strong order bookings Systems, Training and Simulation and Barracuda. in large parts of the business area in recent years. 16 % The operating margin improved due to high Orders capacity utilisation throughout the business Dynamics signed a major contract with FMV area, with Training and Simulation delivering a for the development and production of next strong profit improvement during the year. Share of sales 2017 generation anti-ship missiles. The total order value amounted to SEK 3.2 billion. FMV subseCash flow quently ordered additional production of next Operational cash flow was positive mainly due generation anti-ship missiles for MSEK 500. to payments received for deliveries in the Saab received an order from the Swiss fourth quarter. Federal Office for Defence Procurement, Armasuisse, to deliver the Next generation Light Anti-Tank Weapon system (NLAW) to the Swiss Army. The order value amounted to about SEK 1.035 billion with deliveries during the period 2018-2021. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2017 2016 SEK billion SEK billion % 10 6 15 Order bookings 8,615 6,680 Order backlog 11,399 8,031 5 8 12 Sales 5,267 4,927 EBITDA 660 522 4 6 9 EBITDA margin, % 12.5 10.6 3 Operating income, EBIT 575 447 4 6 Operating margin, % 10.9 9.1 2 Operational cash flow 1,105 282 2 3 1 No. of employees (FTE) 2,143 2,094 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 48 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Business area Surveillance Business area Surveillance provides efficient solutions for safety and security, for surveillance and decision support, and for threat detection, location, and protection. The portfolio covers airborne, ground-based and naval radar, electronic selfprotection systems, combat systems and traffic management on land, at sea and in the air. Services and solutions • The airborne surveillance systems GlobalEye and Saab Erieye AEW&C (Airborne Early Warning & Control) for defence and civil security. • The surface radar family Giraffe, Sea Giraffe and Arthur for air and maritime surveillance and weapon locating. • Combat management systems based on 9LV for navies as well as air forces and armies. • Signals intelligence (SIGINT) systems that provide real-time situational awareness to localise and identify threats, for both tactical and strategic applications. • Self-protection systems that warn of threats and protect aircraft, helicopters, vehicles and vessels. • Nose radar for fighter aircraft, data links and tract was signed as well, with an order value laser rangefinders. of SEK 1.35 billion, of which MSEK 789 was Surveillance includes the business units related to Surveillance. Surveillance and Kockums also signed 24 % ­Airborne Surveillance Systems, Combat a major contract for the modification and ­Systems and C41 Solutions, Electronic upgrade of the Swedish Navy’s Gävle-class ­Warfare Systems and Surface Radar corvettes. The order value amounted to ­Solutions. As of 1 January 2018, the new SEK 1.249 billion, of which MSEK 501 was Share of sales 2017 ­business unit Cyber Security is part of related to Surveillance. ­Surveillance. The business unit Traffic ­Management was part of Surveillance Sales, income and margin throughout 2017 but as of 1 January 2018 Sales and the operating margin strengthened is included in the business area Industrial mainly due to a high level of activity in the Products and Services. AEW&C segment +and decreased amortisation of development expenditures. Orders Surveillance and Support and Services Cash flow received a major order in the AEW&C segment Surveillance received large advances in 2016 valued at MUSD 236, approximately SEK 2 bilwhich was not repeated in 2017. The level of lion, of which approximately MSEK 550 was project activity and completion was high, related to Surveillance. Another AEW&C conwhich led to a negative cash flow. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2017 2016 SEK billion SEK billion % 18 10 8 Order bookings 8,528 5,993 Order backlog 16,169 16,415 15 6 8 Sales 8,015 7,659 4 EBITDA 945 940 12 6 2 EBITDA margin, % 11.8 12.3 9 Operating income, EBIT 591 449 0 4 Operating margin, % 7.4 5.9 6 -2 Operational cash flow –73 1,865 2 3 -4 No. of employees (FTE) 4,198 3,963 0 0 -6 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 49 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Business area Support and Services Support and Services offers reliable, cost-efficient service and support for all of Saab's markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and logistics as well as products and services for military and civil missions. Services and solutions • Customised support solutions in all areas over the product's entire lifecycle. • Supplies everything from individual spare parts to availability-based commitments. • Technical services, maintenance and repair work. • Products and integration for airborne surveillance systems, communication systems, CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) defence solutions, military avionics and field solutions. Support and Services includes the business units Aviation Services, Airborne ISR, Gripen Support, Networks and Public Safety, Tactical Solutions and Maintenance Production. As of 1 January 2018, Maintenance Production is a Sales, income and margin part of Gripen Support and Tactical Solutions Sales and the operating margin increased and Networks and Public Safety are merged into one business unit under the name Commainly due to a high activity level within the AEW&C segment. 19 % munication and Tactical solution. Cash flow Orders Operational cash flow was affected by a high Support and Services and Surveillance level of activity mainly in the AEW&C segment, Share of sales 2017 received a major order in the AEW&C segment where several large milestone payments valued at MUSD 236, approximately SEK 2 bilreceived in 2016 were not repeated in 2017. lion, of which approximately MSEK 1,450 was related to Support and Services. Another AEW&C contract was signed as well, with an order value of SEK 1.35 billion, of which MSEK 561 was related to Support and Services. A major contract was signed with FMV on the continued support and maintenance of Gripen C/D valued in total at SEK 1.9 billion. The order value for Support and Services amounted to MSEK 1,164. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2017 2016 SEK billion SEK billion % 12 7 14 Order bookings 7,324 4,473 Order backlog 14,039 12,938 10 6 12 Sales 6,201 5,081 5 10 EBITDA 692 470 8 EBITDA margin, % 11.2 9.3 4 8 6 Operating income, EBIT 673 454 3 6 Operating margin, % 10.9 8.9 4 2 4 Operational cash flow 104 1,243 2 1 2 No. of employees (FTE) 2,043 2,119 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 50 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Business area Industrial Products and Services The business units within Industrial Products and Services are focused on business-to-business (B2B) customers. There is also a minority portfolio containing Saab's ownership interests in companies in various stages of development. Services and solutions • Technical consulting services to customers in industry, defence and the public sector through the independent subsidiary Combitech. The company offers a broad range of services, with cutting-edge expertise in Cyber Security and digitisation. • Production of parts to the aviation industry; such as wings, flaps and doors for commercial aircraft manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus. • Safety critical systems and components such as computers, display systems and actuators for demanding environments for aircraft and helicopters. • The minority portfolio gathers together and develops product ideas that derive from development projects but fall outside the and Aerostructures. Aerostructures received core business. a major order in 2016 that was not repeated in • Industrial Products and Services also invests in small, fast-growing companies that could 2017. 9% eventually complement the core portfolio. Sales, income and margin Sales increased due to higher sales within Industrial Products and Services includes the Combitech, which strengthened as a result business units Aerostructures and Avionics of higher demand, the effects of the transfer Share of sales 2017 Systems as well as the independent consulting of Ericsson's development organisation in firm Combitech. As of 1January 2018 the busiOctober 2016 and the acquisition of Watchness unit Traffic Management is a part of the com AS in 2016. business area. Operating income within Combitech The minority portfolio includes the interests increased as a result of a high utilisation rate in Vricon Inc, UMS Skeldar AG, Cold Cut and additional project work, while the business Systems AB, C-leanship AS, Revibe Energy AB, unit Aerostructures was affected by delayed Hyker Security AB and Cind AB. deliveries. Cash flow Significant investments were made in 2017 Operational cash flow was negative, mainly Orders in the minority portfolio containing Saab's due to delayed deliveries and currency transOrder bookings increased within the technical ownership interests in companies in various actions related to projects in the business unit consulting company Combitech, but were stages of development. Aerostructures during the period. slightly lower in the business units Avionics Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2017 2016 SEK billion SEK billion % 4 5 10 Order bookings 3,311 3,358 Order backlog 8,665 9,361 4 8 Sales 4,022 3,605 3 EBITDA 172 170 3 6 EBITDA margin, % 4.3 4.7 2 Operating income, EBIT 136 134 2 4 Operating margin, % 3.4 3.7 Operational cash flow -264 -54 1 1 2 No. of employees (FTE) 2,713 2,679 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 51 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Business area Kockums Kockums is a world leader in its segment in the development, production and in-service support of submarines, surface vessels and naval systems. The product portfolio includes submarines with air-independent propulsion, warships with stealth technology and minesweeping systems. Kockums also supplies subsystems and components for integration in naval solutions for customers in and outside Sweden. Services and solutions • Design, construction and in-service support for submarines and surface vessels. • Design, construction and in-service support for mine countermeasures vessels and autonomous underwater vehicles. The business area's unique expertise is in signature management and stealth technology, material optimisation and shock resistance, as well as in systems integration. Kockums' products are designed for availability, simplified maintenance and long operating lives. One example is the Västergötland-class submarine, which after 30 years is operational in both Sweden and Singapore. Air-independent propulsion with the Stirling system, carbon fibre composite designs and minesweeping The order value amounted to SEK 1.249 systems are solutions where Kockums is the billion, of which MSEK 748 was related leader and where the products are in use in a number of countries. to Kockums. 9% Kockums' production facility in Karlskrona Sales, income and margin has undergone major modernisations since Sales increased in 2017 due to higher activity Saab's acquisition. Through investments in in the ongoing half-time modifications of two methodological improvements, industrial Gotland-class submarines and high activity Share of sales 2017 robots and digitisation, the shipyard today related to maintenance of surface vessels. ranks as one of the world’s most modern for production and in-service support of submaCash flow rines. Kockums includes the business units Kockums received large advances and mileSubmarines and Surface Ships. stone payments in 2017, which led to positive cash flow despite a continued high level of Orders project activity and completion. A contract was signed with FMV for delivery of a Special Purpose Ship for Signal Intelligence Personnel (SIGINT). The order covers the period 2017During 2017, the number of employees 2020, with a total value of MSEK 730. increased within Kockums due to increased Kockums and Surveillance also signed a personnel needs in both the design and contract for the modification and upgrade of production phases of major projects. the Swedish Navy's Gävle-class corvettes. Key figures Order intake Sales Operating margin MSEK 2017 2016 SEK billion SEK billion % 12 3 24 Order bookings 2,129 1,293 Order backlog 8,815 8,910 10 20 Sales 2,712 2,311 EBITDA 180 165 8 2 16 EBITDA margin, % 6.6 7.1 6 12 Operating income, EBIT 157 134 Operating margin, % 5.8 5.8 4 1 8 Operational cash flow 206 639 2 4 No. of employees (FTE) 1,115 853 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 52 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Other significant events Other significant events during the period • Also in September, Saab and the Indian infraSignificant events after the conclusion January–December 2017 structure conglomerate Adani Group of the period • Saab announced that it had selected Poland’s announced a collaboration plan within aero• Saab was contracted by Patria as one of the Nauta Shiprepair Yard, based in Gdynia, a part space and defence in India, aligned with the major suppliers across the Finnish Navy of the Polish Armaments Group (PGZ), to build Government of India’s Make in India initiative. Squadron 2000 Mid-Life Upgrade prothe ship platform for the special purpose SigThe intended collaboration would encomgramme. Patria has the prime role for the total nal Intelligence (SIGINT) vessel for the Swedpass design, development and production of programme, which includes refurbishment ish Navy. Gripen for India and other high-tech products and upgrade of four Hamina-class fast attack • On June 15, Saab completed a successful of national importance for India and also the craft. Saab will supply the 9LV Combat Manfirst flight of the next generation smart fighter, creation of joint ventures in India in line with agement System (CMS), the 9LV Fire Control Gripen E. The maiden flight was conducted the Make In India policy. System (FCS) including the Ceros 200 fire over the eastern parts of Östergötland for • Saab is competing together with Boeing to control director and the Trackfire Remote 40minutes. During the flight, the aircraft’s perwin the tender to supply the U.S. Air Force with Weapon Station (RWS). formance capabilities and key embedded an advanced trainer aircraft. Saab announced • Saab signed a contract for production and functions were tested. during the period that, should it be selected, it deliveries of Saab’s New Lightweight Torpedo • Saab made changes within the Group Manwill establish manufacturing capabilities for its to the Finnish Navy. The contract is part of the agement during the year. During the first parts of the T-X advanced trainer aircraft in Squadron 2000 Mid-Life Upgrade Proquarter Ulf Nilsson resigned as Head of Busithe US. gramme (SQ2000 MLU) for the Finnish Navy’s ness Area Aeronautics and was replaced by • Saab was identified by the Australian governfour Hamina fast attack craft. Jonas Hjelm, former Head of Business Area ment to provide the tactical interface to the • Saab expanded its activities in Finland by Support and Services. During the third quarRoyal Australian Navy’s (RAN) fleet of nine establishing a new development centre – the ter Ellen Molin was appointed the new Head of Future Frigates. The Saab 9LV Combat ManSaab Technology Centre (STC) – in Tampere. Business area Support and Services an Jesagement System would form an integral part • Saab received an order for the Sabertooth sica Öberg was appointed the new Head of of the Future Frigate and upgraded Air WarAutonomous Underwater Vehicle/Remotely Business Area Industrial Products and Serfare Destroyer combat capability as well as Operated Vehicle (AUV/ROV). Deliveries will vices. Dan Jangblad, former Head of Business being selected for Australia’s upcoming Offtake place during 2018. Area Industrial Products and Services, left shore Patrol Vessel programme. • Saab received an order from FMV to provide Group Management to take a position as • Saab acquired the company Applied Comoperational and development support for Senior Advisor to the CEO. posites AB (ACAB), based in Linköping, SweGripen during a period of three years, from • Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB and Stoden, from GKN Aerospace. The acquisition will 2018 to 2020, with a value of MSEK 1,350. ruman municipality signed a letter of intent guarantee key technologies for the developmeaning that Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions ment of future ground combat weapon sys(SDATS) and Storuman municipality will inititems and advanced radomes. ate a feasibility study aimed at establishing a • Saab acquired the Swedish combat boat pro“Remote AFIS Centre” for remote tower serducer N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB and the vices and digital air traffic control services for repair shipyard Muskövarvet AB to strengthen smaller regional airports. Development of the Saab’s product offering in the naval domain. technology and methodology will initially be The acquisition of the companies made on carried out at Hemavan-Tärnaby Airport, with 29 December 2017. the objective of expanding the dialogue to • Saab teamed up with the US company Rayseveral other airports. theon Company on the development of new • In September, Saab presented Gripen weapons systems for infantry forces to meet Aggressor as an aircraft variant based on the near-term U.S. and international requirements. Gripen C-series. Gripen Aggressor is an ulti• Saab increased its presence in the United mate platform for realistic combat training Arab Emirates by establishing development and offers a unique mix of high performance, and production in Abu Dhabi of a variety of mission flexibility and availability, combined defence and security products with an initial with a low life cycle cost. focus on sensor systems. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 53 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risks and risk management All business entails risks. Risks that are managed well can lead to opportunities and value creation, while risks that are not managed properly can lead to damages and losses. Saab monitors and manages its risk exposure in a structured and proactive way. Saab’s operations primarily involve the development, production and priority areas exposes it to various risks. The strategic risks include supply of technologically advanced hardware and software to customrisks relating to the product portfolio, business-critical assets, internaers around the world. Operations largely consist of major projects cartional expansion and collaborations, company acquisitions, and the ried out over long periods of time, usually several years, in close coopability to attract and retain the right talent over the long term. eration with customers, suppliers, various other companies and institutions. In addition, Saab is engaged in innovation programmes and techDevelopment and introduction of new systems and products nology transfers. Investments in new systems and products are made after an analysis Saab’s strategy is affected by both external and internal factors that and assessment of future business opportunities. The risk in developcan give rise to risks. The ability to identify, evaluate and manage risks is ing and introducing new systems and products is that they do not live therefore an important component in implementing Saab’s strategy as up to the market’s demands and therefore do not generate the well as in its governance and control. The aim, by understanding risks expected return or that the products were timed incorrectly relative to and their impact, is to better support decision-making and meet Saab’s demand. Due to long development cycles, changes in the market can long-term goals through balanced risk-taking within an established mean that demand no longer exists or has changed when products are framework. ready to be brought to market. Saab’s Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for risk manageTo reduce the development risk inherent in major systems and prodment, and Group Management is responsible for ensuring that an ucts, multinational partnerships are imperative. For the products it effective risk processes is in place. develops itself, it is critical that Saab identifies a first customer early on. The risks described here on pages 54–57 are the ones Saab The Swedish state, through the Armed Forces and FMV, has tradition­assesses as having he most significant impact on the entire Group. ally accounted for a large percentage of Saab’s product renewal. The share of product development done collaboratively with other nations Risk management is rising as Saab grows its business outside Sweden. Saab expects Within Saab, each business area, market area and Group function is Sweden to account for the largest share of its development expendiresponsible within its respective organisation, continuously at all levels, tures for many years to come in the fighter aircraft, missile and underfor identifying and managing risks in accordance with the Group's risk water areas. Saab's own systems mainly refer at this point to radar sysprocess. All risks are measured as the probability that the risk will be tems, command and control systems, tactical weapons, and electronic and the potential impact on the business. This gives Saab a tool to warfare systems. Future business opportunities are periodically reasmeasure risk exposure and set priorities when needed. sessed to address any impairment losses. In 2017, Saab established an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Other ways to reduce development risk are to develop certain techfunction that works actively with the overarching risk management pronology in partnership with other companies as well as through the use cess. The aim of the ERM work is to provide an overview of the Group's of modularisation. One example of a significant investment is Saab’s risks. In this process, Saab’s risks are classified into five areas: strategic collaboration with Boeing to bid on the US Air Force's new jet trainer as risks, market and political risks, operating risks, financial risks and compart of the so-called T-X program. pliance risks. These risk areas can affect Saab’s results and position in Using modular design, new models can be developed continuously the market if not managed in an effective and proactive way. and cost efficiently, and new customer demands can be met faster and The majority of the operating risks that are identified are managed at at lower cost. the local level. Among these risks, however, Saab annually identifies a number that individually or in combination can have a large impact at International expansion and collaborations the business area level. Of these, around ten may also have a major Acquisitions and collaborations are an integral part of the international impact on the entire Group. This process, which is led by the ERM unit, growth strategy to further strengthen Saab’s presence in selected constitutes part of the strategic work and mainly involves the managekey markets. This is mainly done through research collaborations with ments of the business and market areas, but also Group Management universities, joint ventures, acquisitions and expansion. Managing risks and certain Group functions. These major risks and how they are manin connection with increased internationalisation is a long-term aged are reported on a regular basis to Group Management, the Audit ­process and an important part of Saab’s annual strategic work and Committee and the Board of Directors. business offerings. In addition, Saab’s internal audit unit is responsible for independently reviewing the effectiveness of a sample of internal control Attract and retain talent processes each year. Risks are also managed by procuring insurance. Saab’s future competitiveness depends on its ability to attract and Saab has a Group-wide programme where insurance is obtained on the retain committed employees and leaders with the right skills. Saab market or through the Group’s own insurer, Lansen Försäkrings AB. places great emphasis on career development to recruit, develop and retain qualified talent from a variety of backgrounds. To manage this Strategic risks risk, Saab applies a structured process to identify and develop employSaab’s strategy to grow globally by strengthening its presence in key ees. Saab works long-term to encourage students to pursue a higher markets, developing innovative solutions and acquiring companies in education and positions itself as an employer of choice. 54 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Cybersecurity Project implementation of long-term customer contracts Cyberthreats have become a growing risk in recent years, since Saab’s Saab’s operations involve complex, long-term development projects products contain a large amount of software. Traditionally, military syson the leading edge of technology that in some cases also include partems have handled such threats by virtue of not being linked to civilian ticipation in developing the customer-country’s economy through varinetworks. This is no longer the case, because of which cybersecurity ous forms of industrial cooperation. The risk in long-term customer comes up very high on the agenda in our development projects. To projects is that Saab will not be successful in implementing or delivermanage this effectively, Saab has a special unit within the company to ing cost-efficient solutions in accordance with the customer’s requiredevelop software components that can be used to protect our sysments or budget, as a result of which the commitment is not fulfilled or tems. Saab also works actively to meet new and increased cybersecuthe costs run significantly higher. Major ongoing customer projects in rity requirements it faces. 2017 included Gripen to Sweden and Brazil, an AEW system to the United Arab Emirates and the A26 submarine to Sweden. The risk in Market and political risks long-term customer projects is managed by always performing a thorSaab’s business and customer relationships extend over decades and ough analysis of the conditions and risks associated with delivery prior about 80 per cent of sales consists of defence materiel, which is reguto signing any contract. The analysis is performed through an establated by national laws and ordinances as well as international convenlished quality assurance process – the so-called Win Business process. tions. In some parts of Saab’s business, it is important to maintain good This includes a comprehensive analysis of the risks in the project and political relations. Market and political risks include risks relating to regwhat is required to manage risks that arise. During project implementaulatory changes, export restrictions, customer relations, macroecotion – the so-called Execute Business process – continuous reviews are nomic trends and economic crises, political turmoil and shifts in power, conducted in part to identify and assess risks and the measures taken embargos and other market risks, which could adversely impact Saab’s to mitigate them. Major customer projects that have been identified are business and growth opportunities. also monitored on a regular basis by Group Management and reported The biggest political risk for Saab is that laws, regulations, ordinances to Board of Directors. The Group applies the percentage of completion or multilateral agreements are amended in a way that impacts Saab’s method to recognise revenue from the majority of long-term customer relationship with one or more customers. In Saab’s case, it is closely projects. An estimation of total costs, including assessments of techniaffected by Sweden's defence policy and regulations on the export of cal and commercial risks, is critical to revenue recognition and providefence materiel. sions for project losses as well as inventory revaluations. Revised estimations of the projects’ total costs have retroactive effects on results. Market risks affecting customers Another large identified risk in this area consists of market risks that can Information security risk affect Saab’s customers in a way that they cannot fulfil their current Knowledge, information and intellectual assets are essential to Saab’s contracts. This could mean that Saab does not get paid for products competitiveness, as are well-functioning IT systems, networks and effiand systems it has delivered or that Saab e.g. has to break off a project cient communication. Saab manages information that is vital to its cusafter major investments have already been made. A large share of tomers and in many cases to their national security. Maintaining and Saab’s order backlog contains contracts with an order value over continuously improving its information and IT security is critical thereSEK 1 billion which will be delivered over many years. Consequently, fore if Saab is to achieve its business goals. The information security the impact on Saab could be significant if a major contract is broken or risk for Saab is that information will fall into the wrong hands if handled amended and renegotiated. incorrectly or if someone obtains access to the information by breaking Saab manages market and political risks by monitoring laws, regulainto Saab’s IT system. To prevent risks in information security, Saab tions and ordinances and by maintaining access to information on works with a set of administrative and technological protections that changes that are being made or could be made in the future. In this way, include clearly defined rules, processes, routines and technical soluSaab can adapt its business to the changes that do occur. tions for information, IT and communication security. To ensure that Saab also manages market risks through various types of export Saab’s employees handle information in accordance with current reguguarantees, insurance solutions and other instruments. It is impossible, lations, all new employees receive basic security training. Continuous however, to completely avoid losing business opportunities or incurring and systematic information and IT security is imperative for Saab to damage if market and political risks are realised. stay competitive and profitable and maintain the confidence of a challenging market. Operating risks A number of significant areas have been identified with respect to operNew permit for Saab’s aeronautics operations in Linköping ating risks, which can have an impact on day-to-day operations. OperatAn application for a new environmental permit is being prepared for ing risks include risks relating to order bookings, contract management, Saab’s operations in Tannefors, Linköping, including for the manufacproject implementation, cost controls, suppliers, resources, product ture of aircraft and aeronautics operations. The supervisory authorities responsibility, business disruptions, industrial cooperations, environhave felt for some time that Saab needs a new permit, since many of mental risks and liabilities, health, information management and security. today's terms are out-of-date. The biggest risk for Saab in the permitS A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 55 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T ting process is of more stringent requirements on soundproofing Saab does business around the world and has relationships with cusneighbouring properties. An analysis of the possible consequences is tomers and other stakeholders on every continent. Saab's commitment underway. To reduce the noise level above Linköping, Saab, in collabois to act ethically in everything the company does in accordance with ration with the local municipality, plans to move the runway 600 m from current legislation, the company’s sustainable development work and the city. This would reduce the amount of noise that spreads across the Code of Conduct, and industry codes of conduct. Saab’s Code of Condowntown area. duct is based on the OECD’s guidelines and the UN Global Compact. Saab has zero tolerance for bribery and clearly defined internal proFinancial risks cesses to prevent corruption. Through its extensive international operations, Saab is exposed to The risk that exists when the company does business is of ­various financial risks. The financial risks consist of foreign currency non-compliance within the organisation, at the supplier level or by the risk, interest rate risk, liquidity and refinancing risk, credit and countercompany's partners. Saab’s responsibility for sustainable business party risk, commodity risk, tax and transfer price risk, and the pension extends beyond Saab to its partners and suppliers. To understand and obligation. be successful in different markets with different business cultures, it may be necessary to use marketing consultants and other advisors Foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and refinancing risks with local ties, which is customary in the industry. But consultants can Overarching responsibility for management of the financial risks, includbe a risk factor with respect to corruption. Saab therefore tests, evaluing refinancing risk, lies with Group Treasury. Management of financial ates and endorses every cooperation centrally. A clearly defined risks is governed by the Group Treasury Policy established by the Board decision-­making process is followed, and every decision is preceded of Directors. For more information, see note 38. Detailed directives and by a thorough analysis. Saab also provides training for the marketing processes are in place for operational management in each area. consultants it retains. Completing this training and signing a commitment to follow Saab’s guidelines is a prerequisite to sign a new contract. Pension obligations Saab also has an extensive pension obligation managed by the Saab Internal regulations and education Pension Fund. The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 and All of Saab’s employees receive Code of Conduct training. Saab capitalised with the corresponding PRI liability. Actuarial ­calculations of ­performs an annual review of the Code of Conduct, including internal the Group’s obligations are performed each year and compared to the rules on gifts, entertainment and sponsorships. In addition, all employfund’s assets. Deficits may require Saab to contribute additional funds. ees receive web-based anti-corruption training, which is designed to For more information, see note 34. reflect the risks that arise in Saab’s operations and is available in English and Swedish. Compliance risks Employees in the marketing and sales organisation, commercial, Saab’s business is built on the confidence of its customers, suppliers, procurement and project management receive training on the corrupemployees and not least the political system. Consequently, ethical valtion risk assessment that has to be performed by project managers ues, transparent business relationships and compliance are of vital in connection with each deal. The training also covers current laws importance. Saab is a long-term, reliable business partner and proand the processes Saab uses to hire consultants and other advisors. motes an open and transparent market. The confidence of the public Special business ethics training was provided to Saab’s Board of and the political system is critical to Saab’s long-term survival, but it is Directors as well. just as important to be a company that every employee can be proud of. A programme has been in place for a couple of years whereby the 56 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 company’s internal audit unit conducts an annual review of a number analyses even in connection with other business collaborations. of randomly selected business relationships to verify that the process The change is a step in Saab's continuous improvement process. is in compliance and ensure that the counterparty is acting in line with Saab has had a whistleblower system for a number of years. The Saab’s values. system complements standard line reporting and provides the option In 2018, Saab will expand and further strengthen measures to of reporting online or by telephone. It is administered by an outside ­prevent corruption by setting clearer requirements on corruption risk party and guarantees anonymity. Potential Impact on results Strategic risks Development and introduction of new systems and products International expansion and collaborations Attract and retain talent Cybersecurity Market risks and political risks Market risks affecting customers Operating risks Project implementation of long-term customer contracts Information security risk Financial risks Compliance risks Probability All risks are measured as the probability that the risk will be realised and the potential impact on results. Among these risks, Saab each year defines a number that individually or in combination can have a large impact on the Group. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 57 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Corporate governance report Introduction Largest shareholders, 31 December 2017 Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company and the compaSource: Modular Finance Share of capital, % Share of votes, % ny’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Investor AB, Sweden 30.0 40.3 Saab’s corporate governance is based on the Swedish Companies Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm Rules for Sweden 8.8 7.7 Issuers, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and other releSwedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 4.5 4.0 vant Swedish and foreign laws, regulations and guidelines. AFA Försäkring, Sweden 2.2 2.0 Saab has a Code of Conduct containing ethical guidelines in a Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia 1.8 1.6 number of areas on how the company and its employees are expected to Handelsbanken Funds, Sweden 1.8 1.6 act in contacts with customers, business partners and in society as well as Norges Bank, Norway 1.7 1.5 their interaction with one another as colleagues. Saab’s Code of Conduct Unionen, Sweden 1.7 1.5 is a part of the governance of Saab. For further information, see page 40. Alliance Bernstein, USA 1.4 1.2 Fidelity, USA 1.4 1.2 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Since Saab's shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm and it must folNomination Committee low good practices in the securities market, Saab is also obligated to According to the Nomination Committee process adopted by the Annual comply with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). General Meeting 2011, which applies until further notice, Saab shall have The Code is available at www.bolagsstyrning.se. a Nomination Committee consisting of one representative of each of the Saab applies the Code and strives to maintain a high standard in its four shareholders or groups of shareholders with the greatest number of corporate governance. This Corporate Governance Report is prepared votes, along with the Chairman of the Board. The names of the four in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and shareholder representatives and the shareholders they represent shall describes how Saab applied the Code during the financial year 2017. be announced at least six months prior to the Annual General Meeting Saab’s website, www.saabgroup.com, has a special section for corpobased on known voting rights as per the last business day of August in rate governance issues, which is updated in accordance with the Code. the year before the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee The Corporate Governance Report includes the Board of Directors process includes procedures, where necessary, to replace a member report on internal control of the financial reporting which can be found who leaves the committee before its work has been completed. at the end of this Corporate Governance Report. According to the process, the Nomination Committee shall prepare This Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the a proposal on the following issues to be presented to the Annual Gen­company’s auditor. eral Meeting for resolution: Saab did not deviate from the provisions of the Code in 2017. a) Chairman of the Shareholders’ Meeting b) Board of Directors Shareholders’ meeting and ownership structure c) Chairman of the Board Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Shareholders’ Meeting is d) Remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated between the highest decision-making body in a company. At a Shareholders’ the Chairman and other members of the Board, and remuneration Meeting, the shareholders are given the opportunity to exercise their for committee work voting rights. The Annual General Meeting shall be held within six e) Election of auditors, (if applicable), and months of the end of each financial year. Shareholders at the Annual f) Fees paid to Saab’s auditors. General Meeting vote, for example, on resolutions relating to the annual report, dividend, Board election, Board fees, auditors’ fees, adoption of Ahead of the Annual General Meeting on 5 April 2017, the Nomination remuneration guidelines for senior executives and, when applicable, Committee issued a proposal for resolution on the Chairman of the election of the external auditor and other matters stipulated in the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors and the remuneration to Companies Act. The preparations and execution of the Annual General the Board and auditor. The Nomination Committee announced that it Meeting 2017 were carried out in accordance with the Code, and the had applied rule 4.1 of the Code as a diversity policy with respect to Annual General Meeting 2018 will also comply with the provisions of the Board. The goal of the policy is that Saab will have a Board with an the Code. The Annual General Meeting of Saab was held on 5 April appropriate composition and with satisfying diversity and breadth in 2017 in ­Stockholm and attended by 484 shareholders, representing terms of gender, competence, age, experience and background. about 62 per cent of the total voting rights in the company. This year the Ahead of the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2018, it was Annual General Meeting will be held on 10 April 2018 in Linköping. announced in a press release on 27 September 2017 that, in addition For more information, see page 136. to Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg, the following shareholder On 31 December 2017, Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK representatives had been appointed to the Nomination Committee 1,746,405,504 and consisted of 1,907,123 Series A shares and (shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra Hedengran (Investor AB), 107,243,221 Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation), Jan while Series B shares have one vote each. One Series A share may, on Andersson (Swedbank Robur Funds) and Anders Algotsson (AFA demand of the owner, be converted into one Series B share. The Saab Försäkring). Petra Hedengran is Chairman of the Nomination Commitshares are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The quota value per tee. share is SEK 16. The Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm These persons in the aggregate represent approximately 54 per on the Large Cap list. The Series A shares are not listed. All Series A cent of the votes in Saab based on the ownership structure as of shares are owned by Investor AB. 31 August 2017. The Board of Directors has an authorisation from the Shareholders’ The proposals of the Nomination Committee have been presented Meeting to repurchase shares; see page 69 for more information. As of in connection with the notice of the Annual General Meeting 2018. 31 December 2017, Saab held 2,326,562 of its own Series B shares, corresponding to 2.1 per cent of the share capital. For more information on the ownership structure, see page 20. 58 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Governance and reporting 2017 Shareholders' Meeting Nomination Committee Auditors Representatives of each of the four shareEv PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Re-elected alu holders or groups of shareholders with the at 2015 for the period 2015 until the Annual io greatest number of votes, along with the n General Meeting 2019. Chairman of the Board. Auditor in charge Bo Hjalmarsson. Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee President and CEO Internal Boards Group Management Internal Audit Finance Board Strategy Board Ethics and Compliance Board Communication Board Business Areas Group Functions Corporate Responsibility Council Security Board Aeronautics Finance Dynamics HR The internal boards handle and resolve Surveillance Communication issues within their respective areas on a Legal affairs Support and Services Group level and prepare certain issues to Industrial Products Strategy be resolved by the Group Management. and Services Reports Kockums Appoints All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standardised reporting routine. Members of the Nomination Committee for the The current composition of the Board is the result of the Nomination Annual General Meeting 2018 Committee's work ahead of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 and the application of the diversity policy. The members of the Board of Directors Share of votes, % Share of capital, % Member Representing 31 August 2017 31 August 2017 of Saab represents a diversity and breadth in terms of competence, age, Petra Hedengran Investor AB 40.3 30.0 experience and background. In the aggregate, the Board combines the Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut and Alice competence and experience that are important to Saab’s operations and Wallenberg that the Nomination Committee considers are needed to meet Saab’s Foundation 7.7 8.8 future challenges and needs. Of the Board members elected by the Jan Andersson Swedbank Robur shareholders’ meeting, excluding the CEO, 44.4 per cent are women. Funds 4.1 4.7 At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual General Meeting, Anders Algotsson AFA Försäkring 2.1 2.4 Sten Jakobsson was elected Deputy Chairman of the Board. Among the Marcus Wallenberg Chairman of the Board of Saab AB Board members, only CEO Håkan Buskhe is employed by the company. Information on remuneration to the members of the Board as resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2017 is set forth in note 10. Board of Directors Composition of the Board Members of the Board elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting According to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors Regulars shall, in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least six Marcus Wallenberg Sara Mazur Erika Söderberg Johnson and not more than twelve members. Board members are elected annuHåkan Buskhe Daniel Nodhäll Joakim Westh ally by the Shareholders' Meeting. According to the resolution of the Sten Jakobsson Bert Nordberg Danica Kragic Jensfelt Cecilia Stegö Chilò Annual General Meeting on 5 April 2017, Saab’s Board of Directors shall consist of ten members elected by the Shareholders' Meeting with no Employee representatives deputies. In addition, the employee organisations appoint three Board members with an equal number of deputies. Regulars Deputies Stefan Andersson Conny Holm At the Annual General Meeting on 5 April 2017, Håkan Buskhe, Sten Göran Gustavsson Magnus Gustafsson Jakobsson, Sara Mazur, Bert Nordberg, Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Marcus Nils Lindskog Tina Mikkelsen Wallenberg and Joakim Westh were re-elected. Danica Kragic Jensfelt, Daniel Nodhäll and Erika Söderberg Johnson were elected as new The Board members’ other significant professional commitments, work Board members. Johan Forssell, Per-Arne Sandström and Lena experience, shareholdings etc. are set forth in the presentation of the ­Treschow Torell had declined re-election. Marcus Wallenberg was Board of Directors on pages 64–65. elected Chairman of the Board of Directors. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 59 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Independence requirement it addressed in September. The Board meeting every December conThe table below sets forth the members of the Board elected by the siders the company’s budget for the coming year. The Board then also Shareholders’ Meeting who, according to the provisions of the Code, addressed the performance target in the company’s two performance are considered independent in relation to the company and its manashare plans. During 2017, the Board especially focused on issues relatgement, as well as in relation to the company’s major shareholders. ing to major projects such as Gripen NG to ­Brazil, Gripen E to Sweden, A26 to Sweden and current AEW&C orders. It also worked during the Composition and independence of the Board in 2017 year on other significant export and marketing issues. In 2017, the Independent of company arranged two special information sessions for Board memthe company/Independent of bers, where they received detailed information on e.g. Gripen, digitisaMember Elected management major shareholders tion and focus countries. Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No 1) Committee work represents an important part of the Board’s work. Håkan Buskhe 2011 No2) Yes After each meeting of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, the Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes respective Chairman submits a report to the Board on the issues that Danica Kragic Jensfelt 2017 Yes Yes were dealt with at the meeting. The Board then adopts resolutions on Sara Mazur 2013 Yes Yes any matters prepared by the committees. Daniel Nodhäll 2017 Yes No 3) Bert Nordberg 2016 Yes Yes Board of Directors’ committee work Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes Audit Committee Erika Söderberg In accordance with the principles set out in the Swedish Companies Johnson 2017 Yes Yes Act and the Code, the Board of Directors has appointed an Audit ComJoakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes mittee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit Committee 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board. is mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e. preparing matters for resolution by 2) President and CEO of Saab. the Board. The Audit Committee has certain limited decision-making 3) Employed by Investor AB. power. For example, it has established guidelines for services other than auditing that the company may procure from its auditors. The Accordingly, the company fulfils the requirement of the Code that a Audit Committee’s members following the Annual General Meeting majority of the Board Members appointed by the Shareholders’ Meet2017 are Joakim Westh (Chairman of the Committee), Daniel Nodhäll ing are independent of the company and its management, and that at and Erika Söderberg Johnson, whereof both Joakim Westh and Erika least two of them are independent of the major shareholders. Söderberg Johnson are independent of the ­company and its management as well as of the major shareholders. ­Moreover, all members of the Work of the Board committee have accounting or auditing competence. The General According to the Board’s rules of procedure, eight ordinary meetings Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was Secretary to the Audit Committee during shall normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. 2017. The Board may also meet when circumstances demand. During 2017, The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s rules the Board held one statutory meeting, seven ordinary meetings and of procedure. The Audit Committee shall, among other things, monitor one extra meeting, a total of nine meetings. All of the Board meetings in the company’s financial reporting and submit proposals to ensure the 2017 were held in Stockholm, with the exception of the meeting in integrity of the financial reporting, monitor the efficiency of the compaDecember that was held in Gothenburg in connection with the visit to ny’s internal control, internal audit and risk management in respect of Surveillance's operations. the financial reporting, keep itself informed of the audit of the annual The Board annually adopts rules of procedure, an instruction on the report and consolidated accounts, inform the Board of the results of allocation of work between the Board and the CEO, and an instruction the audit, review and monitor the auditors’ independence, assist the on financial reporting to the Board. Nomination Committee in preparing the proposal for the Shareholder The rules of procedure contain provisions on the number of Board Meeting's election of the auditors and in certain cases procure auditing meetings, a list of matters to be considered at the meetings, reporting services, in addition to establishing guidelines for services other than from the auditor, and special decisions to be taken at the statutory meetauditing that may be provided by the company’s auditor. Moreover, the ing. The rules of procedure and special instruction for the CEO set forth Audit Committee shall annually monitor and evaluate the effectiveness the delegation of responsibilities between the Board and its two commitand appropriateness of the company’s business ethics programme, tees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, including including the Code of Conduct, and keep itself informed of material the Chairman’s role, as well as between the Board and the CEO. The deviations or non-compliance with the company’s regulations, includinstruction for the CEO sets forth the CEO's duties and authority, including whistleblower reports, through regular reporting from the Ethics and ing matters which require a Board decision. Policies on investments, Compliance Board. The company’s external auditor participates in the financing and reporting are also connected to the instruction. meetings of the Audit Committee. During 2017, the Audit Committee During the year, the Board was assisted by the Secretary of the focused especially on current issues relating to the company’s financial Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, who is not a memposition, the financial reporting, execution of major projects, budget, ber of the Board. risk management, internal control and issues relating to the company’s The Board of Directors’ meetings follow an agenda. Prior to each regulations. meeting, the Board Members receive documentation and supporting The Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are dismaterial for the issues on the agenda. At each Board meeting the CEO tributed to the other members of the Board. In 2017, the Committee presents a Market and Operations Report. A financial rapport is also held five meetings. presented at each Board meeting and addressed in detail prior to the publication of the interim reports and year-end report. The Board reguRemuneration Committee larly considers investments, research and development matters, In accordance with principles set out in the Code, the Board of Direcorganisational issues, management of significant risks, mergers and tors has appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three acquisitions, and company divestments. The Board’s annual work members. The Remuneration Committee’s members following the includes deciding on the company’s business plan and strategy, which 60 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Annual General Meeting 2017 are Sten Jakobsson, Marcus WallenEvaluation berg and Bert Nordberg. Sten Jakobsson is the Chairman of the ComThe Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the mittee.All are independent of the company and its management. The Board’s work and possible improvements to the forms and effectiveGeneral Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was Secretary to the committee durness of its work. The evaluation is made by having the Board members ing 2017. respond to a questionnaire and give their opinions on the Board’s perThe Remuneration Committee’s tasks are to prepare the Board’s formance. The results are compared with previous years and disresolutions on remuneration principles, remuneration and other terms cussed at the Board meeting in December. The questionnaire consists of employment for the Group Management, monitor and evaluate variof six parts covering the breadth of the Board’s competence, how the able remuneration programmes for the Group Management, both Board conducts its work, the Chairman, the Board’s composition, the ongoing and those ended during the year, and monitor and evaluate cooperative atmosphere and possible improvements. The Chairman the application of the remuneration guidelines for senior executives of the Board does not participate in the Board's discussion on the adopted by the Annual General Meeting as well as the current remuresults of the Chairman’s evaluation. neration structures and levels in the company. The Remuneration The Nomination Committee is informed of the results of the evaluaCommittee also proposes remuneration guidelines for senior execution in connection with its proposal on the composition of the Board. tives, which, following resolution by the Board of Directors, are submitThe Board continuously evaluates the CEO's work by monitoring ted to the Annual General Meeting. Matters concerning the employthe company’s performance relative to established goals. It also evalument terms, remuneration and other benefits for the CEO are prepared ates the CEO's work through its members' responses to a questionby the Remuneration Committee for resolution by the Board. The naire on the CEO in the areas of performance, organisation, people Remuneration Committee is responsible for interpretation and appliand leadership. The CEO does not participate in this evaluation. cation of the remuneration guidelines for senior executives. The Remuneration Committee has no decision-making powers of its own. During Chief Executive Officer 2017, the Remuneration Committee focused especially on issues The President and CEO of Saab, Håkan Buskhe, is also a member of relating to the company’s long-term incentive programmes, including the Board. His significant professional commitments outside the comthe proposed performance targets in the company’s two performance pany, earlier positions and shareholding in the company are set forth in related share plans as well as issues relating to the new complementthe presentation of the Board of Directors; see page 65. Håkan Buskhe ing Special Projects Incentive. does not own shares nor is he a partner in any company with which The Remuneration Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, Saab has material business ties. which are distributed to the other members of the Board. In 2017, the Committee held three meetings. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are explained on page 68. Attendance and board remuneration in 2017 Audit Board Committee Board Committee Remuneration Total Remuneration meetings meetings remuneration remuneration Committee remuneration Name Audit Committee Committee attended 1) attended 2) KSEK 3) KSEK remuneration KSEK Marcus Wallenberg x 9 3 1 550 80 1 630 Håkan Buskhe 9 Sten Jakobsson x 9 3 640 135 775 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 9 570 570 Johan Forssell 4) x 2 1 Danica Kragic Jensfelt 5) 5 570 570 Sara Mazur 9 570 570 Daniel Nodhäll 6) x 6 4 570 150 720 Bert Nordberg 7) x 8 2 570 80 650 Per-Arne Sandström 8) x 2 1 Erika Söderberg Johnson 9) x 6 4 570 150 720 Lena Treschow Torell10) x 2 1 Joakim Westh x 9 5 570 225 795 1) Of a total of 9 meetings in 2017. 2) Of a total of 5 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2017 and 3 meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2017. 3) Refers to the fee resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2017 for the period until the Annual General Meeting 2018. The CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive a fee. 4) Left the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2017, when he declined re-election. Received fee for the period January-March 2017 of SEK 173,750 and participated in 2 Board meetings and 1 committee meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017. 5) Elected at the Annual General Meeting in April 2017, thereafter a total of 5 Board meetings of a total of 6 Board meetings. 6) Elected at the Annual General Meeting in April 2017, thereafter a total of 6 Board meetings and 4 committee meetings. 7) New member in the Remuneration Committee after the Annual General Meeting 2017, thereafter participated in all meetings. 8) Left the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2017, when he declined re-election. Received fee for the period January-March 2017 of SEK 190,000 and participated in 2 Board meetings and 1 committee meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017. 9) Elected at the Annual General Meeting in April 2017, thereafter a total of 6 Board meetings and 4 committee meetings. 10) Left the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2017, when she declined re-election. Received fee for the period January-March 2017 of SEK 173,750 and participated in 2 Board meetings and 1 committee meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 61 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Auditor Financial reporting On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws and The Board of Directors documents how it assures the quality of the regulations, the external auditor examines the financial statements, financial reports and communicates with the company’s auditor. The consolidated accounts, annual report, and administration and manBoard assures the quality of the financial accounting through the Audit agement of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO, and Committee. The entire Board reviews the interim reports before they carries out the statutory audit of the corporate governance report and are published. The Audit Committee follows up the internal control of sustainability report. The Q1, Q2 and Q3 interim reports have been the financial reporting on a regular basis. After each meeting of the reviewed by the auditor as well. The auditor presents an auditors’ Audit Committee, a report is submitted to the Board. For more informareport to the Annual General Meeting. On behalf of the Board, the comtion on the Audit Committee, see above. pany's auditor has also reviewed whether the performance targets for The Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting questhe Special Projects Incentive were met in 2017. tions and the financial reports presented by the company, but also The Shareholders’ Meeting elects the auditors. Pricewaterhousematters of strategic importance, e.g. asset acquisitions and sales and Coopers AB was re-elected as the auditor by the Annual General Meehow the company will obtain financing. It also covers issues such as ting 2015, for the period 2015–2019. internal control, regulatory compliance, any significant uncertainty in reported values, post-statement events, changes in assessments and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) evaluations, and other circumstances that may affect the quality of the • Elected by the Annual General Meeting 2015 for the period 2015 financial statements. The auditor participated in all meetings of the through the Annual General Meeting 2019. Audit Committee in 2017. • Bo Hjalmarsson, Authorised Public Accountant, auditor in charge. Other The Board of Directors has met with the auditor to discuss their audit assignments: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson and SAS AB. review of the company for the financial year 2017. The Board has also on the same occasion met with the auditor while not in the presence of PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network in the CEO or other members of the Group Management. around 150 countries. PwC has competence and experience in areas important to Saab: auditing of large and listed companies, accounting Internal control of financial reporting issues, industry experience and practice with international business. Saab’s framework for internal control of financial reporting is designed The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the indein accordance with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations' pendence of the auditor is maintained, including by staying updated on (COSO) framework to assist the business in achieving its financial ongoing consulting assignments. The Audit Committee has also goals by monitoring risk exposure in a structured way. Moreover, interestablished guidelines on which services other than auditing the comnal control aims to provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of pany may procure from its auditors. Where applicable, the Committee the internal and external financial reporting and to ensure that it is prewill approve such services in accordance with these guidelines. pared in accordance with laws, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. Audit fees 2016–2017 Saab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as Control environment resolved by the Annual General Meeting. Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating PwC has performed services on behalf of the company in 2017 in responsibilities and powers are delegated to the business areas and addition to its audit assignments by consulting on accounting and tax support units, which are also supported and monitored by Group funissues. ctions with specific competencies. These Group functions issue guidelines that clarify responsibilities and powers and constitute part of Auditors’ fees for the Group 2016–2017 the internal control in specific areas such as finance, accounting, investments and tenders. MSEK 2017 2016 Audit assignments: Risk assessment PwC 20 18 Saab’s operations are characterised in large part by the development, Others 3 3 production and supply of technologically advanced hardware and Other assignments: software for customers around the world. Slightly more than half of PwC 3 5 sales are outside Sweden. As a rule, projects entail considerable sums of money, stretch over long periods of time and involve technological For further information see note 11. development or refinement of products. For Saab, the material risk areas in financial reporting are project The Board’s report on internal control of the financial reporting accounting, business combinations and goodwill, development costs, The Board of Directors is responsible for internal control of financial hedging and other financial transactions, taxes, and accounting for reporting pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish pensions. In addition to the risk of inaccurate financial reporting, the Code of Corporate Governance. This report on internal control of processes are also assessed on the basis of the risk of exposure to financial reporting has been prepared pursuant to the provisions of the any improprieties. Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Group Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk assessment of the financial reporting. This process involves self-assessments by Group functions and business areas. The current risk 62 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 assessment is reviewed by Saab’s Internal Audit, which adjusts its measured in terms of profitability and financial position and consolidaannual audit plan accordingly. Information on developments in essented to measure the Group’s overall profitability and financial position. tial risk areas as well as a report on planned and executed activities in Accounting managers and controllers are in regular contact with these areas are provided to Saab’s Audit Committee on a regular basis. Group Finance concerning any questions relating to finance and The Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee and Internal accounting. To assist in evaluating internal control in each business Audit, is informed of the status of the self-assessment. Saab’s risk area, Saab uses the previously mentioned self-assessments to idenassessment and self-assessment are also communicated to Saab’s tify and test key control functions in each business process. external auditors on a regular basis. The Internal Audit department, part of the internal control structure, is Each business area designs its risk management routines and a dedicated resource for independent review of the effectiveness of structure for internal control based on overall routines and Group guithe internal control processes. At the same time, Internal Audit supdelines. The most significant risks identified in financial reporting are ports the locally applied internal control process and the central conmanaged through control structures within the business areas and troller staff. Together they serve as a resource for monitoring financial Group staffs and are based on Saab’s minimum requirements for good reporting routines. internal control in the financial reporting processes. Internal Audit’s tasks are initiated by the Audit Committee or on its own initiative and then reported to the Committee. From time to time, Information, communication and control activities Group Management and its members can also assign work to Internal Internal control within Saab is based on clearly defined areas of Audit. The Audit Committee reports on the status of the financial conresponsibility and authority, Group guidelines, processes and controls. trols and the self-assessment to the Board of Directors. Uniform handling of financial reporting is assured by adopting and issuing Group guidelines approved by the CEO or by function managActivities in 2017 ers appointed by the CEO. All Group directives are updated on an Controls were performed in 2017 according to a predefined schedule ongoing basis, are clearly communicated and are available through and two self-assessments were conducted. The results of completed Saab’s internal enterprise management system, which is available on controls and self-assessments are an integral part of Saab’s financial the internal website. closing process and are reported to Group Management and the Audit The control activities are both manual and automated and include Committee. During the year, the Group’s Internal Audit unit and our authorisation routines, account reconciliations, process compliance, auditors reviewed the Group’s work with internal control. performance analyses and qualifications A web-based tool was introduced in 2017 where all controls are defined and reports from completed controls are stored. The tool has Monitoring and evaluation made the internal control process more efficient and made it easier to All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a stananalyse completed controls. Saab’s framework for internal control of dardised routine. Quarterly reports are the basis of Saab’s external financial reporting was expanded during the year to include activities. financial reporting. In the operating reporting, each business area is S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 63 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Board of Directors Standing from left: Studies in political science and economics Bert Nordberg Former employment and positions: Shares in Saab: 1,500 Member of the Board since 2016 Chairman of Electrolux AB and LKAB; Board Erika Söderberg Johnson Other board commitments: Member of Saab's Remuneration member of Stora Enso Oyj and EQT HolMember of the Board since 2017 Chairman of Gotlands Bryggeri AB; Board ­Committee dings AB; President and CEO of Investor AB; Member of Saab's Audit Committee member of Spendrups Bryggeri AB, InvestChairman of Vestas Wind Systems A/S Director, Stora Feldmühle AG, Düsseldorf; Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Biotage AB ment AB Spiltan, the Yump Foundation and Born 1956 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Stockholm Born 1970 Centre for Business History Engineer and London; Citicorp (Hong Kong), Citibank M.Sc. in Economics and Business, Shares in Saab: 8,500 N.A. (New York) Stockholm School of Economics Former employment and positions: Vice Chairman of Fortum Värme AB; Other board commitments: Shares in Saab: 100 Board member of AB Electrolux, Svenska Göran Gustavsson Board member of the Expo Foundation, Member of the Board since 2017 and Other board commitments AMF Fonder, Länsförsäkringar Liv, Linköping Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA) and Essity Board member of Qliro Group AB Deputy Board member 1995-2000 and Universitets Holding AB and Marginalen Aktiebolag (publ) 2008-2016 Former employment and positions: Kredit och Finans; CEO of the Free EnterFormer employment and positions: President of the local trade union IF Metall Board member of Sectra AB and MedCap AB prise Foundation of Sweden and Head of Board member of Skistar AB and Axis AB at Saab AB, Linköping CFO at Karo Bio AB, Affibody AB and Global the think tank Timbro; Cabinet member and Chairman of Imagination Technologies Born 1953 Genomics AB Head of the Ministry of Culture; Editorial Group Plc. and Sony Mobile CommuniShares in Saab: 2,213 Investment Banking Advisor at Enskilda, SEB writer and foreign politics commentator cations AB; Chairman and CEO of Sony at Svenska Dagbladet; Commentator at Ericsson Communications AB Danica Kragic Jensfelt Nils Lindskog Sveriges Radio; Swedish Employers’ ConfeVarious senior positions within the Member of the Board since 2017 Member of the Board since 2016 and deration; Swedish Conservative Party Ericsson group Professor and Vice-Dean, the School of Deputy Board member 2007-2016 Various positions within Data General CorComputer Science and Communication, Member of the Local Swedish AssociaMagnus Gustafsson poration and Digital Equipment Corporation Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) tion of Graduate Engineers at Saab AB, Deputy Board member since 2016 Director, the Centre for Autonomous Gothenburg President of the Local Swedish AssociaMarcus Wallenberg Systems, KTH Born 1955 tion of Graduate Engineers at Saab AB in Chairman of the Board since 2006 Born 1971 M.S.E.E. from Chalmers University of ­Linköping/Tannefors Deputy Chairman of the Board 1993-2006 Docent, Computer Science, KTH Technology Born 1965 and Member of the Board since 1992 Ph.D., Computer Science, KTH Shares in Saab: 957 M.Sc. in Applied Physics and Electrical EngiMember of Saab’s Remuneration M.Sc., Mechanical Engineering, Technical neering, Linköping Institute of Technology ­Committee University of Rijeka, Croatia Stefan Andersson Shares in Saab: 545 Born 1956 Honorary Doctorate, Lappeenranta, Member of the Board since 2008 B.Sc. of Foreign Service University of Technology President of the Local Salaried EmployConny Holm Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Naval IEEE Fellow ees’ union Unionen at Saab Dynamics AB, Deputy Board member since 2017 Academy Shares in Saab: 500 Linköping Board member 2008–2016 and Deputy Shares in Saab: 100,000 Born 1974 Board member 1995-2007 Other board commitments: B.Sc. President of the local trade union IF Metall Other board commitments: Board member of FAM AB and the Institute Shares in Saab: 3,104 at Avionics Systems, Jönköping Chairman of SEB and FAM AB; Board for Future Studies Born 1947 member of AstraZeneca PLC, Investor AB, Member of Scientific Advisory Board, Cecilia Stegö Chiló Upper secondary engineering education Temasek Holding Ltd and the Knut and Alice Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems Member of the Board since 2010 Shares in Saab: 852 Wallenberg Foundation Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Adviser to management of corporations Engineering Sciences (IVA), Division and organisations of Electrical Engineering Born 1959 Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (KVA) 64 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Member of Administrative committee, IEEE Sara Mazur Former employment and positions Other board commitments: Robotics and Automation Society Member of the Board since 2013 Board member of Kunskapsskolan Chairman of Power Wind Partners AB, Former employment and positions Vice President and Head of Ericsson Education Sweden AB, Board member of Xylem Inc. and Arla Member of the Young Academy of Sweden Research, Ericsson AB Investment Manager, Head of Capital Plast AB Chairman of STINT, Natural Sciences and Born 1966 Goods at Investor AB Former employment and positions: Technology Associate Professor Electrical Engineering, Chairman of LKAB; Board member of Stena Researcher at Columbia University, Brown Royal Institute of Technology (KTH); Ph.D., Joakim Westh Metall AB and FLSmidth A/S; President and University, Johns Hopkins University and Electrical Engineering, KTH; M.Sc., Electrical Member of the Board since 2010 CEO of ABB Sweden; Executive Vice PreINRIA Rennes Engineering, KTH; Honorary Doctorate, Chairman of Saab’s Audit Committee sident of Asea Brown Boveri AB, Sweden; Chairman of IEEE RAS Technical Committee Luleå University of Technology Born 1961 Business Area Manager, Business Area on Computer and Robot Vision, Shares in Saab: 2,000 M.Sc. in Aeronautics, Royal Institute of Cables; President of ABB Cables AB; PresiBoard member of Research Policy CommitTechnology (KTH); M.Sc. in Aerospace dent of Asea Cylinda; Production Manager Other board commitments: tee at the KVA Engineering, Massachusetts Institute for Asea Low Voltage Division; Asea central Vice Chairman of Wallenberg Autonomous of Technology (MIT) staff – Production trainee System and Software Program (WASP); Håkan Buskhe Shares in Saab: 8,000 Member of the Board of Chalmers Tekniska Member of the Board since 2011 Högskola AB, Combient AB, Nobel Media AB Other board commitments: Tina Mikkelsen President and CEO of Saab AB and SICS North Swedish ICT AB and the Chairman of Amexci AB Deputy Board member since 2016 Born 1963 Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Board member of CGI Group Inc., Absolent President of the Local Salaried Employees’ M.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering Sciences (IVA), Division XI Education and Group AB and Swedish Match AB union, Unionen, at Saab AB, Stockholm Employed 2010 Research Born 1973 Shares in Saab: 46,505 Former employment and positions: Electrical Engineering, Stockholms Tekniska Former employment and positions: Other board commitments: Chairman of EMA Technology AB and Institut (STI) Vice President of System Management, Board member of Nefab AB Absolent AB; Board member of Arcam Shares in Saab: 1,709 ­Business Unit Networks, Ericsson AB; Vice Chairman of ASD – AeroSpace and AB, Intrum Justitia AB, Rörvik Timber AB, Director of Wireless Access Networks Defence Industries Association of Europe Telelogic AB and VKR Holding A/S; Deputy Research, Ericsson Research, Ericsson AB; Board member of Sony Ericsson Mobile Auditors Former employment and positions: Member of the Board and Strategic CounPricewaterhouseCoopers AB Communications AB; Senior Vice President Board member of Vattenfall AB and sel of the School of Electrical Engineering of Group Function Strategy & Operational Teknikföretagen; Chairman of Green Cargo; KTH, the Board of Integrated Transport Bo Hjalmarsson Excellence, LM Ericsson AB and member of President and CEO of E.ON Nordic AB and Research Lab KTH and Wireless@KTH Authorised Public Accountant, auditor the Group Management Team, LM Ericsson E.ON Sweden AB; Executive Vice President AB; Group Vice President and member of in charge of E.ON Sweden AB; Senior Vice President Daniel Nodhäll the Executive Management Group, Assa of E.ON Sweden AB; CEO of Land OperaMember of the Board since 2017 Abloy AB; Partner; McKinsey & Co. Inc. Information on shareholdings includes tions, Schenker AG, CEO Schenker North, Member of Saab’s Audit Committee Head of Listed Core Investments, holdings of closely affiliated natural persons CEO Schenker-BTL AB, CEO Storel, CEO Sten Jakobsson and legal entities, where applicable. Carlsberg and Coca-Cola Distribution AB; Investor AB Member of the Board since 2008 and Production Director, Carlsberg Sweden Born 1978 Deputy Chairman since 2010 M.Sc. in Economics and Business, Chairman of Saab’s Remuneration Stockholm School of Economics ­Committee Shares in Saab: 2,000 Born 1949 Other board commitments: M.Sc. in Engineering Board member of Husqvarna AB Shares in Saab: 5,500 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 65 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Group management Ann-Kristin Adolfsson Gunnar Wieslander Ellen Molin Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head Officer, Head of Group Strategy of Business Area Kockums of Business Area Support and Services Born 1962 Born 1962 Born 1973 MBA Naval officer MBA Employed 1986 Employed 2015 Employed 2006 Shares in Saab: 2,297 Shares in Saab: 745 Shares in Saab: 501 Görgen Johansson Jessica Öberg Magnus Örnberg Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head of Executive Vice President and of Business Area Dynamics Industrial Products and Services Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Born 1964 Born 1972 Born 1965 MBA Employed 1996 MBA Employed 2004 Shares in Saab: 2,087 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 7,932 Shares in Saab: 12,478 66 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Lena Eliasson Sebastian Carlsson Anders Carp Annika Bäremo Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head of Group of Group Human Resources Head of Group Communication of Business Area Surveillance Legal Affairs, General Counsel, Secretary Born 1967 Born 1984 Born 1971 of the Board of Directors M.Sc. in Engineering Employed 2012 Employed 2001 Born 1964 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 157 Shares in Saab: 3,277 LLB Shares in Saab: 7,725 Employed 2012 Micael Johansson Jonas Hjelm Shares in Saab: 7,193 Håkan Buskhe Deputy CEO, Senior Executive Senior Vice President and Head President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vice President of Business Area Aeronautics Member of the Board of Saab AB since Born 1960 Born 1971 April 2011 B.Sc. Employed 2006 Born 1963 Employed 1985 Shares in Saab: 6,870 M.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering Shares in Saab: 8,863 Employed 2010 Shares in Saab: 46,505 The following changes in Group Management took effect during 2017: During the first quarter Ulf Nilsson resigned as Head of Business Area Aeronautics and was replaced by Jonas Hjelm, former Head of Business Area Support and Services. During the third quarter Ellen Molin was appointed the new Head of Business area Support and Services an Jessica Öberg was appointed the new Head of Business Area Industrial Products and Services. Dan Jangblad, former Head of Business Area Industrial Products and Services, left Group ­Management to take a position as Senior ­Advisor to the CEO. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 67 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Other information Guidelines for remuneration and other operations and profits. As a result, long-term ment is terminated by Saab the notice period terms of employment for senior incentives are particularly well-suited to Saab is six months, after which severance equal to executives 2017 and its shareholders, and consist of a shareone year’s salary is paid. An additional year’s Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the based incentive programme. salary may be paid in the event no new Board of Directors shall propose remuneration The CEO and senior executives are entitled employment has been obtained during the guidelines for the company’s senior executo participate in the long-term share based first 18 months from the time notice of termitives to the Annual General Meeting. The incentive programmes adopted by the Sharenation was served. Annual General Meeting 2017 adopted the holders’ Meeting. With respect to employment agreements Board’s proposed guidelines for senior execuOne-off agreements on variable cash signed after 1 January 2005 that are termitives as described below. remuneration may be made in extraordinary nated by Saab, a maximum severance pay of The senior executives comprise the CEO circumstances, provided that such agree18 months can be payable in addition to the and other members of the Group Managements are made solely on an individual basis normal six-month notice period. The notice ment. The members of this group are prefor recruitment or retention purposes or as period and severance pay in total shall not sented on the company’s website. In special compensation for extraordinary efforts above exceed 24 months. cases these guidelines apply to Saab AB and beyond the individual’s ordinary duties. Severance pay is normally reduced by Board members, as described below. Such remuneration shall never exceed the income from other employment during the Saab shall offer market terms in order to fixed annual salary and shall not be paid more corresponding time. recruit and retain senior executives. To the than once a year per individual. Resolutions on greatest extent possible, remuneration strucsuch cash remuneration shall be made by the Consulting fees to Board members tures shall be characterised by predictability Board based on a proposal from the RemunerIn special cases Saab AB’s shareholdwith respect to both the cost for the company ation Committee. er-elected Board Members may receive a fee and the benefit for the employee. They shall be Variable cash remuneration shall not be for services performed within their respective based on factors such as position, compepaid under any other circumstances. areas of expertise, separately from their Board tence, experience and performance. Benchduties and for a limited period of time. Commarking against comparable industries and Other benefits pensation for these services shall be paid at markets shall be practiced. All members of the Group Management may market terms. The guidelines are based primarily on be entitled to other benefits in accordance agreements in effect between Saab AB and with local practice. The benefits shall contribInformation in the Annual Report note 10 individual executives. No board fees are paid ute to facilitating the executive's discharge of Note 10 of the Annual Report includes a to members of the Group Management for his or her duties. These benefits shall not condescription of current remuneration for senior participation on the boards of the business stitute a material part of total compensation executives, including fixed and variable comareas or Saab’s subsidiaries. and shall be equivalent to what is considered pensation, long-term incentive programmes The Remuneration Committee is responsireasonable in relation to market practice. and other benefits. ble for developing and reviewing remuneration Other benefits may for example be a company and other employment terms for the Group car, travels, overnight accommodation and Incentive programme proposed to the Management. medical insurance. Annual General Meeting 2017 The Board is entitled to divert from the The Board of Directors proposed that the guidelines if there are reasonable grounds to Pension Annual General Meeting 2017 resolve to do so in specific cases. The retirement age is minimum 62 under penadopt long-term incentive programme These guidelines apply as of the Annual sion agreements entered into after 1 January 2017/2018, consisting of Share Matching General Meeting 2017. 2005. In addition to the ITP agreement, the Plan 2018, Performance Share Plan 2018 and pension is premium based and provisions are Special Projects Incentive 2017. The Annual Fixed remuneration made annually. For the CEO the provision is General Meeting resolved in accordance with Cash remuneration shall consist of a fixed sallimited to 35 per cent of fixed salary. For other the Board’s proposal. ary. The fixed salary shall be reviewed annually senior executives the percentage is based on as per 1 January for all members of the Group “Saab Plan” regulation. According to this plan, Board of Directors proposal for guidelines Management. Fixed salary shall be set at marthe percentage is dependent on the number for remuneration and other terms of ket terms and based on factors such as posiof years remaining until retirement age upon employment for senior executives, application, competence, experience and perforjoining the plan. The aggregate insurance balble as of the Annual General Meeting 2018 mance. ance should cover a targeted pension from The Remuneration Committee has evaluated age 65 of approximately 32.5 per cent of salthe remuneration for Saab AB senior execuVariable remuneration ary levels between 20 and 30 basic income tives, including variable remuneration, the Saab’s operations are dominated by the amounts and approximately 50 per cent of application of the remuneration guidelines and development of complex products and syssegments above 30 basic income amounts. other employment terms for senior executives tems. The products are marketed, further All senior executives may also be entitled resolved at the Annual General Meeting 2017, developed, produced and maintained over to enhanced disability pension and survivors’ and the current remuneration structures and long periods – in some cases, three or four pension. remuneration levels in the company. decades – and normally involve significant The Remuneration Committee has recominvestments and long-term relationships with Miscellaneous terms mended that the Board of Directors propose customers around the world. It is important All Group Management executives, including that the Annual General Meeting approve therefore that senior executives share a longthe CEO, may terminate their employment with remuneration guidelines with the same terms term view and commitment to the company’s a maximum of six months’ notice. If employand conditions as those adopted by the 68 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Annual General Meeting 2017. Against this ees, including the CEO. Participants can also programme entitles the employee to allotbackground, the Board of Directors proposes save up to 7.5 per cent of their base salary to ment of performance shares corresponding that the Annual General Meeting 2018 adopt purchase Series B shares during a twelveto 15-52.5 per cent of the cash base salary for guidelines for remuneration and other terms month period, while participating in the Share the current financial year depending on group of employment for senior executives with Matching Plan as well, but only up to a maxiaffiliation, provided that the employment unchanged terms and conditions. mum of 5 per cent of base salary. Depending remains for three years and that performance on which category they belong to, participants targets are reached. Performance shares are Incentive programme proposed to the are entitled to 2–7 performance shares for allotted after three years based on the Annual General Meeting 2018 each purchased share. achievement during the current financial year The Board of Directors proposes that the Participants are entitled to performance of eight equally weighted performance targets Annual General Meeting 2018 resolve to matching shares, free of consideration, prorelated to Saab’s special projects within adopt long-term incentive programme 2019 vided that the performance targets are selected product areas. For the CEO and other (LTI 2019), consisting of Share Matching Plan achieved and the participants have retained members of the Group Management, the total 2019, Performance Share Plan 2019 and Spethe purchased shares for three years after the allotment of shares in the new programme and cial Projects Incentive 2019. In addition to LTI investment date and remain employed by the the Performance Share Plan together 2019, it is proposed that the Annual General Saab Group. The number of performance amounts to a maximum of 75 per cent of the Meeting adopt Special Projects Incentive shares is linked to the performance targets cash base salary for the CEO and 60 per cent 2018 as a complement to Performance Share established by the Board of Directors. The of the cash base salary for the other members Plan 2018, which was adopted by the Annual terms for the performance matching are of the Group Management. The programme General Meeting 2017. The terms and condibased on three independent targets for a onecovers a maximum of 80,000 Series B shares tions and costs of the above-mentioned proyear performance period: organic sales in Saab. grammes are presented in the Board's comgrowth, EBIT margin and free cash flow. The The Annual General Meeting 2017 also plete proposal to the Annual General Meeting. relative apportionment between the targets is resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to as follows: 30 per cent of the allotment is decide on acquisition of a maximum of Saab’s long-term incentive programmes attributable to organic sales growth, 40 per 1,340,000 Series B shares to secure delivery and authorisation to repurchase shares cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to free of shares to participants in Saab’s long-term The Annual General Meeting of Saab has cash flow. The performance targets are estabShare Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan resolved over a number of years to offer a lished by the Board of Directors with a miniand Special Projects Incentive, for subsequent long-term incentive programme consisting of mum and maximum level for each target. The transfers on the stock exchange to cover certwo parts: Share Matching Plan and a PerforBoard of Directors decides on the perfortain costs associated with LTI 2017/2018, mance Share Plan. The reason is that the mance matching after the end of the one-year mainly social security costs. Repurchases Board considers it important that Saab’s performance period. If the maximum levels for may be made on Nasdaq Stockholm. employees share a long-term interest in the the performance targets are reached or Further, the Annual General Meeting 2017 appreciation of the company’s shares. exceeded, the performance matching will also resolved to authorise the Board of DirecIn April 2017, the Annual General Meeting amount to (and not exceed) the maximum of tors to decide on acquisition of Series B also resolved to introduce a third programme, 360,000. shares. If the performance outcome shares up to a maximum of 10 percent of the Special Projects Incentive, as a complement falls short of the maximum level but exceeds total number of shares in the company. The to the Performance Share Plan. The prothe minimum level, a linear proportionate perpurpose of the authorisation is to be able to grammes are now named based on the calenformance matching will occur. No perforadjust the company’s capital structure and dar year, corresponding to the savings period. mance matching will occur if the performance thereby contribute to an increased shareThe long-term incentive programme comoutcome is equal to or below the minimum holder value as well as to enable a continuous prises not more than 1,340,000 Series B level. Before the performance matching is ultiuse of acquired shares in connection with shares in Saab per year. Since 2007, Saab mately determined, the Board of Directors will potential acquisitions of companies and for offers permanent employees the opportunity assess whether it is reasonable in relation to the company’s share-related incentive proto participate in the Share Matching Plan. the company’s financial results and position, grammes. Repurchases may be made on NasEmployees can withhold up to 5 per cent of conditions in the stock market and other cirdaq Stockholm. their gross base salary to purchase Series B cumstances. If it determines that this is not The Board of Directors did not decide in shares on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelvethe case, the Board of Directors will reduce the 2017 to exercise either of the two repurchase month period. Provided that a participant number of performance shares that will be mandates. Both repurchase mandates apply retains the purchased shares for three years matched to the lower number of shares it conuntil the Annual General Meeting 2018. after the investment date and is still employed siders appropriate. Performance shares are by the Saab Group, the participant will be allotallotted three years after the investment. Curted a corresponding number of Series B rently, Performance Share Plans 2014-2018 shares free of charge. Currently, Share Matchare ongoing. ing Plans 2014–2018 are ongoing. In April 2017, Saab introduced a new proSince 2008, Saab also has a Performance gramme, the Special Projects Incentive, as a Share Plan for senior executives and key complement to the Performance Share Plan. employees. In April 2014, Saab’s Annual GenThe Special Projects Incentive is directed at a eral Meeting resolved to modify the Performaximum of 45 key employees, including the mance Share Plan to increase interest among CEO. Participation in the new programme prethe target group. The Performance Share Plan supposes participation in the Performance now covers a maximum of 175 key employShare Plan or the Share Matching Plan. The S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 69 70 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 71 financial statements Financial statements and notes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statement, Consolidated 73 Income Statement, Parent Company 79 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 79 Consolidated 74 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 80 Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated 75 Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 77 Parent Company 82 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 78 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 83 NOTES 1 Accounting principles 84 18 Tangible fixed assets 101 34 Post-employment benefits 110 2 Assumptions in the application of 19 Biological assets 103 35 Provisions 112 the accounting principles 85 20 Investment properties 103 36 Other liabilities 114 3 Business combinations 86 21 Shares in associated companies 37 Accrued expenses and deferred income 114 4 Segment reporting 86 and joint ventures 104 38 Financial risk management and 5 Revenue distribution and 22 Parent Company’s shares in associated financial instruments 114 operating expenses 88 companies and joint ventures 106 39 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 120 6 Other operating income 89 23 Receivables from Group companies 106 40 Transactions with related parties 120 7 Other operating expenses 89 24 Financial investments 106 41 Group companies 120 8 Lease agreements 89 25 Other long-term securities holdings 106 42 Untaxed reserves 122 9 Government grants 89 26 Long-term receivables and 43 Statement of cash flows, 10 Employees and remuneration 90 other receivables 107 supplemental information 122 11 Auditors’ fees and compensation 95 27 Inventories 107 44 Information on Parent Company 123 12 Depreciation/amortisation 28 Accounts receivable 108 45 Environmental report 123 and write-downs 95 29 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 108 46 New accounting principles 2018 124 13 Financial income and expenses 95 30 Liquid assets 108 47 Exchange rates used in financial 14 Appropriations 96 31 Shareholders’ equity 108 statements 127 15 Taxes 96 32 Interest-bearing liabilities 109 48 Definitions of key ratios 127 16 Earnings per share 98 33 Liabilities to credit institutions 109 17 Intangible fixed assets 99 72 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Consolidated income statement MSEK Note 2017 2016 ORDERS Order bookings were higher in 2017 Sales 4, 5 31,394 28,631 than in 2016, mainly due to large Cost of goods sold -23,946 -21,748 orders received in 2017 related to the Gross income 7,448 6,883 Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) segment. Other operating income 6 104 201 Orders received, where the total Marketing expenses -2,430 -2,223 order value exceeded MSEK 100, repAdministrative expenses -1,493 -1,364 resented 65 per cent (45) of total order Research and development costs -1,348 -1,592 bookings. In total Saab received orders Other operating expenses 7 -87 -70 amounting to SEK 30.8 billion of which Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures 21 -39 -38 SEK 10.9 billion (12.0 billion) was attribOperating income 5, 11 ,12 2,155 1,797 utable to orders less than MSEK 100. In all, 86 per cent (84) of order Financial income 121 90 bookings was attributable to Financial expenses -272 -276 defence-related operations and 55 per Net financial items 13 -151 -186 cent (59) was attributable to markets outside Sweden. Income before taxes 2,004 1,611 During 2017, index and price Taxes 15 -566 -436 changes had a positive effect on order bookings of MSEK 812 compared to Net income for the year 1,438 1,175 MSEK 727 during 2016. Attributable to: The order backlog at the end of the Parent Company’s shareholders 1,407 1,133 year amounted to MSEK 106,849 Non-controlling interest 31 42 compared to MSEK 107,606 at the beginning of the year. Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 16 13.20 10.67 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 16 13.10 10.60 Order backlog duration: 2018: SEK 25.0 billion 2019: SEK 20.0 billion 2020: SEK 17.0 billion 2021: SEK 17.0 billion After 2021: SEK 27.8 billion SALES PER REGION SALES PER MARKET SEGMENT SALES Sales increased during the year in MSEK 2017 2016 MSEK 2017 2016 every business area and amounted to Sweden 13,218 12,389 Air 14,797 12,787 MSEK 31,394 (28,631). The large part Rest of Europe 4,549 4,981 Land 6,386 6,453 of the increase is related to major orders within airborne surveillance North America 2,791 2,740 Naval 5,466 4,897 systems and support operations and Latin America 2,653 2,014 Civil Security 2,166 1,987 increased sales in the business area Asia 6,691 5,107 Commercial ­Aeronautics 1,765 1,987 Dynamics. Africa 449 495 Other 814 520 Sales in markets outside Sweden Australia, etc. 1,043 905 amounted to MSEK 18,176 (16,242), or Total 31,394 28,631 58 per cent (57) of total sales. Sales to Total 31,394 28,631 Asia increased by 31 per cent and Latin America increased by 32 per cent compared to 2016. 84 per cent (83) of sales was related to the defence market. INCOME, MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY The gross margin in 2017 was 23.7 per cent (24.0). Total depreciation and amortisation amounted to MSEK 839 (946). Depreciation Operating income amounted to MSEK 2,155 (1,797) with an operating margin of of tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 555 (493). 6.9 per cent (6.3). Profitability strengthened in areas related to airborne surveillance Total expenditures in research and development (R&D) amounted to MSEK 7,348 systems due to the high level of activity. Despite a somewhat lower operating mar(7,421), or about 23 per cent (26) of sales. Internally funded R&D expenditures gin in the fourth quarter, the business area Dynamics saw an improved operating amounted to MSEK 2,059 (2,065), of which MSEK 871 (784) was capitalised. The margin owing to high capacity utilisation throughout its operations. Within Dynamcapitalisation of development costs is mainly related to GlobalEye. Internally ics, the Training and Simulation segment delivered a strong profit improvement funded R&D expenditures are mainly related to radar and sensor technology and to ­during the year. the T-X program. Development expenditures in the T-X program, although considCurrent and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -566 (-436), equivalent to an erable, decreased in 2017 compared to 2016. effective tax rate of 28 per cent (27). The reduction in the US corporate tax rate led Amortisation of intangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 284 (453), of which to a higher tax rate in 2017 as a result of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets. amortisation of capitalised development expenditures amounted to MSEK 160 The pre-tax return on capital employed was 10.1 per cent (8.9) and the after-tax (311). The share of income in associated companies and joint ventures amounted return on equity was 10.4 per cent (9.0), both measured over a rolling 12-month to MSEK -39 (-38). period. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 73 financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK 2017 2016 Revaluation of net pension obligations Net income for the year 1,438 1,175 has had a pre-tax effect of MSEK -190 Other comprehensive income/loss: (-623) on net comprehensive income for the year, see note 34 for more Items that will not be reversed in the income statement: information. Revaluation of net pension obligations -190 -623 The after-tax effect of net gain/­ Tax attributable to revaluation of net pension obligations 43 137 losses of cash flow hedges on net Total -147 -486 comprehensive income amounted to Items that may be reversed in the income statement: MSEK 494 (-210), see note 38 for more information. Translation differences -257 387 Net gain/loss on cash flow hedges: Change in value 106 -711 Reversed through profit or loss 525 462 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash flow hedges -137 39 Total -237 177 Other comprehensive income/loss for the year 90 -309 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 1,528 866 of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 1,481 778 of which non-controlling interest 47 88 FINANCIAL NET MSEK 2017 2016 Financial net related to pensions -69 -60 Net interest items -100 -76 Currency gains/losses 54 -11 Other net financial items -36 -39 Total -151 -186 The financial net related to pensions is the financial cost for Other net financial items consist of unrealised results from net pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet. See the market valuation of short-term investments and derivanote 34 for more information regarding defined-benefit pentives as well as other currency effects, e.g. changes in sion plans. exchange rates for liquid assets in currencies other than SEK. Net interest items refer to the return on liquid assets and Derivatives are used to reduce interest rate risk in the investshort-term investments as well as interest expenses on ment portfolio, which consists of long-term interesting-bearshortand long-term interest-bearing liabilities and realised ing securities. derivative results. Currency gains/losses recognised in the financial net are mainly related to hedges of the tender portfolio, which are valued at fair value through profit and loss. 74 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Consolidated statement of financial position MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 ASSETS Intangible fixed assets 17 7,862 7,094 Tangible fixed assets 18 5,271 4,811 Biological assets 19 352 291 Investment properties 20 40 33 Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 21 700 788 Financial investments 24 26 165 Long-term receivables 26 662 505 Deferred tax assets 15 211 252 Total fixed assets 15,124 13,939 Inventories 27 7,743 6,660 Derivatives 38 1,139 1,290 Tax assets 26 120 Accounts receivable 28 4,342 5,402 Amounts due from customers 26 7,917 6,222 Other receivables 26 522 599 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 29 1,193 1,035 Short-term investments 24 4,469 4,542 Liquid assets 30 2,202 1,402 Total current assets 29,553 27,272 TOTAL ASSETS 44,677 41,211 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION During the year, net investments amounted to approximately At the end of December 2017, net debt was MSEK 1,834, a MSEK 2,132, with capitalised internally funded R&D expendidecrease of MSEK 2 compared to year-end 2016, when net tures amounting to MSEK 871. debt amounted to MSEK 1,836. Acquisitions of operations amounted to MSEK 170. Cash flow from operating activities amounted to In addition, a dividend of MSEK 559 was paid to the Parent MSEK 3,164. Company’s shareholders. Accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 4,342 as of Currency exchange rate differences in liquid assets and 31 December 2017 and to MSEK 5,402 as of 31 December unrealised results from financial investments had a negative 2016. Amounts due from customers amounted to impact on net debt of MSEK 79. MSEK 7,917 as of 31 December 2017 and to MSEK 6,222 as As of 31 December 2017, short-term investments and of 31 December 2016. ­liquid assets amounted to MSEK 6,671, compared to Amounts due to customers amounted to MSEK 9,094 as of MSEK 5,944 at year-end 2016. During the year, debt increased 31 December 2017 and to MSEK 7,884 as of 31 December by approximately MSEK 700 after MSEK 1.038 was repaid of 2016. loans of MSEK 1.350 maturing in 2018. At the same time, new Net provisions for pensions, excluding special employers’ loans were issued with a value of MSEK 1.700 and maturing ­ contribution, amounted to MSEK 2,646 as of 31 December in 2022. 2017, compared to MSEK 2,424 at year-end 2016. This had a Capitalised development costs on the balance sheet negative impact on net debt of MSEK 222. The increase in proamounted to MSEK 2,360 as of 31 December 2017, comvisions was mainly due to a reduction in the discount rate for pared to MSEK 1,652 as of 31 December 2016. The increase calculating the pension obligation to 2.50 per cent from is mainly related to the development of GlobalEye. 2.75 per cent. The inflation assumption for calculating the Inventories increased by MSEK 1,083 during the year, pension liability was 1.75 per cent, in line with the assumption mainly due to the business areas Dynamics and Surveillance at year-end 2016. For more information on Saab’s and upcoming deliveries. defined-benefit plans, see note 34. Tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 5,271 at the end of the year, in line with year-end 2016. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 75 financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 31 Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Other capital contributions 543 543 Other reserves -23 -243 Retained earnings 11,923 11,110 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 14,189 13,156 Non-controlling interest 188 145 Total equity 14,377 13,301 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 32 6,235 5,624 Other liabilities 36 210 202 Provisions for pensions 34 3,424 3,069 Other provisions 35 1,024 811 Deferred tax liabilities 15 274 30 Total long-term liabilities 11,167 9,736 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 32 92 292 Amounts due to customers 9,094 7,884 Accounts payable 2,958 2,880 Derivatives 38 1,093 1,955 Tax liabilities 120 81 Other liabilities 36 805 695 Accrued expenses and deferred income 37 4,483 3,988 Provisions 35 488 399 Total current liabilities 19,133 18,174 Total liabilities 30,300 27,910 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 44,677 41,211 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 39. NET LIQUIDITY/DEBT MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Assets Liabilities Liquid assets 30 2,202 1,402 Liabilities to credit ­institutions 32 5,798 5,107 Short-term investments 24 4,469 4,542 Liabilities to associated Total liquid investments 6,671 5,944 companies and joint Short-term interest-­ ­ventures 32 45 239 bearing receivables 26 14 29 Other interest-bearing Long-term interest-­ ­liabilities 32 484 570 bearing receivables 26 454 391 Provisions for pensions1) 34 2,686 2,475 Long-term receivables Total interest-bearing ­attributable to pensions 26 40 51 liabilities 9,013 8,391 Long-term interest-­ Net liquidity (+) / debt (–) -1,834 -1,836 bearing financial 1) Excluding provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ ­investments 24 140 ­contribution. Total interest-bearing assets 7,179 6,555 The average net liquidity/debt during 2017 amounted to MSEK -2,193 (-1,810). Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and net pension obligations amounted to MSEK 344 (28) on 31 December 2017. 76 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Total equity attributable Other capiNet result to Parent NonCapital tal contribuof cash flow Translation Revaluation Retained Company’s controlling Total MSEK stock tions hedges reserve reserve earnings shareholders interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 1,746 543 -538 153 11 10,936 12,851 61 12,912 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year -241 372 647 778 88 866 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 84 84 84 Dividend -530 -530 -18 -548 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -27 -27 14 -13 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 1,746 543 -779 525 11 11,110 13,156 145 13,301 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 543 -779 525 11 11,110 13,156 145 13,301 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 477 -257 1,261 1,481 47 1,528 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 111 111 111 Dividend -559 -559 -4 -563 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 1,746 543 -302 268 11 11,923 14,189 188 14,377 For a definition of other reserves, see note 31. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 77 financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2017 2016 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The cash flow effect of capital expendiOperating activities: tures in tangible fixed assets amounted Income after financial items 2,004 1,611 to MSEK 1,093 (807). Investments in Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 43 1,479 1,226 intangible fixed assets amounted to Dividend from associated companies and joint ventures 26 16 MSEK 1,064 (882), of which MSEK 871 (784) was related to capitalised develIncome tax paid -272 -120 opment costs and MSEK 193 (98) to Cash flow from operating activities before other intangible fixed assets. changes in working capital 3,237 2,733 Cash flow from changes in working capital: CASH FLOW Amounts due from and to customers -475 5,092 Cash flow from operating activities Inventories -994 -1,329 excluding taxes and other financial Other current receivables 795 -2,540 items amounted to MSEK 3,520 (4,348), see note 43. Other current liabilities 704 521 Saab has an established programme Provisions -103 -323 to sell trade receivables to strengthen Cash flow from operating activities 3,164 4,154 its financial position and increase Investing activities: financial flexibility. The programme has not been utilised since 31 December Investments in intangible fixed assets -193 -98 2016. Saab’s aim is to utilise this proCapitalised development costs -871 -784 gramme in situations where greater Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,093 -807 financial flexibility is needed. Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 25 27 Operational cash flow amounted to Investments in and sales of short-term investments 63 -1,525 MSEK 1,388 (2,603). It is defined as cash flow from operating activities Investments in financial assets -30 -169 excluding taxes and other financial Sale of financial assets 104 25 items, as well as acquisitions and Investments in operations, net effect on liquidity 3, 43 -170 -49 divestments of intangible and tangible Sale of subsidiaries, net effect on liquidity 43 77 fixed assets. Cash flow from investing activities -2,165 -3,303 Free cash flow amounted to MSEK 852 (2,359). For more detailed Financing activities: information on cash flow, see note 43. Repayment of loans -1,301 -582 Raising of loans 1,700 732 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -559 -530 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -4 -5 Transactions with non-controlling interests 15 Cash flow from financing activities -164 -370 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 43 835 481 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,402 850 Exchange rate difference in liquid assets -35 71 Liquid assets at year-end 43 2,202 1,402 78 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Parent company income statement MSEK Note 2017 2016 SALES AND INCOME The Parent Company includes units Sales 4, 5 19,958 17,988 within the business areas Aeronautics, Cost of goods sold -15,546 -14,125 Surveillance, Support and Services, Gross income 4,412 3,863 and Industrial Products and Services Marketing expenses -1,428 -1,250 as well as one unit within Dynamics. Group staff and Group support are also Administrative expenses -953 -850 included. Research and development costs -1,701 -1,807 Other operating income 6 50 76 Other operating expenses 7 -22 -38 Operating income 358 -6 Result from financial items: 13 Result from shares in Group companies 525 430 Result from shares in associated companies and joint ventures 6 11 Result from other securities and receivables held as fixed assets 24 -16 Other interest income and similar items 120 110 Interest expenses and similar items -156 -218 Income after financial items 877 311 Appropriations 14 -11 -141 Income before taxes 866 170 Taxes 15 -217 -73 Net income for the year 649 97 Parent company comprehensive income MSEK 2017 2016 Net income for the year 649 97 Other comprehensive income/loss: Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences -4 Other comprehensive income/loss for the year -4 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 645 97 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 79 financial statements Parent company balance sheet MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 LIQUIDITY, FINANCING, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ASSETS AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Fixed assets The Parent Company’s net debt amounted to MSEK 3,418 at Intangible fixed assets 17 542 545 31 December 2017 compared to Tangible fixed assets 18 3,228 3,033 MSEK 3,041 at 31 December 2016. Financial fixed assets: Investments in tangible fixed assets Shares in Group companies 41 6,065 5,848 amounted to MSEK 549 (472). InvestReceivables from Group companies 23 81 50 ments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 170 (78). At year-end, the Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 22 369 398 Parent Company had 9,357 employees, Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 23 370 311 compared to 8,941 at the beginning Other long-term securities holdings 25 23 23 of the year. Other long-term receivables 26 19 7 Deferred tax assets 15 103 88 Total financial fixed assets 7,030 6,725 Total fixed assets 10,800 10,303 Current assets Inventories 27 5,442 4,980 Current receivables: Tax assets 15 67 Accounts receivable 28 1,907 3,184 Receivables from Group companies 2,248 3,261 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 1 20 Amounts due from customers 26 6,787 4,730 Other receivables 26 398 427 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 29 1,158 1,109 Total current receivables 12,514 12,798 Short-term investments 4,459 4,524 Cash and bank balances 1,181 651 Total current assets 23,596 22,953 TOTAL ASSETS 34,396 33,256 80 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Parent company balance sheet MSEK Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 31 Restricted equity: Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Revaluation reserve 675 682 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity: Retained earnings 4,234 4,579 Net income for the year 645 97 Total equity 7,843 7,647 Untaxed reserves 42 2,291 2,280 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 34 252 153 Other provisions 35 837 654 Total provisions 1,089 807 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 33 5,798 5,107 Liabilities to Group companies 5,667 6,465 Advance payments from customers 6,495 5,431 Accounts payable 1,854 2,056 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 44 239 Other liabilities 36 560 512 Accrued expenses and deferred income 37 2,755 2,712 Total liabilities 23,173 22,522 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 34,396 33,256 For information on the Parent Company’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 39. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 81 financial statements Statement of changes in equity for the parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Net compreCapital Revaluation Statutory Retained hensive income Total ­ MSEK stock ­reserve ­reserve ­earnings for the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 1,746 688 543 5,020 7,997 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 97 97 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -530 -530 Share matching plan 84 84 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 1,746 682 543 4,579 97 7,647 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,746 682 543 4,676 7,647 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -7 7 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 645 645 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -559 -559 Share matching plan 111 111 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 1,746 675 543 4,234 645 7,843 82 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Parent company statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Income after financial items 877 311 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 43 830 762 Income tax paid -156 -56 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,551 1,017 Cash flow from changes in working capital Amounts due from and to customers -993 5,119 Inventories -456 -1,291 Other current receivables 1,252 -3,144 Other current liabilities -86 644 Provisions -116 -131 Cash flow from operating activities 1,152 2,214 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid/repaid 4 -41 Investments in intangible fixed assets -170 -78 Investments in tangible fixed assets -549 -472 Sale of tangible fixed assets 15 8 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 55 -1,508 Investments in financial assets -100 -166 Sale of financial assets 46 38 Investments in operations -230 -44 Sale of subsidiaries 16 79 Cash flow from investing activities -913 -2,184 Financing activities Change in receivables/liabilities from Group companies -1,052 496 Raising of loans 1,700 732 Repayment of loans -1,169 -553 Dividend paid to shareholders -559 -530 Group contributions and dividends received 1,371 265 Cash flow from financing activities 291 410 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 530 440 Liquid assets at beginning of year 651 211 Liquid assets at year-end 43 1,181 651 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 83 financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES OPERATIONS hedge accounting will be applied prospectively and a company does not have to Saab AB is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in Linköping. The restate previous periods, and Saab has not done so. Saab began evaluating the company’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s large cap list. The effects of the introduction of the new standard in 2016 and has continued with a operations of Saab AB with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated compamore detailed evaluation in 2017. The evaluation has been in the form of a project nies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) were divided into six business areas in with participants from various parts of the company. The new standard will not have 2017: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, Support and Services, Industrial Proa significant impact on the company’s income statement or financial position. ducts and Services and Kockums. In addition, Corporate comprises Group staff, Hedge accounting will not be affected, but Saab will transition to IFRS 9’s hedge Group departments, and secondary operations. The operations in each business accounting, which is an option in the standard. The effect on the opening equity area are described in note 4. balance for 2018 amounts to MSEK -4, which is due to impairment of receivables On 22 February 2018, the Board of Directors and the President approved this from associated companies and joint ventures. annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and it will be presented to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers governs the recognition of the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2018 for adoption. revenue. The principles that IFRS 15 are built on give users of financial reports more useful information on the company’s revenue. The expanded disclosure obligation CONFORMITY TO STANDARDS AND LAWS requires more information to be provided on the nature, timing and uncertainty of The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Internatiorevenue as well as cash flows from contracts with customers. According to nal Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when customers obtain control over the purchased Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretations of the International Financial goods or services and are able to use and obtain benefits from the goods or serviReporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the EU. ces. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. Saab The consolidated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the has had a project since 2015 to evaluate the effects and prepare for implementaSwedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary tion of IFRS 15. The project has an internal steering group with Saab’s CFO as chairAccounting Rules for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure requireman and staff from various parts of the company such as Finance, Legal and Sales. ments for Swedish consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS. A large part of the Group’s operations involves long-term customer contracts The annual report for Saab AB has been prepared according to the Annual with the development and manufacture of complex systems that stretch over Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 several reporting periods and where the so-called percentage of completion metReporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial hod has been used. An essential point in the analysis that was done is to determine Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied by the the number of performance obligations and when they are fulfilled, i.e. over time or Parent Company and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to at a given point in time. The conclusion of the contract analysis that was done is apply IFRS by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the Act that the number of performance obligations is the same as in current reporting and on Safeguarding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax rules. that revenue from long-term customer contracts will continue to be recognised Significant differences are described below under “Significant differences between over time in accordance with IFRS 15 and the percentage of completion method. the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” For a few customer contracts, the method for recognition will be adjusted. The main reason for the change is that a few long-term customer contracts cannot ASSUMPTIONS IN THE PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTS report revenue over time, due to non-compliance with the right to payment incluThe Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also ding earnings for work performed. Saab will apply the full retroactive approach for the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The financial the transition to IFRS 15 from 2018, with certain exceptions approved by the stanreports are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are rounded dard. For example, Saab will not restate contracts that were started and completed off to the nearest million. within the same annual reporting period. Transition effects that arise for IFRS 15 The preparation of the financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the affect the opening equity balance for the comparative year 2017 by MSEK -164 Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions that and the opening balance for 2018 by MSEK -92. In the income statement for 2017, affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of sales increase by MSEK 272 and the cost of goods sold by MSEK 177. As a result, assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumptions are based on operating income is affected positively by MSEK 95 and net income for the year by historical experience and knowledge of the industry that Saab operates in, and MSEK 70. For more information, see note 46. under current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of these estimates and IFRS 16 Leases is a new standard for reporting lease agreements that replaces assumptions is then used to determine the carrying amounts of assets and liabiliIAS 17 Leases. For companies that are lessees, the current classification of operaties that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outcomes ting and finance leases disappears and is replaced by an approach where assets may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. and liabilities for all leases are recognised in the balance sheet. For leases with a Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of changed term of 12 months or less or where the underlying asset has a low value, there is the estimates is recognised in profit or loss. option of applying an exemption. Saab began in 2017 to evaluate the effect of the Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying the introduction of the new standard. As indicated in Note 8 Lease agreements, future accounting principles in compliance with IFRS that may have a significant impact on leasing fees have been identified for operating leases of approximately SEK 2 bilthe financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate significant adjustlion. With the exception of short-term leases of less than one year and leases of ments in financial reports in subsequent years are described in more detail in note 2. lower value that will be exempt, these leases will, after a present value calculation, The accounting principles described below for the Group and the accounting be recognised in the balance sheet as a right of use on the asset side and a lease principles concerning significant profit /loss and balance sheet items described in liability on the liability side. The choice of transition approach has not yet been the respective note disclosure have been applied consistently for all periods pre­evaluated. In 2018, Saab will continue its analysis and evaluation and prepare for sented in the Group’s financial reports, unless otherwise indicated. the introduction of the standard in 2019. Other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet entered into force are not APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING RULES expected to have a material effect on the Group. No significant new or revised standards applicable as of the financial year 2017 were added during the year. CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS recovered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and THAT HAVE NOT YET ENTERED INTO FORCE liabilities are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. IASB has issued the following new and amended standards that have not yet entered into force: CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES Group companies Standards Will apply to financial years beginning: Group companies are companies in which Saab AB has a decisive influence through IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 (adopted by EU) a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more than 50 per cent of the votes, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts other than in exceptional circumstances where it can be clearly demonstrated that with Customers 1 January 2018 (adopted by EU) such ownership does not constitute a decisive influence. Decisive influence also exists when the parent owns not more than half of the voting power of an entity but IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 (adopted by EU) otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting rights or the power IFRS 9 Financial Instruments sets out the requirements for classification, measureto govern the company’s financial and operating policies under a statute or agreement and accounting of financial assets and liabilities and introduces new rules for ment. When determining whether a decisive influence exists, potential voting shares hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets. According to the standard, that can be exercised or converted without delay are taken into account. 84 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 1, cont. Subsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recognised Business combinations according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a business Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. combination is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Group’s Associated companies and joint ventures cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with regard to the acquisition of Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the Parent operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the fair value of what of is paid in Company according to the acquisition cost method. Revenue includes dividends cash on the acquisition date through the assumption of liabilities or shares issued. received. Contingent consideration is included in cost and recognised at its fair value on the acquisition date. The subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent consideration Intangible fixed assets are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. are initially recognised at their acquisition-date fair value. The exceptions to this principle are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee benefits, share-based payment and Tangible fixed assets assets held for sale, which are valued in accordance with the principles described in Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. respective note disclosure. Exceptions are also made for indemnification assets and repurchased rights. Indemnification assets are valued according to the same princiInvestment properties ple as the indemnified item. Repurchased rights are valued based on the remaining Investment properties are recognised according to acquisition cost method. contractual period regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities for contract extensions in connection with valuations. Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments Recognised goodwill consists of the difference between, on the one hand, the cost The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less write-down and of Group company’s interests, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquired financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, write-down has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. analysis. Non-controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s identified assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests Derivatives and hedge accounting are recognised as transactions affecting the owners’ equity. Derivatives that are not used for hedging are carried by the Parent Company The financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolidated ­according to the lowest value principle based on net value of different portfolios. accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises (acquisition date) For d­ erivatives used for hedging, recognition is determined by the hedged item. until this influence ceases. When decisive influence over the Group company ceases This means that the derivative is treated as an off balance sheet item as long as but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially the hedged item is recognised at cost or is not included on the balance sheet. recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency hedged with forward contracts are valued at the forward rate. Associated companies and joint ventures Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but Employee benefits not decisive, influence. Joint ventures are companies that the Group, through a The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of cooperative agreement with one of more parties, shares a decisive influence over. Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Associated company and joint venture are recognised according to the equity Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. method in the consolidated accounts. See note 21 for further information. Untaxed reserves Eliminated transactions The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary differenIntra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or losses ces. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred tax liability that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. entirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint ventures Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership interest in the Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, to the that there is no impairment loss. extent write-down is not required. Group contributions received are recognised through profit or loss in financial income and expenses. Group contributions paid FOREIGN CURRENCY are capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the parent, to the extent Functional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environment write-down is not required. where units of the Group conduct their operations. Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency NOTE 2 ASSUMPTIONS IN THE APPLICATION OF Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at the THE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate then in effect. Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations are recognised in The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the follow­ profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are ing areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the accounting translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect at the time of valuation at principles may have a significant impact on the accounting of the Group’s results fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recognised in the same way as other of operations and financial position and may result in significant adjustments changes in value of the asset or liability. in subsequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored ­continuously by Group Management and the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to SEK Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than SEK are UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS translated to SEK at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses in foreign Long-term customer contracts operations are translated to SEK at the average rate. Translation differences that arise A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development through currency translations are recognised directly in other comprehensive aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed with a custoincome. The amount is recognised separately as a translation reserve in equity. mer on delivery of a product or service, a thorough analysis is always made of the prerequisites and risks of the delivery through a project management process SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GROUP’S AND established within Saab. In the execution stage, continuous reviews are made of THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES the work in the project according to the same process. An important aspect is to The Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group identify risks and assess them and the measures that are taken to mitigate the risks with the following exceptions. with the help of a risk assessment method. The Group applies the percentage of completion method to recognise revenue from long-term customer contracts. An estimation of total costs including an estimaS A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 85 financial statements Note 2, cont. tion of technical and commercial risks is critical in revenue recognition. Changed estiare made on market terms. Saab’s operations are divided into six business areas, mations of the projects’ total costs cause retroactive effects that affect sales and which are also operating segments: revenue recognition. Today several major projects are in an early stage with greater • Aeronautics uncertainties in risks to take into consideration in revenue recognition and estimation • Dynamics of total costs. The accounting of long-term customer contracts also affects balance • Surveillance sheet items such as receivables and liabilities from/to customers, accounts receiva• Support and Services bles, inventories and project loss provisions. Making delivery according to project • Industrial Products and Services plan and milestones are important for the cash flow since payments are made upon • Kockums achievement of milestones or deliveries in projects. See note 5 for more information regarding long-term customer contracts. The business areas are described below. Complementing the six segments is ­Corporate, which comprises Group staffs and departments as well as other Recovery of value of development costs ­non-core operations. The Group has invested significant amounts in research and development. The reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to developAeronautics ment projects relating to radar and sensors, electronic warfare systems, Air Traffic Aeronautics is a world-leading manufacturer of innovative aerial systems and is Management, and airborne surveillance systems. Capitalised development costs engaged in development of military aviation technology. It also conducts long-term amount to MSEK 2,360 (1,652). The recognition of development expenditures as an future studies of manned and unmanned aircraft as preparation for new systems asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the product and further development of existing products. is expected to be technically and commercially usable in the future and that future economic benefits are likely. Capitalised development costs are amortised over the Dynamics estimated production volume or linearly over the period of use, up to a maximum of Dynamics offers a market-leading product portfolio comprising ground combat 10 years. Projected production volumes and periods of use may later be reassessed, weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles, systems which could necessitate impairment. See note 17 for further information. for training and simulation, signature management systems for armed forces around the world, and niche products for the civil and defence markets. Impairment testing of goodwill In the calculation of cash-generating units’ recovery value to determine whether Surveillance there is a need or impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with Surveillance provides efficient solutions for safety and security, for surveillance regard to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projecand decision support, and for threat detection, location, and protection. The porttions. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of folio covers airborne, ground-based and naval radar, electronic warfare, combat goodwill. The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to MSEK 5,177 (5,196). systems and C4I solutions, and traffic management systems. See note 17 for further information. Support and Services Pensions Support and Services offers reliable, cost-efficient service and support for all of Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In Saab’s markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage ­logistics as well as products, solutions and services for military and civil missions. of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to MSEK 9,341 (8,608). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a Industrial Products and Services number of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly The business units within Industrial Products and Services are focused on busiincrease or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Changes in actuarial ness-to-business (B2B) customers. There is also a minority portfolio containing gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s Saab’s ownership interests in companies in various stages of development. financial position. See note 34 for further information. Kockums Kockums develops, delivers, and maintains world-class solutions for naval environNOTE 3 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS ments. Its portfolio includes submarines with the Stirling system for air independent propulsion, surface combatants, mine hunting systems and autonomous ­vessels. Kockums’ unique competence is in signature management, impact No significant acquisitions through business combinations were made during strength and advanced stealth technology. 2017. Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow During 2017, no significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow were ­recognised. NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING Information on large customers OPERATING SEGMENTS In 2017, Saab had one customer that accounted for 10 per cent or more of the Saab is a leading high-technology company, with its main operations in defence, Group’s sales: the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV). FMV is a aviation and civil security. Operations are primarily focused on well-defined areas in ­customer of all business areas and total sales amounted to MSEK 10,695 (9,804) defence electronics and missile systems as well as military and commercial aviation. in 2017. Saab is also active in technical services and maintenance. Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the main part of sales is generated in Europe. In addition, Saab has a Information on geographical areas local presence in South Africa, Australia, the US and other selected countries globally. External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, while Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operating fixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographically located. segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s chief operating decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive Officer as its chief Seasonal variation operating decision maker, while the internal reports used by the CEO to oversee A major part of Saab’s business is related to large projects where the revenue is operations and make decisions on allocating resources serve as the basis of the recognised by using the percentage of completion method. The costs incurred in information presented. The segments are monitored at the operating income level. these projects are normally lower during the third quarter compared with the other The accounting principles for reportable segments conform to the principles quarters. The fourth quarter is also usually affected by a higher number of deliveries, applied by the Group as a whole. Sales of goods and services between segments mainly within Dynamics. 86 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 4, cont. Industrial Support and Products and Group Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Services Services Kockums Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 External sales 6,830 6,728 5,109 4,786 7,673 7,383 6,060 4,901 2,890 2,510 2,704 2,306 128 17 31,394 28,631 Internal sales 437 410 158 141 342 276 141 180 1,132 1,095 8 5 -2,218 -2,107 Total sales 7,267 7,138 5,267 4,927 8,015 7,659 6,201 5,081 4,022 3,605 2,712 2,311 128 17 -2,218 -2,107 31,394 28,631 Operating income before share in income of associated companies and joint ventures 477 524 540 413 591 449 673 454 199 209 157 135 -443 -349 2,194 1,835 Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures 1 11 35 34 -63 -75 -1 -12 -7 -39 -38 Operating income 478 535 575 447 591 449 673 454 136 134 157 134 -455 -356 2,155 1,797 Financial income 4 2 13 19 1 1 2 1 195 152 -93 -86 121 90 Financial expenses -81 -83 -48 -47 -65 -70 -32 -30 -27 -21 -8 -7 -105 -104 93 86 -272 -276 Income before taxes 397 452 531 402 539 398 642 425 109 115 150 127 -364 -308 2,004 1,611 Taxes1) -69 -4 -81 -64 -85 -45 -47 -100 -41 -32 -31 -27 -212 -164 -566 -436 Net income for the year 328 448 450 338 454 353 595 325 68 83 119 100 -576 -472 1,438 1,175 Assets 8,543 7,123 5,956 4,988 13,939 12,748 5,431 5,050 3,944 3,574 3,797 3,332 20,808 20,576 -17,741 -16,180 44,677 41,211 Of which shares in associated companies and joint ventures 86 40 177 144 4 4 188 248 23 24 222 328 700 788 Liabilities 8,110 6,659 3,819 2,995 7,762 6,870 3,583 3,804 3,038 2,566 2,815 2,598 11,472 11,139 -10,299 -8,721 30,300 27,910 Operational cash flow 1,264 435 1,105 282 -73 1,865 104 1,243 -264 -54 206 639 -954 -1,807 1,388 2,603 Capital employed 2,191 2,303 3,283 3,320 7,580 7,206 3,220 2,614 2,821 2,326 1,016 749 3,280 3,173 23,391 21,691 Investments 413 96 155 84 559 575 274 457 60 130 101 92 595 338 2,157 1,772 Depreciation and amortisation 50 41 85 75 354 491 19 16 36 36 23 31 272 256 839 946 1) Current taxes in the Parent Company are reported in Corporate Geographical areas Group Sweden Rest of Europe North America Latin America Asia MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 External sales 13,218 12,389 4,549 4,981 2,791 2,740 2,653 2,014 6,691 5,107 as % of sales 42 43 14 17 9 10 8 7 21 18 Fixed assets 13,513 12,103 412 486 453 690 4 4 143 118 Group Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 External sales 449 495 1,043 905 31,394 28,631 as % of sales 1 2 4 3 100 100 Fixed assets 469 417 130 121 15,124 13,939 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 87 financial statements Note 4, cont. Sales by operating segment Royalties Parent Company Royalties include revenue from outside parties for the use of Saab’s assets such MSEK 2017 2016 as patents, trademarks and software. Aeronautics 6,836 6,732 Sales by significant source Dynamics 1,163 938 Group Parent Company Surveillance 5,107 4,519 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Support and Services 5,447 4,356 Long-term custoIndustrial Products and Services 1,405 1,443 mer ­contracts 21,755 19,160 14,077 12,546 Total 19,958 17,988 Sale of goods 3,714 3,759 2,406 2,045 Service assignmeSales by geographical market nts 5,923 5,703 3,474 3,390 Parent Company Royalties 2 9 1 7 MSEK 2017 2016 Total 31,394 28,631 19,958 17,988 Sweden 8,785 8,671 Rest of Europe 2,729 3,124 Operating expenses North America 1,406 1,387 The income statement is classified according to function as follows: Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufacturing Latin America 2,550 1,983 costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, premises, and the Asia 3,964 2,392 depreciation/amortisation and write-down of intangible and tangible fixed assets Africa 319 273 other than self-financed capitalised development cost (see below). CustomerAustralia, etc. 205 158 financed research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold. Total 19,958 17,988 Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, Group Management and staff functions as well as expenses attributable to business area and business unit managements. Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and sales NOTE 5 SALES DISTRIBUTION AND organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and development costs are recognised separately and comprise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development as well as amortisation of capitalised development costs. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Other operating revenue and expenses relate to secondary activities, Sales exchange rate differences on items of an operating nature, changes in the value Revenue is measured at the fair value of what is received or will be received after of derivatives of an operating nature and capital gains/losses on the sale of deducting sales tax, returns, discounts or other similar deductions. tangible fixed assets. Also included at the Group level are capital gains/losses on the sale of subsidiaries and associated companies and joint ventures. Long-term customer contracts A large part of the Group’s operations comprises long-term customer contracts. Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manufacture of Operating expenses classified by the type of cost, excluding other operating complex systems that stretch over several reporting periods. income and expenses, are distributed as follows: For long-term customer contracts where the outcome can be calculated reli­ ably, revenue and expenditures attributable to the assignment are recognised in Group the consolidated income statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of MSEK 2017 2016 ­completion, i.e., according to the percentage of completion method. Materials and components 6,972 7,497 The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship betPurchased services 3,916 2,955 ween expenditures incurred for services rendered as of the closing day and estimated total expenditures. Of the estimated total revenue for an assignment, the Personnel costs 12,604 11,642 portion corresponding to the stage of completion is recognised in each period. Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs 884 932 The stage of completion can also be determined in certain cases based on Other external costs 4,842 3,900 milestones or deliveries. Total 29,218 26,926 An anticipated loss is recognised in profit or loss as soon as it is identified. Recognised subcontracting revenue for which the customer has not yet been invoiced is recognised as a receivable from that customer. All projects in proDepreciation/amortisation and write-downs include write-downs and reversal of gress from customers for whom invoiced amounts exceed project expenses write-downs on inventory. and reported profits are recognised as liabilities to those customers. Sale of goods The sale of goods includes goods manufactured by Saab and goods purchased for resale, e.g. spare parts and other equipment that are sold separately. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in profit or loss when the significant risks and benefits associated with ownership have been transferred to the buyer, when it is considered likely that payment will be received and the revenue and related expenses can be calculated reliably. Service assignments Service assignments refer to the performance of a service on behalf of a customer during a contractual period, e.g., consulting and support services. Revenue from service assignments rendered on current account is recognised when the services are rendered. Revenue from services rendered as part of fixedprice contracts is recognised in accordance with the principles that apply to long-term customer contracts. Revenue is recognised only if it is likely that the economic benefits will accrue to the Group. 88 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Leasing fees for assets obtained via operating leases Leasing fees refer mainly to premises, computers and cars. Group Parent Company The Group also has a finance lease on a building and an aircraft, see note 18. MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Gain from other operating Group activities 20 28 Premises­ and Machinery­ and Insurance compensation 17 15 10 14 MSEK buildings equipment ­ Capital gain on realised Outcome accumulated translation 2016 300 147 ­differences 15 2017 344 157 Government grants 9 13 8 11 Trading results 8 7 8 7 Contracted Gain from revaluation of 2018 362 95 earn out liability 7 2019 330 46 Gain on sale of tangible 2020 288 14 fixed assets 6 3 6 2021 245 6 Gain on sale of Group 2022 174 4 ­companies 49 2023 and forward 454 1 Exchange rate gains on operating ­ Total contracted 1,853 166 receivables/liabilities 36 28 Other 22 50 18 16 Parent Company Total 104 201 50 76 Premises­ and Machinery­ and MSEK buildings­ equipment Outcome Trading result refers to the result in Saab Treasury from trading in interest rate and currency instruments according to the risk mandate approved by the Board of 2016 222 110 Directors; see note 38. 2017 250 108 Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside Contracted core operations and net rental income from property rentals. 2018 287 57 2019 277 25 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 2020 247 5 2021 219 1 2022 150 Group Parent Company 2023 and forward 416 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total contracted 1,596 88 Change in value of derivatives and exchange rate losses on operating receivables/ l­iabilities -55 -30 -9 Loss on sale and disposal of NOTE 9 GOVERNMENT GRANTS tangible and intangible fixed assets -22 -14 -13 -17 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Loss from other operating Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from EU related to activities -2 -4 research and development projects. These are recognised when there is reasoOther -8 -22 -21 nable certainty that the grant will be received and that the Group will meet the Total -87 -70 -22 -38 conditions associated with the grant. Government grants are systematically recognised in the income statement in the same way and over the same periods as the expenses for which the grants are intended to compensate. Government Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside grants related to assets are recognised in the statement of financial position core operations. as a reduction in the asset’s carrying amount. For 2017, MSEK 36 (42) has been received. MSEK 34 (28) has been recognised NOTE 8 LEASE ­AGREEMENTS through profit or loss by reducing research and development expenditures and as other operating income. In the statement of financial position at year-end, MSEK 29 (27) is recognised as prepaid income. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have reached Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or operating an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in leasing. Finance leasing exists when the economic risks and benefits tied to ownerthe Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised ship are essentially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is operating leasing. at MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2017, the National Debt Office has paid out a net amount of MSEK 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2017 amounted to MSEK 132 (137), which reduces inventory in the financial statements. No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 89 F inancial statements NOTE 10 EMPLOYEES AND STAFF COSTS Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses The average number of employees in 2017 amounted to 15,935 (14,890), of whom 78 per cent (78) were men. A complete list of the number of employees by country 2017 2016 has been sent to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and can be downSalaries Social Salaries Social loaded at www.saabgroup.com, Investor, Financial Data. and other security and other security MSEK remuneration expenses remuneration expenses Average number of employees1) Parent Company 4,914 2,482 4,718 2,350 of whom of whom of which pension 2017 men 2016 men costs1) 924 868 Group companies 4,055 1,153 3,592 982 Parent company of which pension Sweden 8,837 78% 8,460 79% costs2) 408 358 Rest of Europe 61 80% 58 76% Group, total 8,969 3,635 8,310 3,332 North America 19 68% 17 76% of which pension Latin America 23 83% 5 60% costs3) 1,332 1,226 Asia 67 90% 69 90% 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 14 (14) referred to the Parent Company’s Board and Africa 49 92% 44 91% President, including deputies and Executive Vice President. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals, amount to MSEK 19 (21), of which MSEK 19 (21) referred to former Parent company, total 9,056 78% 8,653 79% Board members and President, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. 2) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding defined-benefit plans Group companies between Parent Company and Group. See notes 1 and 34 for more information. 3) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 22 (21) referred to the Group’s and Group companies’ Boards Sweden 4,075 78% 3,610 78% and Presidents. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amounted to Rest of Europe 870 81% 842 82% MSEK 19 (21), of which MSEK 19 (21) referred to former board members and Presidents. North America 653 75% 615 75% Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, Latin America 24 63% 19 53% President and Executive Vice Presidents and other employees Asia 141 78% 121 79% Africa 797 71% 734 72% 2017 2016 Australia, etc 319 82% 296 82% Board, Board, Group companies, total 6,879 77% 6,237 77% President President and Execuand ExecuGroup, total 15,935 78% 14,890 78% tive Vice Other tive Vice Other 1) The average number of employees has been calculated as an average of the number of Full Time MSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees Equivalents (FTE). The term Full-Time Equivalents excludes long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationers are however included in the calculation. Parent Company 31 4,883 30 4,688 Group companies 70 3,985 71 3,521 Gender distribution of corporate management Group, total 101 8,868 101 8,209 Parent Company Share of women, per cent 2017 2016 Of the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, MSEK 30 Board of Directors 40 30 (25) referred to senior executives other than Board members, the President and Other senior executives 38 27 Executive Vice Presidents. For information on post-employment benefits, see note 34. SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS Remuneration to Board members In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees paid to members of the Board, for the term April 2017 – April 2018, amount to SEK 6,180,000 (5,960,000), consisting of SEK 1,550,000 (1,430,000) to the Chairman, SEK 640,000 (610,000) to the Deputy Chairman and SEK 570,000 (560,000) to each of the other members elected by the Annual General Meeting, with the exception of the President. For audit committee work during the term April 2017 – April 2018, committee chairman Joakim Westh also received a fee of SEK 225,000 (Per-Arne Sandström 200,000) and committee members Erika Söderberg Johnson and Daniel Nodhäll each received a fee of SEK 150,000 (Johan Forsell and Joakim Westh 135,000 each). For remuneration committee work, during the term April 2017 – April 2018, committee chairman Sten Jakobsson also received a fee of SEK 135,000 (Lena Treschow Torell 135,000) and committee members Marcus Wallenberg SEK 80,000 (80,000) and Bert Nordberg received a fee of SEK 80,000 (Sten Jakobsson 80,000). Remuneration to Board members and committee members recognised as cost for fiscal year 2017 is shown in the table on page 92. 90 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 10, cont. Remuneration to the President As of May 2017, all eligible executives participate in Saab’s Special Projects IncenThe remuneration to the President and CEO consists of a fixed salary. No shorttive 2017 resolved by Annual General Meeting 2017 as a complement to the Perterm variable remuneration is paid. The preparation process for compensation formance Share Plan 2016. In December 2017, the one-year performance period issues regarding the President is handled by the Board’s Remuneration Committee concluded for Saab’s Special Projects Incentive 2017. The Board determined that according to the principles laid down by the Annual General Meeting and then seven of the eight performance targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of voted on by the Board. 87.5 per cent. Performance shares will be allotted in May 2020. Outstanding matHåkan Buskhe has participated since 1 September 2010 in the Performance ching rights in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2013 Share Plans approved by each Annual General Meeting from 2009 to 2016 and in amounted as of 31 December 2017 to SEK 624,855 (3,923,300) at estimated outthe Share Matching Plans for 2011-2016. As of May 2017, Håkan Buskhe has particomes, in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2014 to cipated in Saab’s Special Projects Incentive resolved by the Annual General MeeSEK 2,882,456 (2,629,207) at estimated outcomes, in Saab’s Performance Share ting 2017 as a complement to the Performance Share Plan 2016. In December Plan and Share Matching Plan 2015 to SEK 2,423,750 (915,983) at estimated out2017, the one-year performance period concluded for Saab’s Special Projects comes, and in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2016 and Incentive 2017. The Board determined that seven of the eight performance targets Special Projects Incentive 2017 to SEK 3,335,477 at estimated outcomes. had been met, resulting in an outcome of 87.5 per cent. Performance shares will be In 2017, other senior executives received salaries and other benefits totalling allotted in May 2020. SEK 50,679,766 (41,987,229), of which other benefits, including share related Outstanding matching rights in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matplans, amounted to SEK 9,739,628 (7,204,460). ching Plan 2013 amounted to SEK 554,363 (2,600,965) as of 31 December 2017 at estimated outcomes and in Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Pension terms Plan 2014 to SEK 2,462,517 (1,392,788) at estimated outcomes. Corresponding As of 1 January 2005, a pension age of 62 years applies to all other senior execu­ figures for Saab’s Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan 2015 are tives. However, two persons have a pension age according to existing law and SEK 1,882,252 (478,142) at estimated outcomes, and Saab’s Performance Share collective agreement. Plan together with the Share Matching Plan 2016 and Special Projects Incentive In addition to ITP, 10 members (9) of the group are affiliated with the Saab plan, 2017 amounted to SEK 1 736,598 at estimated outcomes. which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pension benefits During the period 1 January through 31 December 2017, Håkan Buskhe receiin addition to ITP or its equivalent on salary levels between 20 and 30 basic ved salary and other benefits totalling SEK 18,814,165 (16,575,461), of which other amounts as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The individuals benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 5,106,662 (2,964,874). themselves can decide on the payment term, though within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. Moreover, an insurance policy finances the period between Pension terms the agreed pension age, 62 years, and 65 years. The retirement age for the President is 62 years. The President has a defined-conThe pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based on tribution pension plan and may decide himself on the payment term, though within a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by each the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The pension cost for Saab consists of executive’s time remaning untill agreed pension age, 62 years, when joining the pension premiums amounting to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. Pension premiums plan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted pension from 65 are paid as long as the President remains an employee of the company, but not years of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic beyond the age of 62. amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over 30 basic amounts of To this is added the cost of pension premiums according to the ITP plan. The qualifying salaries. Premium payments continue as long as the individuals remain in pension commitment is vested. their positions or as employees of the company. For 2017, the cost of Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including ITP, was SEK 4,979,931 Pension obligations are vested. In 2017, pension costs for other senior execu­ (4,808,228). tives, including ITP and its equivalent, amounted to SEK 14,748,622 (13,277,774). Other senior executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to Severance terms retire on pension as of the agreed retirement age of 62 years. If terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension benefits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive seveSeverance terms and severance pay rance pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed salary. If the If terminated by the company, the group of other senior executives normally rece­ President does not obtain new employment, he will receive an additional six ives salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter months of severance pay. The severance will be deducted from income received 10 senior executives receive severance pay, according to agreement, equivalent to from other employment during the same period. If the President resigns voluntarily, a maximum of 18 months of salary, based on their fixed salary. Severance is paid there is a six-month period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no sevemonthly with the first payment in the month after the employment has ended. rance pay. The President’s agreement includes a non-compete clause. Severance is not paid for the period falling after the contractual pension age. Executives hired before 1 January 2005 who have reached the age of 55 are Remuneration to other senior executives ­entitled to an additional six months of severance. Together, the term of notice The group of other senior executives included 12 individuals (10) at 31 December and severance may not exceed 24 months. 2017: the Executive Vice Presidents, the Heads of the Business Areas and the The severance will be deducted from income received from other employment Heads of Group staffs. At 31 December 2017, Group Management was comprised during the same period. If they resign voluntarily, there is a six-month period of of Håkan Buskhe (President), Micael Johansson, Magnus Örnberg, Görgen Johansnotice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. son, Anders Carp, Jonas Hjelm, Gunnar Wieslander, Ann-Kristin Adolfsson, Ellen Molin, Annika Bäremo, Jessica Öberg, Sebastian Carlsson, and Lena Eliasson. Other benefits The remuneration paid to other senior executives consists of a fixed salary. No All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. Several senior short-term variable remuneration is paid. Compensation issues regarding the other executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing and travel. senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group Human Resources and presented to the President, who makes a decision pending the approval of the Compensation Committee and the Board. As of November 2008, all eligible executives participate in Saab’sPerformance Share Plans resolved by each Annual General Meeting from 2009 through 2016 as well as the Share Matching Plans 2011-2016. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 91 F inancial statements Note 10, cont. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2017 Outstanding matching rights in Base salary/ Share share related Board and related Pension plans at estimated SEK committee fee plans3) Other ­benefits2) cost Total outcomes3) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,600,000 1,600,0001) Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 753,750 753,750 Other Board members Sara Mazur 567,500 567,5001) Johan Forssell 173,750 173,750 Per-Arne Sandström 190,000 190,0001) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 567,500 567,5001) Lena Treschow Torell 173,750 173,7501) Joakim Westh 770,000 770,0001) Bert Nordberg 627,500 627,5001) Danica Kragic Jensfelt 427,500 427,500 Daniel Nodhäll 540,000 540,000 Erika Söderberg Johnson 540,000 540,0001) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 13,707,503 4,970,946 135,716 4,979,931 23,794,096 6,635,730 Other senior executives 40,940,138 7,918,850 1,820,788 14,748,622 65,428,388 9,266,537 Total 61,578,891 12,889,796 1,956,494 19,728,553 96,153,734 15,902,267 1) Social security costs are additional, since the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice their Board and Committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount may not exceed the employer’s contribution that the company otherwise would have paid. 2) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 3) Share related plans relate to Share Matching Plans, Performance Share Plans and Special Projects Incentive. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2016 Outstanding matching rights in Base salary/ Share share related Board and related Pension plans at estimated SEK committee fee plans3) Other ­benefits2) cost Total outcomes3) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,502,500 1,502,5001) Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 687,500 687,500 Other Board members Sara Mazur 557,500 557,500 Johan Forssell 688,750 688,750 Per-Arne Sandström 752,500 752,5001) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 557,500 557,5001) Lena Treschow Torell 692,500 692,5001) Joakim Westh 688,750 688,7501) Bert Nordberg 420,000 420,0001) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 13,610,587 2,751,150 213,724 4,808,228 21,383,689 4,547,886 Other senior executives 34,782,769 4,802,000 2,402,460 13,277,774 55,265,003 7,628,211 Total 54,940,856 7,553,150 2,616,184 18,086,002 83,196,192 12,176,097 1) Social security costs are additional, since the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice their Board and Committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount may not exceed the employer’s contribution that the company otherwise would have paid. 2) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 3) Share related plans relate to both Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. 92 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 10, cont. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT results and position, conditions in the stock market and other circumstances. If it ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES determines that this is not the case, the Board of Directors will reduce the number Share-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including of performance shares that will be matched to the lower number of shares it consisenior executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or ders appropriate. other equity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value at Performance shares are allotted three years after the investment. Currently, Perthe time these plans were issued and the consideration received. This remuneraformance Share Plans 2014-2018 are ongoing. tion is recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the extent the vestSince April 2017, Saab has introduced a new programme, the Special Projects ing conditions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as the price of the Incentive, as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The Special Projects company’s shares), they are taken into consideration in determining the fair value Incentive is directed at a maximum of 45 key employees, including the President. of the plan. Other conditions (such as earnings per share) affect staff costs Participation in the new programme presupposes participation in the Performance during the vesting period by changing the number of shares or share-related Share Plan or the Share Matching Plan. The programme entitles the employee to instruments that are expected to be paid. allotment of performance shares corresponding to 15-52.5 per cent of the cash Saab has a Share Matching Plan where all permanent employees are entitled to base salary for the current financial year depending on group affiliation, provided participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recognised that the employment remains for three years and that performance targets are during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The employees reached. Performance shares are allotted after three years based on the achievepay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the investment ment during the current financial year of eight equally weighted performance tardate. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted as many shagets related to Saab’s special projects within selected product areas. For the res as they purchased three years earlier, provided that they are still employees ­President and other members of the Group Management, the total allotment of of the Saab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In certain countries, shares in the new programme and the Performance Share Plan together amounts social security expenses are paid on the value of the employee’s benefit when to a maximum of 75 per cent of the cash base salary for the President and 60 per matching takes place. During the vesting period, provisions are allocated for cent of the cash base salary for the other members of the Group Management. these estimated social security expenses. Share repurchases to fulfil the comThe programme covers a maximum of 80,000 Series B shares in Saab. mitments of Saab’s Share Matching Plans are recognised in equity. 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as exchange rate ­differences. In addition, there is a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and other 2) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. key employees that entitles them to performance shares, depending on the 3) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. 4) The programmes 2014-2016 comprised 440,000 shares employee category to which they belong, as well as a Special Projects Incentive, as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The plans entitle the employee to performance shares depending on group affiliation, provided that they are still EVENTS 2017 employed after three years and that the performance targets were met. 2013 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan Long-term incentive programme In the Share Matching Plan 2013, shares were matched three times in 2017 and The Annual General Meeting of Saab has resolved for a number of years to offer a once in January 2018, for a total of 330,071 shares, after which the plan was clolong-term incentive programme consisting of two parts: a Share Matching Plan and sed. Following the conclusion of the measurement period for the Performance a Performance Share Plan. The Board considers it important that Saab’s employees Share Plan 2013, on 31 December 2016, it was determined that the requirement share a long-term interest in the appreciation of the company’s shares. In April 2017, of annual average earnings per share growth of 5-15 per cent had been achieved the Annual General Meeting also resolved to introduce a third plan, the Special Produring the three-year period. The Board of Directors approved performance matjects Incentive, as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The plans are now ching and participants received the maximum matching award. Performance matdesignated by calendar year, which corresponds to the savings period. The longching took place on three occasions in 2017 and once in January 2018 with a total term incentive programme comprises not more than 1,340,000 Series B shares in of 78,568 shares. The plan is closed. Saab per year. Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the opportunity to participate in 2014 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan the Share Matching Plan. Employees can withhold up to 5 per cent of their gross base In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2018 and once salary to purchase Series B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelve-month in February 2019. After the end of the one-year performance period for the Perforperiod. Provided that a participant retains the purchased shares for three years after mance Share Plan 2014, on 31 December 2015, it was determined that the targets the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the participant will be had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares free of charge. Currently, Share match­ing as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2018 Matching Plans 2014–2018 are in place. and once in February 2019. Since 2008, Saab also has a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and key employees. Outcome Performance Reported performance In April 2014, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to modify the Performance Share Plan 2014 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % Share Plan to increase the interest in the target group. The Performance Share Plan now covers a maximum of 175 key employees, including the President. Participants Organic sales growth 11% 73 30 22 can save up to 7.5 per cent of their base salary to purchase Series B shares during a EBIT margin1) 6.7% 60 40 24 twelve-month period, while participating in the Share Matching Plan as well, but only Free cash flow 2) MSEK -807 30 up to a maximum of 5 per cent of base salary. Depending on which category they Total allotment 46 belong to, participants are entitled to 2–7 performance shares for each purchased 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items, including restructuring share. costs related to the reorganisation of the former business area Security and Defence Participants are entitled to matching of performance shares, free of consideration, Solutions for the full year 2015. provided that the performance targets are achieved and the participants have retai2) Previously named operating cash flow. Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments of operations, group ned the purchased shares for three years after the investment date and remain and associated companies. employed by the Saab Group. The number of performance shares is linked to the performance targets esta2015 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan blished by the Board of Directors. The terms for the performance matching are In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2019 and once based on three independent targets for a one-year performance period: organic in February 2020. After the end of the one-year performance period for the Perforsales growth1), EBIT margin2) and free cash flow3). The relative apportionment betmance Share Plan 2015, on 31 December 2016, it was determined that the targets ween the targets is as follows: 30 per cent of the allotment is attributable to organic had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance matsales growth, 40 per cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to free cash flow. The perching as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2019 and formance targets are established by the Board of Directors with a minimum and once in February 2020. maximum level for each target. The Board of Directors decides on the performance matching after the end of the one-year performance period. If the maximum levels Outcome for the performance targets are reached or exceeded, the performance matching Performance Reported performance will amount to (and not exceed) the maximum of 360,0004) shares. If the perforShare Plan 2015 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % mance outcome falls short of the maximum level but exceeds the minimum level, a Organic sales growth 5% 73 30 22 linear proportionate performance matching will occur. No performance matching EBIT margin 6.3% 10 40 4 will occur if the performance outcome is equal to or below the minimum level. Free cash flow MSEK 2,359 100 30 30 Before the performance matching is ultimately determined, the Board of Directors will assess whether it is reasonable in relation to the company’s financial Total allotment 56 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 93 F inancial statements Note 10, cont. 2016 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan Share Matching Plan In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2020 and once (number of shares in in February 2021. After the end of the one-year performance period for the Perforthousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total mance Share Plan 2016, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that the targets Number of matching shares had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance mateligible at ­beginning of the ching as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2020 and year 349 418 307 1,074 once in February 2021. Allotted during the year (purchased shares) 56 287 343 Outcome Performance Reported performance Early share matching -6 -8 -6 -1 -21 Share Plan 2016 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % Ordinary share matching -278 -278 Organic sales growth 10% 58 30 17 Forfeited -6 -12 -12 -5 -35 EBIT margin 6.9% 40 Number of matching Free cash flow MSEK 852 100 30 30 shares eligible at year-end 59 398 345 281 1,083 Number of participants, Total allotment 47 31-12-2017 3,088 4,354 4,900 6,255 % of total number of 2017 Special Projects Incentive employees 19 27 31 39 After the end of the one-year performance period for the Special Projects IncenAverage remaining tive (SPI) 2017, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that seven of the eight maturity, years 0,0 0,8 1,8 2,8 performance targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of 87.5 per cent of the aggregate performance targets. Performance Share Plan The eight performance targets in SPI 2017 were operating goals and milestones (number of shares in related to the product areas Gripen, AEW&C and submarines. The milestones conthousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total sisted, for example, of various steps in a development project that were essential to Number of matching shares its implementation. The targets were tied to among other things construction and eligible at ­beginning of the design approvals in the Critical Design Reviews and Test Readiness Reviews. There year 48 44 34 126 were also performance targets tied to the physical delivery of key subsystems or Allotted during the year maiden flight of a new platform. Due to the nature of the defence industry, further (purchased shares) 6 29 35 information on the individual performance targets cannot be provided. Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external audiEarly share matching -2 -1 -1 -4 tor, PwC. Ordinary share matching -38 -38 The Board of Directors resolved to allot 87.5 per cent of the maximum allotment Forfeited -2 -2 of performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2017 will be deliNumber of matching vered in May 2020. shares eligible at year-end 8 41 39 29 117 Number of participants, 2018 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and 31-12-2017 133 129 145 155 Special Projects Incentive. Average remaining In April 2017, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved as in previous years to offer maturity, years 0,0 0.8 1.8 2.8 employees the opportunity to participate in a Long-Term Incentive Programme, LTI 2018, consisting of a Share Matching Plan and a Performance Share Plan with Total number of shares the same terms as previous programmes. eligible at year-end In November 2017, Saab’s Board of Directors also proposed a Special Projects (number of shares in Incentive 2018 with the same terms as the Special Projects Incentive 2017. The thousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total introduction of and notification of participation in the Special Projects Incentive Share Matching Plan 59 398 345 281 1,083 2018 in November 2017 is contingent on the resolution of the Annual General Meeting in April 2018. Any performance shares in the Special Projects Incentive Performance Share Plan 8 41 39 29 117 2018 will be allotted in February 2021. All the plans started in January 2018 and Less: Shares included in expire in February 2022. The performance period for the two performance related both plans -8 -41 -39 -29 -117 plans is the calendar year 2018. Total 59 398 345 281 1,083 Recognised expense for above-mentioned plans, Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, ­including social security expenses, MSEK 2017 2016 Share Matching Plans, 2013–2016 Share Matching Plan 2012 36 Number of Number of Share Matching Plan shares participants Share Matching Plan 2013 34 35 Share Matching Plan 2014 49 46 2013 389,346 3,781 Share Matching Plan 2015 48 17 2014 448,921 4,997 Share Matching Plan 2016 20 2015 369,530 5,310 Performance Share Plan 2013 6 6 2016 286,715 6,501 Performance Share Plan 2014 7 6 Performance Share Plan 2015 9 3 Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Performance Share Plan 2016 3 Performance Share Plans, 2013–2016 Number of Number of Special Projects Incentive 2017 7 Performance Share Plan shares participants Total 183 149 2013 53,307 164 2014 48,935 145 The expense for the share matching plans is included in operating income and is 2015 41,135 151 recognised in the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social security expenses). Administrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to 2016 29,165 155 MSEK 5 (4) in 2017. The expense is based on the share price of the matching shares that are expected to be allotted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants’ investment adjusted by the dividend that does not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. 94 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 11  UDITORS’ FEES AND A NOTE 13 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES COMPENSATION Group Group Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest income on loans receivable 49 33 PwC Financial income from revaluation and disposal of Audit assignments 20 18 11 10 financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 64 48 where of PwC Sweden 14 Other financial income 8 9 Audit work in excess of the audit assignment 2 4 2 4 Financial income 121 90 where of PwC Sweden 2 Tax advice 1 Interest expenses on loans and financial liabilities -149 -109 Other services 1 1 Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value where of PwC Sweden 1 through profit or loss -62 Financial expenses related to pensions -69 -60 Other audit firms Other financial expenses -54 -45 Audit assignments 3 3 Financial expenses -272 -276 Total 26 26 14 14 Net financial income and expenses -151 -186 where of PwC Sweden 17 Result from shares in Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that was Result from shares in associated companies/ necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with the audit Parent Company Group companies joint ventures assignment. MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opinions and other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and which are Dividends 73 1,131 normally performed by the external auditor, including consultations on advisory Group contributions and reporting requirements, internal control and the review of interim reports. For ­received 470 276 2017, the external auditors’ assignment as mandated by law amounted to a Capital gain on sale negligible sum. of shares 75 6 11 Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignments, Write-downs -13 -1,058 audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. Other -5 6 Total 525 430 6 11 NOTE 12 D  EPRECIATION/AMORTISATION Result from other ­securities and ­receivables Other interest ­ AND WRITE-DOWNS held income and similar profit/ Parent Company as fixed assets loss items Group MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 MSEK 2017 2016 Interest income, Depreciation/amortisation Group companies 82 75 Capitalised development costs -160 -311 Other interest income 38 35 Other intangible fixed assets -124 -142 Dividend 5 1 Operating properties -92 -92 Translation differences 29 -14 Plant and machinery -240 -223 Net change in value from revaluation of financial Equipment, tools and installations -223 -178 assets/liabilities 21 17 Total -839 -946 Other -31 -20 Total 24 -16 120 110 Parent Company Interest expenses and MSEK 2017 2016 Parent Company similar profit/loss items Depreciation/amortisation MSEK 2017 2016 Capitalised development costs -56 -200 Interest expenses, Group companies -12 -11 Goodwill -40 -40 Other interest expenses -144 -207 Other intangible fixed assets -75 -96 Total -156 -218 Buildings -57 -58 Plant and machinery -134 -121 Equipment, tools and installations -129 -116 Total -491 -631 No write-downs were recognised during 2017 or 2016. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 95 F inancial statements NOTE 14 APPROPRIATIONS Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 Parent Company Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) MSEK 2017 2016 Taxes for the year -224 -70 Buildings and land -2 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 17 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, tools and installations -52 -49 Total -207 -70 Total difference between tax depreciation and Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) depreciation according to plan -52 -51 Deferred tax related to temporary differences -2 -3 Tax allocation reserve 41 -90 Deferred tax related to previous years -8 Total -11 -141 Total -10 -3 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -217 -73 NOTE 15 TAXES Reconciliation of effective tax Group ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES MSEK 2017 (%) 2017 2016 (%) 2016 Income taxes are recognised in profit or loss and consist of current tax and deferred tax. When the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive Income before taxes 2,004 1,611 income, for example the revaluation of the net pension obligations, the related tax Tax according to current tax effect is also recognised in other comprehensive income. rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -441 -22.0 -354 Current tax is the tax paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates Effect of other tax rates for that have been set as of the closing day. Adjustment is made for current tax attriforeign operations -0.7 -15 -0.4 -7 butable to previous periods. Effect on changed tax rate -4.0 -80 Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on Non-deductible expenses -2.1 -42 -3.8 -61 temporary differences. Temporary differences constitute the difference between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. Tax-exempt income 1.5 30 3.5 57 Deductible temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial Revaluation of deferred tax reporting of assets and liabilities other than a business combination and which, assets -3.7 -60 at the time of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxable result. Tax on utilisation of preMoreover, temporary differences are not taken into account if they are attributaviously non-capitalised tax ble to shares in subsidiaries, associated companies, and joint ventures that are loss carry forwards -1.0 -20 -0.4 -6 not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of deferTax related to previous years 0.1 2 -0.1 -2 red tax is based on how assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Other -0.1 -3 Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have been set as of the closing day. Reported effective tax -28.2 -566 -27.0 -436 Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be utilised. The The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law on value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that 22 December 2017 and introduces significant changes in US tax laws taking effect they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against deferred tax liabilities on 1 January 2018. Also some states changed their tax laws. The Saab Group is when the receivable and liability refer to the same tax authority. affected by these changes due to its US operations. In accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes, the deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to the US operations have been remeasured based on the changes in tax rates in the Act. Due to Tax recognised through profit or loss the fact that the US operations mainly have deferred tax assets, the total effect is Net tax is comprised of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated based a deferred tax expense of MSEK 80. on applicable tax laws in the countries in which parent company and subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. Capital gains/losses from sale of Group companies, associated companies and other shares have affected tax-exempt income by MSEK 0 (51). Group MSEK 2017 2016 Parent Company Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) MSEK 2017 (%) 2017 2016 (%) 2016 Taxes for the year -412 -144 Income before taxes 866 170 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 6 3 Tax according to current tax Total -406 -141 rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -190 -22.0 -37 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Tax allocated to foreign Deferred tax related to temporary differences -74 -252 operations -2.0 -17 -5.0 -9 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss carry forwards Non-deductible expenses -5.1 -44 -184.1 -313 capitalised during the year 26 21 Tax-exempt income 3.0 26 168.2 286 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously Tax related to previous years 0.9 8 capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -108 -59 Reported effective tax -25.1 -217 -42.9 -73 Deferred tax related to previous years -4 -5 Total -160 -295 Total recognised tax in the Group -566 -436 The Group’s overall deferred tax amounted to MSEK -160 (-295) and current tax expense for the year amounted to MSEK -406 (-141), producing a total recognised tax of MSEK -566 (-436) in the consolidated income statement. The effect on deferred tax related to changed tax rates amounted to MSEK -80 in total. Temporary differences amounted to MSEK -34 and utilisation of balanced loss carry forward amounted to MSEK -46. The table “Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry ­forwards” for the Group, on page 97, specifies how deferred tax affected income. 96 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 15, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Deferred Intangible Tangible Provisions Tax ContinTax loss tax assets/ fixed fixed Inven­ for Other allocation gency carry Tax liabilities, Group, MSEK assets assets tories pensions provisions reserves reserve 1) forwards Other Total set-off net Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 -309 -466 257 617 307 -390 -299 354 246 317 317 Recognised in profit or loss -87 -6 -30 13 -116 -19 -38 -12 -295 -295 Recognised in other comprehensive income 137 39 176 176 Acquisition/divestment of operations -8 2 1 -5 -5 Translation differences -5 -4 10 1 3 20 4 29 29 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 -409 -474 237 768 194 -409 -299 337 277 222 222 Of which, deferred tax assets 2 7 237 768 195 337 430 1,976 -1,724 252 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -411 -481 -1 -409 -299 -153 -1,754 1,724 -30 Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 -409 -474 237 768 194 -409 -299 337 277 222 222 Recognised in profit or loss -131 -12 -9 23 -9 8 79 -82 -27 -160 -160 Recognised in other comprehensive income 43 -137 -94 -94 Acquisition/divestment of operations -5 -4 -1 -10 -10 Translation differences 3 1 -6 -1 -2 -14 -2 -21 -21 Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 -542 -489 222 833 183 -402 -220 241 111 -63 -63 Of which, deferred tax assets 3 13 222 833 184 241 275 1,771 -1,560 211 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -545 -502 -1 -402 -220 -164 -1,834 1,560 -274 1) Attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB. The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the 2017 income statement amounted to MSEK -160 (-295). The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the statement of comprehensive income amounted to MSEK -94 (176). The ­closing balance on 31 December 2017, MSEK -63 (222), consisted of deferred tax assets of MSEK 211 (252) and tax liabilities of MSEK -274 (-30). The net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisition/ divestment of operations and translation differences, amounted to MSEK -82 (-38), which is the amount of deferred tax on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, MSEK 26 (21), and deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously ­capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, MSEK -108 (-59). Other numbers in the ”Recognised in profit or loss” row in the table above amounted to MSEK -78 (-257), which is the amount of deferred tax related to temporary differences and deferred tax attributable to previous years. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 97 F inancial statements Note 15, cont. Tax items recognised directly against other comprehensive income Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax assets Group MSEK Group Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets expected to be Provisions for pensions 43 137 recovered within one year 135 59 Cash flow hedges -137 39 Deferred tax assets expected to be Total -94 176 recovered after one year 1,636 262 Expiration of recognised and unrecognised Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax liabilities tax loss carry forwards in the Group MSEK Group Parent Company Recognised Unrecognised tax Deferred tax liabilities due for payment MSEK tax loss carry loss carry within one year 168 30 Expiration forwards forwards Deferred tax liabilities due for payment Unlimited expiration 690 153 after one year 1,665 188 2024 17 2031 169 2032 2034 134 4 NOTE 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE Total tax loss carry forwards 1,014 153 2017 2016 Recognised deferred tax asset 241 Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 1,407 1,133 Tax loss carry forwards attributable to the US operations can be utilised through Weighted average number of common shares 2034, but expire in part as of 2031. Due to the changes in US tax laws, the tax loss outstanding­: carry forwards attributable to the US operations have been calculated based on before dilution (thousands) 106,602 106,164 the changed tax rates. The deferred tax asset related to the US tax loss carry forafter dilution (thousands) 107,401 106,907 wards have been reduced with approximately MSEK 46. Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 13.20 10.67 At the close of 2017, the Saab Group’s unrecognised tax loss carry forwards amounted to MSEK 153 (62). Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 13.10 10.60 The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to the total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased treasury Deferred Deferred tax shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after dilution is based Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities on the effects of all potential shares (Share Matching Plan and Performance Share MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 Net Plan) that give rise to a dilution effect. Tangible fixed assets -218 -218 Inventories 98 98 Accounts receivable 3 3 Provisions for pensions 124 124 Other provisions 52 52 Long-term liabilities 2 2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 42 42 Tax assets/liabilities, total 321 -218 103 Set-off -218 218 Tax assets/liabilities, net 103 103 Deferred Deferred tax Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities MSEK 31-12-2016 31-12-2016 Net Tangible fixed assets -206 -206 Inventories 95 95 Accounts receivable 2 2 Provisions for pensions 98 98 Other provisions 53 53 Long-term liabilities 2 2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 44 44 Tax assets/liabilities, total 294 -206 88 Set-off -206 206 Tax assets/liabilities, net 88 88 The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, Saab AB, has been recognised in profit or loss. 98 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 17 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill The carrying amount of intangible fixed assets is tested on each closing day for Goodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for impairany indication of impairment. If an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable ment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of associated amount is calculated. companies and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the shares in the For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate period of associated company and joint venture. use and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable values are In acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost calculated annually in the fourth quarter. of the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in the The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest acquisition analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit or loss. plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated with the specific asset. Research and development If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual assets, Expenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or techthe assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independent cash nological knowledge are expensed when incurred. flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss is recognised Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowledge when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recois applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as an asset verable value. Impairment losses are charged against the income statement. in the statement of financial position from the time when the product or process Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) are in the future is expected to be technically and commercially usable, the company mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately among has sufficient resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell other assets in the unit (the pool of units). the intangible asset, and the product or process is likely to generate future ecoImpairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses from other assets nomic benefits. The carrying amount includes expenditures for material, direct are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as the expenditures for salaries and, if applicable, other expenditures that are considebasis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to the extent red directly attributable to the asset. Other expenditures for development are the carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not exceed the recognised in profit or loss as an expense when they arise. Development expencarrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment had not been ditures are recognised in the statement of financial position at cost less accumurecognised, taking into account the depreciation or amortisation that would lated amortisation and any impairment losses. Customer-financed research and have been recognised. development is recognised in cost of goods sold rather than capitalised. Group Parent Company Other intangible fixed assets MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Other intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as trademarks Goodwill 5,177 5,196 333 373 and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation Capitalised development and any impairment losses. costs 2,360 1,652 56 Other intangible assets 325 246 209 116 Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ estiTotal 7,862 7,094 542 545 mated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. Intangible fixed assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with indeterminate Goodwill periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available for use. Estimated Group Parent Company periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 • Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: 5–10 Acquisition value years on a straight line basis. • Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development costs Opening balance, 1 January 5,893 5,742 784 784 are amortised on a straight line basis or based on estimated production Business combinations 75 35 volume, but over a maximum period of 10 years. Production volume is set Translation differences -94 116 using future sales projections according to a business plan based on identiClosing balance, fied business opportunities. Acquired development costs are amortised on a 31 December­ 5,874 5,893 784 784 straight line basis over a maximum of 10 years. Amortisation and • Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maximum write-downs 20 years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested for Opening balance, 1 January -697 -697 -411 -371 impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminished value. Amortisation for the year -40 -40 Closing balance, 31 December­ -697 -697 -451 -411 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 5,177 5,196 333 373 Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied Composites AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. Acquisitions through business combinations 2016 relates to Phaeros Group BVBA, Nordic Defence Industries A/S, and Watchcom Security Group AS. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 99 F inancial statements Note 17, cont. Capitalised development costs Other intangible fixed assets Group Parent Company Significant items in the carrying amount are attributable to the acquisitions of Sensis, MEDAV and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet and relate to expenses incurred for customer MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 relations, trademarks, patents and values in the order backlog. Of the carrying Acquisition value amount, MSEK 325, MSEK 81 is attributable to acquired values and MSEK 244 Opening balance, 1 January 7,202 6,366 2,010 2,010 to licenses for operating systems etc. Business combinations 16 Internally developed assets 871 784 Impairment tests for goodwill Disposals and reclassifications­ -140 -10 In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units, or groups thereof, that are expected to obtain future economic beneTranslation differences -17 36 fits in the form of, for example, synergies from the acquisition. Acquired operations Closing balance, normally have access to knowledge, technology and solutions that will benefit large 31 December­ 7,916 7,202 2,000 2,010 parts of the Group, and the acquired operations are usually integrated with other Amortisation and ­write-downs operations shortly after acquisition. Consequently, goodwill is allocated to and tested for impairment at the business area level, which also corresponds to the Opening balance, 1 January -5,550 -5,209 -1,954 -1,754 lowest level at which goodwill is monitored in internal governance. For the business Amortisation for the year -160 -311 -56 -200 area Industrial Products and Services, goodwill refers in its entirety to the business Disposals and reclassifications­ 140 10 unit and independent consulting company Combitech, so impairment testing is Translation differences 14 -30 done directly at business unit level. Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purchase Closing balance, 31 December­ -5,556 -5,550 -2,000 -1,954 of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. Carrying amount, Goodwill is distributed by business area as follows: 31 December­ 2,360 1,652 56 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Acquisitions through business combinations 2016 relates to Phaeros Group BVBA Dynamics 671 644 and Nordic Defence Industries A/S. Surveillance 3,583 3,674 Support and Services 330 336 Other intangible assets Industrial Products and Services 330 324 Group Parent Company Kockums 263 218 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total goodwill 5,177 5,196 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 1,975 1,915 1,408 1,364 Impairment testing for cash-generating units is based on the calculation of value in Business combinations 19 14 use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according to the units’ Investments 193 98 170 78 business plans. Saab’s assessment is that this does not cause any impairment. Disposals and reclassifications­ -53 -77 -16 -34 VARIABLES USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE Translation differences -17 25 Volume/growth Closing balance, 31 December­ 2,117 1,975 1,562 1,408 Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expectations with regard to development in each market area and previous experience. It is Amortisation and write-downs also based on estimates of cash flows that are distributed over what are often long Opening balance, 1 January -1,729 -1,641 -1,292 -1,230 projects and are dependent on the timing and size of advances and milestone payAmortisation for the year -124 -142 -75 -96 ments. The first five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated by Disposals and reclassifications­ 47 70 14 34 Group Management and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five years, the annual growth rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. Translation differences 14 -16 Closing balance, 31 December­ -1,792 -1,729 -1,353 -1,292 Operating margin Carrying amount, The operating margin is based on the units’ operating income after depreciation 31 December­ 325 246 209 116 and amortisation. Each unit’s operating margin is calculated against the backdrop of historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard to the future development of markets where the units are active. All business areas have a substantial order Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Muskövarvet AB and backlog of projects that stretch over a number of years. The risks and opportuniN. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. Acquisitions through business combinations 2016 ties affecting the operating margin are managed through continuous cost forerelates to Phaeros Group BVBA and Watchcom Security Group AS. casts for all significant projects. The operating margin is based on current projections of final costs. Amortisation is included in the following lines in the income statement Capitalised development costs Group Parent Company In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional investments in MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 development considered necessary for certain units to reach the growth targets Cost of goods sold 123 141 115 136 in their respective markets. Marketing expenses 1 1 Research and Discount rate development­ costs 160 311 56 200 Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years adjusted for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line with the external Development costs requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the market. Significant items in total capitalisation are development costs for radar and ­sensors, electronic warfare systems, Air Traffic Management (ATM), and airborne surveillance systems. Development costs are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In legal units, all costs for development work are expensed. Capitalised development costs in the Parent Company relate to acquired development costs. 100 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 17, cont. All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and support The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling solutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their business expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash risk in this respect is considered equivalent. flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of Recent years’ order bookings have increased the share of projects across busiinterest plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated with ness areas and changed the composition of the order backlog for certain units, the specific asset. If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for which complicates a differentiation of discount rates between business areas. As individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially a result, Saab has decided to apply a uniform discount rate in the impairment tests. independent cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment The discount rate (WACC) used in 2017 was 10 per cent (10) pre-tax. loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the Sensitivity analysis income statement. Group Management believes that reasonable possible changes in the above Impairment losses are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions variables would not have such a large impact that any individually would reduce that served as the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is reverthe recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount. sed only to the extent the carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment had not been recognised, taking into account the depreciation or amortisation that would have been recognised. NOTE 18 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial Operating properties/ position if it is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the Group buildings and land1) 2,019 2,044 1,456 1,467 and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. Plant and machinery 1,595 1,470 818 695 Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated Equipment, tools and depreciation and any write-down. Cost includes the purchase price and costs ­installations 805 674 474 396 directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utilised in Construction in progress 852 623 480 475 accordance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable Total 5,271 4,811 3,228 3,033 expenditures included in cost are delivery and handling, installation, title and con1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, sulting services. the reported amount refers to buildings and land. The cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for material, expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other production Operating properties/buildings and land1) costs considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. The cost of tangible fixed assets includes estimated costs for disassembly and removal of the assets Group Parent Company as well as restoration of the location or area where these assets are found. MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the statement of financial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no future Acquisition value economic benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises on the Opening balance, sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price and the 1 January 4,918 4,898 2,088 2,123 asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and losses are Business combinations 55 recognised as other operating income/expenses. Investments 66 112 41 74 Reclassifications 11 18 Incremental expenditures Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future Divestments -5 -136 -110 economic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the Group Divestments to compaand the expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental expendi­ nies within the Group -17 tures are recognised as costs in the period they arise. Translation differences -17 44 The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to cost Closing balance, is whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or parts 31 December­ 5,017 4,918 2,140 2,088 ­thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Even in cases where a new component is created, the expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amount Depreciation and of replaced components, or parts of components, is disposed of and expensed write-downs in connection with the replacement. Repairs are expensed as incurred. Opening balance, 1 January -2,874 -2,872 -1,518 -1,567 Depreciation Depreciation for the year -92 -92 -57 -58 Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less Business combinations estimated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s estima-35 ted period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is applied, Divestments and which means that fixed assets consisting of various components or where signiReclassifications 2 100 -6 95 ficant parts have different periods of use are depreciated as separate assets Divestments to compabased on their periods of use. nies within the Group 12 Translation differences 1 -10 Estimated periods of use: Closing balance, • Operating properties/buildings: 20–90 years. 31 December­ -2,998 -2,874 -1,581 -1,518 • Plant and machinery: 5–10 years. • Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years. Revaluations • Aircraft: 17–25 years. Opening balance, 1 January 897 897 Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. Closing balance, 31 D­ecember 897 897 Impairment of tangible assets The carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets stated at fair Carrying amount, value, is tested on each closing day for any indication of impairment. If an 31 D­ecember 2,019 2,044 1,456 1,467 indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount refers to buildings and land. Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied Composites AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 101 F inancial statements Note 18, cont. Operating properties include a property leased by Saab Sensis in the US through Equipment, tools and installations a financial lease. The financial lease extends through 2025. The carrying amount is MSEK 75. The property is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period Group Parent Company of use through 2025. MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total future minimum lease fees amount to MSEK 96, of which MSEK 12 is due Acquisition value within one year, MSEK 47 after one year but within five years, and MSEK 37 after Opening balance, five years. The present value of future minimum lease fees is MSEK 84. 1 January 2,158 2,112 1,313 1,283 Business combinations 57 2 Plant and machinery Investments 336 292 208 167 Group Parent Company Reclassifications -2 6 2 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Divestments -93 -280 -52 -139 Acquisition value Translation differences -14 26 Opening balance, Closing balance, 1 January 4,835 4,637 2,686 2,573 31 December­ 2,442 2,158 1,469 1,313 Business combinations 66 Depreciation and writeInvestments 403 326 295 244 downs Reclassifications -2 -3 -11 -24 Opening balance, 1 January -1484 -1,566 -917 -941 Divestments -132 -212 -104 -107 Depreciation for the year -223 -178 -129 -116 Translation differences -67 87 Business combinations -27 Closing balance, 31 December 5,103 4,835 2,866 2,686 Divestments 90 272 51 138 Depreciation and Reclassifications 2 2 write-downs Translation differences 7 -14 Opening balance, Closing balance, 1 January -3,365 -3,278 -1,991 -1,974 31 December­ -1,637 -1,484 -995 -917 Depreciation for the year -240 -223 -134 -121 Carrying amount, Business combinations -61 31 December­ 805 674 474 396 Reclassifications 1 -4 Divestments 97 209 77 104 Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied ComposiTranslation differences 60 -69 tes AB, Muskövarvet AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. Acquisitions through Closing balance, business combinations 2016 relates to Phaeros Group BVBA, Nordic Defence 31 December­ -3,508 -3,365 -2,048 -1,991 Industries A/S, and Watchcom Security Group AS. Carrying amount, Construction in progress 31 December 1,595 1,470 818 695 Group Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Acquisition value Acquisitions through business combinations 2017 relates to Applied Comp­ osites AB and N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB. Opening balance, 1 January 623 541 475 488 Plant and machinery includes an aircraft that is leased through a finance lease. Investments 228 77 5 -13 The finance lease extends through 2020. The carrying amount is MSEK 397. Translation differences 1 5 The aircraft is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period of use. Total Carrying amount, future minimum lease payments amount to MSEK 399, of which MSEK 37 is 31 December­ 852 623 480 475 due within one year and MSEK 362 is due later than one year but within five years. The present value of the future minimum lease fees amounts to MSEK 377. Investments in construction in progress refer to a net of new investments and reclassifications to other asset classes. Collateral On 31 December 2017 property with a carrying amount of MSEK 0 (0) was ­pledged as collateral for bank loans. 102 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 19 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS NOTE 20 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GROUP Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value after deduction Investment properties are properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreof estimated selling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an ciation or a combination of both. Investment properties are carried in the stateindependent appraiser. ment of financial position at fair value. Fair value has been determined by calculating net rental income, which then serves as the basis of a valuation of fair value. Group Information on fair value of investment properties in the Group MSEK 2017 2016 Group Living forest MSEK 2017 2016 Carrying amount, 1 January 291 290 Carrying amount, 1 January 33 34 Investments 61 Revaluation 7 -1 Change in fair value 13 10 Less fair value logging -13 -9 Carrying amount, 31 December 40 33 Carrying amount, 31 December 352 291 Investment properties comprise one rental property leased to an outside tenant. Of which fixed assets 352 291 Fair values have been determined by analysing rental income and expenses for each property, thereby producing a net rental income figure. Net rental income has On 31 December 2017, biological assets consisted of approximately 388,000 m³ then served as the basis for a valuation of fair value with a yield of 8 per cent. The of spruce, 720,000 m³ of pine and 90,000 m³ of hardwood. In May 2017, yield requirements correspond to the risk in net rental income. Fair value is not 110,000 m3 of forest was acquired for MSEK 61. Forest growth is estimated at based on the valuation of an independent appraiser. 45,000 m³ per year. During the year, approximately 34,700 m³ of timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, after deduction of selling expenses, of MSEK 13 Group on the felling date. MSEK 2017 2016 The valuation of forests has been done with the help of independent appraisers. Effect on net income/net rental income The forestry property has been valued according to the market comparison method. In the valuation according to the market comparison method, the Rental income 4 4 environmental impact from a firing range within the property has not been taken Direct costs for investment properties that into account. An adjustment for the environmental impact has therefore been generated rental income during the year -2 -2 made by reducing fair value by an amount corresponding to the market value Effect on net income/net rental income 2 2 of the size of the firing range (4,457 hectares) less the value of the timber. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 103 F inancial statements NOTE 21 S  HARES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Associated companies and joint ventures Group MSEK 2017 2016 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Carrying amount, 1 January 788 602 Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, Acquisition of associated companies but not decisive, influence over operating and financial controls, usually through a and joint ventures 3 97 shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. Joint ventures are comShare in income of associated companies panies in which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one or more and joint ventures 1) -39 -38 parties, shares a decisive influence over operating and financial controls. As of New share issues/infusion of capital 12 102 the date that significant influence in an associated company and shared decisive Repayment of contributed capital -20 influence in a joint venture arises, the shares in the associated company or joint venture are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated Adjustment against receivable 9 accounts. The equity method is applied until the date when significant or shared Translation differences and internal gains -27 41 decisive influence ceases. Dividends -26 -16 The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in associaCarrying amount, 31 December 700 788 ted companies and joint ventures corresponds to the Group’s share of the asso1) Share in associated companies’ and joint ventures’ net income and non-controlling interests. ciated companies’ and joint ventures’ equity based on an application of the Group’s accounting principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group The Group’s associated companies and joint ventures are held for operating surplus or deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies and joint purposes, i.e., they are related to operations of the business areas or in the venture ventures” in the income statement comprises the Group’s share of the net portfolio and are therefore recognised in operating income. income after tax and the non-controlling interests in associated companies and In 2017, Saab acquired Hyker Security AB, an associated company. joint ventures adjusted for any amortisation/depreciation, write-downs or dissoAggregate net income for Saab’s associated companies amounted to lution of acquired surplus and deficit values determined in the same way as for MSEK -130 (-65) and other comprehensive income/loss to MSEK -62 (65), produbusiness combinations. Dividends received from associated companies and cing net comprehensive income/loss of MSEK -192 (0). For Saab’s joint ventures, joint ventures reduce the carrying amount of the investment. net income amounted to MSEK 13 (-16) and other comprehensive income/loss to If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company or MSEK -17 (31), producing net comprehensive income/loss of MSEK -4 (15). Saab’s joint venture exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of share in income of associated companies and joint ventures amounts to MSEK -39 the shares is reduced to zero. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollate(-38). Shares in associated companies and joint ventures as of 31 December 2017 ralised financial balances that in their economic significance represent part of the include goodwill of MSEK 141 (131). owner-company’s net investment in the associated company or joint venture. The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities, equity, and the carrying Subsequent losses are not recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts amount of shares in associated companies and joint ventures is as follows. as long as the Group has not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company or joint venture. When significant influence over the associated company or shared decisive influence over the joint venture ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. 104 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 21, cont. Carrying Share in amount, income of shares in associated associated companies companies Ownership and joint and joint 2017, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) ventures ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 115 -23 530 197 333 25.0 -6 83 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 89 447 70 377 36.6 138 FFV Services Private Limited India 93 41 134 2 132 49.0 20 65 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 48 3 53 4 49 50.0 2 25 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 2,204 15 1,810 1,771 39 33.0 5 13 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 11 -92 314 112 202 47.0 -43 95 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 146 24 263 34 229 27.2 7 62 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 523 -98 651 457 194 -30 67 Total associated companies 3,229 -130 4,202 2,647 1,555 -45 548 Joint ventures Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 73 25 48 49.0 24 Gripen International KB Sweden 13 5 5 50.0 6 2 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden 705 705 35.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd South Africa 350 160 87 73 70.0 51 Vricon Inc. USA 119 263 114 149 50.0 75 Total joint ventures 469 13 1,206 931 275 6 152 Total 3,698 -117 5,408 3,578 1,830 -39 700 Carrying Share in amount, income of shares in associated associated companies companies Ownership and joint and joint 2016, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) ventures ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 561 162 399 25.0 100 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 187 427 48 379 36.6 139 FFV Services Private Limited India 55 19 109 18 91 49.0 9 44 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 77 18 41 -6 47 50.0 9 23 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 510 -3 2,070 2,046 24 33.0 -1 8 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 13 -80 352 45 307 47.0 -37 144 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 131 50 268 54 214 27.2 14 58 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 407 -69 623 379 244 -24 73 Total associated companies 1,380 -65 4,451 2,746 1,705 -30 589 Joint ventures Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 1 -2 74 26 48 49.0 -1 25 Gripen International KB Sweden 22 430 350 80 50.0 11 40 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden 715 715 35.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd South Africa 357 181 108 73 70.0 51 Vricon Inc. USA 51 -36 273 107 166 50.0 -18 83 Total joint ventures 409 -16 1,673 1,306 367 -8 199 Total 1,789 -81 6,124 4,052 2,072 -38 788 1) The ownership interest of each holding represents both ownership and voting rights. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 105 F inancial statements NOTE 22 P  ARENT COMPANY’S SHARES NOTE 23 RECEIVABLES FROM IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES GROUP COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Long-term receivables Parent Company from associated Long-term receivables companies and MSEK 2017 2016 Parent Company from Group companies joint ventures Accumulated acquisition value MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance, 1 January 398 199 Accumulated acquisition value Acquisitions 9 188 Opening balance, 1 January 50 19 311 288 Dividends -44 Settled receivables -19 Shares from net income for the year in joint ventures 6 11 Additional receivables 31 49 67 16 Closing balance, 31 December 369 398 Translation differences 1 -8 7 Closing balance, 31 December 81 50 370 311 Carrying amount, 31 December 369 398 Specification of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings of shares in associated companies and joint ventures NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 2017 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Group Associated companies MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 25.0 97 Financial investments held as fixed assets Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 Financial assets measured at fair value through Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, profit or loss: 556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Shares and participations 26 25 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Investments held to maturity: Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 6 Interest-bearing securities 140 UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47.0 56 Total 26 165 Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 24.9 22 Short-term investments held as current assets Joint ventures Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Vricon Inc., USA 50.0 83 Interest-bearing securities 4,469 4,542 Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 2 Total 4,469 4,542 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, The fair value of interest-bearing securities held to maturity amounted to MSEK 0 559025-4024, Linköping 35.0 (140). Investments in interest-bearing securities consist of fixed rate bonds, FRN Total 369 (Floating Rate Notes, bonds with floating interest rate) and Certificate of Deposit. 2016 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount NOTE 25 OTHER LONG-TERM Associated companies SECURITIES HOLDINGS Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 25.0 97 Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 Parent Company Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, MSEK 2017 2016 556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Accumulated acquisition value AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Opening balance, 1 January 40 62 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 4 Divestments -1 UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47.0 56 Reclassification -21 Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 25.7 15 Closing balance, 31 December 40 40 Joint ventures Accumulated write-downs Vricon Inc., USA 50.0 83 Opening balance, 1 January -17 -17 Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 40 Closing balance, 31 December -17 -17 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, Carrying amount, 31 December 23 23 559025-4024, Linköping 35.0 Total 398 Divestment in 2016 relates to repayment of earlier invested capital in Biogeneration Ventures B.V. Reclassification in 2016 relates to Akaer Engenharia S.A. to ­associated company. 106 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 26 LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES AND Parent Company OTHER RECEIVABLES MSEK 2017 2016 Long-term receivables Group Accumulated acquisition value MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Opening balance, 1 January 7 15 Long-term receivables held as fixed assets Additional receivables 15 3 Receivables from associated companies, Settled receivables -3 -11 interest-bearing 172 104 Closing balance, 31 December 19 7 Receivables from joint ventures, interest-bearing 282 284 Receivables attributable to pensions, interest-bearing 40 51 Other interest-bearing receivables 3 Other non interest-bearing receivables 168 63 NOTE 27 INVENTORIES Total 662 505 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deducting estimated expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. Other receivables held as current assets Cost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (FIFO) or the weighted Receivables from associated companies, average method and includes expenses to acquire inventory assets and bring interest-bearing 14 19 them to their present location and condition. For finished and semifinished goods, Receivables from associated companies, cost consists of direct manufacturing expenses and a reasonable share of indirect non interest-bearing 21 33 manufacturing expenses as well as expenses to customise products for individual Receivables from joint ventures, interest-bearing 10 customers. Calculations take into account normal capacity utilisation. Receivables from joint ventures, non interest-bearing 10 Group Advance payments to suppliers 44 37 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Other non interest-bearing receivables 443 490 Raw materials and consumables 3,249 2,436 Total 522 599 Work in progress 3,302 3,174 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,192 1,050 Group MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Total 7,743 6,660 Receivables from customers Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have Assignment revenue 12,654 10,538 reached an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s particiLess utilised advance payments -4,737 -4,316 pation in the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery Total 7,917 6,222 to Airbus. Through 2017, the National Debt Office has paid out MSEK 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2017 amounted to MSEK 132 (137), which reduced Assignment revenue refers to assignment costs incurred and reported gross inventory in the financial statements. income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Amounts due to custoThe Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 82 (44). mers amounted to MSEK 9,094 (7,884). The reversal of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 38 (59). Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to MSEK 10,718 (8,905). Reported gross income amounted to MSEK 1,936 (1,633). Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Parent Company Raw materials and consumables 1,987 1,689 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Work in progress 2,434 2,449 Other long-term receivables Finished goods and goods for resale 949 777 Non interest-bearing receivables 19 4 Advance payments to suppliers 72 65 Interest-bearing receivables 3 Total 5,442 4,980 Total 19 7 Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory write-downs of Parent Company MSEK 82 (38) after the reversal of previous write-downs of MSEK 34 (51). MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Other receivables held as current assets Non interest-bearing receivables 398 427 Total 398 427 Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Receivables from customers Assignment revenue 10,982 8,711 Less utilised advance payments -4,195 -3,981 Total 6,787 4,730 Assignment revenue refers to assignment costs incurred and reported gross income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Amounts due to customers amounted to MSEK 6,495 (5,431). Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to MSEK 9,238 (7,382). Reported gross income amounted to MSEK 1,744 (1,329). S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 107 F inancial statements NOTE 28 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NOTE 30 LIQUID ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible amortised cost at the amount expected to be received based on an individual balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments valuation. Accounts receivable have a short expected maturity, due to which with a maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which are expothey are normally recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. Writesed to no more than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. downs on accounts receivable are recognised in operating expenses. Saab has trade receivable sales programme with an independent party. When a receivable Group is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, because of which MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 the accounts receivable are reduced by the proceeds received. Cash and bank balances 1,463 1,102 Bank deposits 739 300 The Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 4,342 (5,402) as of 31 December 2017. Saab has an established programme to sell trade receivables to Total according to statement of financial position 2,202 1,402 strengthen its financial position and increase financial flexibility. The programme has Total according to statement of cash flows 2,202 1,402 not been utilised since 31 December 2016. Saab’s aim is to utilise this programme in situations where greater financial flexibility is needed. Defence-related sales Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, with a maturity of less than three accounted for 84 per cent (83) of total sales, where the counterparties in most months. The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility amounted to MSEK 42 (50) accounts receivable are nations with high creditworthiness. The Group’s receivaat year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facilities, refer to notes 33 and 38. bles are mainly within the EU, which accounted for 54 per cent (47) of the total. Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance guarantees or guarantees from EKN are secured. NOTE 31 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Write-downs of accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 27 (14) as of 31 Dec­ ember 2017, corresponding to 0.6 per cent (0.3) of total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amounted to MSEK 1,907 (3,184). The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, A and B. Both During the year, receivables were written down by MSEK 7 (5). Reversals of classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series A share is previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 0 (4). entitled to ten votes and each Series B share one vote. The shares have a quota value of SEK 16. Write-downs of accounts receivable Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of Group 31 December 2017 shares shares, % votes, % MSEK 2017 2016 Series A shares 1,907,123 1.8 15.4 Write-downs, 1 January -14 -12 Series B shares 104,916,659 98.2 84.6 Write-downs for calculated losses -14 -7 Total 106,823,782 100.0 100.0 Reversal of previous write-downs 1 4 Actual credit losses 2 Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of Translation differences -1 31 December 2016 shares shares, % votes, % Write-downs, 31 December -27 -14 Series A shares 1,907,123 1.8 15.4 Series B shares 104,498,400 98.2 84.6 Age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables Total 106,405,523 100.0 100.0 Group MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Change in number of outstanding shares 2017 Series A Series B Total <30 days 366 312 Number of outstanding shares at 30 to 90 days 198 298 1 January 1,907,123 104,498,400 106,405,523 91 to 180 days 110 116 Early share matching 22,747 22,747 >181 days 407 415 Ordinary share matching 395,512 395,512 Accounts receivable overdue 1,081 1,141 Number of outstanding Accounts receivable not overdue 3,261 4,261 shares at 31 December 1,907,123 104,916,659 106,823,782 Total accounts ­receivable 4,342 5,402 In 2017, no Series B shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. During the year, 418,259 shaNOTE 29 PREPAID EXPENSES AND res were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. Transferred shares correspond to 0.4 per cent of the share capital. A total of 2,326,562 shares are held in treasury. ACCRUED INCOME Shares held in treasury have no voting rights. The dividend to shareholders amounted to MSEK 588 (559), or SEK 5.50 (5.25) Group Parent Company per share. MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Prepaid expenses 585 481 468 353 Proposed disposition of earnings 2017 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriated Capitalised changes in earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General Meeting, value related to forward contract rollovers 543 505 ­amounting to: Accrued service income 293 163 1 SEK Other accrued income 315 391 147 250 Retained earnings 4,233,780,224 Total 1,193 1,035 1,158 1,109 Net income for the year 645,290,131 Prepaid expenses primarily relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and Total 4,879,070,355 insurance. be disposed as follows: To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 5.50 per share 587,530,801 Funds to be carried forward 4,291,539,554 Total 4,879,070,355 108 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 31, cont. NOTE 32 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES Management of the Group’s capital The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital Group management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 prepared to capitalise on business opportunities. Saab’s equity/asset goal is at Long-term liabilities least 30 per cent. Liabilities to credit institutions 5,798 5,107 Other interest-bearing liabilities 437 517 Net result of cash flow hedges The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative Total 6,235 5,624 net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge Current liabilities transactions that have not yet taken place. Liabilities to credit institutions Translation reserve Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 45 239 The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from the Other interest-bearing liabilities 47 53 translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their reports in Total 92 292 a currency other than the currency of the Group’s financial reports. The Parent Company and the Group present their financial reports in SEK. The translation Total interest-bearing liabilities 6,327 5,916 reserve at year-end amounts to 268 (525). Of the translation reserve MSEK 15 (0) has been reclassified to gains. Terms and repayment schedules Collateral for bank loans amounts to MSEK 0 (0). Of the long-term liabilities, Revaluation reserve MSEK 5,684 (5,467) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and MSEK 551 (157) later than five years of the closing day. carrying amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. Liabilities to credit institutions consist of Medium Term Notes (MTN) and Of the revaluation reserve, MSEK 0 (0) has been transferred to retained earnings Schuldschein loans. For more information on financial risk management, see upon the sale of investment properties in 2017. note 38. The fair value of MTNs and Schuldschein loans exceeds book value by MSEK 85 (136). Saab otherwise considers that there is no significant difference between PARENT COMPANY book and fair value. Restricted reserves Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. Revaluation reserve NOTE 33 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount is allocated to a revaluation reserve. Parent company MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Statutory reserve Current liabilities Provisions to the statutory reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 per Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 28 36 cent of net income for the year, until the statutory reserve corresponded to at least 20 per cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion 28 -36 voluntary and the Parent Company makes no provisions to the statutory reserve. Utilised credit amount Credit facilities: Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Unrestricted equity Unutilised portion of commercial paper -5,000 -5,000 Retained earnings Utilised credit amount Retained earnings consist of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit distribution and Group contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income Total for the year comprise unrestricted equity, i.e., the amount available for distribution Long-term liabilities to the shareholders. Credit facilities: Available credit/limit (revolving credit facility) 6,000 6,000 Unutilised portion of revolving credit facility -6,000 -6,000 Utilised credit amount Credit facility: Medium Term Notes (MTN) 4,812 4,150 Credit facility: Schuldschein (SSD) 985 957 Premium/Discount 1 Total 5,798 5,107 Total liabilities to credit institutions 5,798 5,107 Since 2009, Saab has a Medium Term Note programme (MTN) to enable the issuance of long-term loans on the capital market. In 2015, the MTN programme was increased from MSEK 3,000 to MSEK 6,000. Under the terms of this programme, Saab has issued fixed rate bonds as well as Floating Rate Notes (FRN). MTN loans with maturity December 2018 with total outstanding amount of MSEK 1,350, was in September 2017 partly closed out with an amount of MSEK 1,038. At the same time, new loans of MSEK 1,700, maturing in 2022, were issued. As a result, out­ standing loans under the MTN programme totalled MSEK 4,812. In December 2015, Saab signed Schuldschein loan agreements amounting to MEUR 100. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 109 F inancial statements NOTE 34 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS USA The Saab Group’s post-employment benefits refer to pensions. These pensions The US has a defined-benefit plan for certain employees and a supplementary plan comprise both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans. A defined-contrifor individuals in executive positions. The plans are company-specific according to bution plan is a pension plan according to which the Group pays fixed fees to a an agreement in 1986 between the employees and the company and include retiseparate legal entity that assumes the obligations to employees. Other pension rement and survivor’s pensions. The pension is not vested during the first five years plans are defined-benefit and refer to pension obligations that are retained by the of employment, and the retirement age is 65. Payments corresponding to accrued Group, secured through its own pension funds or through insurance. pensions are made yearly to an external trustee to cover the obligation. Payments during 2017 amounted to MSEK 0 (1) since share funded exceeds the ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GROUP obligations. Defined-contribution plans Obligations for fees to defined-contribution plans are expensed through the Switzerland income statement. Switzerland has a defined-benefit plan that includes all employees and where minimum benefits are prescribed by law. The company is affiliated with a collective Defined-benefit plans foundation for the purpose of insuring its employees’ retirement and survivor’s Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. Defined-benefit pension, and payments are made annually. Provisions for pensions are made by plans mainly relate to the Swedish operations, where the ITP2 plan accounts for both employer and employees. The employee may elect to receive the full pension 92 per cent (91) of the total obligation. as a lump sum at retirement. The Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees have earOther countries ned through employment in present and previous periods. This compensation is The pension plans in other countries are of insignificant amounts and are therefore discounted to present value. Most of the liability is met through provisions to a reported together with Sweden below. pension fund. The net obligation on the closing day is estimated as the net of the fair value of the fund assets and the present value of the pension liability. Disclosures regarding defined-benefit plans The discount rate to estimate the obligation at present value is based on the interest rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage bond with a maturity 31-12-2017 Group corresponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is made by qualified MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. Wholly or partially funded obligations When the compensation terms in a plan are improved, the portion of the Present value of defined-benefit increased compensation attributable to the employees’ service in previous obligations 8,830 320 191 9,341 periods is expensed through the income statement. Fair value of assets under management -6,144 -354 -197 -6,695 If the obligation calculated on the closing day deviates from the estimated obligation, actuarial gains or losses arise and are recognised directly in other Present value of net obligation 2,686 -34 -6 2,646 comprehensive income. The same interest rate is used to calculate financial Share funded 70% 111% 103% 72% income on assets under management as to discount pension liabilities. If pension obligations are lower than assets under management, this amount Average duration of pension obligation 18 14 16 is recognised as an asset. When there is a difference between how the pension cost is determined for a The net amount and the special legal entity and for the Group, a liability or receivable is recognised for the special employer’s contribution is reported in the following items in the statement of employer’s contribution based on this difference. financial position The following tables provide information on defined-benefit pension plans. Provisions for pensions (excluding special employer’s contribution) 2,686 2,686 Sweden Provisions for pensions (related to special employer’s contribution) 738 738 The predominant plan in Sweden is the ITP plan under collective agreements between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation Cartel for SalaLong-term receivables 34 6 40 ried Employees in the Private Business Sector (PTK). The ITP2 plan, which is based on an employee’s final salary, covers individuals born 1978 and before and is a defi31-12-2016 Group ned-benefit plan, while the ITP1 plan is a defined-contribution plan and covers indiMSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total viduals born 1979 and after. Wholly or partially funded obligations Saab’s defined-benefit pension plans in Sweden are secured either through transfers to the Group’s own pension fund, as liabilities in the balance sheet or are Present value of defined-benefit obligations 8,110 313 185 8,608 funded through insurance mainly with Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, which secures part of the ITP2 plan, had assets of MSEK 6,098 (5,579) as of 31 DecemFair value of assets under management -5,635 -364 -185 -6,184 ber 2017, compared to an obligation of MSEK 8,572 (7,826), calculated according Present value of net obligation 2,475 -51 2,424 to IAS 19, which means that the solvency margin amounted to 71 per cent (71). The following applies to the portion of the defined-benefit pension obligation for Share funded 69% 116% 100% 72% retirement and family pensions secured through insurance with Alecta. According Average duration of pension obligation 18 13 16 to a pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, this is a definedbenefit plan for multiple employers. Alecta is unable to provide the information that The net amount and the special would allow Saab to report these obligations as a defined-benefit plan, owing to employer’s contribution is reported in which they are reported as a defined-contribution plan. All newly earned pensions the following items in the statement of are secured through the pension fund solution. As a result, no additional premiums financial position are paid to Alecta. Provisions for pensions (excluding The collective funding ratio is calculated as the market value of Alecta’s assets special employer’s contribution) 2,475 2,475 as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s Provisions for pensions (related to ­actuarial methods and assumptions, which differ from IAS 19. The collective special employer’s contribution) 594 594 ­funding ratio is normally permitted to range between 125 and 155 per cent. Long-term receivables 51 51 At year-end 2017, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 154 per cent (149). 110 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 34, cont. Cost reported in the income statement Changes in net obligation for defined-benefit plans reported in the statement of financial position 2017 Group Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total MSEK 2017 2016 Current service costs 259 14 6 279 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 1 January 2,424 1,893 Net interest expense 71 -2 69 Compensation paid -284 -268 Cost of defined-benefit plans in Deposits to pension fund and other funding -10 -10 the income statement 330 12 6 348 Cost reported in the income statement 348 301 Cost of defined-contribution plans 725 Income (-) /cost (+) reported in other comprehensive income 152 497 Special employer’s contribution 259 Settlement/translation differences 6 -1 Total cost of post-employment benefits 1,332 Withdrawals from pension funds 10 12 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 31 December 2,646 2,424 2016 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Change in pension obligation Current service costs 230 14 7 251 Group Past service costs -10 -10 MSEK 2017 2016 Net interest expense 63 -3 60 Fair value, 1 January 8,608 7,742 Cost of defined-benefit plans in Benefits vested during the year 278 251 the income statement 293 11 -3 301 Benefits vested previous years -10 Cost of defined-contribution plans 679 Interest expense 237 250 Special employer’s contribution 246 Pension disbursements -284 -268 Total cost of post-employment Settlement -8 -4 benefits 1,226 Actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) 552 611 Translation differences -42 36 Items included in the statement of cash flow Fair value, 31 December 9,341 8,608 2017 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Change in assets under management Group Deposits to pension fund and other funding -3 -7 -10 MSEK 2017 2016 Payments -274 -5 -5 -284 Fair value, 1 January 6,184 5,849 Withdrawals 5 5 10 Financial income 170 190 Total impact on cash flow -277 -7 -284 Withdrawals -10 -12 Settlement -12 -4 2016 Group Contributions 10 10 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Actuarial gain 400 114 Deposits to pension fund and Translation differences -47 37 other funding -4 -1 -5 -10 Fair value, 31 December 6,695 6,184 Payments -256 -20 8 -268 Withdrawals 20 -8 12 Interest expense on the pension obligation less financial income on assets under Total impact on cash flow -260 -1 -5 -266 management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by function in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to the various functions. Estimated payments during 2018 amount to approximately MSEK 314. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. Actuarial losses related to pensions amounted to MSEK 152 in 2017 primarily Sensitivity analysis (excluding special due to the following. The return on assets under management was higher than employer’s contribution) expected, which produced an actuarial gain of MSEK 400. The actuarial loss on Group pension obligations amounted to MSEK 552 due to 25 basis points lower discount Change in rate and experience adjustments. No change has been made in the inflation MSEK Change obligation assumptions. Changes in demographic assumptions have not had a significant Discount rate 0.25% -407 effect. -0.25% 435 The actuarial loss related to special employer’s contribution amounted to Inflation 0.25% 422 MSEK 38 in 2017. -0.25% -449 Salaries 0.25% 90 -0.25% -84 Life span +1 year 363 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 111 F inancial statements Note 34, cont. Return on assets under management Long-term salary increase assumption: The long-term salary increase assumpGroup tion corresponds to a real salary increase of 1 per cent plus an inflation assumption MSEK 2017 2016 of 1.75 per cent, rendering a future salary increase of 2.75 per cent. Actual return on assets under management 570 304 Long-term inflation assumption: The long-term inflation assumption is based on market pricing of inflation on maturities corresponding to the pension liability’s Financial income on assets under management -170 -190 duration. For 2017, the assumption is 1.75 per cent. Actuarial result from assets under management Mortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial during the year 400 114 ­Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2007:31). Employee turnover: The employee turnover is assumed to be 3 per cent per year. Governance The pension fund is governed by the Pension Board, which resumes 4–5 times per ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES PARENT COMPANY year and has the following responsibilities: The parent company’s accounting principles differ from IAS 19 in the following ways: • Appoint the members of the Investment Committee -The calculation does not take into account future salary increases • Appoint the Fund Manger -The discount rate is determined by PRI • Annually establish the Investment Policy -Changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions are recognised • Decide on strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) asset allocation and directly in the income statement and balance sheet allow deviations in accordance with the terms of the SAA and TAA mandate -Surplus in the pension plan cannot be recognised as an asset while the deficit • Annually approve the benchmark indices to track the fund’s performance should either be expensed or recovered through contributions to the pension fund • Annually approve the stop loss limit Parent Company’s pension obligations Investment strategy and risk management Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to the net The pension fund manages the allocation and investment of assets with an aim to present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are secured by Saab’s increase the consolidation level over time. Certain risks are accepted in order to pension fund. achieve the desired return. The investment horizon is long-term and the allocation ensures that the investment portfolio is well diversified. MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 The Fund’s investments are subject to a number of restrictions and limitations, Pension obligations ITP 2 4,278 4,167 the purpose of which is to limit investment losses. Group Treasury continuously Less funds secured in pension fund -4,278 -4,167 monitors the Fund’s management and reports its findings to the Chairman of the Total ITP 2 and the book reserve method Board and the Investment Committee. Other pensions 91 86 Assets under management divided Other provisions for pensions 161 67 by asset class Total 252 153 Group Of which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 44 57 of which of which listed on listed on an active an active MSEK 2017 2016 Per cent 2017 market 2016 market Amount related to pension obligations ITP 2 ­expected Interest-bearing assets 39 100 36 100 to be settled within 12 months 190 179 Share-related assets 36 100 38 100 Hedge funds Property 9 14 12 13 NOTE 35 PROVISIONS Liquid assets 2 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Total assets 100 75 100 74 A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliAssumptions for defined-benefit obligations able estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by discounting projected cash flow at Group a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market estimates of the time value of Per cent 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 money and, where appropriate, the risks associated with the liability. Significant actuarial assumptions as of closing day (expressed as Provisions for incremental costs for industrial cooperations weighted averages)1) Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology Discount rate, 31 December 2.50 2.75 3.25 2.50 4.00 and knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. The Future salary increase 2.75 2.75 2.75 2.50 3.00 related costs are included in the project’s expenditures and expensed in relation to the stage of completion. The expenditures are then set against this provision, Future increase in pensions 1.75 1.75 1.75 1.50 2.00 which can also occur after the delivery of goods and services under the contract. Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all defined-benefit plans are in Sweden. Onerous contracts A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when anticipated benefits are The following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s less than the unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the contract. pension liability: Guarantees Discount rate: The valuation has been based on Swedish covered mortgage A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying products bonds (AAA), taking into account the duration of all cash flows. or services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made. The A nominal government bond whose duration corresponds to the average duration provision is based on historical data on guarantees for the products or similar of the pension obligation is used as a basis. A premium is then added equal to the products and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relation to the likelidifference between the interest rate on a mortgage bond and a nominal governhood associated with these outcomes. ment bond with similar maturities. The same discount rate has been used for all future disbursements. 112 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 35, cont. Restructuring Guarantees A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restructuring Parent plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or been MSEK Group Company publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. Opening balance, 1 January 2017 170 122 A provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if the Provisions allocated during the year 95 30 company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary time, e.g., when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termination offer. Amount utilised during the year -63 -35 In cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed plan is drafted conReversal of unutilised amount -11 -8 taining at the minimum the workplaces, positions and approximate number of Reclassification -17 -20 individuals affected as well as compensation for each personnel category or position and a schedule for the plan’s implementation. Closing balance, 31 December 2017 174 89 Soil remediation Expenditures for restructuring measures In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and Parent applicable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligations MSEK Group Company to restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted to preOpening balance, 1 January 2017 54 42 sent value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. Provision for environmental commitments is included in other provisions below. Provisions allocated during the year 19 19 Amount utilised during the year -41 -41 Group Reversal of unutilised amount -1 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Reclassification -4 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Closing balance, 31 December 2017 27 20 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 497 331 Onerous contracts 81 86 Other provisions Guarantees 60 72 Parent Expenditures for restructuring measures 9 15 MSEK Group Company Other 377 307 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 478 81 Total 1,024 811 Provisions allocated during the year 51 14 Amount utilised during the year -78 -16 Provisions that are current liabilities Reversal of unutilised amount -19 -2 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 10 7 Reclassification 111 21 Onerous contracts 183 84 Translation differences and other -3 Guarantees 114 98 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 540 98 Expenditures for restructuring measures 18 39 Other 163 171 Total provisions Total 488 399 Parent MSEK Group Company Parent Company Opening balance, 1 January 2017 1,210 654 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Provisions allocated during the year 608 410 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 497 331 Amount utilised during the year -327 -211 Onerous contracts 133 78 Reversal of unutilised amount -38 -17 Guarantees 89 122 Reclassification 64 1 Expenditures for restructuring measures 20 42 Translation differences and other -5 Other 98 81 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 1,512 837 Total 837 654 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations Incremental costs for industrial cooperations Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology Parent and knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. MSEK Group Company Provision for incremental costs for industrial cooperations relates to costs to Opening balance, 1 January 2017 338 331 meet future obligations for industrial cooperations in accordance with these contracts. The expenditure is expected to occur during the term of the projects Provisions allocated during the year 192 189 but also after the delivery of goods and services under the contracts in accorAmount utilised during the year -23 -23 dance with the contract and the regulation for industrial cooperation. Closing balance, 31 December 2017 507 497 Restructuring Onerous contracts Structural costs primarily relate to costs to adapt resources and transformation Parent costs. The expenditure is expected to occur 2018. MSEK Group Company Onerous contracts Opening balance, 1 January 2017 170 78 Provisions for onerous contracts on the closing day relate to certain military Provisions allocated during the year 251 158 ­projects. The provisions are utilised in pace with the project’s completion. Amount utilised during the year -122 -96 Reversal of unutilised amount -7 -7 Other provisions Reclassification -26 Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for remaining costs in projects, for environmental commitments as well as for royalty. Translation differences and other -2 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 264 133 No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production of civil aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 113 F I nancial statements NOTE 36 OTHER LIABILITIES NOTE 38 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to Other long-term liabilities financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial instruments. Liabilities to previous owners and minority owners 123 112 Group Treasury is responsible for managing the financial risks. The Board of Liabilities related to employees 52 52 Directors of Saab has established a Group Treasury Policy, which provides an overOther 35 38 all description of the management of the financial risks and Treasury operations. Total 210 202 The goal is to identify and actively manage the financial risks in order to reduce Of which liabilities due for payment more than five years any negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive strength and after closing day 159 174 financial flexibility. Other current liabilities The financial risks are defined as follows: Value-added tax 316 191 • Foreign currency risk Employee withholding taxes 265 262 • Liquidity risk • Refinancing risk Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 20 18 • Interest rate risk Other 204 224 • Commodity price risk Total 805 695 • Credit and counterparty risk • Pension obligations Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Group Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as VaR (Value at Risk) of MSEK 50 (50). The mandate is divided between management of the financial risks related Value-added tax 181 55 to fixed price tenders and to a limited extent trading. Risks are managed through Employee withholding taxes 161 167 various portfolios and are reported daily according to defined risk measures. Other 218 290 Management of the Group’s funding and investment of liquid assets, customer Total 560 512 financing, guarantees and insurance is centralised in Group Treasury. In certain limited cases, insurance is managed by the Group’s insurance company, Lansen Of which liabilities due for payment more than five Försäkrings AB. years after closing day 13 21 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. Recognition and valuation of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is recognised in the statement of financial position NOTE 37 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. DEFERRED INCOME Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of financial position when an invoice has been sent. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position when the Group Parent Company rights in the contract are realised, expire or the company loses control over the MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 asset. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed Accrued expenses from the statement of financial position when the obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a finanAccrued project costs 1,459 979 527 597 cial liability. Vacation pay liability 1,126 1,074 760 722 On each reporting date, Saab evaluates whether there are objective indications Social security expenses 775 769 614 631 that a financial asset or pool of financial assets, which are not recognised at fair Expected invoices 407 309 263 228 value through profit or loss, are in need of write-down. Financial assets and liabiliPersonnel liabilities 301 234 206 162 ties are offset and recognised as a net amount in the statement of financial position when there is a legal right to a set-off and when the intent is to settle the Claims reserve 90 92 1 1 items with a net amount or to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same Royalties and time. commissions 31 46 27 33 Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to the Other 128 258 61 33 instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses. The same applies to all financial Total accrued instruments with the exception of those in the category financial assets and liabiliexpenses 4,317 3,761 2,459 2,407 ties at fair value through profit or loss, where cost excluding transaction expenses equals fair value. The instruments are subsequently recognised at fair value or Deferred income amortised cost, depending on how they have been classified as follows. The fair Capitalised changes in value of listed financial assets and liabilities is determined using market prices. value related to forward Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial contract rollovers 231 198 assets and liabilities traded on an inactive market or that are unlisted holdings. Other 166 227 65 107 These valuation methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, discounted cash flows or accepted valuation models such as Garman-Kohlhagens. Total deferred income 166 227 296 305 Amortised cost is determined based on the effective interest rate calculated on the Total 4,483 3,988 2,755 2,712 acquisition date. Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. Classification of financial assets and liabilities The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are classified according to the ­following categories, which determine how each item is valued. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Assets and liabilities in this category are measured at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. This category consists of two subgroups: (i) financial assets and liabilities held for trading, and (ii) other financial assets and liabilities that the company initially chose to measure at fair value through profit or loss. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. Derivatives are always measured at fair value through pro114 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 fit or loss, except when hedge accounting is applied, in which case the portion When a hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or the comthat refers to effective hedging is recognised in other comprehensive income. pany otherwise revokes the designation as a hedging relationship before the hedged transaction occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to Held-to-maturity investments: occur, the recognised cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedge reserve in Financial assets in this category refer to non-derivative assets with predetermined equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the transaction occurs. or determinable payments and scheduled maturities that the company intends If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging and has the ability to hold to maturity. They are measured at amortised cost. instrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit or loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. Loans receivable and accounts receivable: Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS with fixed payments that are not listed on an active market. Receivables arise Financial instruments within the Group mainly consist of liquid assets, accounts when the company provides money, goods or services directly to the debtor receivable, shares, loans receivable, bonds receivable, derivatives with positive without the intent to trade its claim. The category also includes acquired receivamarket values, certain accrued income and other receivables. The liability side bles. Assets in this category are recognised after acquisition at amortised cost, includes accounts payable, loans payable, derivatives with negative market values, according to the effective rate method. certain accrued expenses and other liabilities. Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be received based on an individual valuation. Accounts receivable have a short maturity, due The following table shows a subdivided statement of financial position categorised to which they are recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. and classified according to IAS 39. Impairment losses on accounts receivable are recognised in operating expenses. Saab has a trade receivable sales programme with an independent party. Classification and categorisation of finanWhen a receivable is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, cial assets and liabilities1) Carrying amount because of which the accounts receivable are reduced by the proceeds recei31-12-2017 31-12-2016 ved. Other receivables are receivables that arise when the company provides Financial assets money without the intent to trade its claim. Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 26 25 Available-for-sale financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets are those assets that are available for sale or Investments held to maturity2) 140 are not classified in any of the other categories of financial assets. These assets Long-term receivables 481 505 are measured at fair value. Changes in value are recognised directly in other comDerivatives identified as hedges 1,030 1,225 prehensive income. When the assets are sold, the cumulative value changes are Derivatives at fair value through profit reversed to profit or loss. Unrealised decreases in value are recognised in other or loss for trading 109 65 comprehensive income unless the decrease in value is material or has lasted for Accounts receivable and other receivables 13,343 12,740 an extended period, in which case the value is impaired through profit or loss. If the write-down refers to equity instruments such as shares, the write-down is Short-term investments at fair value 4,469 4,542 not reversed through profit or loss. Liquid assets 2,202 1,402 Total financial assets 21,660 20,644 Other financial liabilities: Financial liabilities Liabilities classified as other financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, which equals the amount received after deducting transaction expenses. After Interest-bearing liabilities3) 6,327 5,916 acquisition, the liabilities are measured at amortised cost, according to the Derivatives identified as hedges 1,007 1,862 effective rate method. Trade accounts payable are classified in the category Derivatives at fair value through profit other financial liabilities. Trade accounts payable have a short expected maturity or loss for trading 86 93 and are measured without discounting to their nominal amount. Other liabilities 6,934 6,284 Total financial liabilities 14,354 14,155 Hedge accounting To meet the requirements for hedge accounting there must be an economic rela¹) Derivates with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative values are tionship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item and the hedging recognised as liabilities. Derivatives with a legal right of offset amount to MSEK 853. 2) Fair value (Level 1) 2017: MSEK 0; 2016: MSEK 140. relationship must be effective until the hedge matures. 3) Fair value (Level 2) 2017: MSEK 6,412; 2016: MSEK 6,052. To cover the Group’s risks associated with changes in exchange rates and exposure to interest rates, derivatives, consisting of forward exchange contracts, Valuation of financial instruments at fair value are divided into the following three options and swaps, are utilised. They are recognised initially and in subsequent valuation levels: revaluations at fair value, that is, at each reporting date. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not meet the requirements for Level 1 hedge accounting are recognised directly in profit or loss. If the underlying hedged According to listed (unadjusted) prices on an active market on the closing date: items relate to operations-related receivables or liabilities, the effect on earnings • Bonds and interest-bearing securities is recognised in operating income, while the corresponding effect on earnings • Electricity derivatives related to financial receivables and liabilities is recognised in financial net. • Interest rate forwards Level 2 The Group applies hedge accounting to cash flow hedges as follows. According to accepted valuation models based on observable market data: • Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are Cash flow hedges ­discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and valued in SEK at Forward exchange contracts (hedge instruments) entered into mainly to hedge ­period-end exchange rates. future receipts and disbursements against currency risks and classified as cash • Options: The Garman-Kohlhagens option-pricing model is used in the market flow hedges (primarily related to contracted sales volumes) are recognised in the valuation of all options. statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in • Interest rate swaps and cross currency basis swaps: Future variable interest rates other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in are calculated with the help of current forward rates. These implicit interest equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating income, at which point the ­payments are discounted to the valuation date using current market rates. The cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit market value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted or loss to meet the effects on earnings of the hedged transaction. variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed interest When the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capitalipayments. sed in the statement of financial position, the hedge reserve is dissolved when the hedged item is recognised in the statement of financial position. If the hedLevel 3 ged item is a non-financial asset or liability, the reversal is included in the original According to accepted principles, e.g. for venture capital firms: cost of the asset or liability. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the • Unlisted shares and participations hedge reserve is dissolved gradually through profit or loss at the same rate that the hedged item affects earnings. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 115 F I nancial statements Note 38, cont. As of 31 December 2017, the Group had the following financial assets and Net assets translated to SEK liabilities at fair value: MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Assets at fair value USD 2,057 2,181 EUR 778 768 MSEK 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 AUD 651 616 Bonds and interest-bearing ZAR 392 314 securities 4,469 4,469 GBP 307 310 Forward exchange contracts 1,056 1,056 CHF 127 194 Currency options 25 25 Other currencies 639 672 Cross currency basis swaps 51 51 Electricity derivatives 7 7 Total 4,951 5,055 Shares and participations 26 26 The effect on net assets of a change in exchange rates of +/– 10 per cent would Total 5,634 4,476 1,132 26 be a change in value of MSEK 495. Foreign currency risk due to translation effects on the net assets of foreign Liabilities at fair value subsidiaries is not hedged. MSEK 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Transaction exposure Forward exchange contracts 1,021 1,021 Contracted flows in the order backlog are exposed to transaction exposure. Currency options 11 11 Saab hedges the currency exposure in the order backlog with currency derivatives Interest rate swaps 61 61 (mainly forward exchange contracts), which means that changes in exchange rates do not affect the Group’s future results with respect to the current order backlog. Total 1,093 1,093 To reduce the transaction exposure, amounts in foreign currency are netted as well. Hedges are normally arranged for each specific contract. The average FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT forward rate is then used as the contract’s rate for revenue recognition. Foreign currency risk In 2017, countries outside Sweden accounted for 58 per cent (57) of Saab’s Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will sales. Since a large share of production takes place in Sweden with expenses negatively affect income or net assets. denominated in SEK, Saab has a large net exposure in foreign currencies. The predominant contract currencies in the order backlog of SEK 106.8 billion Economic exposure (107.6) are SEK, USD, EUR and GBP. Of the total order backlog, 56 per cent (62) Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold are in is in fixed prices with or without indexing, while the remaining 44 per cent (38) currencies other than the functional currency. Foreign currency risk also arises contains variable prices with index and/or currency clauses. when fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency. In the event the cash flow is far in the future, an extension strategy can be applied, the currency hedge can be shifted to an earlier date than when the cash flow Outstanding fixed-price tenders in foreign currency are usually managed in a is expected and hedge accounting for that time period is then applied to changes special portfolio, the tender portfolio. The following table shows outstanding nomiin the spot price. nal net hedges for the most predominant currencies as of year-end. Impairment of unprofitable contracts in foreign currency that are not hedged against foreign currency risk is based on the valuation of future cash flows at the Forward spot rate. These contracts mainly refer to anticipated future orders as part of contracts Options Total hedge ­long-term commercial aircraft programmes in USD. Net hedges Framework agreements contain both transaction and economic exposure and ­(million) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 mainly apply to the various commercial aircraft programmes. USD -45 -23 -172 -55 -217 -78 Hedge accounting according to IAS 39 is applied to derivatives intended to EUR -74 -18 -105 -179 -18 hedge the transaction exposure. The market value of existing hedges of the order GBP -3 -5 -15 -3 -20 backlog and framework agreements amounted to MSEK 73 (-564). Currency sensiDKK 20 20 tivity, i.e. the effect of a change in exchange rates of +/10 per cent, would affect the market value of derivatives by +/MSEK 223 (362). The inefficiency in the cash CZK -178 -178 flow hedges that affected net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). The tender portfolio’s external hedges are measured in relation to the benchmark in order to allocate VaR. The benchmark corresponds to the external hedge that would optimally be done to entirely eliminate the exchange rate risk that a tender gives rise to in relation to the likelihood that a business contract is received. If the two correspond, the tender portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e. its VaR measure will be zero. In 2017, about MSEK 30, expressed as VaR, was allocated to the tender portfolio, and at year-end VaR amounted to MSEK 17 (7). Hedge accounting is not applied to the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the Group’s result is affected by the outcome of the tenders and the exchange rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s effect on the Group’s result in 2017 was MSEK 54 (-11). Translation exposure Comprehensive income is affected when the results and net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated to SEK. The value of net assets exposed to transaction exposure amounted to MSEK 4,951 (5,055) at year-end; see the following table. 116 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 38, cont. The following table shows the cash flows for derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges, expressed in millions in local currency. EUR GBP USD Million Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net 2018 -114 197 83 -53 62 9 -417 471 54 2019 -39 50 11 -46 24 -22 -210 164 -46 2020 -123 37 -86 -67 13 -54 -251 473 222 2021 5 5 -25 1 -24 -344 564 220 2022 4 4 -33 1 -32 -136 112 -24 2023 and forward 1 1 -22 2 -20 -99 102 3 Total flows 2017 -276 294 18 -246 103 -143 -1,457 1,886 429 Total flows 2016 -249 344 95 -205 81 -124 -1,644 2,013 369 Currency exposure The Group’s total outstanding currency derivatives related to all currency risks are shown in the following table. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2017 2016 Local Local Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Currency Net Maturity up to 1 year EUR -249 61 97 -36 -131 -8 GBP -20 31 19 12 -30 33 USD -687 372 471 -99 -620 -574 Other 42 50 -8 -23 Subtotal 506 637 -131 -572 Maturity 1 to 3 years EUR 59 46 38 8 -61 -21 GBP 66 21 39 -18 14 6 USD -105 323 94 229 -97 -50 Other 16 6 10 1 Subtotal 406 177 229 -64 Maturity 3 to 5 years EUR -9 4 -4 82 -5 GBP 55 2 88 -86 65 -47 USD -96 167 71 96 -135 96 Other Subtotal 169 163 6 44 Maturity over 5 years EUR -4 -1 GBP 20 34 -34 53 -83 USD 82 21 -21 185 88 Other Subtotal 55 -55 4 Currency derivatives, total1)2) 1,081 1,032 49 -588 1) Retained premiums on open currency contracts amount to MSEK -19 (-12). 2) Of which derivatives used as cash flow hedge MSEK -1 (-554). The Parent Company’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2017 2016 Local Local Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Currency Net EUR -122 129 145 -16 4 -28 GBP 656 764 643 121 104 -104 USD 102 54 190 -136 -547 -421 Other 62 64 -2 -15 Currency derivatives, Parent Company total 1,009 1,042 -33 -568 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 117 F I nancial statements Liquidity risk Financing (refers to utilised credit facilities) Liquidity risk refers to the risk of not being able to meet payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity. The company consistently maintains unutilised credit facilities MSEK (Nom) or liquid assets corresponding in value to MSEK 4,000, adjusted for loans with Maturities Fixed interest 1) Tied-up capital maturity dates within 12 months but never less than 10 per cent of sales (total 1 year 1,499 312 sales). 2 years 1,575 1,575 In addition Treasury closely monitor all guarantees issued by banks and calculate a 3 years 425 425 risk weighted amount to be held in liquid assets. 4 years 400 1,141 Liquidity risk is minimised by diversifying financing sources and maturities. For maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities, see tables for each class of deri5 years and forward 1,839 2,285 vatives in this note as well as information on interest-bearing liabilities in note 32. Total 5,738 5,738 The Group’s other financial liabilities include accounts payable with credit 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. terms normally within 30-90 days as well as other operating liabilities which are classified as current. Investment portfolio The investment portfolio consists of investments in interest-bearing securities and Saab has access to the following credit facilities: interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s average duration falls in the range of 3-24 Loan facilities months (3-24). As of year-end, the duration was 10 months (9). MSEK Facility Utilised Available An increase in market interest rates of 0.10 per cent would affect financial income Revolving credit facility (maturity 2022) 6,000 6,000 by ­5 MSEK. A corresponding decrease in market interest rates of 0.10 per cent would positively affect financial income by ­5 MSEK. Overdraft facility (maturity 2018) 42 42 Total confirmed credit facilities 6,042 6,042 Investments in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Medium Term Notes (MTN) 6,000 4,812 1,188 MSEK (Nom) Maturities Fixed interest 1) Tied-up capital Total loan programmes 11,000 4,812 6,188 1 year 4,327 1,619 Total loan facilities 17,042 4,812 12,230 2 years 90 1,374 Saab has two revolving credit facilities with an equivalent value of MSEK 6,000 divi3 years 100 1,524 ded between eight banks. Both facilities have a term of five years to 2022. Saab 4 years 400 400 also has a commercial paper programme with a limit of MSEK 5,000 (5,000) and a 5 years and forward 420 420 Medium Term Note (MTN) programme with a limit of MSEK 6,000 (6,000). As of Total 5,337 5,337 31 December 2017, MSEK 0 (0) in commercial paper and MSEK 4,812 (4,150) in 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. MTN had been issued. In addition to these credit facilities, as part of efforts to diversify funding sources, Forward exchange contracts Saab has borrowed MEUR 100 under a Schuldschein documentation. In addition, Forward exchange contracts used to hedge commercial currency flows contain an Saab has an established programme for the sale of trade receivables with a frameinterest component. In certain cases, Saab may decide to shift the hedge to an earwork of MSEK 1,475, of which MSEK 0 (0) was utilised at 31 December 2017. lier date than when the cash flow is expected. This primarily refers to very long-term Saab’s aim is to utilise this programme in situations where greater financial flexibility customer contracts, which then generate an interest rate risk. The underlying cash is needed. flows that are exposed to extensions through forward exchange contracts amounNo financial covenants are attached to any of Saab’s credit facilities. ted to MUSD 271 (276) at year-end. Refinancing risk Interest rate derivatives Refinancing risk refers to the risk that Saab cannot replace maturing loans with The table below shows the Group’s outstanding interest rate derivatives. either new loans or its own funds. To minimise this risk, Saab maintains a diversified loan maturity structure; see the table under funding. Capital is tied up in Saab’s loan Interest rate derivatives Fair value 2017 2016 portfolio for an average in the range of 24-60 months. As of 31 December 2017 Local Local this amounted to 42 months. CurcurAsset Liability CurAs part of the effort to minimize refinancing risk, MTN loans with maturity in Million rency rency SEK SEK Net rency Net December 2018 has been repurchased at a nominal amount of MSEK 1 038 and Maturity up to 1 year SEK 150 3 -3 replaced with new MTN loans maturing in 2022 at a nominal amount of MSEK 1 700. Subtotal 3 -3 Maturity 1 to 3 years SEK 2,200 46 -46 2,225 -87 Interest rate risk EUR2) 85 48 48 Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes Subtotal 48 46 2 -87 in interest rate levels. Interest rate futures and swaps are used to manage interest Maturity 3 to 5 years SEK 1,750 12 -12 1,125 -26 rate risks and achieve the desired interest rate duration. Lending to subsidiaries in foreign currency is normally financed in SEK and converted to the subsidiary’s EUR2) 15 3 3 80 27 currency through swaps. Interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is managed Subtotal 3 12 -9 1 with cross currency basis swaps. Maturity over 5 years SEK Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the EUR2) 20 2 statement of financial position is affected by changes in underlying interest rates. The item with the largest exposure is pension obligations due to the liability’s long duration. Subtotal 2 Changes in market rates affect Saab’s net financial items. Interest derivatives, total 1)3) 51 61 -10 -84 Loan portfolio 1) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -6 (-5). 2) Refers to cross currency basis swaps (CCY). The loan portfolio consists of loans and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s 3) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK -53 (-111). average duration falls in the range of 12-48 months (12-48). As of year-end, the duration was 31 months (29). Commodity price risk The interest rates on long-term floating-rate funding are primarily hedged at fixed Commodity price risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by rates through interest rate swaps. In its reporting, Saab applies cash flow hedging, changes in commodities. Purchasing costs for material are managed primarily which means that changes in the value of interest rate swaps are recognised in other through contract clauses with customers and suppliers. Purchasing costs for comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in equity. The electricity are managed through hedging instruments. Electricity directives are change in value is recognised in financial income and expenses when transferred to managed through a discretionary management mandate. The market value of profit or loss. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). electricity derivatives as of year-end was MSEK 7 (7). Hedge accounting is applied The effect of a change in market interest rates of +/0.10 per cent would affect to electricity derivatives. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted financial expenses at +/­-1 MSEK and other comprehensive income/loss at +/­12 MSEK. to MSEK 0 (0). 118 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 38, cont. The Group’s outstanding electricity derivatives Net Master Collateral amount in netting received/ Electricity derivatives Fair value 2017 2016 Gross balance arrangeassets Net MegaAsset Liability Mega2016 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount Million watt SEK SEK Net watt Net Currency derivatives 1,243 1,243 -1,121 122 Maturity up to 1 year 12 4 4 19 4 Interest rate Subtotal 4 4 4 derivatives Maturity 1 to 3 years 10 3 3 11 3 CCY1) 29 29 29 Subtotal 3 3 3 Electricity Electricity derivatiderivatives 18 18 18 ves, total 1) 7 7 7 Assets 1,290 1,290 -1,121 169 Currency 1) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK 7 (7). derivatives 1,831 1,831 -1,121 710 Interest rate Credit and counterparty risks derivatives 113 113 113 Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to fulfil CCY1) the financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day operations, Electricity Saab is exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with counterparties in the derivatives 11 11 11 form of customers, suppliers and financial players. The Group’s aggregate credit Liabilities 1,955 1,955 -1,121 834 risks consist of commercial credit risks and financial credit risks. 1) Cross currency basis swaps. Commercial credit risks Credit risk is calculated on established and anticipated risks pursuant to the recomCommercial credit risks consist of outstanding accounts receivable and advances mendations of the Bank of International Settlements (BIS I). As of 31 December 2017, paid to suppliers. This type of credit risk is identified and managed on a case-by-case credit risks amounted to MSEK 5,855 (4,890), of which deposits with banks, mortgage basis. Credit risks that arise in customer contracts are managed by utilising institutions, companies and the Swedish government totalled MSEK 5,462 (5,126). available banking or insurance products. In some cases, export credit institutions may be used as well. Commercial credit risks that arise through advances paid to Hedge reserve suppliers are managed by maintaining bank-guaranteed collateral. At 31 December The hedge reserve before tax amounted to MSEK -379 (-990), of which the unreali2017, the Group had paid advances to suppliers of MSEK 44 (47). sed value of derivatives was MSEK -46 (-658) and the realised effects arising from Accounts receivable represent a commercial credit risk. Where counterparties’ rollovers of derivatives was MSEK -333 (-332). creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance guarantees or The change in the hedge reserve in 2017 of MSEK 611 consists of a reversal to proguarantees from EKN are secured to ensure that payment will be received. Since fit or loss of MSEK 525, change in the value of existing derivatives of MSEK 62, the maraccounts receivable are generally secured through bank or insurance guarantees ket value of hedges obtained during the year of MSEK 8, and change that arose due to or are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low. For more information derivative rollovers of MSEK 16. For information on the amount recognised in other on the Group’s accounts receivable, see note 28. comprehensive income, see consolidated net comprehensive income. The inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). Financial credit risks Financial credit risk consists of exposures to financial institutions through deposits, Trading securities investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. Proprietary trading is permitted to a limited extent in fixed income and currency The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to ensure that all financial instruments. The main purpose of this trading is to gain access to qualitative counterparties have a long-term credit rating of no lower than Afrom Standard market information and maintain a high level of market expertise. and Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s. The Board of Directors has issued a risk mandate for trading in fixed income and Each financial counterparty is assigned a credit limit based on its long-term ­currency instruments. In 2017, MSEK 15 was allocated to trading, expressed as VaR. credit rating. If the cumulative result for the year is negative, the mandate is reduced corresponSaab has entered into ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties to dingly. In 2017, trading income was MSEK 8 (7), which is reported as other operating net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives; see the income. The average utilised risk mandate (VaR) during the year was MSEK 0.5 (1). tables below. Saab has only CSA contract with a counterparty that gives Saab a unilateral right to collateral. Pension obligation The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the Market value of financial assets and liabilities subject to netting Group’s pension obligation. The fund has a long-term real yield requirement that arrangements corresponds annual financial cost of pension liability to PRI Pensionsgaranti. Net Master Collateral Investment guidelines indicate asset allocation as follows 0-40 per cent equities, amount in netting received/ 0-15 per cent alternative assets, 25-100 per cent interest-bearing products and Gross balance arrangeassets Net 0-20 per cent real estate. Investments are made in interest-bearing securities from 2017 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount issuers with a credit rating of no lower than BBB according to Standard & Poor’s and Currency Baa according to Moody’s. Of the fund’s capital at year-end, 53 per cent (48) was derivatives 1,081 1,081 -853 -4 224 invested in interest-bearing assets and property, of which 14 (13) per cent consist Interest rate of property related investments, the remaining 47 per cent (52) in equitiesand derivatives alternative investments. The market value of the fund’s assets as of 31 December CCY1) 51 51 51 2017 was MSEK 6,098 (5,579) and the annual return was 9 per cent (5). In 2017, the Electricity fund was capitalised by MSEK 0 (0) and MSEK 0 (0) in refunds was paid. The table derivatives 7 7 7 below shows the solvency margin for the pension fund. Assets 1,139 1,139 -853 -4 282 Currency MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 derivatives 1,032 1,032 -853 179 Fair value of assets Interest rate under management 6,098 5,579 5,316 5,091 derivatives 61 61 61 Present value of definedCCY1) benefit obligations1) 8,554 7,811 7,006 7,416 Electricity Solvency margin 71% 71% 76% 69% derivatives Pension obligation Liabilities 1,093 1,093 -853 240 according to PRI 5,522 5,369 5,237 5,106 1) Cross currency basis swaps. Solvency margin 110% 104% 102% 100% 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 119 F I nancial statements NOTE 39 A  SSETS PLEDGED AND NOTE 40 TRANSACTIONS WITH CONTINGENT LIABILITIES RELATED PARTIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. Saab has not had A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from any significant transactions with Investor, Board members or members of Group events whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events Management. For information on remuneration, see note 10. and there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or provision Of the Parent Company’s sales, 6 (6) per cent referred to sales to Group companies, because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required or the size of the while 20 (17) per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Group obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Information is provided companies. as long as the likelihood of an outflow of resources is not extremely small. Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies and joint ventures amounted to approximately MSEK 114 (212) and MSEK 113 (85), respectively. For Group Parent Company information on receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 ventures, see notes 26 and 36. Assets pledged for own liabilities and provisions NOTE 41 GROUP COMPANIES Other assets 2 Total 2 Significant Group company holdings Ownership share, Contingent liabilities per cent Guarantees to insurance Group company’s company, Group company ­registered office, country 2017 2016 PRI Pensionsgaranti 111 107 111 107 Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 Guarantees for Group Combitech Oy Finland 100 100 ­companies’ commitSaab Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 ments to customers 4,285 4,123 Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 Sureties for joint Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 ventures 8 8 Saab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 Sureties for associated Saab Defense and companies 11 6 292 Security USA LLC USA 100 100 Total 130 121 4,688 4,230 Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 In the ordinary course of business, Saab is occasionally involved in disputes and legal Saab Grintek proceedings arising as a result of the company’s operations worldwide. These dispuDefence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 75 75 tes and legal proceedings are not expected, either individually or collectively, to have Saab Kockums AB Malmö, Sweden 100 100 any significant negative effect on Saab’s financial result or position. Saab Medav Technologies GmbH Germany 100 100 The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent continSaab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 gent liabilities and a distribution by category and issuer. SaabSensis Corporation USA 100 100 Saab Technologies B.V. The Netherlands 100 100 Per cent Per cent MSEK 31-12-2017 of total 31-12-2016 of total Total ownership of non-controlling interests amounted to MSEK 188 (145). No nonBank guarantees: controlling interests are considered material. On demand 18,714 99 18,093 99 Parent Company Proprietary 168 1 266 1 MSEK 2017 2016 Total bank guarantees 18,882 100 18,359 100 Accumulated acquisition value Type of guarantee: Opening balance, 1 January 18,501 18,413 Advances 10,298 55 10,152 55 New issues/shareholders’ contributions 6 Completion 4,978 26 4,791 26 Acquisitions 250 87 Tenders, credits and other 3,606 19 3,416 19 Repaid shareholders’ contributions -5 Total guarantees 18,882 100 18,359 100 Sales and liquidations -28 -5 Closing balance, 31 December 18,718 18,501 In the ordinary course of business, Saab AB issue Parent Company guarantees to subsidiaries and joint ventures on a case by case basis. These guarantees may Accumulated write-downs cover all or part of the relevant subsidiary´s or joint venture´s general obligations, Opening balance, 1 January -12,653 -11,596 or be a defined amounts for a specific purpose. Write-downs for the year -13 -1,058 With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments to customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small and, as a Sales and liquidations 13 1 result, no value is recognised in the table of contingent liabilities. Closing balance, 31 December -12,653 -12,653 Carrying amount, 31 December 6,065 5,848 Write-down reversals and write-downs for the year are reported in the income statement on the line “Result from shares in Group companies”. 120 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 41, cont. Specification of Parent Company’s holdings of shares in Group companies 31-12-2017 Share, Carrying amount, Group company/Corp. ID no./Registered office No. of shares per cent MSEK Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 144 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm, Sweden 1,720,000 100 158 Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö, Sweden 100,000 100 1,064 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal, Sweden 2,000 100 3 Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping, Sweden 20,000 100 4 Fastighets AB Stensholm-Huskvarna, 556030-2746, Jönköping, Sweden 150,000 100 42 Fastighets AB Tannefors 1:114, 559043-3206, Linköping, Sweden 500 100 6 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga, Sweden 100,000 100 10 GKN Aerospace Applied Composites AB, 556326-2988, Linköping, Sweden 10,000 100 82 Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, Linköping, Sweden 500,000 100 51 Muskövarvet AB, 556675-3496, Haninge, Sweden 1,002 100 60 N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB, 556193-6138, Kramfors, Sweden 5,100 100 90 Nordic Defence Industries A/S, Denmark 100 22 Saab Aircraft Leasing Holdings AB, 556124-3170, Linköping, Sweden 30,000 100 4 Saab Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 3 Saab Asia Pacific Co. Ltd, Thailand 100 12 Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik, Sweden 200,000 100 93 Saab Canada Inc., Canada 100 1 Saab Czech s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 25 Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100 103 Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB, 559060-0747, Linköping, Sweden 295 59 35 Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga, Sweden 500,000 100 357 Saab France S.A.S, France 100 Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100 Saab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100 14 Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100 Saab Kockums AB, 556205-5623, Malmö, Sweden 500,000 100 340 Saab Medav Technologies GmbH, Germany 100 203 Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, Mölndal, Sweden 300,000 100 49 Saab North America, Inc., USA 100 2,043 Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100 194 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 100 443 Saab Support & Services Thailand AB, 559025-4016, Linköping, Sweden 500 100 Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Technologies B.V., The Netherlands 100 295 Saab Technologies BVBA, Belgium 100 29 Saab Technologies Ltd., Canada 100 18 Saab Technologies s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100 3 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100 3 Saab Transpondertech AB, 556535-9790, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Dormant companies etc. 62 Carrying amount at year-end 6,065 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 121 F I nancial statements NOTE 42 UNTAXED RESERVES FREE CASH FLOW VERSUS CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR IN Parent Company STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MSEK 2017 2016 MSEK 2017 2016 Tax allocation reserve: Free cash flow 852 2,359 Opening balance, 1 January 1,850 1,760 Investing activities – interest-bearing: Provision for the year 309 90 Short-term investments 63 -1,525 Reversal for the year -350 Other financial investments and receivables 84 17 Closing balance, 31 December 1,809 1,850 Financing activities: Accumulated accelerated/under depreciation Repayment of loans -1,301 -582 Buildings and land: Raising of loans 1,700 732 Opening balance, 1 January -2 -4 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -559 -530 Accelerated/under depreciation for the year 2 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest -4 -5 Closing balance, 31 December -2 -2 Transactions with non-controlling interest 15 Cash flow for the year 835 481 Machinery and equipment: Opening balance, 1 January 432 383 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Accelerated depreciation for the year 52 49 Closing balance, 31 December 484 432 Liquid assets Group Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 2,291 2,280 MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 The following components are included in liquid assets: NOTE 43 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, Cash and bank balances 1,463 1,102 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Bank deposits 739 300 Total according to the statement of financial position 2,202 1,402 The Group’s free cash flow, and a reconciliation between free cash flow and cash flow for the year from the statement of cash flows, are stated below. Total according to statement of cash flows 2,202 1,402 Free cash flow Parent Company Group MSEK 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 MSEK 2017 2016 The following components are included Cash flow from operating activities before in liquid assets: changes in working capital, excluding taxes and other financial items 3,593 2,927 Cash and bank balances 442 351 Bank deposits 739 300 Cash flow from changes in working capital: Total according to balance sheet 1,181 651 Amounts due from and to customers -475 5,092 Inventories -994 -1,329 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,181 651 Other current receivables 795 -2,540 Other current liabilities 704 521 Interest paid and dividends received Provisions -103 -323 Group Parent Company Change in working capital -73 1,421 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes Dividends received 26 16 1,090 98 and other financial items 3,520 4,348 Interest received 40 28 141 115 Interest paid -145 -111 -159 -126 Investing activities: Investments in intangible fixed assets -1,064 -882 Total -79 -67 1,072 87 Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,093 -807 Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 25 27 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Investments in financial fixed assets -83 Group Parent Company Cash flow from investing activities1) -2,132 -1,745 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Depreciation and Operational cash flow 1,388 2,603 amortisation­ 839 946 491 631 Taxes and other financial items -356 -194 Capital gains/losses Sale of and investments in financial assets -10 -78 from sales of Group companies, associated Investments in operations -170 -49 companies and other Sale of subsidiaries 77 shares -49 -57 Provisions 378 190 283 166 Free cash flow 852 2,359 Write-downs 13 1,058 1) Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interestShare of profits in bearing financial assets and excluding sale of and investment in financial assets, investments in ­operations and sale of subsidiaries. If investments in and sale of financial fixed assets are considered associated companies to be of operating nature, the item is included in investing activities. and joint ventures 39 38 Dividends and Group ­contributions from/to Group companies -78 -1,131 Other 223 101 121 95 Total 1,479 1,226 830 762 122 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Note 43, cont. Reconciliation of cash flows arising from liabilities in financing activities Non-cash changes Foreign exchange Interest-bearing liabilities, MSEK 31-12-2016 Cash flows1) Acquisitions movement 31-12-2017 Liabilities to credit institutions 5,107 662 – 29 5,798 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 239 –195 1 – 45 Other interest-bearing liabilities 570 –68 34 –52 484 Total interest-bearing liabilities 5,916 399 35 –23 6,327 1) These amounts refer to cash flows arising from liabilities in Financing activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows. Investments in operations Group NOTE 45 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT MSEK 2017 2016 Operations subject to licensing in the Parent Company Acquired assets and liabilities Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent Company, Saab AB, in Intangible fixed assets 94 64 the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping is subject to licensing Tangible fixed assets 57 2 pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code due to aeronautics operations, surface Deferred tax assets 3 treatment processes, manufacturing of composite materials, handling of chemical Inventories 70 3 substances, the firing of large calibre weapons and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from emisCurrent receivables 86 18 sions of volatile organic compounds (VOCS) and aircraft emissions into the Liquid assets 42 6 atmosphere, emissions of metals into waterways, the generation of industrial wasTotal assets 349 96 tes and noise disturbing local surroundings. The manufacturing operations predominantly entail operations subject to licensing. The National Licensing Board for Long-term liabilities 24 Environmental Protection granted the licence for aircraft manufacture in 1990. Provisions 5 1 The supervisory authorities and the Land and Environment Court imposed Deferred tax liability 11 8 additional terms for these operations in 2006 and 2007, respectively, against Interest-bearing liabilities 10 the backdrop of the EU’s IPPC directive. A process regarding a new environmental permit for the operations in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Current liabilities 67 24 ­Linköping is underway. Total liabilities 117 33 In Järfälla, Saab AB has operations involving the manufacture of advanced Purchase price paid 212 55 command and control systems, among other things, which are also subject to Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -42 -6 licensing under to the Environment Code. The licensing requirement is due to Effect on the Group’s liquid assets (positive (-) / surface treatment processes and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The negative (+)) 170 49 environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from metals into waterways. The National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence in 1990. Acquisitions in 2017 relate to Applied Composites AB, N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB In 2017 Saab AB acquired the company Applied Composites AB which are suband Muskövarvet AB. Acquisitions in 2016 relate to Phaeros Group BVBA, Nordic ject to licensed operations due to its use of epoxy and polyester resin. The operaDefence Industries A/S, and Watchcom Security Group AS. tions are located in Malmslätt in the municipality of Linköping and manufacture composite material which generates dust emissions and emissions of solvents. Sale of subsidiaries The permit was granted by the County Boards in the county of Group Östergötland in 1995. MSEK 2017 2016 With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab AB did not Divested assets and liabilities exceed any conditions in its permits or violate any injunctions in 2017. Tangible fixed assets 16 Liquid assets 1 Operations subject to licensing in subsidiaries The operations carried on by Saab Airport AB are subject to licensing under the Total assets 17 Environment Code and are covered by the permit issued by the National Licensing Provisions 17 Board for Environmental Protection in 1990 for Saab’s collective operations in the Deferred tax liability 3 Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping. This permit also covers Current liabilities 2 the operations of Saab Dynamics AB in the area, despite the fact that they are not subject to licensing and notification requirements under the Environment Code. Total liabilities 22 These operations are included in the application for a new permit mentioned above Sales price 78 regarding operations in the Tannefors industrial zone. Purchase price received 78 Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Bofors Test Center AB run operations in Karlskoga that are subject to licensing under the Environment Code and Saab Barracuda AB Less: Liquid assets in divested operations -1 runs operations subject to licensing in Gamleby. A process regarding a new enviEffect on the Group’s liquid assets 77 ronmental license for the operations in Saab Dynamics AB is underway. Saab Bofors Test Center AB also runs operations subject to licensing in the municipaliNo divestments were made in 2017. Divestments in 2016 relate to property ties of Degerfors, Lindesberg, and Härjedalen. companies. In addition, Saab Kockums AB runs operations subject to licensing in Karlskrona and on Muskö island, south of Stockholm. The environmental impact from subsidiaries subject to licensing primarily consists NOTE 44 INFORMATION ON PARENT of emissions of VOCs from workshops and emissions from aircraft into the COMPANY atmosphere, emissions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation of industrial wastes, storing and transfer of explosive goods, and noise disturbing local surroundings. Saab AB (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab’s subsidiaries office in Linköping. The Parent Company’s B shares are registered on the ­ did not exceed any conditions in its permits or violate any injunctions in 2017. Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Saab AB, Box 12062, SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden, as of 28 March 2018, the address of the head office is Olof Palmes gata 17, 5th floor, SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden. Operations subject to notification requirements The consolidated accounts for 2017 comprise the Parent Company and its Saab AB has operations in Arboga, Docksta, Huskvarna, Jönköping, Ljungbyhed, Group companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes Linköping (Malmslätt), Muskö, Nyköping and Östersund, which are subject to notifithe holdings in associated companies and joint ventures. cation requirements pursuant to the Environment Code. Permits in Arboga and Saab AB also operates a small business in a South Korean branch. ­Linköping (Malmslätt) still apply. These were granted by the county boards in 1993 and 1994, respectively. The Group also has operations subject to notification requirements in the subsidiary Saab Dynamics AB in Motala. The permit in Motala still applies. The environmental impact of these operations is very limited. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 123 F I nancial statements NOT 46 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2018 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES recognised in each period. The stage of completion can also be determined in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued by IASB, applies as of some cases based on when various targets such as milestones or deliveries are 2018 to the recognition of revenue. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 met. An expected loss is recognised in the income statement as soon as it has Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 provides a revenue model that uses as its starbeen identified. ting point a contract on the sale of a good or service between two parties. The For Saab’s service assignments, which include the sale of consulting hours and company then recognises the revenue when it satisfies its obligation to deliver the support services, at a fixed price or on current account, the customer normally promised goods or services to the customer, which means that the revenue is obtains the benefits when the obligation is satisfied. Revenue is recognised over recognised when the customer obtains control over the good or service and has time as the assignment is performed according to the contract. the ability to use or obtain the benefits from the good or the service. The main A percentage of Saab’s revenue is attributable to products where development, principles of revenue recognition are based on a five-step model: customisation and integration are insignificant, i.e. for the most part only the manu1. Identify the contract facture of products, as well as the resale of spare parts, for example. Revenue from 2. Identify the performance obligations these contracts is recognised at a point in time, i.e. normally when control of the 3. Determine the transaction price good has transferred to the customer in accordance with the terms of the contract. 4. Allocate the transaction price to each obligation As of 2018, IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of 5. Recognise revenue when the obligation is satisfied. financial assets and liabilities and introduces new rules on hedge accounting and impairment of financial receivables, replacing the large part of the guidance in IAS A large part of the Group’s operations involves long-term customer contracts 39. for development and manufacture of complex systems that stretch over several The Group’s financial assets are classified in accordance with IFRS 9 in three reporting periods. The analysis of these contracts according to the five-step categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and fair model has mainly entailed deciding whether one or more performance obligations value through profit or loss, depending on whether they are financial receivables, exist (step 2), and when it or they are satisfied (step 5). Since Saab’s long-term derivatives or equity instruments and in accordance with what is described below. customer contracts often involve a considerable amount of customisation of Measurement of the Group’s financial receivables is based on the company’s goods and/or integration of the good with other goods and services, it usually choice of business model for management of financial assets. Short-term investmeans that a performance obligation has been identified. If additional performents are held mainly for trading to invest surplus liquidity, and sales are made fremance obligations are identified beyond development and manufacturing, e.g. quently to manage liquidity needs and maximise the return. Monitoring and measupport, the revenue is recognised according to the current standard. surement are done continuously at fair value through profit or loss. Assets held to A performance obligation is satisfied according to the standard at a point in collect contractual cash flows, which consist of principal and interest from operatime or over time. If a performance obligation is satisfied over time, one of the folting activities such as liquid assets, accounts receivable, loans receivable, other lowing criteria must be met: a) the customer must obtain immediate benefits when receivables and contractual assets in accordance with IFRS 15 are measured at the obligation is satisfied, b) the company’s performance creates or improves an amortised cost. Impairment of financial receivables such as accounts receivable, asset that the customer controls, or c) the company’s performance does not crecontractual assets and loans receivable from associated companies and joint ate an asset with an alternative use for the company and the company has the ventures will be calculated based on expected credit losses for the entire expecright to payment for costs incurred to date, including profit. Since Saab’s longted maturity instead of when there is objective information indicating that the term customer contracts contain considerable customisation and integration of Group will not receive full payment as in the previous standards. goods and services, and because the cost to adapt the asset and sell it to a new Derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss, except when hedge customer would not be insignificant, the conclusion is that the asset is not deeaccounting for cash flow hedges is applied, in which case the portion determined med to have an alternative use. Since the contracts also contain clauses that to be an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. Saab’s cover the right to payment plus a reasonable profit for costs incurred, it means method for applying hedge accounting is unchanged after the transition to IFRS that the criteria for recognising long-term customer contracts over time are satis9’s rules on hedge accounting . fied. Consequently, revenue and costs are recognised in the income statement Equity instruments such as shares and participations are measured continuas before in relation to the contract’s stage of completion. ously at fair value with changes in value recognised through profit or loss. Except The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship betfor the change in the principle for impairment, the transition to IFRS 9 does not ween costs incurred for services rendered as of the closing day and estimated change the valuation of financial assets and liabilities. total costs to satisfy the obligation in accordance with the contract. Of the estimaFor more information, see note 2. ted total revenue, a percentage corresponding to the stage of completion is Shown below are the effects in 2017 of the application of IFRS 15. The opening balance in 2018 has been restated in accordance with IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. YEAR-END 2017 AND OPENING BALANCE 2018 31-12-2017 Adjustment 31-12-2017 Adjustment 01-01-2018 Statement of financial position, MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated IFRS 9 Restated ASSETS Fixed assets 14,459 14,459 14,459 Long-term receivables on associated companies and joint ventures 454 454 -5 449 Deferred tax assets 211 27 238 1 239 Total fixed assets 15,124 27 15,151 –4 15,147 Inventories 7,743 504 8,247 8,247 Amounts due from customers --> Contract assets 7,917 83 8,000 8,000 Accounts receivable, derivatives and other short-term receivables 6,029 6,029 6,029 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,193 -293 900 900 Liquid assets and short-term investments 6,671 6,671 6,671 Total current assets 29,553 294 29,847 29,847 TOTAL ASSETS 44,677 321 44,998 -4 44,994 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity: Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 14,189 -92 14,097 -4 14,093 Non-controlling interest 188 188 188 Total equity 14,377 -92 14,285 -4 14,281 Liabilities Long-term liabilities 11,167 11,167 11,167 Amounts due to customers –> Contract liabilities 9,094 418 9,512 9,512 Other short-term liabilities and provisions 10,039 -5 10,034 10,034 Total liabilities 30,300 413 30,713 30,713 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 44,677 321 44,998 -4 44,994 124 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 YEAR-END 2017 END OF THIRD QUARTER Jan–Dec Adjustment Jan–Dec Jan–Sep Adjustment Jan–Sep Income statement , MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated Income statement , MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated Sales 31,394 272 31,666 Sales 21,575 -59 21,516 Cost of goods sold -23,946 -177 -24,123 Cost of goods sold -16,532 41 -16,491 Gross income 7,448 95 7,543 Gross income 5,043 -18 5,025 Gross margin, % 23.7 23.8 Gross margin, % 23.4 23.4 Operating expenses -5,293 -5,293 Operating expenses -3,770 -3,770 Operating income 2,155 95 2,250 Operating income 1,273 -18 1,255 Operating margin, % 6.9 7.1 Operating margin, % 5.9 5.8 Net financial items -151 -151 Net financial items -45 -45 Income before taxes 2,004 95 2,099 Income before taxes 1,228 -18 1,210 Taxes -566 -25 -591 Taxes -309 4 -305 Net income for the period 1,438 70 1,508 Net income for the period 919 -14 905 Attributable to: Attributable to: Parent Company’s Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 1,407 70 1,477 shareholders’ interest 890 -14 876 non-controlling interest 31 31 non-controlling interest 29 29 Earnings per share before Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 13.20 0.66 13.86 dilution, SEK 8.35 -0.13 8.22 Earnings per share after Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 13.10 0.65 13.75 dilution, SEK 8.29 -0.13 8.16 END OF THIRD QUARTER END OF SECOND QUARTER Statement of financial position, 30-09-2017 Adjustment 30-09-2017 Statement of financial position, 30-06-2017 Adjustment 30-06-2017 MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated ASSETS ASSETS Fixed assets 14,276 14,276 Fixed assets 14,137 14,137 Deferred tax assets 302 56 358 Deferred tax assets 156 52 208 Total fixed assets 14,578 56 14,634 Total fixed assets 14,293 52 14,345 Inventories 7,891 689 8,580 Inventories 7,478 623 8,101 Amounts due from customers –> Amounts due from customers –> Contract assets 7,610 -169 7,441 Contract assets 7,414 -106 7,308 Accounts receivable, derivatives Accounts receivable, derivatives and other short-term receivables 5,361 5,361 and other short-term receivables 5,508 5,508 Prepaid expenses and accrued Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,172 -300 872 income 1,250 -303 947 Liquid assets and short-term Liquid assets and short-term investments 4,794 4,794 investments 4,603 4,603 Total current assets 26,828 220 27,048 Total current assets 26,253 214 26,467 TOTAL ASSETS 41,406 276 41,682 TOTAL ASSETS 40,546 266 40,812 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity: Equity: Parent Company’s Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 13,763 -175 13,588 shareholders’ interest 13,184 -162 13,022 Non-controlling interest 172 172 Non-controlling interest 168 168 Total equity 13,935 -175 13,760 Total equity 13,352 -162 13,190 Liabilities Liabilities Long-term liabilities 10,570 10,570 Long-term liabilities 10,104 10,104 Amounts due to customers –> Amounts due to customers –> Contract liabilities 7,733 457 8,190 Contract liabilities 6,993 429 7,422 Other short-term liabilities and Other short-term liabilities and provisions 9,168 -6 9,162 provisions 10,097 -1 10,096 Total liabilities 27,471 451 27,922 Total liabilities 27,194 428 27,622 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,406 276 41,682 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 40,546 266 40,812 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 125 F I nancial statements END OF SECOND QUARTER END OF FIRST QUARTER Jan–Jun Adjustment Jan–Jun Jan–Mar Adjustment Jan–Mar Income statement , MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated Income statement , MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated Sales 15,353 5 15,358 Sales 7,430 156 7,586 Cost of goods sold -11,885 -4 -11,889 Cost of goods sold -5,694 -109 -5,803 Gross income 3,468 1 3,469 Gross income 1,736 47 1,783 Gross margin, % 22.6 22.6 Gross margin, % 23.4 23.5 Operating expenses -2,583 -2,583 Operating expenses -1,244 -1,244 Operating income 885 1 886 Operating income 492 47 539 Operating margin, % 5.8 5.8 Operating margin, % 6.6 7.1 Net financial items -9 -9 Net financial items -17 -17 Income before taxes 876 1 877 Income before taxes 475 47 522 Taxes -217 -217 Taxes -115 -11 -126 Net income for the period 659 1 660 Net income for the period 360 36 396 Attributable to: Attributable to: Parent Company’s Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 642 1 643 shareholders’ interest 354 36 390 non-controlling interest 17 17 non-controlling interest 6 6 Earnings per share before Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 6.03 0.01 6.04 dilution, SEK 3.33 0.33 3.66 Earnings per share after Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 5.98 0.01 5.99 dilution, SEK 3.30 0.33 3.63 END OF FIRST QUARTER OPENING BALANCE 2017 Statement of financial position, 31-03-2017 Adjustment 31-03-2017 Statement of financial position, 01-01-2017 Adjustment 01-01-2017 MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated MSEK Actual IFRS 15 Restated ASSETS ASSETS Fixed assets 13,963 13,963 Fixed assets 13,687 13,687 Deferred tax assets 180 43 223 Deferred tax assets 252 53 305 Total fixed assets 14,143 43 14,186 Total fixed assets 13,939 53 13,992 Inventories 7,152 487 7,639 Inventories 6,660 526 7,186 Amounts due from customers –> Amounts due from customers –> Contract assets 6,518 -12 6,506 Contract assets 6,222 -227 5,995 Accounts receivable, derivatives Accounts receivable, derivatives and other short-term receivables 5,826 5,826 and other short-term receivables 7,411 7,411 Prepaid expenses and accrued Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,157 -259 898 income 1,035 -163 872 Liquid assets and short-term Liquid assets and short-term investments 6,826 6,826 investments 5,944 5,944 Total current assets 27,479 216 27,695 Total current assets 27,272 136 27,408 TOTAL ASSETS 41,622 259 41,881 TOTAL ASSETS 41,211 189 41,400 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity: Equity: Parent Company’s Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 13,689 -127 13,562 shareholders’ interest 13,156 -164 12,992 Non-controlling interest 166 166 Non-controlling interest 145 145 Total equity 13,855 -127 13,728 Total equity 13,301 -164 13,137 Liabilities Liabilities Long-term liabilities 9,681 9,681 Long-term liabilities 9,736 9,736 Amounts due to customers –> Amounts due to customers –> Contract liabilities 8,063 387 8,450 Contract liabilities 7,884 355 8,239 Other short-term liabilities and Other short-term liabilities and provisions 10,023 -1 10,022 provisions 10,290 -2 10,288 Total liabilities 27,767 386 28,153 Total liabilities 27,910 353 28,263 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,622 259 41,881 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 41,211 189 41,400 126 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 NOTE 47 EXCHANGE RATES USED IN NOTE 48 DEFINITIONS OF KEY RATIOS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Below are definitions of financial key ratios that are used in the report. For more Year-end rate Average rate information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, please see Land 2017 2016 2017 2016 saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios. Australia AUD 1 6.42 6.57 6.54 6.37 Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Brazil BRL 1 2.49 2.80 2.68 2.48 Capital turnover Sales divided by average capital employed. Denmark DKK 100 132.29 128.69 129.49 127.20 Earnings per share Net income for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s Euro EUR 1 9.85 9.57 9.63 9.47 shareholder­s, divided by the average number of shares before and after full India INR 100 12.86 13.40 13.13 12.74 dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. Canada CAD 1 6.56 6.74 6.58 6.46 EBITDA Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and write-downs. Norway NOK 100 100.11 105.40 103.30 101.99 EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and Switzerland CHF 1 8.43 8.91 8.67 8.69 write-downs as a percentage of sales. UK GBP 1 11.10 11.18 10.99 11.57 Effective tax rate Current and deferred taxes as a percentage of income before tax. South Africa ZAR 100 66.96 66.75 64.14 58.55 Equity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. Czech Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders Republic CZK 100 38.49 35.40 36.61 35.03 divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the year. USA USD 1 8.23 9.10 8.54 8.56 Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities and from investing activities, excluding acquisitions and divestments of short-term investments and other interest-bearing financial assets. Free cash flow per share Free cash flow divided by the average number of shares after dilution. Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. Interest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by financial expenses. Net investments Acquisitions and divestments of intangible and tangible fixed assets. Net liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for pensions excluding provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ contribution. Non-recurring items Non-recurring items of profit with a significant impact on the results and which are important for understanding the underlying business development. Operating margin Operating income (EBIT) as a percentage of sales. Operational cash flow Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes and other financial items, and acquisitions and divestments of intangible fixed assets and tangible fixed assets. Order backlog Total value of orders at the end of the year. Order bookings Total value of orders received during the year. Organic sales growth Change in sales in percentage adjusted for effects from exchange rate due to the translation of foreign subsidiaries, and structural changes such as acquisitions and divestments of subsidiaries. Profit margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 127 Dividend motivation The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB Saab is one of the world’s leading high-technology in tangible fixed assets. Investments are also made companies, because of which its operations are in research and development, which in 2017 distinguished by complex development assignamounted to MSEK 2,059, of which MSEK 871 was ments on the cutting edge of technology. Over the capitalised in the balance sheet. years, Saab has conducted significant developAt year-end, Saab had a net debt, which includes ment projects and managed the associated risks liquid assets, short-term investments and interwith great success. See also risks and uncertainties est-bearing receivables less interest-bearing liabiliin the annual report. ties, including provisions for pensions, amounting The Board of Directors’ proposed dividend to MSEK 1,834. Saab’s ability to carry out its comamounts to SEK 5.50 per share, corresponding to mitments is not expected to be affected by the proa total dividend of MSEK 588. Unrestricted equity posed dividend either on a short or a long-term amounts to MSEK 4,879 in Saab AB and profit basis. carried forward in the Group before the dividend is paid amounts to MSEK 11,923. The proposed dividend is considered justifiable Net income for the year attributable to the with regard to what is stated in chapter 17, § 3, para­Parent Company’s shareholders amounted to graphs two and three of the Companies Act MSEK 1,407 for the Group and MSEK 649 for (2005:551): the Parent Company. 1. the demands that the company’s nature, scope After paying the dividend to the shareholders, and risks place on the size of its equity, and the Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 31.3 per 2. the company’s consolidation needs, liquidity cent, compared to the target of 30 per cent. Since or financial position in other respects. the IPO in 1998, the equity/assets ratio has risen from 22 per cent to 32.2 per cent in 2017. The Board of Directors Saab AB Saab’s gross capital expenditure in 2017 amounted to MSEK 1,093, which is considered a good estimation of annual future investments 128 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Proposed disposition of earnings 2017 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriAfter the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will be ated earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General as follows: Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Retained earnings 4,233,780,224 Capital stock 1,746,405,504 Net comprehensive income for the year 645,290,131 Statutory reserve 542,471,135 Total 4,879,070,355 Revaluation reserve 675,427,730 Retained earnings 4,291,539,554 be disposed as follows: Total 7,255,843,923 To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 5.50 per share 587,530,801 Funds to be carried forward 4,291,539,554 The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net Total 4,879,070,355 income over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the President propose that MSEK 588 (559), or SEK 5.50 per share (5.25) be issued as a dividend. This has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2017, of 106,823,782. Saab’s equity/assets ratio is currently 32.2 per cent (32.3) and after the proposed disposition of earnings will be 31.3 per cent (31.3) The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping 22 February 2018 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Sten Jakobsson Danica Kragic Jensfelt Sara Mazur Daniel Nodhäll Deputy Chairman Board member Board member Board member Bert Nordberg Cecilia Stegö Chilò Erika Söderberg Johnson Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson Nils Lindskog Board member Board member Board member Håkan Buskhe President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and board member Our audit report was submitted on 2 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Hjalmarsson Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 129 Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556036-0793. Report on the annual accounts We therefore recommend that the general meeting and consolidated accounts of shareholders adopts the income statement and Opinions balance sheet for the parent company and the We have audited the annual accounts and consoliincome statement and statement of financial posidated accounts of Saab AB (publ) for the year 2017 tion for the group. except for the corporate governance statement on Our opinions in this report on the the annual pages 58 to 67. The annual accounts and consoliaccounts and consolidated accounts are consistdated accounts of the company are included on ent with the content of the additional report that has pages 45 to 129 in this document. been submitted to the parent company's audit In our opinion, the annual accounts have been committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts (537/2014) Article 11. Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 Basis for Opinions December 2016 and its financial performance and We conducted our audit in accordance with Internacash flow for the year then ended in accordance tional Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our accounts have been prepared in accordance with responsibilities under those standards are further the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. material respects, the financial position of the group We are independent of the parent company and the as of 31 December 2017 and their financial perforgroup in accordance with professional ethics for mance and cash flow for the year then ended in accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled accordance with International Financial Reporting our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the requirements. Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover We believe that the audit evidence we have the corporate governance statement on pages 58 obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a to 67. The statutory administration report is conbasis for our opinions. sistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our audit approach Overview • We have used an overall materiality of SEK 100 million in our audit representing approximately five percent of operating profit. Materiality • In our audit we have focused on the operations in the parent company Saab AB and the subsidiaries Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Kockums AB. In addition units in Australia, South Africa, USA and the Netherlands has been subject to review procedures. Scope • A significant part of Saab’s reported revenue derive from long term contracts where management’s estimates and assumptions are critical for recognition of revenue as well as cost of goods sold. In addition to the income items, several balance sheet items are affected by the assumptions and Key Audit judgments made related to the long term contracts. A significant part of our Matters audit is focused on the review of large projects. From 2018 Saab will recognize revenue according to IFRS 15, revenue from contracts with customers. For Saab it is, as stated in note 46, essential to assess that the criteria for recognizing revenue over time are fulfilled. We have thus during the year reviewed Saab’s project for implementation of IFRS 15. A significant part of Saab’s revenue and result is of completion, estimated profit margin as well as derived from long term customer contracts includtotal costs and risks. ing substantial development and customization for This requires a high level of project control and specific customers, which are associated with techmonitoring to be able to, at any given time confirm nical and commercial risks. Revenue and income is the assumptions and estimates for project cost and in many projects recognised using percentage of revenue to give a satisfying base for recognizing completion, which as such are based on managerevenue and income. In many cases the customer ment’s estimates and measurement of percentage contracts have a significant element of integration 130 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 with the customer and sub-contractors why the In these entities our audit is focused on project financial outcome is not only dependent on Saab’s ­oriented parts of the financial reporting. own activities but other parties as well. Beside the audit of the consolidated accounts We designed our audit by determining materialand the annual report we perform limited reviews ity and assessing the risks of material misstatement of Saab’s interim reports for the first, second and in the consolidated financial statements. In particuthird quarter. These quarterly procedures help us to lar, we considered where management made subcontinuously understand changes in conditions, jective judgements; for example, in respect of signifespecially for long term contracts, affecting the icant accounting estimates that involved making financial reporting. assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also Materiality addressed the risk of management override of The scope of our audit was influenced by our appliinternal controls, including among other matters cation of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain consideration of whether there was evidence of reasonable assurance whether the financial statebias that represented a risk of material misstatements are free from material misstatement. Misment due to fraud. statements may arise due to fraud or error. They are We tailored the scope of our audit in order to considered material if individually or in aggregate, perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an they could reasonably be expected to influence the opinion on the consolidated financial statements economic decisions of users taken on the basis of as a whole, taking into account the structure of the the consolidated financial statements. Group, the accounting processes and controls ­ Based on our professional judgement, we deterand the specific circumstances in larger customer mined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, projects. including the overall materiality for the consolidated A significant part of the Saab Group’s operation financial statements as a whole as set out in the table is carried out in the parent company Saab AB. In below. These, together with qualitative consideraaddition substantial parts of the operation is carried tions, helped us to determine the scope of our audit out in the subsidiaries Saab Dynamics AB and Saab and the nature, timing and extent of our audit proceKockums AB in Sweden. These units are included in dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, the audit of the group. Foreign operations of some both individually and in aggregate on the financial importance for the financial reporting is carried out statements as a whole. in Australia, South Africa, USA and the Netherlands. Group Materiality SEK 100 million How we determined it Five percent of operating profit Rational for the materiality We chose operating profit as the benchmark because, in our view, it is benchmark applied the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose five percent which in auditing standards is a generally accepted benchmark. Key audit matters accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, Key audit matters of the audit are those matters but we do not provide a separate opinion on these that, in our professional judgment, were of most sigmatters. A considerable part of the operations in nificance in our audit of the annual accounts and the Saab Group is carried out in the parent comconsolidated accounts of the current period. These pany, Saab AB. The key audit matters described matters were addressed in the context of our audit below is applicable for both the group and the­ of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual ­parent company. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 131 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Long term customer contracts Saab has implemented processes, methods and controls to account Revenue and income is in many projects recognised using percentage for and monitor the long term customer contracts from tender, through of completion, which as such are based on management’s estimates execution and completion. These processes include among other and measurement of percentage of completion, estimated profit ­project organisation, documentation, financial reviews and reporting ­margin as well as total costs and risks. If a project is expected to be in a as well as guidance on application of the accounting principles. This ­is loss position, the loss is recognised as soon as it can be determined. further described in the annual report on page 55 to 56. Percentage of completion and the income recognised can be In our audit we have evaluated the design of these processes, methbased on cost incurred, milestones reached or units delivered. ods and controls and tested on a sample basis that they work as The financial reporting risk in the financial reporting is that revenue designed. In this testing we have focused on the following: and income recognised, not correctly reflect Saab’s stage of comple• Test of monitoring controls on business area, business unit of where tion in the long term customer contracts and that the risks in the conapplicable on product level. tracts deviate from actual outcome, which can result in revenue being • Test of transaction controls for accounting for cost incurred related recognised at wrong margin. This in turn might lead to cut off errors in to long term customer contracts for procurement to projects. revenue and cost. • Test that project reviews and documentation has been approved Accounting for long term customer contracts also, besides according to methods applied within Saab. ­revenue and cost of gods sold, affect balance sheet items such as receivables from customers, inventory and provision for loss conWe have further selected a sample of long term customer contracts tracts. for substantive testing. Our sample is based on quantitative and In the annual report risk related to long term contracts are ­qualitative factors where we have selected long term contracts that described on page 55 to 56 and in the notes to the financial stateare material from contract value, revenue recognised or risk in residual ments (note 2 and 5) the accounting principles are described in cost to complete. more detail. For the selected contracts we have in detail obtained an underFrom 2018 Saab will recognise revenue according to IFRS 15, standing for the project though, among other procedures, review of ­revenue from contracts with customers. For companies that recognize contract clauses, project plans, analysis of stage of completion and revenue based on percentage of completion, IFRS 15 requires more contract forecasts. Each quarter we review the projects together with explicit criteria to be fulfilled when revenue is recognised over time. the project leader, the project controller or similar. In these reviews we Since Saab currently recognising revenue according to percentage of perform the following procedures focusing on whether significant risks completion it is essential to assess whether the criteria to recognise are reasonably accounted for: revenue over time are fulfilled. • We inspect management’s assessment of the project execution and Saab has over the last years carried out a project to implement how this affect the financial reporting. This includes total contract IFRS 15. In the project important criteria for the implementation of IFRS value, level of completion, method for recognising stage of comple15. The project has been extensive and have included a significant tion, cost incurred and estimated reaming cost. number of contracts with customers. • We reconcile management’s assessment to underlying documentaIs stated in note 46, the change of accounting policy will affect tion and compare this with previous quarters. Saab’s financial reporting. • We reconcile financial information between reports and systems and recalculate calculations. In these reviews we use our knowledge about Saab and how similar long term contracts have been treated to discuss and ask questions and challenge management’s estimates and judgements. We also assess consistent application of accounting principles between contracts with similar circumstances. In this we also test items reported as work in progress. We test them from both quantitative and qualitative aspects and assess whether they are accounted for under Saab’s accounting policies. This year Gripen E Sweden, Gripen NG Brazil and Air born surveillance United Arab Emirates have been of specific interest in our audit: For specific contracts we have from time to time observations related to both amounts and judgement that we report to management and the audit committee. The projects complexity and judgments involved mean that the amounts recognized by nature is affected by uncertainty where future outcome can deviate significantly from management’s judgments. As part of our audit of long term contracts during the year we have also considered the impact of the implementation of IFRS 15. We have followed Saab’s project for assessing criteria according to IFRS 15. In our procedures we tested all large contracts and a sample of smaller contracts. We have also assessed the financial reporting impact caused by the change in accounting policy. 132 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Other Information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance This document also contains other information than about whether the annual accounts and consolithe annual accounts and consolidated accounts dated accounts as a whole are free from material and is found on pages 1-44 and 136-140. The misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to Board of Directors and the Managing Director are issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. responsible for this other information. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolbut is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in idated accounts does not cover this other informaaccordance with ISAs and generally accepted tion and we do not express any form of assurance auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a conclusion regarding this other information. material misstatement when it exists. MisstateIn connection with our audit of the annual ments can arise from fraud or error and are considaccounts and consolidated accounts, our responered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they sibility is to read the information identified above could reasonably be expected to influence the ecoand consider whether the information is materially nomic decisions of users taken on the basis of inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolithese annual accounts and consolidated accounts. dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the exercise professional judgment and maintain proaudit and assess whether the information otherwise fessional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: appears to be materially misstated. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstateIf we, based on the work performed concerning ment of the annual accounts and consolidated this information, conclude that there is a material accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and misstatement of this other information, we are perform audit procedures responsive to those required to report that fact. We have nothing to risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient report in this regard. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement Responsibilities of the Board of Directors resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting and the Managing Director from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the are responsible for the preparation of the annual override of internal control. accounts and consolidated accounts and that they • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal give a fair presentation in accordance with the control relevant to our audit in order to design audit Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consoliprocedures that are appropriate in the circumdated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as stances, but not for the purpose of expressing an adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control. internal control as they determine is necessary to • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting polienable the preparation of annual accounts and cies used and the reasonableness of accounting ­consolidated accounts that are free from material estimates and related disclosures made by the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Board of Directors and the Managing Director. In preparing the annual accounts and consoli• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of dated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the Managing Director are responsible for the assessgoing concern basis of accounting in preparing the ment of the company’s and the group’s ability to annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We continue as a going concern. They disclose, as also draw a conclusion, based on the audit eviapplicable, matters related to going concern and dence obtained, as to whether any material uncerusing the going concern basis of accounting. The tainty exists related to events or conditions that going concern basis of accounting is however not may cast significant doubt on the company’s and applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we operations, or has no realistic alternative but to are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report do so. to the related disclosures in the annual accounts The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the general, among other things oversee the compaannual accounts and consolidated accounts. ny’s financial reporting process. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 133 obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these However, future events or conditions may cause requirements. a company and a group to cease to continue as a We believe that the audit evidence we have going concern. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and basis for our opinions. content of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Managing Director represent the underlying transactions and events The Board of Directors is responsible for the proin a manner that achieves fair presentation. posal for appropriations of the company’s profit or • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an regarding the financial information of the entities assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable or business activities within the group to express considering the requirements which the company's an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are and the group’s type of operations, size and risks responsible for the direction, supervision and place on the size of the parent company's and the ­performance of the group audit. We remain solely group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity responsible for our opinions. and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the We must inform the Board of Directors of, among company’s organization and the administration of other matters, the planned scope and timing of the the company’s affairs. This includes among other audit. We must also inform of significant audit findthings continuous assessment of the company’s ings during our audit, including any significant defiand the group’s financial situation and ensuring that ciencies in internal control that we identified. the company's organization is designed so that the We must also provide the Board of Directors with accounting, management of assets and the compaa statement that we have complied with relevant ny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a ethical requirements regarding independence, and reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall to communicate with them all relationships and manage the ongoing administration according to the other matters that may reasonably be thought to Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and bear on our independence, and where applicable, among other matters take measures that are necesrelated safeguards. sary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordFrom the matters communicated with the Board ance with law and handle the management of assets of Directors, we determine those matters that were in a reassuring manner. of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the Auditor’s responsibility most important assessed risks for material misOur objective concerning the audit of the adminisstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. tration, and thereby our opinion about discharge We describe these matters in the auditor’s report from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any the matter. member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any Report on other legal and regulatory omission which can give rise to liability to the comrequirements pany, or Opinions • in any other way has acted in contravention of the In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the consolidated accounts, we have also audited the Articles of Association. administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Saab AB (publ) for the year Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and ­company’s profit or loss. thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reaWe recommend to the general meeting of sonable degree of assurance whether the proposal shareholders that the profit be appropriated in is in accordance with the Companies Act. accordance with the proposal in the statutory Reasonable assurance is a high level of assuradministration report and that the members of the ance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Board of Directors and the Managing Director be in accordance with generally accepted auditing discharged from liability for the financial year. standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the comBasis for Opinions pany, or that the proposed appropriations of the We conducted the audit in accordance with genercompany’s profit or loss are not in accordance with ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our the Companies Act. responsibilities under those standards are further As part of an audit in accordance with generally described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exerWe are independent of the parent company and the cise professional judgment and maintain profesgroup in accordance with professional ethics for sional scepticism throughout the audit. The examiaccountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled nation of the administration and the proposed 134 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 58-67 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Stockholm, was appointed auditor of Saab AB (publ)’s by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 15 April 2015 and has been the company’s auditor since the 7 April 2011. Stockholm 2 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Hjalmarsson Authorized public accountant S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 135 Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting 2018 Dividend The Annual General Meeting will be held at 4:00 pm The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of (CET) on Tuesday, 10 April 2018 at Saab's hangar, SEK 5.50 per share and 12 April 2018 as the record Åkerbovägen 10, Linköping, Sweden. day for the dividend. With this record day, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to distribute the dividend Notification on 17 April 2018. Shareholders must notify the company of their intention to participate in the meeting not later Distribution of the annual report than Wednesday, 4 April 2018. The annual report will be available on Saab’s ­website, www.saabgroup.com, approximately • By telephone +46 13 18 20 55 three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting on • By mail to: Saab Aktiebolag c/o Euroclear Sweden 10 April. A printed version of the annual report will AB, Box 191, 101 23 Stockholm be distributed to shareholders who request it. A • Online: www.saabgroup.com/arsstamma printed version of the annual report can also be ordered by e-mail to servicecenter@servistik.se. Please indicate your name, personal ID number (Swedish citizens), address and telephone number. If you are attending by power of proxy, registration certificate or other authorisation, please submit your documentation well in advance of the meeting. The information you provide will be used only for the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders or their proxies may be accom­ panied at the Annual General Meeting by a maximum of two people. They may only attend, however, if the shareholder has notified Saab AB as indicated above. Right to participate Only shareholders recorded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Wednesday, 4 April 2018 are entitled to participate in the ­meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through the trust department of a bank or a brokerage firm must temporarily re-register their shares in their own names to participate in the meeting. To ensure that this re-registration is recorded in the share register by Wednesday, 4 April 2018, they must request re-registration with their nominees several business days in advance. 136 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 137 Multi-year overview MSEK. unless otherwise indicated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Order bookings 30,841 21,828 81,175 22,602 49,809 20,683 18,907 26,278 18,428 23,212 Order backlog 31 December 106,849 107,606 113,834 60,128 59,870 34,151 37,172 41,459 39,389 45,324 Sales 31,394 28,631 27,186 23,527 23,750 24,010 23,498 24,434 24,647 23,796 Foreign market sales, % 58 57 58 55 59 64 63 62 69 68 Defence sales, % 84 83 82 79 81 82 84 83 83 83 Operating income (EBIT) 2,155 1,797 1,900 1,659 1,345 2,050 2,941 975 1,374 166 Operating margin, % 6.9 6.3 7.0 7.1 5.7 8.5 12.5 4.0 5.6 0.7 Operating income before depreciation/ amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 2,994 2,743 2,859 2,523 2,367 3,168 4,088 2,187 2,598 1,515 EBITDA margin, % 9.5 9.6 10.5 10.7 10.0 13.3 17.4 9.0 10.5 6.4 Financial income 121 90 169 103 62 153 162 116 50 29 Financial expenses -272 -276 -338 -239 -428 -202 -324 -341 -450 -565 Income after financial items 2,004 1,611 1,731 1,523 979 2,003 2,783 776 976 -406 Net income for the year 1,438 1,175 1,402 1,168 742 1,560 2,217 454 699 -242 Net income attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 1,407 1,133 1,362 1,153 741 1,585 2,225 433 686 -248 Total assets 44,677 41,211 35,088 29,556 27,789 28,938 31,799 29,278 30,430 32,890 -of which total equity 14,377 13,301 12,912 11,373 12,227 11,280 13,069 11,444 10,682 9,330 -of which equity attributable to Parent Company's shareholders 14,189 13,156 12,851 11,291 12,136 11,168 12,950 11,274 10,542 9,240 Equity per share, SEK1) 132.83 123.64 121.28 107.02 114.04 105.43 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and net provisions for pensions 344 28 -1,880 185 1,953 3,837 4,735 2,382 -1,631 -3,061 Net liquidity/debt6) -1,834 -1,836 -3,217 -2,113 813 1,996 5,333 3,291 -634 -1,693 Cash flow from operating activities 3,164 4,154 358 -713 -662 350 2,392 4,487 1,696 954 Free cash flow6) 852 2,359 -726 -1,094 -1,460 -396 2,477 4,349 1,447 659 Free cash flow per share after dilution, SEK 7.93 22.07 -6.82 -10.23 -13.38 -3.63 22.69 39.84 13.26 6.13 Average capital employed 22,541 21,135 18,454 15,897 15,454 15,131 13,987 13,743 13,775 13,994 Average equity 13,839 13,107 12,143 11,800 11,754 12,175 12,257 11,063 10,006 10,169 Return on capital employed, % 10.1 8.9 11.2 11.1 9.1 14.6 22.2 7.9 10.3 1.4 Return on equity, % 10.4 9.0 11.5 9.9 6.3 12.8 18.1 4.1 7.0 -2.4 Profit margin, % 7.25 6.59 7.61 7.49 5.92 9.18 13.21 4.47 5.78 0.82 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.39 1.35 1.47 1.48 1.54 1.59 1.68 1.78 1.79 1.70 Equity/assets ratio, % 32.2 32.3 36.8 38.5 44.0 39.0 41.1 39.1 35.1 28.4 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 8.37 6.84 6.12 7.37 3.29 10.91 9.58 3.20 3.16 0.35 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK2) 5) 13.20 10.67 12.88 10.86 6.98 15.00 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK3) 5) 13.10 10.60 12.79 10.78 6.79 14.52 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.31 Dividend, SEK 5.504) 5.25 5.00 4.75 4.50 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 Gross capital expenditures for tangible fixed assets 1,093 807 799 732 543 328 325 262 197 386 Research and development costs 7,348 7,421 6,841 5,970 6,543 5,946 5,116 5,008 4,820 4,141 Number of employees at year-end 16,427 15,465 14,685 14,716 14,140 13,968 13,068 12,536 13,159 13,294 1) Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2017: 106,823,782, 2016: 106,405,523, 2015: 105,957,065, 2014: 105,499,980, 2013: 106,414,144, 2012: 105,930,829, 2011: 105,331,958, 2010: 104,717,729, 2009: 105,511,124, 2008: 106,829,893 2) Average number of shares before dilution 2017: 106,601,672, 2016: 106,164,150, 2015: 105,714,805, 2014: 106,125,666, 2013: 106,125,107, 2012: 105,632,911, 2011: 104,982,315, 2010: 105,217,786, 2009: 106,335,553, 2008: 107,515,049 3) Average number of shares after dilution 2017: 107,400,920, 2016: 106,906,726, 2015: 106,450,263, 2014: 106,916,255; 2009–2013: 109,150,344, 2008: 107,515,049 4) Board of Directors’ proposal. 5) Net income less non-controlling interest divided by average number of shares. 6) For more information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, please see saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios. Financials for 2013 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). Financials for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS 19). Financials for 2012 and earlier are not restated to operational and free cash flow. 138 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Glossary 9LV Combat Management System GHG Greenhouse gas emissions A26 Submarine programme for GlobalEye Airborne surveillance system the Swedish Navy (AEW&C) AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & ­Control GLSDB Ground Launched Small Diameter Bomb Arthur Artillery Hunting Radar GRI Global Reporting Initiative ASD AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe Gripen Fighter system AT4 Anti-Tank weapon ICT Information and Communications Technology Carl-Gustaf Man-portable multi-role weapons system ISP Swedish Inspectorate of Strategic Products CBRN Chemical, Biological, Radio­logical, Nuclear agents ISR Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance CDP Carbon Disclosure Project LTI Long-Term Incentive Erieye Airborne surveillance system Programme (AEW&C) R&D Research and Development FMV Försvarets Materielverk (­Swedish Defence and ­Materiel SOTACS Special Operations Tactical Suit Administration) T-X The United States procurement FTE Full Time Equivalent Program programme for fighter trainers GDDN Gripen Design and Development WASP Wallenberg Autonomous Network Systems Program Giraffe Surveillance radar system S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 139 Saab in the world Luleå Number of employees Number of employees 31 Dec Number of employees 31 Dec by city 2017 by country 2017 Linköping, Sweden 5,996 Sweden 13,545 Göteborg, Sweden 1,573 South Africa 714 Järfälla, Sweden 1,221 USA 620 Krokom Örnsköldsvik Karlskoga, Sweden 870 Australia 328 Östersund Karlskrona, Sweden 676 UK 195 Gauteng/Centurion/­ Netherlands 148 Pretoria/Johannesburg/ Germany 131 Bedfordview, South Africa 650 Czech Republic 88 Huskvarna, Sweden 519 Arboga, Sweden 503 Norway 82 East Syracuse NY, USA 484 Denmark 81 Malmö, Sweden 452 Finland 77 Växjö, Sweden 342 Canada 59 Adelaide SA, Australia 253 Switzerland 58 Östersund, Sweden 199 India 53 Trollhättan, Sweden 144 Brazil 42 Fareham, UK 139 Kenya 36 Apeldoorn, Netherlands 104 Other 170 Järfälla Västerås Uttenreuth, Germany 98 Total 16,427 Arboga Sundbyberg Gamleby, Sweden 94 Haninge Karlskoga Alvik Kista, Sweden 92 Stockholm, Sweden 90 Linköping Nyköping Jönköping, Sweden 79 Sönderborg, Denmark 79 Trollhättan Sundbyberg, Sweden 78 Gamleby Slavkov, Czech Republic 78 Göteborg Jönköping Huskvarna Nyköping, Sweden 77 Western Cape/Cape Town/Hermanus/­ Växjö Bredasdorp, South Africa 63 Haninge, Sweden 63 Lillington, USA 58 Thun BE, Switzerland 58 Karlskrona Luleå, Sweden 52 Malmö Rockingham WA, Australia 51 Norrköping, Sweden 48 Halden, Norway 47 Örnsköldsvik, Sweden 45 Tammerfors, Finland 40 Helsingborg, Sweden 38 Karlstad, Sweden 35 Other 1,056 Total 16,427 Contact information Headquarters Saab AB Plof Palmes gata 17, 5tr SE-111 22 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 463 00 00 Corp. ID no. 556036-0793 www.saabgroup.com www.saab.com 140 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 Concept, text and production: Saab Investor Relations in co-operation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Saab’s image bank, Peter Karlsson, Svarteld form & photo if not stated otherwise. Print: Larsson Offset 2018.
