COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS 2017 2 Our story Danoffice IT was established in 1995 and provides IT infrastructure to InternationalOrganizations & Businesses operating worldwide. We provide IT equipment and services to 170 countries worldwide. Our Vision is to “Improve the world through IT”. Technology is contributing to our happiness in many ways; communication, information, education, practicalities, less physical tasks and expand of lifetime. The publication “Happy Planet” by New Economics Foundation concludes the degree of happiness is related to use of technology. Danoffice IT portfolio include hardware, software, consulting and services and covers all leading brands. Our technical staff have a broad and deep knowhow in IT infrastructure and assist our clients from Denmark, Ecuador, Switzerland and USA. We elaborates on 23 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and B2B partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having the United Nations as client. We cooperate very closely with our clients throughout the entire process from analyzing needs, supplying the needed IT equipment, installing the solution and offer a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which bring VALUE to the client and return on their investment. Our logo represent two hands embracing the entire World for a better future. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 3 ·E oney xellen rm Best value f ervice of s o cy Our story We are extremely proud of our customer survey from 2017 executed by “Quartz” which concluded on more than 70 interviews on UN organisations that: Danoffice IT has ‘Best value for money’, which to 73% of international aid organisations was most important. Danoffice IT was rated as the best in class on total cost of ownership. Danoffice IT has ‘Excellency of service’, which to 73% of international aid organisation service and response time was the second most important. Danoffice IT performance good or very good on service and with the best response time in the market. Danoffice IT is ‘Global but local’, which to 71% of international aid organisation logistical solutions was the third most important. Danoffice IT logistical solutions was rated as good or very good on global deliveries and appraised for local know-how in field. Today Danoffice IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 400 customers in 170 countries. For more information, please visit www.danofficeit.com or contact us at danoffice@danofficeit.com Submitted, August 14th, 2018 by Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 4 Facts about Danoffice IT Offices: Founded D&B Denmark, USA, Switzerland & Ecuador 1995 AAA +7000 Shipments in 2017 170 End user countries in 2017 60 Employees # languages Public +4500 mastered customer segment Orders in 2017 9 7P’s +400 600 DNA Customers served Travel days per year Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 5 Content Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Danoffice IT CSR – Against Poaching. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Danoffice IT CSR – RUN for a purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Communications on Progress (COP) 2017. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Labour. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 CSR & Corporate Values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 6 Corporate social Responsibility Danoffice IT is member of the UN Global Compact which is the worlds largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 7 Corporate social Responsibility Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and predominantly sustains poverty. Danoffice IT position on corruption is not take part, or to accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form thereof. This has been our position since our foundation in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form of fraud or corruption. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver that the recipient would otherwise not alter. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 8 Corporate social Responsibility Whistle Blower Hotline If any business associate to Danoffice IT has knowledge or suspicion of fraud and corruption on a staff member of Danoffice IT or any associated business partners to the company, it is strongly requested immediately to engage the anti-corruption whistle blower hotline on any knowledge or information of corruption. Any business associate is requested to use whistleblower@danofficeit.com to inform the company management of this crime. Staff comitment on anti-bribery All staff members of Danoffice IT have signed acknowledgement letter confirming to have read and understood the company’s policies on anti-bribery. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organisational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 9 Skildpadde ind + wwf logo Danoffice IT CSR AGAINST POACHING Poaching is one of the critical threats and increased exponentially over the past decade, as the black market prices for endangered spices faces the real risk of extinction unless the international community takes stronger action. Danoffice IT, have decided to contribute through a Corporate Social Responsibility activity and we want to help and is presently actively involved supporting leading conservation organisation in the fight against poaching or illegal trade. In Suriname, in the northeastern part of South America, we are collaborating with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and started implementation of the use of civil conservation drones to monitor marine life activities and poaching on eggs of marine turtles. Fight against poaching is an important cause for our environment and Information Technologies are part of the solution. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 10 Danoffice IT CSR Civil drone helps WWF saving endangered marine turtles Poaching is one of the critical threats faced by marine turtles. To protect and monitor the three main species of marine turtles that nest in Suriname more efficiently, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the company Danoffice IT has started implementing the use of civil conservation drones to monitor and collect evidence of the collection marine turtles´ egg. WWF Suriname has in this specific case chosen to focus on poaching of marine turtle’s eggs, and despite laws protecting sea turtles, thousands of eggs are poached each year. In other parts of the world, sea turtles are used for ceremonial purposes or their shells and skins are also used to make a variety of objects like jewelry, sunglasses, tourist trinkets, instruments, and wall hangings and so drones may have applications there too. RUN for a purpose Our staff is our most important resource wherefore we strive at keeping our staff mentally and physically fit. We have implemented a “healthy diet” program, with natural foods, organic foods, whole foods and vegetarian foods, in our daily cantina and follow WHO recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. We also participate in sport activities and offer sport massage. Every year Danoffice IT sponsor running gear to all our employees to support an active healthy lifestyle. During the year we all “RUN for a purpose!”. Danoffice IT find a project we wish to support and thereafter all employees runs once or twice a week and end year Danoffice IT donate a fixed $ amount per km. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 11 Communications on Progress (COP) 2017 Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff manual, posters placed within premises and on the Danoffice IT website: www.danofficeit.com Human Rights: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In Danoffice IT we believe that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organisational culture. We embrace culture and have employees from 10 different nationalities, coming from South America, USA, Europe and Middle East. Our organisation mix is balanced with 45% women & 55% men and we span over various religions. Moreover, we have employees who came to Denmark as refugees from Syria and Croatia. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT supports all human rights and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 12 Communications on Progress (COP) 2017 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiations of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace, safety and policies. Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees can contact someone for personal matters, ideas for improvement or health & safety conditions. Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danoffice IT HQ in Denmark was build in 2007 and won a prize for its architecture and for its working environment. The building is designed to incorporate a series of innovative green building techniques while operating within tight cost constraints. Functional, economic, and architectural criteria were used as the basis for the design. In addition, a minimal amount of material and technology is used throughout the design while maximizing the quality of the working environment and the building’s energy performance. A modern building with all latest technologies within ventilation, heating, shutters and water consumption. All staff has ergonomic chairs, lighting done by experts and height adjustable desks. Our Staff Manual is another tool to inform and update staff on our values, company profile, history, global strategy and information on working terms and conditions: illness and absence, overtime, annual staff interviews and regulations. Continuously we strive to educate and develop our employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops and through daily coaching. Monday mornin g management gather all staff to share knowledge of professional character or to inform about the work we do with our customers in the field. Here we also learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the world we live in. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 13 Communications on Progress (COP) 2017 Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Therefore we have a very clear and transparent strategy plan where staff can find VMOST, cultural iceberg and our DNA on posters. This communicate our 4 years global strategy with our 3 objectives – Great Place to Work – Revenue – Ebit Communication and information within a OUR GL OBAL WH company is key for success and employee STRATE GY AT W ED BRA satisfaction.Therefore we have a very clear WE ND &L OGO O BSIT E and transparent strategy plan where staff PRO SER DUC T VIC can find VMOST, cultural iceberg and our ES DNA on posters. This communicate our 4 years global strategy with our 3 objectives WH – Great Place to Work – Revenue – Ebit VISION ugh inf ormatio n techno logy OW E AR wo rld thro ing the OUR Improv mands VAL N future de MISSIO ions th at meet OUR UES E lut vely off er IT so PEO s, we pr oacti OUR PLE r partner ts POL With ou our clien ICIE value to OUR IVE S 7PS and bring PRA OBJECT OUR CTIC rk BEH ES ce to wo AVIO great pla llion ce IT a URS Danoffi 2020 $215 mi • Make t PAS e targe • Revenu t 2020 9% SIO • EBIT tar ge PRO NAT GY d clients an d E STRATE tion with FES coopera metric an PER SIO in close are, bio NAL plo yees work ha rdw are, softw SIST d em g & skille lutions amon PRO ENT tivated ative so Our mo to desig n innov ACT vendors PER IVE hnology SON drone tec danoffic POS AL ITIV e_poste rs_70x1 00.indd 11.08 1 23/02/16 PRO E UD 3 rs_70x100.indd danoffice_poste 23/02/1 6 11.08 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 14 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour We do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour We do not use any form of child labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Danoffice IT labour policy prohibit employment of any person under the age of 16 years. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With our presence in Denmark, Ecuador, Switzerland and USA our department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our mix of personnel is balanced between all before mentioned groups and all employees receive equal conditions and rights regardless of location or background. To balance the gender best possible we seek to have at least one of each gender represented among the last three candidates in the hiring process. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges DanofficeIT only works with internationally recognized vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached 245,000 units collected so far and still counting. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 15 Our warehouse is using 100% bio-degradable materials and we try to reduce weight and volume to a minimize shipment and Co2 pollution. Packing waste is destroyed under environmental recycling friendly conditions. Our office building is saving energy. Thermostat fan switch to ”auto” to save energy, automatic block of the sun from overheating by use of shades, changing the filters in our heating system every 6 month for optimum efficiency. Outside trees to provide shade on the sunny side of the office. We use laptops – they use less energy than desktop computers. Also our computers go to sleep or hibernate mode instead of using a screen saver so it uses less electricity during periods of inactivity. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TUE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Corruption can be most easily defined as the manipulation or perversion of a system for the benefit of a single party rather than for the benefit of the public or the intended beneficiaries. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com 16 CSR & Corporate Values Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values / DNA. The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. We are proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. This Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Danoffice IT Lars Baun Jensen CEO Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danofficeit.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danofficeit.com www.danofficeit.com
