Contents Page Statement of Commitment by Management 1 Asia Royal Profile 2 Asia Royal Hospital's United Nations Global Compact 4 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 5-16 Report Summary 17 Activities Photos Appendix 1-10 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT BY MANAGEMENT We, Asia Royal Hospital (ARH), was a member of United Nation global Compact (UNGC) since 2013. We are continuously trying to improve our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities by adopting ten principles of UNGC in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. We believe that we can build a better future by implementing our CSR initiatives with dedications towards WHO’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In this Report, our Communication on Progress (COP) describes the company’s CSR efforts in 2017 2018 governed by these ten principles. By preparing this COP report, we can assess how the organization’s CSR performance has benefited all the stakeholders and whether it meets the UNGC principles and guidelines. In this annual report, we review our daily business operations, routine activities and attitude in order to find out whether they abide by UNGC ten principles. Submitting the annual report through COP will facilitate us to gain a variety of valuable advantages such as achieving an institutional framework, sharing experiences regarding CSR activities at international level, reducing financial and management risk by understanding and practicing in four areas of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and establishing a powerful business network by connecting different organizations through transparency. Moreover, it will improve the overall image of the organization which in turn will attract media interest and augmenting public awareness of our organization. Sincerely, Dr. Aung Pyae Kyaw Executive Director Human Resource Department Prepared by HR Dept: Page 1 of 17 Asia Royal Profile Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) was registered as a Private General Hospital in 2010. It offers three types of health care services (a) Out-patient consultancy services (b) Emergency care and (c) Inpatient services. As a general hospital, ARH is equipped with full facilities for Medical and Surgical procedures. In 2018, ARH expanded a stroke unit, a wellbeing & rehabilitation clinic, a dental unit, a sleep laboratory clinic and we have also been eagerly working to develop a separate cardiac specialized center including Cardiac OTs. Achieving certificate of ISO 9001-2008 in 2011 and upgrading to ISO 9001-2015 in 2017 has assured Asia Royal Hospital a proven and standardized quality care in our nation’s private health care sector. In 2018, ARH laboratory has succeeded accreditation of ISO 15189 proving our hospital’s diagnosis system more reliable for the public. With combined effort of healthcare providers and administrative staffs together with proper guidance and leadership of Executive Directors, Asia Royal Hospital has been improving and standing as one of the leading private hospitals in Yangon. Since 2013, we have been submitting UNGC (Communication On Progress) report annually to show our progress on CSR activities and how we have inspired the sense of CSR in delivering our premium quality healthcare system to the people of Myanmar. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 2 of 17 OUR MISSION Through the expertise of its healthcare providers, management and supporting staffs, Asia Royal will work to provide better health care for the patients. By utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipment and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, Asia Royal assures its health care services to be effective and reliable. Under its Organizational Development Program and Strategic Directions set in accord with State's health policy guidelines, Asia Royal will work towards specialty-oriented Hospital administration. OUR VISION “To become the leading private hospital in Myanmar by providing international standard health care system with trustworthy service.” OUR MOTTO “Healthy Hygienic Hospital with Humanity .” OUR LOGO and MILESTONES Prepared by HR Dept: Page 3 of 17 ASIA ROYAL HOSPITAL’S UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (2017-2018) Hospital is a place for caring the sick and the suffering and also a place for providing health education to the public. An efficient hospital requires a healthcare-specialized management with a compassionate vision and modernized technical and environmental framework which is great enough to provide a safe, comfortable and healthy environment to the patients. Treating the patients is the main focus of our mission and prevention also constitutes a major role in our care concept. Nowadays, the consumers are increasingly demanding convenient, reliable and timely services provided in caring, safe and high quality environment. Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) has been striving to comply with patients’ needs, and to provide care with sympathy, empathy and efficiency in sense of socially responsible manner. We are proudly running our business by providing premium quality care to patients and public in order to comply as a member of UNGC team. Quality policy The Quality Policy of Asia Royal Hospital is published in this Quality Manual, and is placed in customer access areas and meeting rooms. 1. Our team is ready to provide medical solutions aiming at utmost quality healthcare service and operational outcomes for our patients' needs. 2. We keep our environment clean and safe not only for the patients but also for our healthcare providers. 3. We attract qualified medical professionals and develop center of excellence in all specialties as well as maintaining, promoting and continuing professional development of medical education. 4. We comply with all legal requirements (The law relating to private healthcare services) and strive for continual improvement of healthcare system and facilities. 5. We aspire to lead among private hospitals in Myanmar in value-based integrated healthcare (ethical value, professional value and human value) through continuous improvement of quality management system. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 4 of 17 Our company’s quality policy is communicated among all employees and continually reviewed for sustainability and development. Human Rights Principles Policy and Protocols Human Rights principles ARH’s commitment about Human Right Principle 1: Business should principles is expressed by continuously support and respect the protection promoting and standardizing our health care of internationally proclaimed human delivery system to the public while treating our rights and employees without any form of discrimination Principle 2: Make sure that they and strictly following the national labour law are not complicit in human rights prescribed by Myanmar Government. As a abuses. private health care service provider, optimizing our health care services is one of the best ways of obeying internationally proclaimed human rights ethically as well as patients rights professionally. Key performance for developing our healthcare delivery system is by adapting and utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipment and defining standard operation procedures (SOPs) and protocols with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control programs. Moreover, ARH’s health care service quality has been audited by internal and external auditor teams under the guidelines and certification of ISO 9001-2015 Quality Management system and ARH’s Laboratory is also accredited with ISO 15189 by Singapore Accreditation Council. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 5 of 17 Implementation We are running our healthcare business in all sectors by inspiring Human Rights principles of UNGC. Our hospital’s human resource policy strictly prohibits discrimination in recruiting, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, national origin, religion, age, gender and marital status. However, we do not hire the employees who are under 18 years of age according to guidance of Myanmar National labor law. We issue Employee Handbooks to all employees mentioning employee rights such as leave rule, holidays, employee’s rule and regulation policies, and penalties thoroughly. To express our commitment to community rights, ARH has been actively participating and contributing to the country’s education sector, health care sector, humanitarian activities and poverty alleviation sectors. Apart from promoting and maintaining optimal healthcare services, ARH has conducted extra-curriculum serious Corporate Social Responsibility activities. Our activities are as follows: I. Contribution to Healthcare, Education and Nutrition • Donated 1,500,000 Myanmar Kyats to Department of GI, Liver, Pancreas Surgery, Yangon General Hospital on20/10/2017. • Donated 540,000 Myanmar Kyats to festival of devotional offering for elderly persons hosted by University of Nursing, Yangon on 9/12/2017. • Donated 1,165,000 Myanmar kyats to Hnin Si Gone Home for Age on 13/12/2017. • Donated stationaries, food and basic utensils worth about 1,472,450 Myanmar Kyats to Mary Chapman , School of deaf on 19/2/2018. • Donated Stipend valued of 1,320,000 Myanmar Kyats to students of University of Nursing ,Yangon on 13/2/2018. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 6 of 17 • Donated stationaries, food and basic utensils worth about 1,022,927 Myanmar Kyats to Daw Khin Kyi Foundation together with India Embassy on 13/2/2018. • Donated Stipend valued of 3,000,000 Myanmar Kyats to students of University of Medical technology, Yangon on 5/3/2018. • Donated 700,000 Myanmar Kyats to Myanmar Nursing Council on 23/3/2018. • Donated 300,000 Myanmar Kyats to ViThaKha foundation on 17.3.2018. • Donated food and basic utensils worth about 1,300,000 Myanmar Kyats to Myittar Charity Association for leprosy patients located at Mayanchaung Village, Hlegu Township on 4/4/2018. • Donated 500,000 Myanmar Kyats Department of Health(DOH), Yangon on 9/7/2018. • Donated 1,100,000 Myanmar Kyats to 122thMalon Rice Donation Society on13/8/2018. • Donated medications and food worth about 1,216,250 Myanmar Kyats to Myittar Charity Association for leprosy patients located at Mayanchaung Village, HleguTsp on 13/8/2018. • Fumigation and disinfection done in Shwe Taung Monastery located in sanchaung Tsp and Mary Chapman school for deafness to prevent Dengue Fever transmitted by mosquitoes on 10/9/2018. • Donated Warso Robe to the Monks on 21/7/18 at Asia Royal hospital. • Free medical check-up and care to 15 elderly doctors under Myanmar Medical Association (MMA) with Support Group for Elderly Doctors program (SGED). Prepared by HR Dept: Page 7 of 17 • Donated 107,000 Myanmar Kyats to Smile Train Foundation for Cleft lips and palate patients on 25/9/2018. • Donated 9,566,000 Myanmar Kyats to Yangon Children Hospital for medical checkup of children who are not affordable for year 2018. Assessment of Outcome This review proves that the hospital’s management system and CSR activities are fully in accordance with UN human rights principles. Our management team is fully emphasizing and continuously monitoring on these matters and will carry out periodic review of outcomes. Labour Principles LaborPrinciples Policy and Protocols Principle 3: Business should As mentioned above, our hospital’s uphold the freedom of association human resource management operations and the effective recognition of the strictly follow National Labour Law in recruiting right to collective bargaining. and appointing applicants. ARH prohibits Principle 4: The elimination of all discrimination based on race, religion, age, forms of forced and compulsory marital status, disability and sex. ARH regards labour. the employees as one of its most valuable Principle 5: The effective abolition assets and employee development forms the of child labour and integral part of our commitment towards the Principle 6: The elimination of employee. Moreover, employment policies discrimination in respect of concerning employee rights, compensation, employment and occupation. responsibilities, rules and regulation are clearly mentioned in employee handbook and thoroughly circulated among the employee. ARH has been creating safe, productive and friendly-cultured working environment for all employee while emphasizing their long term career development. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 8 of 17 Implementation Regarding the beneficial aspect of employee, the management team continuously keeps an eye on Myanmar labour market and is always updating the remuneration rates accordingly. ARH is providing the employees with yearly salary increment, performance bonus, leave bonus awards, employee welfare activities, training programs, exciting promotional career opportunities and proper retirement programs. For the developmental aspect of employees, the management team is carrying out training needs analysis for each employee through his/her respective unit supervisor, and develops a training master plan annually with the aim of achieving better job performance and promoting their confidence in daily job operations. Moreover, ARH designs spacious training venues and arrange their duty roster so that they can attend the provided training sessions with convenience. Management review meetings are monthly held where all management-level staffs discuss future strategy and road map of Asia Royal Hospital, and the current situations of ARH including clinical issues, management issues and staff affairs. Our BOD members andthe management actively participate in discussions in order to find out our best solutions and better future trends for organizational and employee development. I. Employee Development and Welfare activities (a) Employees above the age of 50 years and employees of more than ten years permanent service are allowed to do yearly medical checkups. (b) All permanent staffswere immunized with Anti-B Hepatitis Vaccines free of charge yearly. (c) Discount packages are allowed for all employees getting treatment at ARH. (d) Nursing license Registration feeswere incurred by ARH for the staffnurses employed at Asia Royal Hospital. (e) Managing Director Dr. Myat Thu hosted breakfast (Tea Party) yearly to all staffs for seven days. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 9 of 17 (f) Celebrating birthday parties to all staffs monthly. (g) Celebrating 18th Anniversary party of Asia Royal Hospital on 17/3/2018. (h) Offering medical care with special discounted rates to staffs and staff family members worth about Myanmar kyats. (i) Providing medical care with free of charge to monks valued about 6,538,000 Myanmar Kyats for year of 2018. (j) ARH has planned hostel and transportation service for staff who need to perform On-call duties. 2. Training Programs for Continuing Education and Development of Employees As described above, ARH emphasizes on employee development by providing necessary trainings continuously with the objective of improving job related skills and confidence of each employee. Trainings conducted in 2018 were categorized as follows; (1) Continuing Medical and Nursing Education (CME/CNE) 1) Palliative care is the holistic care management 2) Patient Safety, Ethics & Confidentiality 3) Laboratory Waste Management 4) Daily Internal Quality Control Practice 5) New Drugs regarding about Neurology 6) Importance of Healthcare Indicators Reference Range 7) Standard Operation Procedure in Laboratory Prepared by HR Dept: Page 10 of 17 8) Daily Internal Quality Control Practice 9) Current trend in Managing Heart Failure 10) Importance of Laboratory Reference Ranges 11) BD sure Path; Liquid based Paptest Morphology (2) Pharmaceutical trainings 1) New Drugs for Pharmacy Sales Staff 2) Pharmacy Sales Staff Lecture (1/2018) 3) Drugs for GI system 4) Pharmacy Sales Staff Lecture (2/2018) 5) Drugs for Bronchial Asthma 6) Pharmacy Sale Staffs Lecture (3/2018) 7) Pharmacy Sale Staffs Lecture(4/2018) 8) Anti-Angina Drugs 9) Pharmacy Sales Staff Lecture (5/2018) (3) Conferences, Seminar & Summit Prepared by HR Dept: Page 11 of 17 1) Accreditation Awareness Workshop 2) Ventilator Workshop 3) Customer Communication Service Workshop by Dr.Khaing Thanda Lin 4) Customer Service Workshop by Dr. Phyo Thiha 5) VM Ware & SDDC Workshop hosted by Asia Royal IT Unit (4) Orientation, Awareness, ISO and Health Safety Training 1) Staff Orientation Training (3/2017) 2) ISO 9001:2015 Internal Auditor Course 3) Staff Orientation Training (4/2017) 4) Staff Orientation Training (1/2018) 5) HSE Training 6) Fire Safety 7) Staff Orientation Training(2/2018) 8) ISO 9001:2015 Awareness Training 9) Accreditation Awareness Workshop 10) Medical Officer Orientation Training 11) First Aid Trainings (5) Capacity building Training 1) Marketing, Communication & Selling Skill Training 2) VM ware training by IT Unit 3) Introduction to Office 365 Mail by IT Unit 4) Red Hat Training by IT Unit 7) Asia Royal Change Management Project 8) Customer Care & Communication Skill 9) MIT Software Training 10) Health Care Quality Training 11) Be A Great Contributor-1 12) Be A Great Contributor-2 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 12 of 17 13) Be A Great Contributor-3 14) Be A Great Contributor-4 15) Be A Great Contributor-5 16) Be A Great Contributor-6 17) Introduction to MS SQL Softwareby IT Unit Assessment of Outcome We access employee development by performance appraisal system quarterly in order to analyze their individual performance and to carry out post-training assessment for the effectiveness of the provided trainings. Employee suggestion forms are also provided to all employees to get the feedback on their needs, wants and suggestions for shaping strategic human resource development. Working under the guidance of Private Hospital Act, Hospital Manual, Myanmar Medical Council guidelines and the supervision of Ethical Committee, ARH has developed systems that prevent malpractice on patients and distress on employees. Environmental Principles Policy and Protocols Environmental Principles ARH is always trying to minimize Principle 7 : Business should undesirable environmental impactdue to daily support a precautionary approach to business operations andis emphasizing on CSR environmental challenges. activities to achieve a green, clean and safe Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives environment. We embrace this goal so that all to promote greater environmental the stakeholders involved in our business will responsibility. come to realize the importance of Principle 9 : Encourage the theenvironmental impacts. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 13 of 17 Implementation Asia Royal Hospital’s rules and working policies are laid down to reduce environmental impacts as well as to improve environmental friendliness. All of our employees have been trained to prioritize environmental-friendly job practices. Our hospital’s standard operation procedures (SOP), guidelines and medical protocols are defined to minimize adverse effects on stakeholders’ environment and the public. Hospitals are regarded as source of cross infections and contamination if safety measures and waste disposal system are not properly established. We need to be careful to prevent our customers and stakeholders and the public from cross infections. Our hospital workplaceis transformed into a digitalized workplace to reduce paper consumption. Our management has replaced air-conditioning systems with inverter type and centralized chiller air-conditioning system to minimize energy consumption. ARH staffs are obliged to switch off lightings and other electrical appliances after office hours. The management’s vision regarding environmental principlesis to createAsia Royal Hospital as an environmentally-friendly institution. We are committed to ensure that ARH shall never be a source of hospital cross infectionsand a source of contamination by wastes and sewage disposal. The programs and practices are as follows: • Hospital wards and operation theaters are disinfected regularly. • A powerful infection control team was developed and careful screening of infectious cases and Isolation done if necessary. • Health Safety Environment (HSE) Policywas laid down and implemented accordingly to gain safety measures. • Fire safety plan, Electricity safety plan and emergency response teams are updated to respond in time. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 14 of 17 • Maintain safe water supply and sanitation inside hospital compound. Waste disposal proceduresare done under strict antiseptics conditions to prevent contamination. Asia Royal Hospital has installed proper sewage disposal system that is vital and important to keep Asia Royal Hospital environment clean. The system includes conveyed biological treatment system. To utilize biological anaerobic treatment system, waste conveyed step by step treatment process such as equalization tank and waste water transferring system, bar screen and grit chamber, aeration tank and aeration system, sedimentation tank and sludge recycling system, chlorination tank, sludge transferred system and effluent disposal. • Drainage systems around the Asia Royal Hospital compound are cleaned regularly and maintain proper drainage system. • Apart from AsiaRoyalHospital expenditure for the environmentally related activities, Asia Royal Hospital has granted Kyat 15 millionper year for CSR activities. Asia Royal Hospital well realized that our business model should be socially responsible and environmentally sustainable. We will obey the existing plans, laws and regulations laid down by the government and guidelines from the Ministryof Health. Assessment of Outcomes Outcomes for measuring ofenvironmental friendly activities seem to be satisfactory and our safety qualityis well maintained. We havealso noted that there is no evidence ofinfection breakout and ill effects to public during the period of study. By analyzing our hospital’s internal environment, we found that all our staffs have been promoting their personal hygiene and carrying out their daily operations safely. HSE auditor team, Fire Safety team and infection control team are well developed. Emergency response team has also been established and is always ready to respond whenever a disaster strikes. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 15 of 17 Anti-corruption Principles Policy and Protocols Anti-corruption Principles Our top Management strictly establish Principle 10 : Business should work the rules and policies that do not allow any against corruption in all its forms, corruption and bribery regardless of any level including extortion and bribery. of management positions. Asia Royal Code of Conduct and Ethics forbid staff, agents and representatives from offering, promising or providing briberies directly or indirectly through third parties, in any form. Our institution’s policies do not allow corruption in any forms and has publicly stated ourstanding of zero-tolerance on corruption. Implementation ARH management has maintained a check and balance system over every cash transactions carried out within each year. We establish internal auditor team for financial matters. Moreover, tender bids and contracts terms are controlled and determined by Board of Directorsor the committee and maintained transparency. Measurement of Outcome No recorded case or no trace of corruption is found in ARH. Though it may not be easily detected corruption cases, ARH will never hesitate to take strong corrective action against such kind of offenses. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 16 of 17 Summary Under the guidelines of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, ARH has implemented developmental changes in healthcare, human resources development, environmental maintenance and business sustainability by inspiring people, planet and profit in accordance with 3-Ps concept of CSR. As a Hospital, ARH’shealthcare activities and quality standardsare inline with sense of performing CSR. Health care means physical, mental and social wellbeing of the patient. Our ultimate goal is to make our customers to regain full recovery and lead their healthy lifestyle again while supporting and caring the public as much as we can and to maintain the green, clean environment by inspiring CSR activities. ARH is under the control of Ministry of Health guidelines and supervised by the Department of Medicalcare. Also under the ethical guidelines of Myanmar Medial Council. Asia Royal Hospital is a member of Myanmar Private Hospital Association (MPHA) and also a member of American Hospital Association. ARH’s daily business operations, principles, activities and outcomes, policy, protocol and implementation strategy in accordance with the guidelines provided by UNGC. In summary, this report comprehensively reveals that ARH team is continuously rendering safe and updated premium quality healthcare while using modernized equipment together with efforts of skillful professionals and staffs to all concerned stakeholders within the range of available resources. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 17 of 17
