COP REPORT 2018-2020 COP REPORT 2018-2020 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Ofcer I am pleased to confirm that Real Travel Service reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Hicham Rajraji Chief Executive Ofcer COP REPORT 2018-2020 Who we are : Real travel service, in a Travel agency based in Morocco but operating in the MENA region, since 2008, we are specialized in Corporate and Business travel, our mission is to contribute in the improvement and the development of the best practices of the travel industry and contribute in the future of this travel agent profession. Our Goals Evolve, taking account of the expectations of the company. Improve the quality; anticipate future needs, innovate new technologies and new practices. Generate a meaning that is readable and consistent for all of its stakeholders, in a global approach to overall performance, Strengthen its vigilance on the economic, environmental and social threats SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY Our Sustainable Development Policy is structured around 4 major themes : the protection of and respect for the environment, supporting employees, non-discrimination and equal opportunities, conduct and ethics THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF the GLOBAL COMPACT OF the UNITED NATIONS Human rights 1 support and respect the protection of international law on the rights of the Man. 2 Ensure that it does not make it accomplice to violations of Human rights. Environment 3 Apply a precautionary approach to problems affecting the environment. 4 Take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 5-Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. international labour Standards 6 Uphold the freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining. 7 to Contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. 8 Contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. 9 Contribute to the elimination of any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-corruption 10 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion of funds and bribes. ENVIRONMENT Whether hiring or throughout his career, each employee is invited to under take initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and to prefer the working tools are the most respectful of the environment in the exercise of its functions. For its operation, Real Travel Service has privileged the use of environmentally friendly technologies and recycling. COP REPORT 2018-2020 Actions : • Replacing all Old Batteries in all devices by new ones to reduce the energy consumption by 6% during charging the batteries • Continuing to enhance the efficiency of the our digital solution for a100% paper free work environment • Automatic shutdown of all computers and electric devices • Using a smart recycling policy for trash and waste. • Using cleaning product that are environment friendly • Renting hybrid cars for our daily trips instead of using our Diesel cars. • Avoid trips when videoconference is available. II . Human Rights RTS works to combat discrimination in any form, via a policy of fair hiring. RTS strives to create a field of work conducive to the well-being of its employees, development of their skills, and the cohesion within the Group. The FUNDAMENTAL Human rights We are committed to promote and respect the protection of international law relating to Human Rights within our sphere of influence. We are also making sure that our own employees are informed of their rights and that they respect in turn, in the course of their work, these rights, as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. LABOUR STANDARDS We condemn it by all means the use of forced labour (conventions n°29 and 105 of international Labour Organization) and the child labour (conventions 138 and 182 of the international Labour Organization). We will ensure that our trading partners not to resort to such practices. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Each employee RTS benefits from a personalized follow-up. Each year, we evaluate the professional life in order to face the difficulties and look for areas of progress. We define with the employee of the objectives to achieve in the short and medium terms. We offer training courses adapted to their professional ambitions. PROFESSIONAL CONSCIENCE Our employees work in compliance with the law, their colleagues, the physical facilities and the rules set out in RTS but also in client companies. INITIAL AND CONTINUOUS TRAINING throughout their career, the employees Of RTS benefit from courses of initial and continuing training. The pedagogy used is innovative and interactive learning (elearning, coaching, etc.). Our training plans have been designed on different courses of 2 to 3 months, with themes updated regularly with the obligation to attend a minimum number of 30 hours COP REPORT 2018-2020 of training per year . Self-study, practical applications and regular assessments allow our consultants to rapidly acquire the necessary automatic features to their mastery of technology. KEY FIGURES On the year 2017, no judgment of infringement of the rights of man, order, fine, or other event, has not been reported. in Order to extend the values of openness, equity and solidarity, which are his own, RTS invites its partners and suppliers to commit and to act, at his side through the adherence to its code of conduct. It encourages them to respect and ensure respect for the applicable laws and regulations at local or international level in the field of fundamental rights of the human person and of the ILO conventions. ü 13 events during 2017 ü 0 violation of human rights ü 100% employees are on permanent contracts ü 100% health insurance covered EQUAL AND FAIR RECRUITMENT recruitment or promotion can only be done on objective criteria. A spouse, child or close to a member of an employee (or leader), cannot be recruited or assigned only after agreement of the hierarchy to which the same rules apply, and on objective criteria, to avoid any ambiguity or suspicion. Each recruitment officer integrating RTS is committed to promote equal opportunities and combat discrimination in recruitment, by signing the 'recruitment policy': it reminds the rules of fair recruitment and 18 prohibited discrimination criteria. Non-discrimination RTS is always used to combat any form of discrimination in employment, compensation and profession, a commitment formalized by its policy human and social. Training and equal degrees, she provides to its employees, men and women, fairness of compensation at the time of recruitment. OUR CODE OF CONDUCT : The success of the Company depends on the excellence with which we respond to the needs of customers. Real Travel Service is dedicated fully to offer to the market, the responsible behavior that they expect. Our Core Values stress that how we interact with others is just as important as the nature of what we bring to them. We would like to make evidence of business practices to be impeccable in all our relationships with customers in order to build and retain a long term trust, and gain their market. In Real Travel Service, we act in a responsible manner for the exchange of gifts and invitations, to manage the payments of the Company, conduct international trade operations and to preserve the confidentiality of information provided by the customers. We focus on the way in which we treat our customers and responding to their needs. 1. Gifts, invitations and payments COP REPORT 2018-2020 We are committed to strengthening all of our relationships with customers, suppliers and other business partners. We do not make any gifts, hospitality or other favours in order to influence unlawfully the business decisions of third parties, and we do not make any of the payments to be illegal or unethical. In all situations, we must exercise good judgment and moderation in order to avoid that our conduct seems inappropriate. 2. Gifts, favours and invitations The Company does not encourage its employees to offer or receive gifts. In the rare case where one delivers or accepts a gift, favor or invitation, this gift, this favor, or this invitation should be : Be consistent with regional practices as usual. Be done in a professional objective well defined. not being able to be interpreted as a bottom-of-table or a bribe. not to be offered to influence a professional relationship. do Not enter in violation of any law or standard of ethics. not to be likely to put the Company or the employee in the embarrassment if it were to be revealed publicly. Have been approved by the Vice-president or the Corporate Officer if its value can be considered excessive, or if it is equal to or greater than the Amount of high-value defined for each country by the rules of Real Travel Service. stricter guidelines can take place within local organizations or specific functions, as well as vis-à-vis purchases made by governments. It is the responsibility of employees to check with their Management if there are additional guidelines. in order To avoid any dispute about the exchange of gifts, it is often useful to specify what is not permitted from the beginning of a professional relationship. 3. Bribes The kickbacks and bribes are illegal in most countries. Any proposed payment or offer of anything of value to influence a business decision or action of the government could be seen as a under-the-table or a bribe. Never offer, solicit or accept such payment, or to suggest that you accept. Exercise caution because even a gift not cash it could be construed as bribe. Payments that are not official representatives of the government, known as facilitating payments or grease payments , are prohibited. Real Travel Service wishes to contribute to offer everyone a better society. Our core Value of Respect for the Individual is a major example of the commitment of our Company. To fulfill our goals, we practice the competition in a legal way. We work to protect and enhance the dignity of the Human person. We support the human Rights. COP REPORT 2018-2020 Ultimately, our efforts should be judged by what we do and the positive impact we can have on the lives of everyone. 1. Competitive practices Real Travel Service engages in an energy market competition in order to best serve its customers. However, we must always keep in mind that the Company is subject to competition laws. These laws are complex and may vary from country to country. However, in general, almost all laws in force competition in the countries of operation of Real Travel Service prohibit agreements and actions that restrict or lessen competition unduly. Violations of competition laws include agreements among competitors to: ● Fix or control prices, or establish other arrangements or sales clauses (eg credit conditions) ● Boycott certain suppliers and customers, ● Assign customers, products, territories or markets, ● Limit the production or sale of products. Such breaches competition laws, as well as others, can result in severe penalties for the Company and for the individuals involved. Employees must understand the laws in force, especially if their function involves interactions with competitors, suppliers, customers and distributors, gathering competitive information or participation in professional associations. Employees must pay particular attention that their activities or discussions with other company representatives can not be interpreted as violations of competition laws. n addition, employees should consult the Legal Department before participating in the following activities: ● Price communication campaign. ● Meetings of professional associations or similar situations involving competitors. ● Any interaction with competitors. 2. Information about the competition Information about the competition is of great importance for the commercial success of the Company, and we have many legal and ethical means to collect this data. Heavy penalties are provided for employees who turn away business secrets of other undertakings. Employees can help avoid severe civil sanctions and penalties for the Company and themselves, by strictly respecting the Company’s guidelines. ● For example, when gathering competitive information, it is their responsibility to meet the following requirements: ● Do not stand under a false identity or misrepresenting why information is requested. ● Do not steal any information from a competitor or another business. ● Do not allow anyone to obtain information on competition in ways that they would not use themselves. ● Ask the Legal department in case of doubt about how to obtain responsibly information about the competition. COP REPORT 2018-2020 3. Government relations, public procurement and movement of foreign government officials Working with government officials and government organizations, present unique challenges. The government of each country, for example, has very specific rules for its business interactions. When we work with government officials, we must ensure that our activities and interactions demonstrate the commitment of the Company to legal behavior. 4. general relations with government officials When a business relationship with the government of a country is taking place, employees must understand the rules by which this government operates. Some governments heavily restrict gifts or invitations that their agents are authorized to accept and heavily penalize companies that do not respect these rules. Even worthless gifts or meals quite ordinary can be moved or illegal. Whether it is or is not to influence a decision or action, such a favor may be illegal and easily interpreted as an under-thetable or a pot of wine. There may be legal exceptions, but it is for employees to consult the Legal Department before any payment they would consider to pay a government official. 5. Public markets When providing government, directly or indirectly, employees must understand the rules that govern its interactions with actual or potential suppliers, particularly in terms of the purchasing process The business with government agencies do not necessarily lead to the same way as other businesses. Some acceptable practices in the private sector can create problems when addressing a government agency. The special rules of government can cover many commercial aspects, such as recording and monitoring products and services costs, protect information belonging to it, offer and acceptance of gifts and hospitality in the restaurant or show, the hiring of former government officials. Additionally, governments often require the supplier to comply various requirements in the contract. Laws concerning governments are often complex and, in case of infringement, impose harsh civil and penalties for the company and for the employees to have engaged in any inconsistent practice. In case of doubt about how to work with government officials, employees must consult the Legal Department. I. Human rights Real Travel Service wants to preserve and advance human rights wherever it operates. In addition, we want to work with companies that aspire to the same principles. Employees must conduct the affairs of the Company in an ethical and responsible manner that respects and supports the protection of human rights. Employees should identify and work with companies which aspire to conduct their business in a similar manner. Values of Real Travel Service on Human Rights and the principles of Forced Labour and Child Labour are based on its core values of Safety & Health, Environmental Compliance, COP REPORT 2018-2020 Optimal Ethics and Respect for People. These rules support and work together with its Code of Conduct, its Security Engagement, Health and Environment, its responsible product management program and compliance with laws and regulations, as well as its adherence to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact (UN Global Compact). It is up to each employee to comply with these rules and laws. The leaders of each activity must train and motivate employees so that they understand and comply with these rules and laws. II. Contacts with third parties We want to ensure that the Company has accurate and complete description of its activities. Only authorized persons are authorized to speak for the company to journalists, financial analysts, government officials and security forces, or any third party. Fostering a Culture of Sustainability for our employees The quality of our work environment affects the success of the Company. Indeed, the work environment affects each employee satisfaction and motivation to help the company succeed. That is why we attach such importance to the Fundamental Value of Real Travel Service Respect for People . Respect for others helps us maintain a positive and constructive framework. By showing respect for our colleagues, we show that we attach value to their ideas and appreciate their unique contributions to the smooth running of the Company. 1. Respect for people Only total commitment and a profound spirit of cooperation on the part of its diverse human resources can enable Real Travel realize its Vision. We can only achieve success and meet everyone involved in our activities if we respect each other, give value to each contribution of our colleagues and treat everyone fairly. 2. Equal opportunities and non-discrimination Real Travel Service exercises vis-à-vis its employees or applicants for employment discrimination based on age, race, religion, skin color, sex, disability, country of birth , ancestry, marital status, identity to determine the conditions or terms of employment, the latter involving hiring, promotions, demotions, transfers, assignments, terminations of contract, the Salary or other remuneration as well as participation in training and in accordance with Moroccan law labor legislation. 3. Preventing Harassment The Company does not tolerate any harassment. Harassment can heavily affect the professional performance of a person, or cause painful or paralyzing working conditions. Are considered the harassment insulting or derogatory comments, proposals for job benefits in exchange for sexual favors or other forms of offensive behavior. Harassment can include conduct of an employee of Real Travel Service to another, as COP REPORT 2018-2020 well as for employees of suppliers and customers of the Company or other business partners. Among the non-conforming uses of computers and the Company's communications systems, figures their use for purposes of harassment or sexual discrimination, racial or any other type, as well as access to sexual orientation of the data or otherwise inappropriate in nature. Whatever the support, the improper use of electronic communication resources of the Company is considered a serious fault, and persons who have violated these rules will be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with Moroccan law labor legislation. 4. Privacy and Personal Information Real Travel Service recognizes that people attach value to their privacy and are entitled to see it fulfilled. The Company intends to defend, reasonably, the privacy of its employees, past or present, and the security of personally identifiable information it has collected about them. Real Travel Service informs employees of the nature of the personal information collected by the Company, and how these may be used or shared in the context of activities such as the administration of compensation and benefits, access to IT systems and their security. 5. Personal use of the assets of the Company We must keep in mind that the facilities, equipment and services, such as offices, telephones and computer systems, are intended for operations of the Company. This includes access to e-mail, the e-mail systems, Internet and Intranet. Employees should expect no privacy when using these facilities and services. To preserve its security, its reputation and that of its employees, prevent offenses and to ensure the security of its information, the Company reserves the right to monitor the workplace and communications, and perform research on its properties, subject to local laws. Any communication or material information may also be provided to cooperate with the courts or through an order of justice or legislative bodies. 6. Security and Health Real Travel Service believes that all injuries, all professional diseases and all environmental security incidents can be avoided. The Company has set the goal for all Zero accidents. We also encourage safety of employees outside of work. It is up to each employee to comply with the Commitment of Real Travel Service and laws on health and safety. Those responsible for each activity are required to train and motivate employees so that they understand and respect the commitment of Real Travel Service and the laws in force in the field of health and safety. Each employee must also comply with the rules, standards and guidelines of Real Travel Security matters Service, Health and Respect for the Environment.
