GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PRINT CITY 2016 391g 1777-73851269-VCU-009 THE TEN PRINCIPLE OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Print City fulfilled the HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT pledge to UN Global Principle 1: Businesses Principle 7: Businesses Compact 1 should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 7 should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; As a member of UN Global human rights; and Compact, Print City was Principle 8: undertake committed to follow the Ten Principles of UN Global 2 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Compact regarding to human rights, labor, environment 9 Principle 9: encourage the and anti-corruption with LABOUR STANDARDS development and diffusion a broad network covering of environmentally friendly Principle 3: Businesses technologies. 130 countries. 3 should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of ANTI-CORRUPTION the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses 4 Principle 4: the elemination of all forms of forced and 10 should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and compulsory labour; bribery. 5 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elemination 6 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 Contents Guiding our operations A Print City Business Areas 4 The rules and principles Message from the CEO 5 we follow in our work. A Guiding our operations 6 Strategy & Governance Global Responsibility governance People Sustainable B Looking after the people who shape our business. Business ethics Code of Conduct training B People 10 Human rights Printing and innovation Labour rights C Employees and employment The sustainability of our C Printing and innovation 12 products and solutions. Innovation and product development Product labeling and sustainability performance Product safety and hygiene Responsible sourcing What are Carbon Neutral Printing or GreenPrint D Carbon Neutral? Where our raw materials come from. D Responsible sourcing 14 Our sourcing network Sustainable supply chain information Environment Our sourcing network E Supply chain management Taking responsibility E Environment 16 for the environment and curbing climate change. Climate actions Business risks and opportunities related to climate change Reducing impacts and improving resource efficiency Anti-Corruption Carbon Footprint F This guidance-an important Carbon Neutral Printing milestone in the fight against F Anti-Corruption 22 corruption Applying the Principle Print City in brief Print City, Thailand’s First Carbon Neutral Company, Print City has realized significant energy cost savings is the leader in Print Industry in terms of sustainability in reducing its carbon footprint, there is tremendous with green printing solution and aligned with the UN real and potential value in becoming a certified carbon Guiding Principles on global compact and Business for neutral company. The primary benefit of the Carbon Peace. GreenPrint is one of the big issues in the print Neutral certification is reputational. Not only does it media industry, with a growing awareness of the need please consumers, it has the potential to increase market to protect the environment. The increasing scarcity share, attract buyers, and strengthen a firm’s public of resources and the impact on air, water, and soil are image. These advantages are largely dependent on the making this urgently necessary, with the focus first and use of Bureau Veritas (Thailand) a credible third party foremost on cutting CO 2 emissions. Print City’s and granted by Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management view of the future of print is that it will be an evolving Organization (Public Organization) for verification mix of multiple scenarios for different market thus lending credibility to the organization’s social segments, economies and cultures, however, all and environmental initiatives. Building on our market of them will have a common need for strategy to leadership in printing, Print City make it easier and optimize our success. Firstly, print must be seen, more enjoyable that combine outstanding design and it need to stand in its own right and be valued a user experience with great value. We pursue growth functional media. This needs to be underpinned in adjacent markets, such as graphics solutions and with a combination lean & green strategy to ensure commercial mobility. We are defining new market profitability and sustainability. This strategy combines categories through 3D printing and immersive productivity benefits from lean manufacturing that computing platforms that fuse together the physical and also improve green performance from resource and digital worlds. Our core customers consist of individual waste reduction. consumers, small-and medium-sized businesses, and large enterprises, including customers in the government, Print City became the first company in Thailand to health, and education sectors. receive Carbon Neutral Company certification, While 4 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 Message from the CEO In 2016, the United Nations adopted its Sustainable goods and raw materials. At Print City we measure Development Goals and world leaders forged the success through how our actions and solutions help Paris Agreement on climate. Those bold moves are people, businesses, and communities thrive. intended to help us protect the planet, end poverty, increase access to quality education and healthcare, and Our “sustainability” and “Communication on Process improve economic opportunities for all. Also last year, (cop) report showcases the aspirations, achievements we took a bold step, leveraging our long and proud and challenges of our commitment to balancing the history to become the Carbon Neutral Company. social, economic and environmental aspects of our We vowed to keep reinventing our company and business. We invite you to learn about how Print City engineering amazing innovation that make life better is using its Carbon Neutral Printing expertise to address for everyone, everywhere-and in doing so, create a social and environmental issues around the globe. better world. At Print City we believe that our actions should address some of the greatest challenges we The global business environment in 2015 was not easy, face as a society, including climate change, gender and we do not count on it becoming easier anytime inequality, economic opportunity, quality healthcare, soon. I am not only thinking about the turbulent and clean and affordable energy. I’m proud to say that economy. We know that our planet is running out of Print City is taking action on 4 & 13 of the 17 United natural resources, and that climate change is a reality Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The breadth that will shape our future. To succeed in this changing of our sustainability programs is evidence of our environment, Print City is going through a transformation commitment. We believe sustainability is a powerful into a company that will use renewable materials to force for growth and innovation, in the world and at create value on a global scale. To do this we must make Print City. It guides how we do business and drives the investments in growth markets, while ensuring that our way our products are designed, made, used, and existing businesses remain profitable. regenerated. And it is a focal point as we reinvent our business models and operations toward a materials-and In conclusion, we have reported our progress, energy-efficient circular economy. We know we cannot successes and challenges. Now, we are focused ahead. do this alone. Working with our partners, employees, We understand that our role as a leading company with and customers, we can keep moving forward carbon Neutral Printing expertise and provides unique responsibly, sustainably, and successfully. Through our opportunities to assist in addressing global problems. technology innovations, we are creating opportunities We continue to advance our transparency and integration for everyone by changing the world around us. For of sustainability into our operations. And we are example, our commercial 3D printing solutions have well-prepared to meet the increasing demands of our the potential to transform manufacturing, reducing stakeholders by providing extensive data about our waste and the need to burn fossil fuels to transport performance and ambitions. Teerapol Techavichian Ph.D. CEO of Print City Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 5 A Guiding our operations Strategy& Governance For Print City Global Responsibility means realizing material to us, while also guiding our employees in their concrete actions to fulfill our corporate value everyday work. Sustainability governance Sustainability “iChange4World”. This means that Global Responsibility is a key element of Print City’s corporate governance, entails responsibilities for everyone working within promoted by the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Print City. Global Responsibility involves facilitating the Group Leadership Team. creation of shared value, driving changes that will make our operations more ethical and sustainable, and taking Global Responsibility Governance concrete steps to improve environmental and social During 2016 we reviewed our Global Responsibility responsibility along our value chain together with our Governance to make it better reflect our operational stakeholders. Our Boards support the highest standards environment and the direction the company is taking. of corporate governance and best practice and are Our Global Responsibility strategy defines lead areas committed to the principles of transparency, integrity in which Print City is especially working to enhance and accountability. operational sustainability and take leadership. These lead areas are Print City’s Sustainability Policy describes our overall Resource Efficiency & Environment Performance approach to sustainability. It focuses on areas, which we Responsible Business and People have identified as priorities, and explains the integral Each lead area includes specific Key Performance role of sustainability in our corporate strategy. In Indicators and targets. 2016, two Lead Areas formed a framework for our sustainability work: People & Ethics and Environment Our Business Areas and all support functions are & Efficiency. Targets and key performance indicators responsible for the operational management of (KPIs) on sustainability are incorporated into sustainability issues. Our Global Responsibility corporate group-level and division-level monthly performance function provides guidance to everyone throughout the reporting and periodic business reviews. Consolidated Group on key responsibility issues, and also coordinates results on material sustainability indicators are reported and develops Print City’s responsibility work. annually in the Sustainability Report. Selected sustainability targets and KPIs are also reported Key Performance Indicators quarterly. Print City’s Code of Conduct and other Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were reviewed policies, guidelines, and statements related to in 2016 as part of our Global Responsibility Strategy. sustainability spell out our approach to topics that are Our KPIs are structured by our Global Responsibility Integrity Creativity Harmonization Accountability Novelty Governance Excellence 6 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 lead areas. They monitor, measure and summarize the using other more detailed metrics and disclosures, as progress on sustainable development and the related presented in this report. During 2016 we developed impacts on our business and stakeholders. In addition data collection processes for the new KPIs and set our to the KPIs, our sustainability performance is measured new sustainability targets. Identified key topics and performance indicators for each of our Global Responsibility Lead Areas Key topics for the Lead Areas: Involvement and value sharing in local communities Responsibility along the supply chain Sustainability driven business approach Sustainability performance of products Innovation and new solutions Environment and Efficiency People and Ethics Key topics: Material efficiency Key topics: Health and safety Energy and climate actions Business ethics Water issues Responsible restructuring Environmental impacts from Employee satisfaction logistics Human rights and labour rights KPIs CO2 emissions KPIs Total Recordable Incident rate Material efficiency index Implementation of our Human Process water discharges Rights Approach Leadership index Supplier contracts covered by responsibility criteria Governance and management Business Practice Policy, which was launched Global Responsibility and Ethics are emphasised during 2011, and to further emphasize our views on throughout Print City corporate governance, starting environmental and human rights issues. The Code of from our Board of Directors, the CEO and our Group Conduct is divided into three different sections: Executive Team. Responsible business Caring for people Our CEO and our Group Executive Team are ultimately Caring for the environment responsible for Print City’s strategies on Global Responsibility and Ethics, and related key performance Code of Conduct indicators and policies. To ensure that our employees understand and follow the rules set out in our Code of Conduct, they receive Business ethics related training through our established e-learning Print City has a single set of values that are applied tool or face-to-face training. By the end of 2015, wherever we operate. Our Code of Conduct defines an estimated 95% of our employees had undergone common rules for all our employees, and provides such training. We are still continuing this training guidance on Print City’s approach to ethical business where employees have not yet been trained, and also practices, environmental values, and human and working to ensure that all new employees are trained labour rights. During 2016 Print City’s Code of promptly. New e-learning and face-to-face training Conduct and related materials were reviewed and procedures based on our revised Code of Conduct revised to reflect more closely the content of our will be launched in 2016. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 7 Sustainable Development Goals Print City joined the UN Global Compact initiative, reflecting our commitment to sustainable business practices. The UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are fully aligned with Print City’ values, mission and strategy. The signing of the Global Compact reflects our ambition to be a leader in sustainability. Indeed, we are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the day-to-day operations of our company. Our Strategy to take the LEAD The key to sustainable growth over the long-term is a robust framework to identify and manage both financial and nonfinancial risks and opportunities. At Print City, we have integrated our UN Guiding Principles strategy across all our business operations to achieve a balanced triple bottom line performance. to SHAPE an industry Print City has been the leader in sustainable development as an established developer committed to green printing development and best practices, we are in the position to engage and influence our extensive network of suppliers and partners. Through astute supply chain management, we take pride in setting standards for sustainable practices and driving change in Thailand’s printing industry. We strive to actively engage our stakeholders with dynamic processes and innovative solutions that maintain a balanced triple bottom line. As a business and community leader, Print City is driven to consistently achieve new benchmarks of SD excellence for our stakeholders. to CREATE lasting value Incorporating principles of sustainability as an integral part of our business model has not only led to healthy financial growth, but also made Print City the leader in social change and environmental stewardship. More importantly, this has propelled us towards continuous improvements and further growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders, creating value that will leave a lasting impression. Process of Determining High-priority Management Themes Step 1 Formulate a basic policy Devise a basic policy by reviewing past CSR activities Step 2 Identify social issues to be tackled Use references including a variety of guidelines and the SDGs Consider how the social issues relate to Print City management philosophy and business strategies, our products and services, and our technologies. Step 3 Assess relative importance of themes Consider level of demand and interest from society, and level of impact on Print City business, including potential opportunities and risks Step 4 Plan and review Set targets for each organization within Print City and internally review and approve the targets 8 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 The Value Print City Provides to Address These Issues Stakeholders Our Long-term Goals (for 2030) Creating a communication environment where everyone can use the information they need in the optimal format and share Contribute to economic growth by helping our it with anyone, anytime, and anywhere customers to promote new work styles Providing an environment where all members of society, Customers regardless of organizational affiliation, contribute their knowledge and spur innovation Providing emerging countries with products, solutions, and services adjusted to local needs and level of development Reducing information security risk and securely protecting important data Suppliers Promoting procurement and production activities throughout the supply chain and developing locally rooted sustainable business operations Leverage innovative communication technologies to help transform the way society works and Providing our proprietary know-how and technologies to Local reduce environmental impact facilitate partnership with local residents, companies, government Communities agencies, NGOs, academic institutions, etc. Preventing disasters and supporting recovery Reducing environmental impact by strengthening Print City environmental management Providing products and services that combine user convenience Global with energy saving Environment Enable employees to experience personal and professional growth and fulfillment by boosting Creating an environment that empowers each of our employees motivation to make maximum use of their abilities, enjoy their work, and Employees experience the fulfillment of personal and professional growth Earning greater trust from society by building a robust Shareholders/ management foundation and practicing sound management Investors Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 9 B People People & Ethics In our People and Ethics, our focus is to conduct Compliance monitoring of labour rights and the business in a socially responsible manner throughout working conditions of third-party on-site staff our value chain. We set high ethical and professional Promoting diversity and inclusion among Print City’s’s standards throughout our operations and fully respect workforce and support the human rights and labour rights of all our Improving overtime practices and entry-level wages employees and the communities around our operations. at some units We are committed to ensure that our workplaces are Developing guidance and procedures for the healthy and safe. protection of employee privacy Ensuring opportunities for supporting and facilitating Human rights collective bargaining Our policies A deep commitment to human rights Print Improving occupational health and safety practices City’s human rights commitment covers our employees at some units and on-site contractors, external suppliers of materials Improving environmental and social impact and services, our business partners, and communities assessment procedures near our operations. Our overall sustainability agenda Enhancing policies and procedures for security is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global management Compact, including the principles on human rights. Continuing to implement our Supplier Code of Relevant Print City policies and statements on human Conduct rights include: Ensuring that all human rights impacts are Code of Conduct, which expresses our respect for considered and addressed through responsible supply international human and labour rights. chain management. Supplier Code of Conduct, which imposes strict contractual requirements on human rights on our Labour rights suppliers. There are no operations within Print City, which have Human Rights Statement, which expresses our respect been identified as having significant risk for incidents of for international and regional human rights. forced or compulsory labor. We take proactive measures to prevent forced or compulsory labor through our The UN Guiding Principles emphasise that companies policies. Our Ethics Policy & Sustainability Policy state have an ongoing responsibility to respect human rights, forced labor is strictly prohibited even where governments and regulatory frameworks have gaps in adhering to human rights. They Operations identified as having risk for incidents of recommend that companies implement human rights child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the due diligence procedures that identify, assess, and elimination of child labor. The company has not found address the human rights risks and impacts of their any its plants or operations, which would be at significant operations, products, and services. risk for incidents of child labor. By mid-2015, human rights action plans were defined We take active measures to prevent and eliminate based on the findings and recommendations of the child labor through our policies. Our Ethics Policy & human rights assessments conducted in 2014. The plans Sustainability Policy address child labor and consistent include group-wide actions relating to: with the UN Global Compact. Potential employees are 10 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 required to show valid identification and proof of age The ethics policy is a topic addressed at our annual before they are hired. To the best of our knowledge Vision Week which is a week each year focused on there is no child labor within our company. This type employee engagement with a special focus on our vision of risk is addressed with our employees, including and values all managers who are involved in human resources, All leaders are required to comply with the Leadership through our Ethics Policy which covers a wide range of Expectations Model of which the ethical behavior financial, social and environmental activities, including outlined in the ethic s policy is one of the core elements safe and healthful workplaces, diversity, discrimination, freedom of association, regulatory compliance and Print City is committed to respecting human and labour environmental protection, anti-bribery, compulsory rights as a natural part of daily business. We annually labor In addition to the number of employees who are ask all our management teams to sign a Statement of required to take the annual certification of our Ethics Representation affirming adherence to the principles of Policy, it is communicated to our employees in the the UN Global Compact to ensure that the fundamental following ways: principles of Print City’s ethical guidelines are known All new employees upon being hired are required to and complied with throughout our organization. Print sign that they have read, understand and will comply City conducts regular surveys with its suppliers regarding with our ethics policy as a condition of employment their position on acceptance of the UN Global Compact. The ethics policy is addressed by our managers regularly The most recent survey results showed that 75% of in employee meetings Print City’ total purchase volume was represented by suppliers committed to the ten principles. Goals & actions 2016-2017 01.09.17 Target Achieved Status Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and haveendorsed the policy. 100% 100% Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. 100% 100% Procurement Based on results of the previous survey, a further improvement in compliance with the UN Global Compact will be targeted by seeking a similar commitment 100% 90% also from smaller suppliers. Request for commitment to UN Global Compact principles shall become standard procedure in qualification process for new raw material suppliers. 100% 100% Employee training Improve employee competences and capabilities, thereby improving company competitiveness.The process is ongoing and has our commitment. 100% 100% Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global people survey and developing action plans. 100% 100% Occupational injuries No injuries causing work absence to be registered in the reporting period. 0% 1.0% Labour rights Our Code of Ethics is an integral part of Print City due diligence process and any 100% 100% non-conformities are reported. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 11 C Printing and innovation Printing & innovation Renewable materials play a powerful role in creating all of our main products, using calculations that are sustainable development. Print City’s product updated annually. LCIs are used to share information development and innovation are being actively on products’ environmental performance and impacts. encouraged through a change process known as “Greenprint Go Carbon Neutral” launched in 2013. We provide product-specific information on the In the context of new products, the idea behind this is environmental performance of our printing through that we must challenge ourselves and the outside world Paper Profiles and Paper-by Nature declarations. These to rethink the ways we work and live – and utilize voluntary environmental product declaration schemes our expertise on renewable materials and material have been jointly developed by leading paper producers. efficiency to promote sustainable living. Several of Printing paper products also bear recognized We measure the sustainability performance of our eco labels such as the EU Flower, the Nordic Swan and the products using environmental, social and economic Blue Angel labels, showing that they have been produced performance indicators and related targets. For more using wood from certified forests and controlled information on our sustainability targets, to identify, sources, and that the whole journey of the raw materials minimize and inform our stakeholders about the they contain from the forest to the store shelf has been environmental impacts of our products, we also work documented and verified by an external party. with product life cycle inventories (LCIs), Paper Profiles, eco-labels and carbon footprint Environment Footprint All of Print City’s business areas have calculated carbon Product labeling and sustainability performance footprints for their main products, and this information Experts on life cycle analyses (LCA) based at Print is freely available to our customers. City’s Innovation Center compile life cycle inventory (LCI) data on our products and help our printing to Environmental protection has been firmly established as collect the necessary data. We conduct LCI surveys on a corporate goal. Print City is working consistently and systematically to achieve this goal along the entire value chain. Focusing in particular on three areas: Resource consumption, emissions, and waste and is looking to reduce or ideally avoid all three wherever possible. Product safety and hygiene Print City uses high-quality raw materials to manufacture pulp, paper, and wood products for various purposes. Our in-house control systems cover our processes from the product development stage through raw material sourcing to the delivery of the finished products. They also cover the eventual recycling and reuse of products as raw materials for new products or for energy production. We also require our suppliers and partners to comply with Print City’s sustainability requirements, including safety aspects. 12 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 What are Carbon Neutral Printing or GreenPrint Carbon Neutral? Carbon neutral printing and Greenprint Carbon Neutral mean that all greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the print production itself and the used materials such as paper, energy, ink are calculated and compensated through carbon offset projects. Labeling We can put the “carbon neutral print product” logo onto the print object, including an individual tracking number. Tracking number? Each and every print product receives a unique tracking number, generated by carbon offset system. Using this number, everyone can track the amount of compensated greenhouse gas and the carbon offset project. Print City purchases Verified Carbon Units (VCU) certified carbon offsets to give you a way to balance out the emissions. Print City has supported Wastewater treatment and biogas utilization project in Thailand for 1000 tons. By participating in this carbon offsetting program, we are contributing to fight against global warming and support greenhouse gases reduction project in Thailand and enable Thailand’s transaction to a low-carbon future. Buyers can ask for an email confirmation when a VCU is retired in their name and search the VCS Project Database to confirm retirement. While every VCU represents a verified emissions reduction, can be track with additional benefits, such as protecting biodiversity and enhancing community participation. In addition to the quality assurance provided by the VCS, these additional tags often bring added value to the credits. Goals & actions Printing and innovation 2016-2017 01.09.17 Target Achieved Status Achieve Carbon Neutral Printing Define our subject – we can certify our whole company, a product line or 100% 100% activities such as business travel. Measure our carbon emissions using independent, qualified third party 100% 100% assessors. Set a net zero carbon emissions target to provide a strong statement on carbon 100% 100% reduction goals. Reduce our carbon emissions through a cost-effective combination of internal 100% 100% reductions and carbon offsets. Communicate our achievement by displaying our Carbon Neutral certification on websites, reports, letterhead, packaging and vehicles, and communicating 100% 100% how our achieved the target. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 13 D Responsible sourcing Supply Chain ustainable Print City’s footprint covers our entire value chain, from our suppliers and operations to customer use impacts globally while benefiting our business and customers. From sourcing the raw materials used to and product end of service. Print City was the first make our products to manufacturing and shipping in the Printing industry in Thailand to publish a full our printing, we are committed to building an efficient carbon footprint. We remain committed to continuing and sustainable supplier network. We work with many this strong legacy of transparency and leadership of production suppliers, whose operations contribute in measuring and reducing environmental impact. significantly to Print City’s environmental footprint. Understanding and working to improve our As a core part of our Supply Chain Responsibility performance in GHG emissions and water contributes Program, we collaborate with suppliers to reduce to achieving the United Nations Sustainable these impacts. Our efforts are enhancing suppliers’ Development Goals in those areas. The carbon abilities to measure environmental impacts, and the footprints describe Print City total environmental coverage of suppliers reporting environmental data has impact, including data across the value chain. We increased substantially during the last several years. anticipate that the manufacturing supply chain and We’re also helping suppliers improve performance, customer use of our printing will continue to be the demonstrated by long-term reductions in supplier main contributors to our overall environmental impact. GHG emissions intensity. Supply chain environmental impact Throughout Sustainable supply chain information Print City’s supply chain Consumers and business customers are becoming more Print City implement industry-leading practices committed to sourcing products and service providers and catalyze changes that reduce our environmental that are ‘sustainable’ or ‘green’. Print City are providing MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN’S SUSTAINABILITY Life Cycle Assessment GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN PLANNING Demand Planning Supply Planning Collaboration Supplier Development GREEN PROCUREMENT Energy-Efficient Procurement Sustainable Sourcing Green Transportation GREEN LOGISTICS Green Warehousing Green Packaing CARBON MANAGEMENT Carbon Footprint Minimization Ecological footprint Minimization 14 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 more information about the sustainability of our printing. This usually includes features that support sustainability – such as energy efficiency, reuse and PLIER PRO recycling systems and innovative use of materials. We SUP CU RE can reflect the carbon footprint, which usually refers to M ER E the level of carbon dioxide generated throughout the CU NT ST production and delivery of the product. OM CTURE SUPPLY NUFA MA Supply chain management CHAIN LOGISTIC The majority of our purchasing agreements are now covered by our sustainability requirements. MENAGEMENT For suppliers of materials and services Print City has developed a set of sustainability requirements PROD that are routinely included in our purchasing TION U agreements. These requirements cover environmental DIS CT TR management, business practices, health and safety IBU NTORY INVE issues, and human and labour rights. If we find that a supplier is not meeting these requirements, we ask for a corrective action plan for reaching compliance, and offer guidance on the necessary improvements where Sustainable development means meeting the needs of this is needed. Print City reserves the right to terminate today’s population without compromising the ability contracts in case of serious and repeated violations. of future generations to meet their own needs. Global population growth and increased consumption Sustainable purchasing are augmenting the burden on the earth’s natural Print City’s purchases of raw materials shall be resources. It is already evident that certain natural based on the principle of sustainable production. resources are being exploited. Responsible Goals & actions sourcing 2016-2017 01.09.17 Target Achieved Status Managing supply chain’s sustainability performance Policy decisions about procurement and how we flow through procedures 100% 100% Identifying the risks and opportunities in our supply chain 100% 100% Using local suppliers and contractors to reduce fuel usage and our carbon 100% 100% footprint Which aspects of social sustainability you could evaluate in your suppliers 100% 100% Measurement, costing and analysis models to assist supply chain decisions 100% 100% – these include life cycle assessment, carbon footprint, ecological footprint. Responsible sourcing Setting clear responsibility requirements for our suppliers 100% 100% Training our own purchasers to integrate responsibility issues into purchasing 100% 100% processes Continuous evaluations of suppliers’ performance through risk assessments, 100% 100% audits and follow-up Building up the capacity of suppliers along our supply chain to act responsibly 100% 100% ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 15 E Environment Environment & Efficiency Print City, THE BUSINESS LEADERS OF CARING FOR CLIMATE: Recognize That: Climate Change is an issue requiring urgent and extensive action on the part of governments, business and citizens if the risk of serious damage to global prosperity, sustainable development and security is to be avoided. Climate change poses both risks and opportunities to businesses of all sizes, sectors and regions of the world. It is in the best interest of the business community, as well as responsible behavior, to take an active and leading role in deploying low-carbon technologies, increasing energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions and in assisting society to adapt to those changes in the climate, which are now unavoidable. Commit To: Taking further practical actions to improve continuously the efficiency of energy usage and to reduce the carbon footprint of our products, services and processes, to set voluntary targets for doing so, and to report publicly and annually on the achievement of those targets in our Communication on Progress-Climate. Building significant capacity within our organizations to understand fully the implications of climate change for our business and to develop a coherent business strategy for minimizing risks and identifying opportunities. Engaging more actively with our own national governments, inter-governmental organizations and civil society to develop policies and measures to provide an enabling framework for business to contribute effectively to building a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. Continuing to work collaboratively with other enterprises both nationally and sectorally, and along our value-chains, to set standards and take joint initiatives aimed at reducing climate risks, assisting with adaptation to climate change and enhancing climate-related opportunities. Becoming an active business champion for rapid and extensive climate action, working with our peers, employees, customers, investors and the broader public. And Will: Work collaboratively on joint initiatives between public and private sectors and through them achieve a comprehensive understanding of how both public and private sectors can best play a pro-active and leading role in meeting the climate challenge in an effective way. Invite the UN Global Compact to promote the public disclosure of actions taken by the signatories to this Statement and, in cooperation with UN Environment Programme and the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change communicate on this on a regular basis. 16 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 Green Print Reduce CO2 emissions Print City is constantly working to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions along the company’s value chain. This involves promoting sustainable forestry, creating innovative products based on renewable raw materials, and developing cleaner and more efﬁcient processes and operations. Print City also actively participates in global discussions related to climate change. Targeting a 36.02% reduction in CO2 intensity Most of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our operations come from the energy we purchase and produce at paper mills. The most effective way for us to reduce our fossil CO2 emissions is to further improve our energy efﬁciency. In 2016 we updated our previous target for reducing our fossil CO2 emissions, and we now aim to reduce emissions per saleable ton of printing by 36.02 % from 2010. This CO2 intensity target covers both emissions generated directly by our own facilities and indirect emissions produced during the generation of the electricity. 36.02 emissions Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 17 Pulp and Paper Production Final product manufacturing Fiber Procurement End-of-life final product use Life cycle assessment product. Most of our direct greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable innovation requires a deep understanding come from the energy we purchase and produce to operate of product environmental performance, from materials our printing processes. To reduce costs and reach our selection and manufacturing to product use and end of environmental goals, we are continuously working to service. Print City uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to improve the energy efficiency of our operations’ quantify the environmental characteristics and impacts of and products’ carbon footprint. our printing. We also conduct product carbon footprints (PCF) to advance our work to reduce product greenhouse Carbon Neutral Printing gas (GHG) emissions. These tools help us identify the Calculating and offsetting the CO 2 emissions processes, components, and materials with the largest associated with printing processes. The huge increase environmental impacts, and compare them with possible in emissions of environmentally harmful gases such alternatives. We use those insights to target areas for as carbon dioxide and methane is seen as a key improvement and inform future product design. cause of climate change. CO2 emissions are produced when fossil fuels are burned to generate power, and Carbon Footprint are also a byproduct of transport and an indirect A carbon footprint is a method used to measure and result of the manufacturing and processing of raw communicate the total amount of greenhouse gases materials. Printing is another indirect cause of emitted both directly and indirectly in the production environmentally harmful emissions The principle behind and delivery of goods and services. Raw materials, carbon neutral printing is to calculate what these CO2 energy consumed and transportation are the main emissions amount to and offset them elements used to calculate the carbon footprint of a 18 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 Responsible forestry In 2016 , Print City purchased approximately 2,706 tons which 100% from responsible forestry then help us preserve a total of 65 acres Total paper purchased 2,706tons 65 acres preserved Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 19 PRINT CITY switch off 32 million bulbs from efﬁﬁfﬁiciency activities equivalent to drive sustainability. 20 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 Energy efficiency Continually improving the energy and challenges -35% Our target is to reduce our fossil efficiency of our printing portfolio fulfills our CO2 emissions per saleable tonne of printing by 40% commitment to deliver better, more cost-effective, and by the end of 2025 from a 2009 baseline. less GHG-intensive technology solutions to our customers. To support these innovations, we use Climate actions multiple ways to assess energy performance across our Environmental issues are integrated into the Print City portfolio. group and its operational strategies. Operations are required to develop and implement environmental Combatting global warming programmes and procedures aligned to Print City Creating value with renewable materials. Carbon operating standards and performance requirements dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas causing global and management standards, which in turn are aligned warming. Our products are based on renewable with our environmental strategy. Environmental materials with a comparatively low carbon footprint. performance is taken into account when management They help our customers and society at large to reduce performance is measured. CO2 emissions by providing alternatives to solutions based on fossil fuels and other nonrenewable materials. Energy In the near term, reducing our energy consumption The Paris Climate Conference (COP 21) in December is perhaps one of the most important climate-related 2015 approved the first universal climate agreement, measures that Print City can implement. with 195 countries committing to the target of keeping the global rise in temperature below 2°C. Print City Water welcomes this agreement as an important milestone Fresh water is an increasingly scarce resource in many in sustainable global development. As a renewable parts of the world, and water-related costs are expected materials company we have a solid base to build on for to rise in the long term. It will therefore be important a low-carbon economy. As part of Print City’s wider for Print City to reduce our water consumption and strategy to combat global warming, we are committed increase our knowledge of water resources. to a science-based CO2 reduction target. Opportunities Goals & actions 2016-2017 01.09.17 Target Achieved Status Product development All new products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use 100% 100% of detergents and disposal. CO2 emissions 30% reduction in 2014 normalised to output as compared with 2010. 36% 36.02% Product environmental footprint Set target for reducing environmental footprint for best-selling products based 100% 100% on conclusions from previously conducted pilot project. Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental 100% 100% performance of products. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 21 F Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption tolerate any bribery of private or of public persons. We neither provide nor receive lavish or extravagant gifts. Here’s how you can help: Do not offer, pay, give or promise any favor, service, entertainment, meal, gift or other thing of value to any private or governmental customer to get business. Do not associate with business partners who engage in corrupt practices. Doing business with integrity is the only sustainable option, which attract and retain principled and motivated employees and investors. In contrast, Compliance with Our Ethics Policy is a condition of companies confronted with corruption cases have faced employment. With respect to anti-corruption practices it reputational damage. states the following: PrintCity’s ‘zero tolerance’ position against all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion Accordingly, Print City engages in transparent business and provide information and guidance to employees on relations with partners who must respect the principles how to recognize, address, resolve, avoid and prevent of the UN Global Compact. We are also committed instances of corruption, bribery and extortion which to taking responsible corrective action wherever and may arise in the course of their work. whenever we detect deviations from these principles. Rules and guidelines based on these principles are Applying the Principle: communicated throughout the company, and We win business with the integrity of our products, services management teams are regularly required to sign a and personal character. We do not seek business by trying Statement of Representation affirming their knowledge to corrupt the judgment of our customers. We do not of and compliance with the rules defined. Goals & actions 2016-2017 01.09.17 Target Achieved Status Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation 100% 100% payments has been part of the awareness campaign. Compliance with laws and regulations 100% 100% Renewed attention to be given to the Code of Ethics as regards conduct in contacts with competitors by inclusion of this aspect in the awareness campaign 100% 100% and by scrutinising memberships of associations. Anticorruption No reported corruption or cartel cases. 100% 100% Ensure employees are knowledgeable regarding how to act in accordance with 100% 100% Print City expectations on business integrity issues. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track 22 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 GRI index Print City became signatory to the UN Global Compact in May 2013 and Business for Peace (B4P) in November 2013, this sustainability Report fulfills the company’s obligation to provide Communication on Progress (COP). We uses the ten principles of UN Global Compact integrated with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines as a basis for its report and a framework for measuring and reporting our environmental, social and economic performance. Profile Disclosure Location STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the CEO 1.1 5 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Name of the organisation 2.1 4 Primary brands, products and/or services 2.2 12,13 Location of headquarters 2.4 Back Cover REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period 30 August 2016 1 September 2017 3.1 Reporting cycle Annual 3.2 Contact point for questions 3.4 Back Cover GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structuer 4.1 6 Mission or values statements, codes of conduct,sustainability principles 4.8 6,7,9 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and Procurement practices HR1 10 Non-discrimination HR4 10,11 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 10,11 Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 10,11 LABOUR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK Employment LA1 10,11 Labour/Management Relations LA7 10,11 Training and Education LA10 10,11 Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13 10,11 ENVIRONMENT Management approach to environmental responsibility 14,15,16 Materials EN1 19 Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 21 Water EN8 21 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18 17,18 Product and Services EN26 12 Compliance EN28 13 ANTI CORRUPTION Anticorruption SO3, SO4 22 Public Policy SO5, SO6 22 Compliance SO8 22 Carbon Disclosure Project Print City join Caring for Climate (C4C) which Platform is an initiative of UNEP, the UNGC and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) that offers proactive business an opportunity to engage with stakeholders and the public sector globally concerning action to address climate change. We follow the caring for Climate Reporting Guidance for Carbon Disclosure report. Measurement, management and disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change data is an increasingly important aspect of standard business practice. There are numerous benefits for Print City, including: Increased transparency to shareholders, clients and the public audience, identifying how the organization copes with threats arising from climate change, highlighting the business opportunities available and enhanced ability to increase efficiency and reduce unnecessary costs. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2016 23 THE CREATIVE AND PRINT WITH A FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE PRINTING INNOVATION ByGreenPrint Print City, CarbonNeutral Company 29/45-46 Rama1 Rd, Rongmuang, Patumwan, Bangkok 10330 Tel : 0-2215-9988 Fax : 0-2215-5599 E-mail : info@printcity.co.th www.printcity.co.th
