NUTRECO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our mission reflects our ambition to contribute to producing enough nutritious and high quality food for a growing world population in a sustainable way. 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT 40 OPERATIONS 9. Welcome to the Sustainability 43. Sustainability Manufacturing Report 2017 KPI Reporting 10. Progress against SDGs 46. Case Study: Skretting Ecuador – 11. Materiality LTI Reduction Activities 12. Shift from Third Party Assurance 47. Case Study: Energy Management to External Quality Assessment in Nanta Griñón 47. Ensuring a Safe Workplace 49. Workforce 51. Ethics and Compliance 52. Feed to Food Quality and Safety 14 STRATEGY 54 INGREDIENTS 16. Our mission: Feeding the Future 58. Assessing the Sustainability 17. Nutreco’s Role in the Feed-to-Food Performance of our Suppliers Value Chain 60. Deforestation 18. Nuterra Programme 61. Applying an Ecosystem •3 19. Nuterra Self-Assessment Management Approach to 21. Nutreco Governance and Strategy the Peruvian Anchovy Fishery 22. Sustainability Governance 23. Nutreco Brands and Customers 24 NUTRITIONAL SOLUTIONS 60 COMMITMENT 28. Nutritional Solutions in Action 66. Community Development Projects 28. Producing More with Existing Pasture 66. Nigerian Catfish Land and Eliminating Incentives to 68. Indonesian Dairy Deforestation 69. Zambian Tilapia 31. Tackling Salmonella at the Source 70. Guatemalan Eggs 34. Case Study: AMR Iberia Cluster 72. Nutreco’s Community Day 36. N-3 Aquaculture Diets Supplemented goes Global with Omega-3 Oils from Algae 72. SeaBOS 36. Dairy Farming Challenge: 72. Pincoy Project Produce More with Less 74. AgriVision 38. Reducing Methane Emissions Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Forword CEO Knut Nesse: “Nutreco wants to ensure that every opportunity to advance is explored.” 4• Letter from the CEO Through our global focus on innovation, our technical of targets. These are predominantly achieved by expertise and our steadfast dedication to delivering the encouraging businesses to seek opportunities for creating highest possible quality and safety standards across our shared value for the benefit of the broader industry and entire business, Nutreco is ideally placed to contribute for society as a whole. towards greater sustainable protein output in the feed-tofood chain. In parallel, Nutreco continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, The vision and actions needed to ensure that we environment and anti-corruption. A description of the consistently live up to our obligations and ambitions, practical actions taken towards these and the outcomes and one of the primary means by which we gauge our achieved in 2017, as well as our plans for the future are own levels of responsibility and progress are delivered described throughout this report. through Nuterra, our comprehensive sustainability programme. Nuterra is aligned and contributes to eight By being immersed into Nutreco’s day-to-day operations, of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals these far-reaching approaches have become part of (SDGs), which define global sustainability priorities our company-wide culture and our long-held Mission and seek to mobilise efforts around a common set of ‘Feeding the Future’, through which we are striving to •5 enable farmers to double their production whilst halving Nevertheless, truly facilitating sustainable food security the broader value chain’s environmental impact. for a global population experiencing unprecedented growth unquestionably requires the development and As this report illustrates, our current focus areas include adoption of new technologies at a much faster rate than the fundamental fields of community development, has ever been delivered before. Because meeting this antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and innovative business challenge requires much bolder steps at every level, opportunities. It is extremely motivating to witness our including animal and aquaculture feeds, Nutreco wants expanding Community Development Project initiative to ensure that every opportunity to advance is explored. enabling more small-scale protein farmers in emerging regions to improve their livelihoods through the As such, it is our intention to capitalise on our leadership introduction of best-practice production techniques and position in the marketplace by seeking additional nutrition. At the same time, our technical solutions have opportunities to provide innovative new tools through been helping more and more agriand aqua-farming which farm productivity can be increased, resources operations become antibiotic-free, thereby working become much more efficiently used and environmental towards addressing one of the most potent challenges impacts are significantly reduced. facing public health today. Knut Nesse Sustainability. It’s not just what we aspire to do, it’s what we do. ABOUT THIS REPORT Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy 8• Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • About this report Welcome to the Sustainability Report 2017 •9 The report is written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Fourth Generation (G4) Guidelines for core reporting. In our 2016 Sustainability Report, we made commitments to the United Nations Global Compact and eight of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As such, this year’s report has a strong focus on reporting the efforts made to put our commitment into action during 2017. With regards to the UN SDGs, in 2016 we set clear targets to enable us to measure and report on our progress. A summary can be found in the table on the next page, with a more detailed overview in the relevant chapters of this report. Goal 2, Zero Hunger, is underscored in all of our activities and aligned with Nutreco’s Mission of Feeding the Future. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • About this report Progress against Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Nutreco objective Progress Explanation By 2018 we will contribute to a 50% reduction in Refer to page 65, 72, 73 of the antibiotic use in Chile through our involvement in the 25% Commitment chapter of this report for Pincoy Project further details. By 2018 we will have a portfolio of examples from Refer to page 27, 34, 35 of the farmers that have reduced their reliance on antibiotics Nutritional Solutions chapter of this through the implementation of our Healthy Growth 50% report for further details. Initiative By 2020 we will have an additional eight community Refer to page 64, 66 73 of the development projects (total of 10) set up in emerging Commitment chapter of this report for 25% markets that transfer knowledge and best practice to further details. subsistence farmers By 2020 we will have Nuterra Product Assessments for Refer to page 26 of the Nutritional 10 • at least four of our new global products (total of six) 10% Solutions chapter of this report for further details By 2018 we will launch a Nutreco wide efficiency This goal has been postponed while programme to encourage OpCos to reduce energy 0% the new Global Operations team and water consumption restructures the implementation of this programme In 2017 and beyond, we will continue to monitor, record Refer to page 42 45 of the Operations and encourage operational action to reduce the impact 100% chapter of this report for further details in our five KPI monitoring programme across all of Nutreco companies in scope By 2017 we will implement a multi-stakeholder fishery Refer to page 56, 61 of the Ingredients improvement project in Peru together with our industry 100% chapter of this report for further details and government partners By 2020 we will successfully complete the fishery Refer to page 56 of the Ingredients improvement project in Peru 20% chapter of this report for further details By 2020 we will contribute to the development of Refer to page 57, 60 of the Ingredients an industry based solution to reduce deforestation 50% 50% chapter of this report for further details associated with the primary production of crops By 2020 we will be functionally engaged with external Refer to page 72 of the Commitment partners and platforms addressing specific sustainability 50% chapter of this report for further details issues in Nutreco’s value chain Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • About this report Materiality The focus of this report is based on the findings of This will include reaching out to stakeholders from our materiality assessment; an assessment of what various areas of our global value chain including our stakeholders and we, as Nutreco find important. suppliers, customers and Nutreco employees. By Nutreco’s Sustainability Platform (NSP) undertook a full carrying out the three-cycle process in conducting a materiality assessment in 2015 that was then reviewed full materiality assessment, periodic reconfirmation of and reconfirmed internally in 2016 and again in 2017. materiality and specific alignment with the SDGs, Details of these processes can be found in those we are ensuring that our focus on addressing respective sustainability reports. Plans are underway sustainability topics remains relevant. to conduct a full revision of Nutreco’s materiality assessment in 2018. High Animal health Climate change • 11 Antibiotics Animal welfare GMO Biodiversity Deforestation Health and wellness Food safety Manure management Concern to stakeholders Waste management Raw materials scarcity PCBs and dioxins Slavery/human rights Local developments Labour conditions Carcinogenic effect meat Precision farming/efficiency Demographic changes Marine raw materials/ Digitalisation oversfishing Sea lice Salmonella Processed animal protein Globalisation Land/water shortage Capital War for taken Financial performance Diet switch Low Trade Professionalisation Low Current or potential impact on company High Non-material Material 12 • Shift from Third Party Assurance to External Quality Assessment Since 2014, Nutreco has pursued Reasonable Assurance our reported data. The main reason for this shift is to allow for our sustainability report. This has enabled us to us to use an external expert opinion on the quality of our significantly improve the quality of our reporting data and reporting processes, while at the same time processes and provide assurance to our stakeholders receiving concrete advise on how to improve these in the that we are delivering on our promises. This year, future. Such a step was not possible when undergoing we decided to take a different approach. We asked the Assurance process due to the associated rules that our sustainability consultant to perform examination prevent any potential conflict of interest. It is intended procedures to help us maintain and improve the quality of that such an approach will further enhance our focus on Such an approach will enhance focus on continuous continuous improvement as well as demonstrating our improvement. ongoing commitment to stakeholders. Moving forward, we will continue to be aligned with seeking Assurance. As such, it is our intention to seek Reasonable Assurance every three years and external verification for those years in between. ■ “Our new community development focus is all about producing more with less, but ensuring it is done in the right places to alleviate poverty and hunger.” Jose Villalon, Nutreco Sustainability Director STRATEGY Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Our mission: Feeding the Future Primary Producers Feed Ingredient Our ambition is to contribute to meeting Manufacturers the rising food needs of a growing world population in a sustainable manner. We aim to be the global leader in providing innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions that best support the performance of animals, fish and shrimp. The UN Food & Agriculture Organization (FAO) predicts that Agriculture total food production will need to increase 16 • from the current level by 70% to meet the demands of 2050. Simultaneously, the World Wildlife Fund’s Living Planet Report predicts that the population is RAW FEED MATERIALS INGREDIENTS already consuming the equivalent of 1.5 planet Earth’s worth of natural resources. Nutreco wants to help address this paradox. This is the essence of our Mission – Feeding the Future – in which Fisheries we work towards enabling farmers to double ■ Animal protein/oil production whilst halving the environmental ■ Plant protein/oil impact of the feed-to-food value chain. To help ■ Grains/starches us to put these ambitions into action we have ■ Trace elements developed the Nuterra Programme. ■ Minerals ■ Vitamins ■ Amino acids ■ Animal Health ingredients Mines Nutreco’s Role in the Feed-to-Food Value Chain NUTRECO Animal Farmers Food Distributors Consumers FARM, FEED AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT 11,366 employees Retailers • 17 Terrestrial Animals PRODUCTS QUALITY SAFE AND AND ANIMAL NUTRITIOUS SERVICES PROTEIN FOOD >100 production sites Markets Aquaculture INNOVATION €74 million/year R&D Food service Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Nuterra Programme The Nuterra Programme was introduced in 2016 and Product Assessment tool, which is a life-cycle methodology has since become an integral part of the Nutreco value assessment of the environmental attributes of our nutritional proposition. Nuterra is Nutreco’s sustainability programme solutions. This tool can be used by our clients to demonstrate and is made up of three components. Component one the reduction in “footprint” when using certain products. is the Nuterra Roadmap which is aspirational targets of In 2017, a new strategy was introduced to align the where we want to be from a sustainability perspective activities of the programme with the company strategy by the end of 2020. It is difficult to manage a programme for 2021. The activities representing the three components if one cannot measure progress; so component two was of Nuterra undertaken to date will continue, as they have developed. Component two is the Nuterra Standard. This been adopted by our Operating Companies (OpCos) as self-assessment tool measures annual progress made “business-as-usual”. We are now transitioning to a renewed against all the sustainability claims and targets set in the focus in three core areas: community development, Roadmap. Finally, component three represents the Nuterra antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and innovative business 18 • SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AT NUTRECO ram og t pr en m roadm terra Community ap Nu AM R de ve lo p sses m ent ra N uter TM ct a du sta da n ro p s In rd a tie err no N ut ni tu va tiv r e o bu o pp sin ess d e nt e v elo p m development opportunities. Our efforts in these areas, together with the existing Nuterra Programme, will ensure we meet our commitments to the SDGs. With 2020 fast approaching, the current Nuterra Roadmap will soon become obsolete. As such, in 2018, the NSP is planning a comprehensive Materiality Assessment by “polling” both internal and external stakeholders in our value chain. The results of this Materiality Assessment exercise will then be used in 2019 to revise the Nuterra Roadmap and Nuterra Standard, setting its new horizon of 2025. Nuterra Self-Assessment In 2017, a new version of the Nuterra Self Assessment was launched. Feedback from the OpCos gathered during the last two years helped the NSP to reshape the layout in order to facilitate completion by the OpCos. In addition, due to natural changes in the business, some criteria were extracted to avoid overvaluing scores. This was the case for the 3 ‘Commitment’ pillar. The scores shown indicate the percentage of the total number of criteria for 2020 that had been met at the time of assessment comparing 2015 and 2017. Results are a Community compilation of criteria targeted to Nutreco corporate departments, Business Units (BUs) and local OpCos. Although the figures might not be greatly improved, an AMR interpretation is needed to fairly judge performance. core areas Innovation Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy To enable comparisons between 2015 and 2017, a Feed Additives score adjustment for the 2015 results was performed. Progress was made overall across three pillars. In the ‘ The results were summarised in a report and distributed Commitment’ pillar, the score fell slightly lower in 2017 due to management and Nuterra Champions to identify the to the need of better coordination between local and areas that need further work towards fulfilling 100% of corporate HR. This will be a priority in the coming year. our Nuterra Roadmap by the end of 2020. Global Salmon EMEA At BU and OpCo levels, the results show improvement At BU and OpCo levels, the results show significant compared with results in 2015 for all four pillars. improvement compared with results in 2015 for all four In particular, all the Skretting salmon companies are pillars. Corporate level criteria fell short and negatively well advanced in complying with our internal standard. affected scored results for this BU. The NSP and We also see the companies in Southern Europe corporate departments are working towards fulfilling rapidly improving in working towards fulfilling our those goals set for 2020. standard requirements. 20 • *COMPARATIVE SCORING RESULTS OF NUTERRA STANDARD FOR 2015 AND 2017 IN PERCENTAGES (%) BU EMEA INGREDIENTS OPERATIONS NUTRITIONAL SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT 2015 79 71 72 67 2017 82 71 81 70 BU Feed Additives 2015 79 57 82 58 2017 86 66 82 46 BU Global Salmon 2015 77 78 85 82 2017 86 82 89 83 *Target is 100% by the end of 2020 Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Nutreco Governance and Strategy In October 2017, the Nutreco Executive Committee Each division has six clusters of OpCos with a key focus announced a restructuring of the company, with a to coordinate and facilitate communication between shift from six Business Units (BUs) to two divisions, Trouw division and OpCo. Despite the changes in structure, Nutrition and Skretting. This meant that all OpCos the company strategy remains the same and Nutreco predominantly producing for land animals became part Corporate maintains control over this as well as the of the Trouw Nutrition division, and those for aquaculture investment agenda and the company values and culture. became part of Skretting. In addition, Nutreco announced But the responsibility for strategy execution and day-tothe establishment of a new branch that is responsible day business lies fully with the two divisions. for overseeing innovation and disruptive business ideas. The composition of the Executive Committee also Since this change was implemented in the fourth-quarter changed, reducing from nine members to six as shown of 2017, this report maintains the original reporting in the diagram on the next page. The same Executive structure based on the six BUs for this year, with a shift to Board remains in place, comprising the CEO and CFO. the divisions planned for 2018. The Corporate Sustainability Director continues to report • 21 directly to the CEO and chairs the Nutreco Sustainability Platform (NSP). The NSP governs sustainability within Nutreco. It has five members with equal representation from the businesses. Policy is developed within the NSP, then the Chair presents a proposal to the ExCo. If the ExCo approves, then the policy returns to the NSP to “trickle-down” to the OpCos around the world through the respective Division Sustainability Manager’s communications with the OpCo Nuterra Champions (see organizational chart). Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Sustainability Governance The governance of sustainability within Nutreco has full support of the CEO and NSP team. The remaining eight changed slightly to be in line with the aforementioned OpCos, lacking a Nuterra Champion are in the process of structural changes. The Nutreco Sustainability Platform identifying their representatives. (NSP) remains the same, but the reporting lines have altered as shown in the diagram below. This will facilitate Each Nuterra Champion dedicates 20-30% of their time a more focused approach to dealing with sustainability to executing sustainability related tasks and providing issues that are relevant to the different divisions. feedback to the NSP on local sustainability issues relevant to their OpCo. The first task assigned to the group is to In 2017, we extended the scope of our sustainability team review the results of their respective OpCo’s most recent with the appointment of 38 Nuterra Champions who Nuterra self-assessment with their management team and collectively represent Nutreco’s 46 OpCos around the identify priority areas to address in 2018. The objective is world. This programme was launched in October with the to reach 100% compliance by the end of 2020. ■ 22 • Executive Committee Nutreco Sustainability Platform Nuterra champions Knut Nesse Nutreco Chief Executive Officer Jeroen Wakkerman Harm de Wildt Jan Alberdingk Thijm Viggo Haseth Therese Log Bergiord Chief Financial Officer CEO Trouw Nutrition (TN) Chief People Officer Chief Innovation Officer CEO Skretting (Vacancy) Gert Botter Jose Villalon Anita Viga Marketing Director TN Nutreco Corporate MD Iberia Marketing Director Skretting Sustainability Director Eric Rodriguez Global Branding & Communications Manager TN Nutreco Sara Cuesta Alberto Ruiz Moreno Amy White Trygve Berg Lea Sustainability Manager TN Sustainability Manager TN Iberia Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager Skretting Platform 20 Trouw Nutrition OpCo4 4 TN Iberia OpCo 14 Skretting OpCo Nuterra Champions Nuterra Champions Nuterra Champions (20-30% FTE) (20-30% FTE) (20-30% FTE) Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Nutreco Brands and Customers Nutreco animal nutrition Premixes | Compound feed | Farm minerals | Young animal feeds | Preventive animal health products | Feed additives Market Presence Customers Suppliers • Trouw Nutrition is #2 global • 84 plants in total, a.o. in • Feed compounders, • Producers of grains, premix producer, with a #1 EMEA and the Americas. integrators, distributors, vegetable proteins, land position in Canada. • Joint venture in Ukraine farmers, companion animal animal products, vegetable • In Iberia Trouw Nutriton industry, retail, wholesale, oils, amino acids, trace holds a #1 position in food industry, pig meat elements & minerals, compound feed and a #1 processors vitamins, dairy products, position as poultry producer vegetable oils, preventive animal health products and organic acids. Nutreco aqua feed High-quality feeds from hatching to harvest for more than 60 species of farmed fish and shrimp Market Presence Customers Suppliers • Skretting is the leading global • 32 plants, a.o in Chile, Asia • Fish and shrimp farmers • Producers of marine salmon feed producer and Norway. ingredients, vegetable • Global #3 shrimp feed • Joint ventures in Honduras, proteins, vegetable oils producer Nigeria and Zambia among others 24 • Nutreco’s unique combination of products, services and models are designed to help farmers boost their productivity and support animal health. By doing so we address the UN SDGs 3 and 12. NUTRITIONAL SOLUTIONS NUTRITIONAL SOLUTIONS What is our objective? By 2020 we will have Nuterra Product Assessments for at least four of our new global products (total of six). What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? 26 • Ú Feasibility study to Ú One prototype product Ú Contributes to the implement product assessment was done for development of common assessment into NutriOpt; salmon feed in Norway; industry standards and Ú Became member of The Ú Developed a pilot module to methodologies for Global Feed LCA Institute calculate the environmental sustainability across the (GFLI) with the aim to impact of fattening pig lifecycle of a product; develop a freely and production systems in Ú Enables Nutreco to publicly available feed LCA Canada; accurately measure and database and tool; Ú Created awareness of the communicate the impacts of Ú Participated in a research reduction of environmental our products and services. project to establish LCA impact when improving values for marine feed animal performance; ingredients to be integrated Ú Increased our knowledge of into the GLFI database. LCA methodology; Ú Contributed to the development of accurate and harmonised LCA data. NUTRITIONAL SOLUTIONS What is our objective? By 2018 we will have a portfolio of examples from farmers that have reduced their reliance on antibiotics through the implementation of our Healthy Growth Initiative. What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Developed farm, feed Ú Implemented the Healthy Ú Helps our customers • 27 and health management Growth Initiative with 9 to reduce the use of strategies to reduce poultry customers; antibiotics for routine use antibiotic use through the Ú Implemented the Healthy in food production. Healthy Growth Initiative. Growth Initiative with 4 swine producers. Nutritional Solutions in Action Through our offering of products, services and models, we not only aim to boost productivity and support animal health, we also support and encourage the development of environmentally friendly farming methods and the efficient use of natural resources. By doing so we contribute to Guiding Principle 9 of the UN Global Compact. The following case studies demonstrate how we are working towards these goals in practice. Producing More with Existing Pasture Land and Eliminating Incentives to Deforestation1 Beef farming in Brazil is a growing business, and one that plays an important role in feeding the future through the utilisation of grazing land, forage and by-products to produce high-quality animal protein. However, it has also attracted negative publicity in recent years due to the associated deforestation that has occurred as some farmers have sought to increase the size of their herds. Currently, the land occupation in Brazil is represented by 61% native vegetation, of which 11% is located on farms, with the area of pasture used to graze livestock representing approximately 20%. One approach to stopping deforestation is to improve the productivity of the area already used for grazing. 1) This research is * part of PhD Thesis; not published yet Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutritional Solutions In 2016, Trouw Nutrition Brazil partnered with the Sao STOCKING DENSITY Paulo State University (Jaboticabal, SP) to undertake research aimed at demonstrating the benefits of adopting 5 more intensive beef production systems, with the focus 4,5 4,47 on feed and farm management. A total of 88 young bulls were used in the trial that focused on the growing phase 4 in pasture (December 2016 to May 2017) and the finishing 3,5 phase in feedlot (June 2017 to September 2017). Animal / hectare 3 Since pasture represents around 95% of the diet of beef cattle in Brazil, this was seen as the area where significant 2,5 improvements could be made through changes to farm 2 1,87 management. As such, the first phase of the research looked at the impacts of the fertilisation of pasture during 1,5 the growing phase. Results showed that the controlled use 1 of nitrogen fertilisers increased the quality and quantity of • 29 the forage. This not only increased the number of young 0,5 bulls able to graze per hectare by almost two and a half times, but it also increased the average daily growth rate 0.00 Non-Fertilizied Pasture Fertilized Pasture by 18%. The combined impact of this is that each hectare of land can be used to produce almost three times the amount of meat when fertilisation is used, hence reducing the need to clear more land to increase herd sizes. AVERAGE DAILY GROWTH RATE The second stage of the research focused on feed 1,2 1,10 management during the finishing phase, which occurs 0,93 1 during winter when the availability of good quality and quantity pasture is limited. This phase can have a 0,8 kg/day detrimental impact on the health and body condition 0,6 of cattle and can increase the time needed for them to reach the desired body weight. 0,4 0,2 0.00 Non-Fertilizied Pasture Fertilized Pasture • Increasing the efficient use of land is a huge opportunity. • Focusing on the soil quality and precise use of fertiliser can have a dramatic impact on pasture quality. • Productivity losses can be minimized by focusing on transitioning beef herds from one diet to another. 30 • To slaughter young animals (average 24 months) and weight in less time (90 days). Decreasing the time to obtain good quality meat, farmers often use diets with slaughter reduces production costs and the associated high feed concentrates and feedlot style farming for a environmental impacts per tonne of animal meat period of 90-120 days. produced. The shift from pastures to diets with high concentrates This research demonstrated that with a combination requires the animals to undergo metabolic changes that of feed and farm management productivity can can place them under stress. Trouw Nutrition’s Vivalto be increased whilst simultaneously decreasing the and Intellibond products offer support during this period, environmental footprint. It is the intention of Trouw Nutrition with Vivalto assisting the liver (which plays a vital role to use the results from this research to demonstrate to in metabolism), and Intellibond Copper (C) and Zinc (Z) farmers the benefits of alternative approaches such as helping to support the animals in coping with stress as fertilisation and supplementation. This will be achieved well as their immune system. Trials were undertaken to through its network of technical staff who are in regular test the impact of concentrates that contained these two contact with farmers, advising them on feed and farm ingredients, with results showing at least 10% improvement management strategies. in productivity. This means the animals are able to produce more meat and reach the desired slaughter Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutrional Solutions Tackling Salmonella at the Source Salmonella is one of four key causes of diarrheal disease Consequently, Trouw Nutrition is working together with affecting around 550 million people globally per year, traders, crushers and shippers to reduce the prevalence including 220 million children under the age of five. of salmonella in their grain consignments. Animal products such as chicken and eggs are common sources of salmonella. As such, Trouw Nutrition has been In cases where salmonella is detected, the batch is working with farmers for many years to find solutions that treated with Selko® Fysal®, a unique combination of address salmonella in animal production. organic acids and salts. This is performed using a mobile dosing system that can be used on a ship, in a factory, Because salmonella contamination can pass through the or at any other location. The treatment itself takes place entire feed-to-food chain from the raw material, to animal at a speed of 1,000 tonnes per hour, meaning a ship’s feed, all the way to processed products for consumers, 20,000-tonne cargo can be offloaded and treated within Trouw Nutrition has extended the scope of its nutritional one day. This system is only effective when coupled with solution to include the treatment of feed ingredients with the expertise provided by Trouw Nutrition. • 31 the aim of tackling this challenge at its origins. “Trouw Nutrition works with suppliers to reduce salmonella in their grain consignments.” 550 million people affected by salmonella per year Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutrional Solutions “Anyone can purchase organic acids, but the correct application is a specialist area,” says Hay Kleuskens, Feed Additives Regional Manager for Trouw Nutrition in Europe. “Thanks to our close relationship with animal feed producers, we gained an understanding of how raw material streams work and where the problems lie.” The economic benefits of this are significant, with salmonella contamination reducing the value of the cargo by €20/tonne during transportation. Considering that 52 million tonnes of oil seed are consumed in Europe annually, this represents a significant cost to animal feed producers and crushers. Europe is currently the primary focus for this area of work due to the strict legislation that exists in this market. However, it is anticipated that the lessons learnt in Europe will be highly 32 • valuable in delivering similar solutions in other regions of the world in the future as their approach to salmonella control historically follows in Europe’s footsteps. This approach to managing salmonella at its source not only helps to reduce the negative impacts on human health, it also helps to reduce food waste by decreasing the discarding of contaminated raw materials throughout the food chain. “ Anyone can purchase organic acids, but the correct application is a specialist area.” Hay Kleuskens Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutritional Solutions Case Study: AMR Iberia Cluster The large and expanding use of antimicrobials in Ingafood livestock, which is a consequence of the growing global Antibiotic use in swine premixes were reduced by 45% to demand for animal protein, is of considerable concern 203 mg/PCU in 2017 without increasing the use of oral or due to the mounting challenge of antimicrobial resistance injected antibiotics. Ingafood did not use any colestine in (AMR). Use of antimicrobials in animals has been linked to its premixes throughout 2017. drug-resistant infections in both animals and humans. In Nutreco´s commitment to improving farms’ hygienic September 2016, the UN General Assembly recognised conditions, piglet feeds and preventive measures for that the inappropriate use of antimicrobials in animals was animal health contributed to this important reduction. a leading cause of the rising AMR. In September 2018, the interagency group established by the UN Secretary Trouw Nutrition General will report on the progress made with regards In trying to reduce the use of medication, a combination to the global response to AMR, including antimicrobial of organic acids are being used in water with the aim to consumption in animals. improve the hygienic treatment (chlorine, etc.), improve 34 • digestibility and to control the enterobacterias and According to the latest figures from the European Centre undesirable microorganisms in the piglet digestive system. for Disease Prevention and Control (EDCD), Spain with Presan, a mix of acids that regulate intestinal microbiota 23 defined daily doses (DDD) per 1,000 inhabitants has in addition to having an anti-inflammatory effect on the shown an increasing trend in its population’s antimicrobial intestinal wall has complemented this strategy. consumption. Only Greece (36.3 DDD) has seen more growth. The EU average is 21.9 DDD. Grupo Nanta Through ‘Nutrición Sostenible’ Nanta has taken further At the same time, advances have been made to reduce significant step towards farming systems that are more antibiotic consumption among animals. Therefore, in line environmentally and socially responsible, thereby with the Nutreco Strategy, the Iberia Cluster and all OpCos contributing to a more sustainable future. worked diligently in 2017 to reduce the use of antibiotics. For example, the use of colistine in swine feed declined by Nanta has the clear aim of being an active leader in 82% in the first semester of 2017 after an agreement was consolidating the ‘One Health’ concept, including doing signed with 44 companies who collectively represented everything it can to reduce antibiotic use in farming. about 70% of the sector. Grupo Nanta, Ingafood and Through its open-minded attitude towards production, Trouw Nutrition España are part of this group, their whereby all potential opportunities warrant exploration, activities included: Nanta has created the website www.nutricionsostenible. com where all relevant information, expert opinion, Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutritional Solutions advice, personal experiences and infographics can be accessed. In addition, all farmers can request a farm audit where, among other things, food, health, facilities and animal welfare can be audited and training also given. After this audit, an improvement plan will be presented and subsequently reviewed through a continuous improvement process. Of the 19 Nanta sites, three are now producing feed without any antibiotics. Overall, antibiotic use was reduced by 30% in 2017. • 35 Grupo Sada Sada signed the Antibiotic Use Reduction Policy in 2016 but has been working towards the reduction of antibiotic use for a lot longer. By the end of 2017, it was using less than 10 grams of antibiotics per tonne of meat produced. Improvements in facilities and the increasing awareness of its veterinarians and farmers has led to more than 60% of its broilers (white and yellow) now being free of antibiotics. Antibiotic use in swine premixes were reduced by 45% Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutritional Solutions N-3 Aquaculture Diets Dairy Farming Challenge: Supplemented with Omega-3 Produce More with Less Oils from Algae Supporting the healthy lifetime productivity of dairy cattle Fish oil availability is no longer an obstacle to the is crucial at a time when the industry is under pressure expansion of the global aquaculture industry thanks to to produce more with less. As the global population N3 – a diet that contains marine algae oil. Fish oil has continues to grow, we need to challenge the status historically been essential to aquaculture as it has ensured quo and explore new ways to sustainably increase that farmed fish contain the long-chain omega-3 fatty production. acids that are desired by consumers for their well-known health benefits. The evolution of dairy farms during the last 20 years has been substantial. Today’s dairy cow produces N3 feeds enable the freedom of the industry to grow as an average 60% more milk than the cows from the sustainably without the previous dependency on the finite past quarter century. Farm management nowadays fish oil source. Consequently, more consumers around the requires professionalism and commitment in order to 36 • world will be able to benefit from omega-3 rich fish like be successful and meet social demands. A dairy farmer salmon and trout with no additional dependency on finite therefore has to balance a wide range of factors in oceanic fish stocks. order to maintain a sustainable dairy farm in the longToday’s cows produce 60% Past more milk Today Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutrional Solutions term. At the heart of this challenge lies the need to Properly fed and managed calves are stronger, have manage a herd for lifetime performance, while ensuring less metabolic and respiratory problems and have lower short-term profitability and controlling overall workload mortality rates, improving significantly animal health and and costs. Trouw Nutrition’s LifeStart Programme provides welfare and future return on investment when higher milk solutions to operate durably on three focus areas: production is accomplished. Optimal growth and development Earlier calving age Farmers tend to pay less attention to their young stock Heifer rearing represents a significant cost to any dairy because they are generating costs without producing farmer. It takes two years before a cow starts producing output. The focus on calf management has traditionally milk, thereby generating income for the farm. Being been on mortality, early weaning and rumen aware that the single most important factor influencing development. However, recent studies suggest that heifer-rearing costs is its age at first calving, this becomes • 37 nutrient intake and management during the pre-weaning a natural priority to optimise. period have positive effects on future milk production of those calves (Soberon et al. 2012). A cow needs to be physiologically ready to optimally carry its first pregnancy. As a combined result in the Trouw Nutrition’s research validates that early calf proper early life nutrition and management of calves, nutrition can help ‘programme’ a cow’s future these animals are healthier and have reached the metabolism. adequate body weight for an earlier first calving age reduction from 26 months of age to 23 months. This earlier Researcher Leonel Leal, who is in charge of the five-year calving age not only has a significant positive effect in longitudinal study, summarises the key findings so far: monetary terms but also has a significant impact on the “It’s clearer than ever that what you feed a dairy calf in environment by decreasing emissions when combined the first 60 days of life helps determine her future and with higher longevity of the herd. metabolic programming plays a substantial role in that. The data shows that pre-weaning nutrition has significant Increased longevity carry-over effects on longer-term metabolic functions High animal replacement rates are a main concern at as well as on a variety of growth, development and dairy farms. Part of the replacement occurs naturally, as a performance parameters. By understanding this mode of cow reaches the end of her productive cycle. However, action, we can better harness the benefits of optimised animal health, fertility and/or other production issues of nutrition for our farms.” young producing animals, contribute to increased culling Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Nutritional Solutions rates. Average animal replacement rates are 30-40%. The LifeStart Programme effectively increases longevity High replacement rates have a significant impact on the of production and decreases the time to first calving to economy of the farm by forcing farmers to maintain higher 23 months. Combined, these characteristics significantly numbers of young, non-producing stock. reduce methane emissions in the dairy industry. ■ Through the LifeStart Programme culling rates have lowered, ultimately increasing longevity of the herd. This has had a positive impact on farmers’ profits, animal TABLE 1: METHANE OUTPUT PER LACTATION health and welfare and reduces the environmental (VAN LAAR E.A., VAN STRAALEN, 2006, CRV 2010) impact when combined with age at first calving as previously mentioned. Milk production kg milk g Methane per lactation per kg milk Lactation 1 8,399 14,72 Reducing Methane Emissions Lactation 2 9,499 14,00 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) caused by dairy Lactation 3 10,067 13,00 38 • farms are derived from energy and fuel use, manure Lactation 4 10,220 13,60 management, manure application, roughage production, Lactation 5 9,952 13,80 compound feed production, land use change (linked to cultivation of raw materials) and enteric fermentation. The latter is the largest contributor of these emissions. Through the application of the LifeStart Programme, GHG, TABLE 2: METHANE OUTPUT OF YOUNG STOCK (VAN LAAR E.A., 2004, VAN STRAALEN, 2006) ammonia, phosphate and nitrogen emissions are reduced due to the overall better performance of the farm. Calving age heifers Total exhaust methane in months in kg Methane emissions are the largest contributor of 21 71,86 GHGs from dairy farms, which is why considerable 22 76,77 R&D resources are focused on reducing this particular environmental impact. 23 82,12 24 87,92 Research shows that methane production per kg of milk 25 93,86 decreases when the milk production of the cow rises (table 1). In addition, methane emissions related to rearing 26 99,96 increases when the rearing periods are longer (table 2). 27 106,22 28 112,47 Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy • 39 Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy We strive to minimise the negative impacts of our direct operations and create valuable employment opportunities for the communities in which we operate. These efforts directly address the UN SDG 13. 40 • OPERATIONS OPERATIONS What is our objective? In 2017 and beyond, we will continue to monitor, record and encourage operational action to reduce the impact in our five KPI monitoring program across all of Nutreco companies in scope. 42 • What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Implementation of data Ú 100% of Nutreco OpCos Ú Helps Nutreco to measure, collection, recording and recording and monitoring reduce and report climate analysis systems; their environmental footprint; exposure and progress Ú 5 training sessions held at Ú Increased awareness of on actions to confront OpCos in Mexico, Canada, the activities that drive climate change. Ecuador and Brazil; changes in environmental Ú Development of reports and performance. dashboards to communicate results to operational staff and management; Ú Integration of data reporting tools into quarterly management meetings. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations Sustainability Manufacturing We continue to strive for continuous improvement in the KPI Reporting data collection and reporting processes by undertaking data quality control procedures and training workshops. In 2017, five of these workshops were held at Nutreco The sustainability manufacturing KPIs refer to five sites in Brazil, Ecuador, Canada and Mexico to assist environmental and social measurements that Nutreco employees involved in the Sustainability KPI reporting has committed to set as focus areas for our direct process. The training was attended by employees operations. Since 2016, 100% of Nutreco production 2 from 20 OpCos, which enabled us to get a better idea sites have been reporting on these quarterly using of common issues faced by these teams and provide our financial reporting system. solutions to overcome them. 2) Newly acquired companies are out of scope for the first three years after purchase Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations OVERALL RESULTS PER BU FOR 2017 GSFF FA EMEA Asia Americas Nutreco Nutreco Iberia Total Energy consumption (kWh) 44 • Total non-renewable energy 266,910 378 91,172 63,640 144,935 124,315 768,251 • 44 Total renewable energy 217,044 686 27,595 33,756 107,864 144,423 455,317 Total energy consumption 483,954 1,064 118,766 97,396 252,798 269,589 1,223,568 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (tonnes CO2) Total GHG emissions 57,373 77 19,493 16,387 35,023 27,279 189,310 Waste type (tonnes) Total hazardous waste 149 124 1,101 135 130 228 1,867 Total non-hazardous waste 12,736 1,054 5,036 2,491 14,423 15,025 50,765 Total waste 12,885 1,178 6,138 2,625 14,554 15,272 52,841 Water (m3) Total water consumption 859,513 6,660 152,508 261,159 379,110 1,646,357 3,305,307 Lost Time Injuries Total lost time injuries 25 1 19 5 40 58 148 All emissions from indirect energy were offset by purchasing Certified Emission Reductions (CER) under Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects derived from the Kyoto Protocol. When comparing the overall results for the BUs that reported in 2016 on a per tonne of saleable feed basis, there was a reduction in energy (-0.1%) and water use (-5.4%) KPIs. We showed increases in CO2 (+6.37%), waste generated (+9.5%) and lost time injuries (+2.7%). Conversion from energy use to CO2 emissions follows standard mathematical conversion tables. These conversion tables change with the changes made and its subsequent debris, at Sada Catalunya. The 5.4% • 45 annually in the municipal/national energy grid mix. The decrease in water use is attributed to closing of several increase of CO2 in spite of marginally reduced energy processing plants in Spain (Sada) that had significant consumption is linked to a large increase in production water consumption. in Chilean sites where woodchip and coal are used to generate municipal energy, both with high emission In spite of the important decrease in accidents in ratings. The 9.5% increase in waste was principally Ecuador, the increase of accidents in Grupo Sada and due to a change in packaging of raw materials in the GSFF show an overall increase in Nutreco for 2017. The Global Salmon and Fish Feed BU and new construction, Safety First programme is a priority focus during 2018. YEAR ON YEAR COMPARISON OF THE FIVE KPI’S FROM 2016 TO 2017 -0.1% CO2 lost time +6.4% -5.4% +9.5% +2.7% injuries energy water waste per tonne per tonne per tonne per tonne Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations Case Study: Skretting Ecuador – LTI Reduction Activities Reducing lost time injuries (LTIs) has been a central Five key points for improvement were identified and the focus of Skretting Ecuador in recent years and the following actions taken: OpCo continued to expand this important work in • Unsafe facility conditions – Improve conditions that 2017. A long-term work plan was developed by the could potentially expose employees to accident Operations Team, supported by the local management, risks, prioritising the findings of corporate audits. which concentrated on both worker behaviour and (+85% closed non-conformities) workplace conditions. • Manual handling project – About 60% of LTIs occurred during manual reception/dispatch operations; through agreements with suppliers and customers, approximately 45% of raw materials and finished products were transported on pallets, SKRETTING-ECUADOR LOST TIME INCIDENCES reducing exposed personnel and operating costs 46 • • Personnel training – Developing technical safety skills for personnel, prioritising higher risk practices, 40 strengthen awareness and responsibility among 35 workers, and the reinforcement of these endeavours 35 with a new consequences programme • Communication campaigns – Ensuring that safety 30 information is made available to all, sharing lessons learned from incidents, near misses or through 25 awareness/integration activities 18 • Procedure standardisation – Further alignment with 20 Nutreco standards, reinforcement of the importance 15 of compliance through the definition of “Safety 15 Absolutes”, and launch of new standards and practices through the ‘My Workplace’ concept 10 5 In the coming year, Skretting Ecuador will continue 5 the focus on creating safety accountability among personnel through new initiatives and ensuring safe 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 conditions in the workplace. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations Case Study: Energy Management in Nanta Griñón Nanta has placed considerable emphasis on energy are safe and healthy environments in which to conduct management in recent years and in 2017 these efforts our operations. We also acknowledge that there were particularly evident in the Nanta Griñón is no room for complacency, which is why we are (Madrid, Spain) facility with a reduction of 9.4% in continuously seeking to identify further ways in which KWh per saleable tonne. we can make all of our Nutreco facilities safer and healthier for our employees and consequently reduce This improvement followed comprehensive analysis of the number of injuries and LTIs. Griñón’s production systems, which led to a more efficient and automated plan for information system training. Steady progress continues to be made in this regard through investments in more sophisticated plants, Looking for opportunities to establish substantial implementing better-organised operations and by improvements, Griñón started by introducing new ensuring our people are well trained and know exactly • 47 pneumatic dosification silos for micro-ingredients. what they should be doing. These enabled increased energy (electricity) efficiency while reducing manual handling and also improving To ensure that the same robust health and safety workplace ergonomics. At the same time, a new, more standards are applied at all of its global locations, powerful pellet mill was acquired with the highest Nutreco continued to conduct its comprehensive audit efficiency criteria. programme last year. This process identifies any health and safety shortcomings or “non-conformities” and Enhancements were also made to the steam line, provides an appropriate timescale to rectify them. All including redesigning injection lines, installing more non-conformities are monitored through a live reporting efficient drift eliminators and changing the return circuits to system. contribute to decreasing the site’s energy consumption. Boiler room investments were also made during 2017. “The audit programme is the backbone of our work. In total, we inspected 46 facilities in 2017, and it’s an ongoing cycle. Without question, health and safety and Ensuring a Safe Workplace good operations go hand-in-hand: We don’t want to have waste, we don’t want accidents, and we don’t Employee safety is a fundamental responsibility for all want things to go wrong; instead we want optimal businesses, and at Nutreco, we go to great lengths to professional operations,” says Harm Teunissen, HSE ensure that all of our workplaces around the world Director at Nutreco. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations All operations are also subject to a rating programme, Also included in the audit programme are plants whereby their health and safety compliance is selected for acquisition by Nutreco. This is part of the scored and reported. To assist these processes, each due diligence process, and ensures that any nonfacility must be organised in such a way that it has an conformities are identified ahead of the transaction and individual responsible for health and safety. There is that action points are known and can be readied for also a Health & Safety Executive Network, comprising implementation once the purchase is formalised. representative members from across the business In 2017, a study was progressed that began in globally that physically meets every year and interacts September 2016 in which other companies in and as much as possible outside of that meeting to address outside the SHV Group were visited to discuss safety current priorities. issues, including safety culture and awareness, and incident reduction. The aim of this ongoing research is to establish measures by which the health and safety agenda can be further progressed within the business. “This work further confirmed that having a safety culture in the workplace is vital. It leads to increased safety 48 • levels and reduces the number of LTIs,” says Teunissen. “Safety awareness is of critical importance and must be observed across the company at all levels. This is why we started the HSE Safety First programme in 2017. This new Nutreco-wide strategy specifically focuses on ensuring all employees are aware of the importance of working safely at all times.” “Health, safety and good operations go hand-in-hand: We don’t want waste, or accidents; but professional operations.” Harm Teunissen Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations Workforce Nurturing Talent Through Opportunities and a Well-defined Structure Sustainability is a driving force for our business. It allows levels and everything in between – performing a us to set and achieve measurable goals that contribute wide variety of essential functions. However, we to meeting our Mission of Feeding the Future. As a global feel the need to further step up our efforts to build a company, positioned in the feed-to-food supply chain, strong, diverse and dynamic workforce. We do this many of our sustainability efforts concentrate on our by identifying and developing talent and by offering environmental impacts – reducing our footprint and our people meaningful opportunities to grow the ensuring best-practice across all of our operations – but business and professionally,” explains Jan Alberdingk another vital aspect of our sustainability commitment Thijm, Chief HR Officer and Member of the Executive and being responsible citizens focuses on how we Committee at Nutreco. look after the people within our organisation and particularly the opportunities that we offer them. Another important development to benefit • 49 our employees was the introduction of a new As an employer, our talent management ambitions organisational structure. In reshaping Nutreco – from are rooted in our company-wide values of being a company with seven business units to two divisions innovative, collaborative, capable and caring. This focus (Animal Nutrition and Aquafeed) – the company brought a number of new people-focused initiatives has created more focus, made it more global and in 2017, including the opening of our new head office also more accountable. As well as providing the in Amersfoort, in the Netherlands. Known within the opportunity to better direct our energy and to deliver company as “the hub”, this office is set up in such a more specific innovative strategies, the transparency way that it stimulates contacts; it fosters collaborations of the new structure provides our people with a much on multiple levels; and also generates new ideas. clearer vision of where we are heading and what is Furthermore, we are confident that this is the environment expected from them. that can best progress our sustainability agenda. Meanwhile, through the new 2:2:2 Leadership “Our people are our most valuable resource. Programme, we have changed the way that we Knowledge and the ability to innovate are extremely source new young talent. This unique three-year important to remain relevant in our industry. This requires trainee initiative brings high-potential individuals into talented people, with the best ideas and capabilities. the organisation and offers them the opportunity and We have always had a lot of talent across the entire support to put their leadership to the test – in two company – from a local level through to international countries, two jobs and two different companies – and Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations hopefully a route into general management relatively EMPLOYEE BY GENDER AND CONTRACT TYPE early on in their career. 2017 2016 At the same time, we are continuing with our Employee Number of Engagement Survey and the Culture Champions employees at 11,366 11,545 year end programme. The survey determines the level of motivation among our employees and identifies any Full-time 95% 95% barriers affecting performance, while our team of 100 Part-time 5% 5% Culture Champions continue to carry out actions at a % Women 26% 26% local level that support culture development as well as an inspiring environment in which to work. “These are two very important strategies aimed at EMPLOYEES PER REGION delivering the kind of positive culture from which our business and our people can thrive. Essentially, we Male Female want our people to make the most of their careers 50 • Asia Pacific 1,132 322 with us – it is good for them and it’s equally good for Nutreco’s progress as a sustainable global company,” Africa 288 26 says Thijm. Europe 3,870 1,735 North America 1,213 463 South and Central 1,951 366 America EMPLOYEES PER SEGMENT “Our people are 2017 2016 our most valuable Animal Nutrition 5,350 5,279 resource. Knowledge Fish Feed 3,157 3,026 and the ability to innovate are Iberia 2,589 2,925 extremely important Corporate 270 315 to remain relevant in our industry.” Jan Alberdingk Thijm Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations NEW HIRES AND TERMINATIONS The Nutreco Ethics and Compliance Programme contains all the building blocks for an effective compliance Male Female Undeclared system. The foundations of the programme are our New Hires 1,101 400 17 corporate values and our Code of Ethics. The Code of Left Nutreco 1,277 526 4 Ethics clearly outlines our approach to business conduct, personal conduct and business integrity and by doing so addresses Guiding Principles 3-6 and 10 of the UN Global Compact. % EMPLOYEES HAVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE/ At the heart of the programme are the six compliance CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS (WHITE COLLAR ONLY) topics that Nutreco focuses on: Third Party Due Diligence, Trade Sanctions & Export Controls, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Competition, Data Protection and Fraud. On each of these topics up to date policies, processes Total 3,780 and tooling are in place to guide the business. This is % of Nutreco Employees 33%, but 84% of white collar further supported by a training programme comprised • 51 of e-learning and in-class education. Next to this, our whistle-blower facility “Speak Up” allows for reporting concerns, anonymous or by name, by telephone or via a web portal. Ethics and Compliance To drive a culture of ethics and better support the Nutreco wants to conduct its business with a focus business in meeting its compliance obligations, a on results and sustainability – today and for future separate Ethics & Compliance function is currently under generations. We can achieve this by doing business in a development. Once implemented to its full scope, each responsible way, whereby behaving with integrity and in OpCo will have a well-trained and experienced Ethics compliance with laws and internal rules are essential. This & Compliance Officer to turn to for guidance, education is not only what our stakeholders expect from us, it is also and support. how we want to contribute to current and future society. Our ultimate goal is to embed and ensure sustainable Ethics and compliance are essential for our license ethics and compliance throughout our businesses. to operate. It is our belief that a sound ethics and Our Ethics and Compliance programme is based on compliance system creates competitive advantage in a maturity growth model encompassing a defined set the sectors and areas where we operate by helping the of actions involving people, processes and policies business to navigate to secure our future. and technology. 5 comprehensive assessments 1 Food safety and regulatory compliance 2 Nutritional properties 3 Physical attributes 4 HSE and potential risks 5 Sustainability classification Feed to Food Quality and Safety 52 • Consumers demand safe, healthy and delicious food, With the company sourcing raw materials and which means that trustworthy, high-quality feeds are ingredients globally for the products that it makes, every a prerequisite for the agriculture and aquaculture supplier is required to adhere to Nutreco’s Supplier industries. As a leading global supplier of these feeds, Code of Conduct. Essentially, ISAM evaluates potential Nutreco has embedded strong quality assurances and suppliers, with the process beginning with the collection controls into every stage of its operations. At the heart of important detailed data on their products, after of this commitment is Nutrace®, our global feed-to-food which five comprehensive assessments are conducted: quality and safety programme. (1) food safety and regulatory compliance; (2) nutritional properties; (3) physical attributes; (4) HSE and potential In 2017, the focus was on the finalisation of the multirisks of exposure to the product for our plant workers; purpose Nutrace®-HACCP (hazard analysis and critical and (5) sustainability classification. These assessments control points) system – covering both feed and food are available to the Quality, Procurement and safety, as well as quality and reputation – which will Production teams in order to help mitigate and control contribute to the protection of brand value and product risks and to see how products could be handled in our liability across all of our companies. Another important plants in the safest and most efficient ways possible. milestone, saw our new global assessment tool, the Ingredient Supplier Assessment Management (ISAM) Meanwhile, part of our global Food Safety & Quality system go live. team meeting focused on crisis training and ensuring Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Operations “Risks are reduced by having all of our plants operating in a safe and sustainable way. Such an approach also builds trust levels and leads to much greater confidence in the supply chain.” Nina Flem and Peter Fidder • 53 that our risk management plan were robust, efficient high-quality agriand aqua-feeds, produced from safe and practical. This included identifying any potential and sustainable raw materials are ensured. weaknesses in our crisis plan and ways in which improvements could be made. In addition, we looked “Risks are greatly reduced by having all of our plants at how further modules could be implemented into operating in a safe and sustainable way. Such an our 1QM platform for better and more efficient quality approach also builds trust levels and leads to much assurance. Supporting Nutrace®, 1QM monitors core greater confidence in the supply chain, which is crucial processes by optimising and standardising business when it comes to fulfilling our company-wide mission of quality management processes and information. ‘Feeding the Future’,” according to Nina Flem and Peter Fidder, Directors of Quality Affairs for the Skretting and Alongside systems that are continuously being refined Trouw Nutrition Divisions, respectively. ■ to minimise any potential risks associated with feed production and to see that any irregularities are quickly found and acted upon, equally strong emphasis continued to be placed on close team collaboration and sharing of best-practice across all Nutreco companies and operations. Together these strategies provide the bedrock upon which the manufacture of Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Nutreco is always seeking to expand our knowledge of the nutritional composition of feed ingredients as well as the impacts of the supply chains that create them. This helps us to deliver products that enable farmers to produce more from less, and by doing so addresses the UN SDGs 13, 14, 15 and 17. 54 • INGREDIENTS INGREDIENTS What is our objective? By 2020 we will successfully complete the fishery improvement project in Peru. 56 • What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Signed MOU together with Ú The project has been Ú The development of two other industry partners officially registered as a innovative solutions to to be part of an advisory comprehensive fishery preserve marine resources; committee; improvement programme; Ú Sharing of expertise with Ú Granted economic support Ú Progress has been made governments and other to the project; on gathering information stakeholders to better Ú Participated in two advisory necessary to applying the mitigate and manage risks committee meetings. ecosystem approach to the arising from fishing and Peruvian anchovy northernaquaculture. central stock fishery. INGREDIENTS What is our objective? By 2020 we will contribute to the development of an industry based solution to reduce deforestation associated with the primary production of crops. • 57 What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Became signatories of the Ú Contributes to the Ú Engaged with stakeholders Cerrado Manifesto; elimination of agriculture from various parts of Ú Became signatories to driven deforestation. the soy supply chain to the New York Declaration establish partnerships. on Forests; Ú Joined the Collaboration for Forests and Agriculture (CFA). Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Ingredients Assessing the Sustainability Performance stored, which is currently work in progress. Furthermore, Nutreco has started to include the SCoC as part of Frame of our Suppliers Work Agreements with main suppliers. During the course of 2018, with further development of these main actions, we shall see an increase in the percentage of direct Since 2010, Nutreco has required suppliers to spend covered by SCoC. demonstrate their commitment to sustainability by asking them to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Audits (SCoC). The criteria specified in this code relate to various aspects including those referred to in UN A total of 50 quality audits were undertaken in 2017. Global Compact Guiding Principles 1,2,4-6,7 and 10. The majority of these (58%) took place in China, with We further built on this in 2015 with the introduction 26% of the Chinese audits undertaken by FQSI, a third58 • of sustainability questions into the supplier audits party auditor. The remaining audits were executed by undertaken by the quality team. Full details of the our internal quality team throughout various locations development of this process can be found in the around the world, including China, Brazil, India and 2016 Sustainability Report. South Africa. Sustainability was included in most of the audits, with the exception of the 12 companies for which the audit was just a follow-up on criteria that Signing the Supplier Code of were found to be non-compliant in the previous audit. In Conduct these cases, the sustainability criteria were not included because they were fully compliant and did not require In 2017, Nutreco continued to ask all new suppliers to sign any further investigation. the SCoC. Our percentage of direct spend covered by suppliers that have signed the code remained stable at The majority of suppliers were found to be compliant, 86% from 2016 as offsetted by some suppliers which were with 12% having minor non-conformities and 6% discontinued. In 2017, we started the implementation of having major non-conformities. Of these, three the new quality and document management system suppliers were not approved and the remainder (refer to quality section on page 52 for details), which will were required to undertake corrective actions. The facilitate the on-boarding of new suppliers and provide major non-conformities included lack of engagement a central storage location for all signed SCoCs. The new with their suppliers on sustainability related issues, system requires all existing signed documents to be unsafe or polluting work environments and a failure to migrated from the existing platforms where they were adequately train staff on relevant sustainability policies. 86 % of our direct suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct • 59 Future Plans for Assessing Supplier Compliance with Supplier Code of Conduct In recognition of the need to further extend our The first step is to engage with all suppliers by changing approach to sustainable procurement, Nutreco initiated the Supplier Code from a standalone document to one a project in 2017 to investigate options for assessing that is integrated into the supplier contractual agreement. supplier compliance with the criteria specified in our Not only will this strengthen supplier commitment, it will SCoC. This project took into consideration the best also help to reduce the internal administrative burden. practices from literature as well as top performing The second step is undertake a risk assessment that will companies worldwide. From this it was identified that determine which suppliers pose a high sustainability risk the most practical and effective solution for Nutreco based on their country of origin and product category. was to adopt a three-step process aimed at identifying The suppliers that are identified as being high-risk will and assessing our most high-risk suppliers. then be considered to undergo a site audit. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Ingredients Deforestation Nutreco has been a long-term supporter of multiLast but not least, we became signatories to the New stakeholder initiatives that are focused reducing York Declaration on Forests (NYDF), which was launched deforestation. This includes our involvement as an active during the 2017 UN Climate Change Conference in Bonn. member of the Roundtable for Responsible Soy (RTRS), This agreement outlines ten ambitious global targets to the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), the FEFAC protect and restore forests and end natural forest loss by Sustainability Committee and the US Soy Export Council 2030 and has been endorsed by over 190 countries, subAdvisory Committee. national governments, companies, indigenous peoples and NGOs to date. In 2017, we set a goal to work towards developing industry-based solutions to this issue, which led us to In addition to our involvement in multi-stakeholder join three new platforms targeting deforestation. Firstly, initiatives, we have also continued to support the Nutreco joined a number of strategic partners that formed development of deforestation-free supply chains the Collaboration for Forests and Agriculture (CFA). This through our direct raw material purchases. Since 2015, 60 • initiative was launched in 2016 by the National Wildlife Nutreco has purchased book and claim certificates Federation (NWF), The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and to offset 100% of all palm oil ingredients purchased the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation with the aim to throughout the global business, excluding palm kernel achieve solid commitments to zero conversion by leading oil which accounted for 15% of our total palm oil companies that buy, distribute and process soy and beef purchased in 2017. The decision to exclude palm kernel in the Amazon and Cerrado regions in Brazil, and in the oil is due to the limited availability of this product and Gran Chaco region spanning Argentina and Paraguay. the associated costs. Further to this, 100% of the soy purchased by Skretting Norway and Skretting Australia Nutreco was also part of a broad support group is Proterra certified. facilitated by the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) formed in 2017 to address further ways of protecting the Cerrado biome in Brazil. The Cerrado biome represents 21% of Brazil’s land area and is one of the richest tropical savannahs in the world. Nutreco was one of the 23 original signatories and the only business-to-business company to sign. By doing so we commit to bringing practical proposals and solutions that will allow the Brazilian industry to increase its beef production in ways not requiring further deforestation. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy Applying an Ecosystem Management Approach to the Peruvian Anchovy Fishery In 2016, Sociedad Nacional de Pesquería (the National Fishing Association of Peru), Skretting and Cargill Aqua Nutrition (producers of aquaculture feeds) in cooperation with CeDePesca established a comprehensive fishery improvement project (FIP) with the aim of strengthening research, management and sustainability in applying the ecosystem approach to the Peruvian anchovy northern-central stock indirect human consumption (IHC) fishery. Among the coastal pelagic species of the Northern • 61 Humboldt Current System, the Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) is predominant and creates one of the most important single species fisheries worldwide. The Northern Humboldt Current System is an important area of one of the most productive world marine ecosystems, the Humboldt Current Large Marine Ecosystem. The Humboldt Current extends along the coast of Chile and Peru. In 2017, the project made progress in a number of areas: It is building a database derived from data gathered by the industrial fishing vessels; improvements for the management system of the fishery are being promoted; while the impacts of the industrial fleet on endangered, threatened and protected (ETP) species and other ecosystem components have been determined. ■ At Nutreco, we believe that a sustainable future is not viable without the involvement of motivated people. Therefore, we are actively engaged with internal and external stakeholders to achieve common sustainability goals. This addresses the UN SDGs 2, 3, 8 en 17. COMMITMENT Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy COMMITMENT What is our objective? By 2020 we will have an additional eight community development projects (total of 10) set up in emerging markets that transfer knowledge and best practice to subsistence farmers 64 • What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Capacity building and Ú 53% increase in farmer Ú Develops the capacity training of farmers on best income and 18% increase of small scale farmers to practices; in milk production in participate in supply chains Ú Data collection and analysis; Indonesian dairy project; and improve their livelihoods. Ú Connecting farmers to other Ú 100% improvement in stakeholders from their harvest weight and 33% value chain (e.g. fingerling improvement in survivability providers, marketers); for Nigerian catfish project; Ú Establishing partnerships Ú Two new projects initiated in with NGOs, governments and Zambia and Guatemala. farmer groups; Ú Contribution of up to €50,000 per project per annum. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy COMMITMENT What is our objective? By 2018 we will contribute to a 50% reduction in antibiotic use in Chile through our involvement in the Pincoy Project. • 65 What did we do in 2017? What was achieved? What was the impact? Ú Established a working Ú Established the first fish health Ú Helps our customers group with seven other project in the world that to reduce the use of covers the concept of animal antibiotics for routine local and international welfare in FW and SW; use in food production; companies within the Ú Gathered data on health Ú Positive reception Chilean salmon industry. parameters from pilot farms; in different markets Ú Collaboration with academand end consumers ia to communicate about (communicational value). AMR and the use of antibiotics in the industry; Ú Started the work to make collaborative best practices handbook in the area of fish health; Ú Participation in FAO’s “Antimicrobials use in Latin America’s Aquaculture” conference (Lima, Peru, 22-24 Nov). Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment Community Development their livelihoods and help themselves out of poverty. By Projects sharing best-practice production technology and selling nutritional solutions, together we can ‘Feed the Future’. Our community development programme continues Through our company-wide Mission of ‘Feeding to grow, with two new projects started in 2017 for the Future’, we are very much aware that small-scale tilapia farmers in Zambia and poultry egg estimated increases in world population and producers in Guatemala. Further to this, plans are in the growth of middle classes will put increased place for another three projects in 2018. One of which demand on global food production. We are also has already been scoped and involves small-scale aware that the increase in food production should dairy farmers in Vietnam. Summaries of the progress for originate in the geographies where the demand is the four existing projects are provided below. growing the most. Essentially, it is not only about increasing food production to satisfy this demand, 66 • it is about increasing it in the right places. By Nigerian Catfish focusing increased food production in emerging economies, we are able to address the challenges After two years, the catfish farmers participating in this of alleviating poverty as well as hunger. project have demonstrated their abilities to adapt to new techniques, keep records to improve their pond By carrying out Community Development Projects, management protocols and to organise themselves to Nutreco is proactively addressing UN SDGs 2 (Zero sell their final products more strategically. Hunger) and 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth). Nutreco has strategically decided to convert these A combination of periodic training workshops coupled initiatives as part of a renewed focus of its Nuterra with weekly farm visits to assist farmers in specific programme and is targeting engagement in 10 challenges has resulted in significant improvements. initiatives around the world over the next three years. Many of these farmers live at the poverty income level and because of their increased farming output, In 2013, Nutreco shifted its Community Development they have successfully raised their incomes. Farmer Projects from being philanthropically-driven to being enthusiasm and their willingness to share data with driven by “creating shared value”. The latter, allows other participants and to learn from past mistakes have us to remain involved indefinitely because it is part of been major drivers of success. Several challenges our business model in those emerging economies. It and obstacles have been encountered along the also enables small-scale protein farmers to improve way. Principally, the lack of sufficient “revolving fund” micro-financing to allow farmers access to purchase catfish feed throughout the production cycle often leads farmers to revert to pre-programme practices, which is counter-productive. However, those farmers that “stay the course” clearly demonstrate productivity improvement as reflected in the KPI table below. Another challenge that we are currently working to improve is the selling of the final product at open food markets. With increased production and synchronised harvest timetables, some local markets become over-saturated, leading to significant decreases in the selling price and potentially reduced income. • 67 Several workshops have been held to better organise cooperative selling. Farmers generated ideas and proposed strategies to address these obstacles, including value-added (smoked) products, staggering harvest activity over longer timeframes and offering variable fish sizes. We expect much better selling income results during 2018 as a consequence of these revisions. IMPROVEMENTS IN KPIS FROM 2016 TO 2017 2016 2017 +/Participating farmers 50 109 +118% Feed conversion ratio 1.7 0.9 -47% Average harvest weight 0.6 1.2 +100% (kg) Survival rate (%) 69% 90% +33% Production cycle 2 3 +50% (# harvests per year) Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment Indonesian Dairy After three years, Trouw Nutrition Indonesia’s Community Training workshops included proper forage selection, Development Project reached maturity and closed. We supplemental feeding programmes, the improvement of are very proud of the collaboration with our partners in feeding practices and capacity building. assisting 279 small-scale dairy farmers to raise themselves out of economic poverty. Those partners included: The combination of education and proper management practices resulted in measurable success and directly • Directorate General for Livestock and Animal Health benefited the community. Principally, the programme was Services (DGLAHS), Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture successful in increasing milk production per cow/day by (MoA) an average of 18%, reducing feed cost per litre of milk by • West Java Provincial Livestock Office 13.4%, and increasing family income by an average 53%. • Bogor Agricultural University (IPB) • Wageningen University – Livestock Research Trouw Nutrition also achieved good results in advising on (WUR-LR) customised feed concentrate formulations and mineral 68 • • Dairy Coops (KPGS Cikajang and KPSP Saluyu) premixes. The co-ops were able to develop three new • Barrenburg formulas that supported increased animal performance. • Ottevanger The concept of feed advisors employed by coops was During the project, we conducted workshops to train well accepted by the co-ops and by local provincial the 279 trainers so that they can return to their respective government. Feed advisors focused on increasing farm co-ops and train their membership, which totalled capacity and expertise at a co-op level regarding in excess of 1,800 additional small-scale farmers. dairy cattle feeding and best-practice. A total of five Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment Zambian Tilapia feed advisors were employed by the two co-ops. They Nutreco launched this project during the fourth-quarter will play an important role in the continued monitoring of 2017 following the identification of two northern and improvement at the farms as the project continues districts, Mpulungu and Kawambwa, and 25 candidate independently. small-scale farmers in each location, thereby providing a total of 50 participating tilapia farmers for year-one of On completion, results of the project were presented this three-year commitment. to 100 stakeholders from the dairy sector (dairy companies, dairy coops, government and academic The choice to focus on these two districts in northern and financial institutions). Ongoing data collection and Zambia was because of the high level of fish farming project monitoring will continue over the next three activity and low technology employed by farmers in years to ensure a continuation of the good results. this region, as well as the current lack of quality feeds and the potential to positively affect incomes and A short, three-minute video was produced to describe livelihoods. Another reason to choose Zambia was the • 69 the project results and can be viewed at: enthusiasm and commitment to succeed by the local www.youtube.com/watch?v=M3GWZ8tidTk farming community as well as the determination of Skretting staff to make a difference in the country. By inviting local partners that have similar strategies to BENEFITS SOCIETAL (COMMUNITY) combat world hunger and increase economic outlook Impact of improved concentrate feed of communities such as the WorldFish Centre and others to join this initiative, we believe that a well-executed Milk Production Feed Cost Farmer Income work-stream to help the fish farmers in Mpulungu and 18% increased 13.4% reduced 53% increased Kawambwa will result in long lasting improvement for those communities. Initial responses from the Department of Fisheries and the fish farmers has been very positive; locations for the first training workshops have been identified and arrangements to support the first tilapia stocking are well underway. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment Guatemalan Eggs Similar to our Zambian community project, our Good Neighbors Guatemala and Trouw Nutrition Latin Guatemalan egg production initiative was launched America’s partnership aims to empower the female late in 2017 and is in its early phases. Guatemala members of the household to successfully manage a was chosen as a focus for Nutreco’s Community fully-equipped poultry house with 100 laying hens. Together, Development Projects due to the combination of the partners interviewed and selected high levels of poverty and malnutrition, low levels 25 families to participate in this initiative. of education and limited opportunities for income generation, especially for females. Trouw Nutrition’s main role within Plumas is to ensure optimal knowledge transfer and to open up new opportunities via In 2017, Trouw Nutrition Latin America initiated our business partners and network. Through our partners, collaboration with our local partner Good Neighbors the initiative will have access to economical high quality Guatemala to improve the quality of life within the La laying hens and feed, while our team of experts will Fragua community by creating an egg production provide training and mentoring regarding feed (nutritional 70 • co-op, called Plumas. Eggs continue to be the most premixes), farm and health management. available and affordable source of protein in this region, making it the ideal choice to create an alternative, stable This project has the basic building blocks in place to and sustainable source of income to cover basic needs have a positive impact on household income and child such as food, housing and education. education. It should also strengthen family ties and add to the nutritional alternatives of family protein intake. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment • 71 Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment Nutreco’s Community Day These commitments are now being translated in to timegoes Global bound and operational targets and actions, in close collaboration between SeaBOS members and scientists As part of our effort to maintain social engagement in the at the SRC. By doing so Skretting is demonstrating its communities where we operate and facilitate employee commitment to UN Global Compact Guiding Principles 1, bonding outside the workplace, Nutreco expanded its 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8. traditional Community Day to be a global undertaking. On 9 June 2017, Knut Nesse travelled to the UN On 28 September 2017, Nutreco employees from around Headquarters in New York to attend a Stockholm the world took part in the first-ever Global Community Resilience Centre event on ‘Engaging the private sector Day. Approximately 4,000 employees from 33 countries in SDG 14’, held during the Ocean Conference. SeaBOS took part in over 140 different activities to help their local is also one of the 1,328 voluntary commitments made in communities. The wide variety of projects included connection with the Ocean Conference. Acting as interim spending time with disabled, elderly and refugee chairperson of the SeaBOS initiative, Nesse also spoke at communities, as well as more physical activities such as the event, representing the 10 signatory companies. 72 • renovating schools and building community gardens. In order to capture the energy and enthusiasm generated Pincoy Project by this event, a short film was made at each of the sites and compiled into six BU videos. Due to the success of the The Chilean salmon industry has long been criticised event, the Nutreco Global Community Day will become for its extensive use of antibiotics. Although the primary an annual occurrence. reason for this high usage has been to combat Septicemic Rickettsial Syndrome (SRS), a bacterial disease that has hit the Chilean salmon industry hard over many years, SeaBOS growing government and consumer pressure has resulted in a stronger focus from industry to reduce its Skretting through Nutreco is one of 10 seafood antibiotic dependence. While these coercions have led to companies that joined forces in 2016-2017 to form the the development of a number of positive innovations, they Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) have all been deployed in isolation; leaving the sector still initiative, aimed at leading a global transformation waiting for its first large-scale improvement. towards sustainable seafood production and a healthy ocean. This includes a pledge to protect the In 2016, to find a holistic solution to Chile’s antibiotic world’s oceans by working to eliminate illegal activities challenge, Skretting brought together seven local and including slave labour and preventing overfishing. international industry partners from various stages of the aim to reduce 50% of antibiotics • 73 salmon production chain to initiate the Pincoy Project. As a result of the technical committees’ work (Freshwater, Collectively, the project incorporates selective breeding, Seawater and Health), along with the Executive high-quality hatchery diets, careful smolt selection, Committee formed by the leaders of each company, vaccines, functional feed-based diets, best-practice the first-ever health project in the world to focus on protocols at both the freshwater and seawater growth fish welfare across the entire production cycle was stages, as well as close monitoring and reporting established. In addition to this undertaking, data throughout. continues to be gathered from the pilot farms on health parameters, and work has started on a fish health Together Skretting, AquaGen/Blue Genomics, Pharmaq, best-practice handbook, which will be shared with the Centrovet, Cermaq, Blumar and Entisqueros are working broader industry upon completion. Last but not least, in collaboratively on strategies aimed at minimising the order to share our progress externally, we presented risk of disease and therefore the use of antibiotics. Pincoy at FAO’s ‘The Use of Antimicrobials in Aquaculture Specifically, this unique project seeks to halve the use of in Latin America’ conference (Lima, Peru, 22-24 antibiotics on pilot farms by the end of 2018, and to use November 2017). this knowledge to contribute to the sustainable growth of the industry as a whole. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment AgriVision Nutreco hosted its 9th biennial AgriVision conference 12was Kofi Annan, the 7th Secretary-General of the 15 June 2017 at Noordwijk aan Zee in the Netherlands. UN who made particular mention of the good work The conference was attended by approximately Nutreco is doing with its community development 400 delegates from more than 40 countries including projects in Nigeria and Indonesia. Annan was joined board-level executives in food and agribusiness, by a selection of high profile speakers including Anne influential public officials and key NGO representatives. Villemoes, former VP Communications of Danish Crown, and David Rowan, editor of WIRED magazine. This year’s conference had a strong focus on developments in agricultural technology, the global The event included a 32-hour “hackathon” with the public health issue of antimicrobial resistance and the objective to showcase the power of open innovation as importance of agricultural development for feeding a means to encourage collaboration to find innovative a growing world population. The keynote speaker uses of agricultural data. Five teams took part in five 74 • Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Commitment challenges that focused specifically on solutions for swine production systems. The winning place was awarded to SwineSmarts, a data capture tool to link “ I am convinced that pig feed intake patterns to desirable characteristics we are entering an era at slaughter. This event was made possible by the in which companies generous donation of data by Nutreco together with that are integrating AgriSyst, For Farmers, Geodan, Hendrix Genetics, responsibility and Nedap, Vion Food Group and Wageningen University. sustainability into the ■ core of their operations will be the market leaders of tomorrow” Kofi Annan • 75 Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • External Quality Assessment Statement External Quality Assessment Statement To Nutreco management In its 2017 Sustainability Report Nutreco reports on the The scope of our examination procedures was sustainability matters that were identified by Nutreco limited to the following information as reported in its materiality assessment. The quantitative data on on pages 44, 58, 19, 50, 51 and 60: these indicators were compiled from source data • Energy data on the level of operating companies on the basis of • CO2 Nutreco’s reporting criteria and processes. We were • Water withdrawal asked by Nutreco to examine the reporting processes • Waste and controls and to assess for a number of specific • Number of injuries indicators whether the quality of the reported data was • Supplier Code of Conduct 76 • in accordance with Nutreco’s criteria. • Nuterra Self-Assessment • Workforce The purpose of our examination procedures is to • Deforestation-free supply chains give advice to management on how to improve its reporting processes and controls as well as enabling We performed the following procedures: management to safeguard the quality of the reported • We performed 5 site visits to Nutreco’s local data in the 2017 Sustainability Report. As we are not companies in Sevilla (Spain, two sites), St. Mary’s bound by assurance standards, we do not provide (Ontario, Canada), Grodzisk Mazowiecki (Poland) external assurance on the reported data. and Tooele (Utah, USA). During these site visits we assessed the data that was reported to head office at the end of the third quarter. Part of our work consisted of assessing local reporting practices in line with Nutreco’s reporting criteria and reconciling the reported information to source data; • At head office level we performed analytical procedures on data that was reported by locations that were not visited; Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • External Quality Assessment Statement • We assessed the administrative organization concerning Nutreco’s sustainability performance data • We assessed the reporting process and related controls by performing interviews and walk-throughs; • We assessed the narrative assertions in the 2017 Sustainability Report with regard to the indicators in scope; • We assessed the application of the GRI guidelines and the GRI table in the 2017 Sustainability Report; • 77 We conveyed our observations and recommendations for improvement to management. Misstatements and data errors that were identified as a result of our procedures were corrected by Nutreco in the 2017 Sustainability Report. Sustainalize, 23 April 2018 About Sustainalize Sustainalize is a management consultancy firm focused on CSR and sustainability. We support organizations in developing their strategy, internal and external reporting, data validation and performance management. Nutreco Sustainability Report 2017 • Strategy • 79 TM Nutreco Stationsstraat 77 3811 MH Amersfoort The Netherlands T +31 (0)88 053 2405 sustainability@nutreco.com www.nutreco.com
