THE NEW FACE OF SECURITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Table of contents SECURITAS CEO STRATEGY THE EVOLVING IN BRIEF ­STATEMENT ROLE OF SECURITY 3 4 6 7 OUR BUSINESS OUR MODEL PEOPLE KNOWLEDGE MODEL FOR CREATING VALUE 9 10 14 20 TECHNOLOGY OUR WAY OF THROUGH A ABOUT THIS WORKING MATERIALITY REPORT LENS 23 26 40 42 ADDITIONAL AUDITOR’S GRI INDEX KPIs ­REPORT 43 45 46 Sustainability Securitas AB’s 2017 sustainability report is framed around three ways we are shaping security – through our people, knowledge capacity and technology solutions. We also outline how our governance structure equips us to meet new opportunities and manage risks. The report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. Where relevant, this report also highlights how our priorities reflect the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for labor and human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and therefore acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. 2 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 S EC U R I TA S I N B R I E F PEOPLE, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY Technology and customer needs are evolving. The challenges of the future must be solved with the tools of tomorrow: a combination of sensors, analytics and the knowledge of experienced people on-site. Data is gathered and used to understand the past, the present and the future – guiding us in our actions. By bringing all this together, we can mitigate risks before they become threats, act in real time when needed, and always keep the customer engaged in what is going on. This is the new reality we are facing. We call it the New face of security. EARNINGS PER SHARE 7.83* More than 345 000 7.24 7.49 TARGET: An annual average 6.67 5.67 increase of 10 PERCENT 5.07 EMPLOYEES 2017: 9 percent** 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Adjusted for items affecting comparability ** Real change, adjusted for items affecting comparability CASH FLOW 0.22 0.22 TOTAL SALES TARGET: A free cash flow to net debt 0.18 0.19 92 197 MSEK Organic sales growth 5% ratio of at least 0.20 0.13 2017: 0.19 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 THE SHARE MARKET Closing price at year-end was 55 MARKET CAPITALIZATION, ROUNDED, BSEK Operations in SEK 143.20, corresponding 45.2 49.9 49.8 to a market capitalization of 32.9 BSEK 49.8. The Board 23.8 countries proposes a dividend of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SEK 4.00 (3.75) per share. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 3 C EO S TAT E M E N T The New Face of Security Our long-term strategy to combine people, knowledge and technology is proving to be successful. We are creating customer value, growing faster than the security market on average, and are recognized as the leader of the global security industry. Securitas is taking responsibility to lead by example. We are setting the scene for the next paradigm shift – the New face of security. Our strong culture The vision of intelligent security Over the past decade, the security industry has undergone a We are now paving the way and make investments to turn predicmajor transformation, the most exciting change it has ever faced. tive security into intelligent security. This will be enabled by reportSecuritas is at the forefront of this journey, thanks to our persistent ing, analyzing and using large volumes of data, and leveraging the and continuous investments in integrated security solutions. largely unutilized database we have at our customers’ sites. Our solid culture, engaged and dedicated employees, and Using both historical and real-time data that is generated by strong brand have all contributed to this journey. Our long-term our security officers, as well as equipment such as sensors and strategy has helped focus our mindset and drive engagement cameras at the sites, combined with external crime and incident among our people. data sources, we will be able to create the optimal basis for the We have also made major investments in technology most professional risk assessments – based on facts, not opinions. resources, hiring many engineers and technical support experts, Modern technology, big data, digitization and artificial intelliintegrated numerous acquisitions and made substantial investgence will make life more difficult for perpetrators. In the past, ments in equipment installations at our customers’ sites. At the security officers have only been able to react to incidents that have same time, we have implemented our Securitas Model, with our already occurred. By applying modern technology, intelligence and hands-on management tool, The Toolbox, to guide everyone to know-how to the data we receive, we can prevent crimes from work towards the same target. ever happening, thereby contributing to a safer society. We have made important acquisitions in technology companies and invested in our Securitas Operation Centers. Additionally, Beyond 2020 we have improved our margins by converting an increasing I am now stepping down after 11 years as Securitas’ President number of contracts into security solutions. Supported by our and CEO. It has been a great privilege to lead this fantastic comstrategy, we are now growing faster than the security market in pany and work with all our dedicated and skilled employees. general, delivering sustainable protective services. Magnus Ahlqvist is ready to take over. I am confident that he will successfully lead Securitas in the next paradigm shift. Sustainability key to our strategy Securitas is well equipped, has a strong position in the global Securitas is contributing to a safer society by keeping our customsecurity service industry and is ready to become the number one ers, employees and local communities secure. Attracting, retaining intelligent security company beyond 2020. and developing our employees are key factors for the success of our strategy, for example by ensuring good working conditions and fair wages. Acting with integrity and ensuring that we take an active stand against corruption are also top priorities. Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code is included in the Alf Göransson Group’s enterprise risk management process. As a signatory of UN President and CEO Global Compact, Securitas commits to its ten principles. Securitas AB Sustainability is well integrated into our operations. We believe Until March 1, 2018 it ensures long-term growth and that it gives us a competitive advantage. Securitas is one of the few security companies globally that can take on the security challenges of today’s world in a sustainable way. 4 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 Supported by a Strong Team Securitas is a solid company and our team is strong. Our culture is our top priority during this journey and we will do so by continubased on values, ownership and long-term achievement. We ously investing in the knowledge of our people. This includes a share a great sense of responsibility towards our customers and greater focus on diversity and equality in coming years. other key stakeholders. In addition to our strengths in on-site, mobile and remote guarding, we have a clear advantage in terms of our technical knowledge. We have invested and continue to invest in technology, which gives us a platform to offer better security solutions to Magnus Ahlqvist our customers. President and CEO I am very excited about working with all the great people in the Securitas AB Securitas team around the world during this new phase, as we From March 1, 2018 devote greater focus to new digital technology in security. Delivering the best commitment and service to our customers will be Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 5 S T R AT EG Y People, Knowledge and Technology It is the combination of people, knowledge and technology that sets us apart. All three elements are necessary to ensure the security and safety of our customers and society at large. This is how we lead the transformation of our industry. Our core business is security; people, knowledge and technology underpin everything we do. These three elements build on each other and are central to our mission to increase safety and security among customers and the general public. Together, they make us agile and resilient in a complex and changing world. This holistic perspective also helps ensure long-term growth and gives a competitive advantage. PEOPLE KNOWLEDGE TECHNOLOGY People Kunskap Technology It starts with our people. Our security We build on the experience and expertise of Over the past decade, we have made officers remain the backbone of the our people, leveraging our competence to significant investments in technology, services we provide. They face a more meet new challenges. More effective allowing us to create more sophisticated challenging security environment than ever solutions are needed to detect and prevent solutions, including electronic security. This before. Our business depends on being crime. Expanding business areas within builds on our knowledge and depends on able to attract and retain people with the technology requires Securitas to develop our people to be effective and serve the right skillset and values to meet future and empower our existing employees in needs of our customers. With growing demands. That is why fair wages, human new capacities. With our focus on digitization, ensuring the safety of our rights and good working conditions play an innovation, we provide our employees with services and protecting information and important role in our approach. the tools they need to help our customers privacy are top priorities. stay safer. H OW W E WORK For our strategy to succeed, there must be trust in our offering, our brand and the way we work. Our strong culture and fundamental values – Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – are at the heart of our approach, guided by key policies and guidelines, such as Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. This is backed by robust governance, efficient operations, and a thorough risk-assessment process to ensure that we deliver on our strategy. 6 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 T H E E V O LV I N G R O L E O F S EC U R I T Y The Evolving Role of Security Security is changing, driven by an evolving society and new market drivers. With a big-picture approach, we can stay a step ahead of expectations and meet our customers with new skillsets. As we look towards the future, we see that market trends will be rorism and natural disasters. Although reported crime rates are steadily impacted by demographic shifts and an increasingly falling in many countries, there is a widespread sense that it is interconnected world. increasing. At the same time, we see a tightened public budget, We see heightened levels of tension across the globe, with which is impacting services provided by police forces. Private social and political unrest. Increased vulnerability and the rising security companies can fill the gap in a number of areas traditioncost of disruptions for companies and infrastructure activities ally handled internally either by companies or by the public sector. means that needs for our services are growing. Security issues Climate change and access to resources will increasingly affect are higher on the agendas of decision makers and the general the decisions made by our customers and society, and will likely public all over the world. One reason for this is the greater awarehave a primarily indirect impact on the business. ness of threats to society posed by organized crime, acts of terSecuritas SecuritasSustainability Report Sustainability Report 2017 2017 7 7 T H E E V O LV I N G R O L E O F S EC U R I T Y A future focus Infrastructure is changing, too, with the need to protect cenBy 2030, 60 percent of the world’s population will live in cities. tralized, technology-dependent infrastructures. This is increasing Urbanization is leading to denser populations, widening inequalithe demand for more sector-specific services. For example, data ties and rising crime rates, which are in turn creating a need for centers are a new type of customer requiring expertise and additional security services. knowledge on risks such as fire and safety. The middle class is on the rise, especially in emerging markets. Technology development is changing the security industry This increases opportunities for us in markets where our customentirely. Technology is rapidly becoming more intelligent, more ers are establishing a presence, and in countries that want to cost efficient and increasingly applicable in many different secustrengthen their infrastructure. Risks, however, relating to human rity solutions. While manned guarding is still the most widely rights, labor practices and the environment might be higher in used security service globally, technology is enabling the develthese regions. opment of complex and interoperable security systems. More economic activity and greater prosperity in developing Expanding business areas within technology require us to regions are resulting in more facilities, places of business and develop our employees in new capacities. This puts pressure on homes that need security, and more people, businesses and govaccess to talent, especially because of the increasing demand for ernments that can afford to buy security solutions. tech-savvy personnel. On the flip side, we see increased income gaps leading to Climate change and access to resources insecurity and risks for civil unrest. Some markets face an aging Two global drivers especially add to the business landscape. Cliworkforce. Both trends highlight the challenge of attracting the mate change is having an impact on the frequency and severity of right people from a decreasing supply of manpower. natural disasters. This boosts the need for flexible and efficient security solutions to secure the safety of the general public and Interconnected world emergency responders during natural disasters. Climate change We see the potential of big data, the Internet of Things, artificial also underscores the need for low-carbon transportation alternaintelligence, robotics, and connectivity to help shape the New face tives and to increase energy efficiency throughout our operations. of security. Along with these technological advances come Access to resources impacts all industries, prompting the emerconcerns among stakeholders about our role in ensuring privacy, gence of circular economies and, for our industry, comes into play integrity and information security, issues that are high on our with the growing use of electronics technology. agenda. W H ERE W E C A N M A K E A D IF F EREN CE Sustainability is all about building a strong and profitable company priorities that will support the delivery of our business strategy. for the future and delivering lasting economic, social and environ• A diverse workforce and long-term profitable growth contribmental value for our customers, employees and investors. By ute to building trust among stakeholders. understanding how societies are evolving, we can better equip our • A robust technology offering, diversity, transparency and organization to meet changing expectations. By analyzing our impacts through this future lens, we are able to identify areas transport are issues that we see are growing in importance where we can make the greatest difference and where they are to customers, employees and investors and have increasing most relevant. relevance for our business. • How we treat our employees – through safe workplaces, training and protection of their rights – and strong relationships with customers, will help cement our leadership position. Read more about our • Attracting and retaining the right people, rigorous governance materiality analysis on practices and a strong, trusted service offering are all central page 40. 8 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our Business Model Securitas offers security solutions based on the customer’s specific needs through different combinations of on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic security, fire and safety, and corporate risk management. Securitas operates in 55 countries throughout North America, 15 countries. Security Services Europe offers mobile security serEurope, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Australia, vices for small and medium-sized businesses and residential sites and has more than 345 000 employees. Our customers are found as well as electronic alarm surveillance services. In total, the orgain all industries and vary in size from the small shop on the corner nization has approximately 120 000 employees and 760 branch to multinational companies with global operations. Examples of managers. customer segments are retail and shopping malls, industrial companies, logistic companies, data centers, airports, ports, offices, Security Services Ibero-America banks, public transport, healthcare and IT companies. Security Services Ibero-America provides security services for We offer a broad and expanding spectrum of security services, large and medium-sized customers in eight Latin American counincluding a rapidly increasing range of technology-based solutions. tries as well as Portugal and Spain in Europe. Security Services Our solutions are based on thorough analysis to ensure that we Ibero-America has a combined total of approximately 61 000 provide appropriate and tailor-made services to every customer. employees and 170 branch managers. Accordingly, the balance between manned guarding and electronic Diagram_BV_sid Operations 91 1 the Middle in /Africa, Diagram_BV_sid East, Asia and 91 / 2 are Australia security services varies depending on customers’ needs. organized in the division AMEA, which is included under Other in Our operations are organized in three business segments: the Group’s segment reporting Security Services North America Sales per segment Number of employees per segment Security Services North America provides security services in the US, Canada and Mexico and comprises 13 business units: the national and global accounts organization, five geographical regions and five specialized business units in the US – critical infrastructure, healthcare, Pinkerton Corporate Risk Management, mobile and Securitas Electronic Security – plus Canada and Mexico. In total, there are approximately 114 000 employees and about 750 branch managers. ■ Security Services ■ Security Services North America 41% North America 33% ■ Security Services Europe 44% ■ Security Services Europe 35% Security Services Europe ■ Security Services ■ Security Services Security Services Europe provides security services for large and Ibero-America 13% Ibero-America 18% medium sized customers in 26 countries, and airport security in ■ Other 2% ■ Other 14% SEC U RI TA S’ M A RK E TS ›› Argentina ›› Chile ›› Egypt ›› India ›› Morocco ›› Saudi Arabia ›› Sweden ›› Uruguay ›› Australia ›› China ›› Estonia ›› Indonesia ›› the Netherlands ›› Serbia ›› Switzerland ›› USA ›› Austria ›› Colombia ›› Finland ›› Ireland ›› Norway ›› Singapore ›› Thailand ›› Vietnam ›› Belgium ›› Costa Rica ›› France ›› Jordan ›› Panama ›› Slovakia ›› Turkey ›› Bosnia and ›› Croatia ›› Germany ›› Latvia ›› Peru ›› South Africa ›› the United Arab Herzegovina ›› Czech Republic ›› Greece ›› Luxembourg ›› Poland ›› South Korea Emirates ›› Cambodia ›› Denmark ›› Hong Kong ›› Mexico ›› Portugal ›› Spain ›› the United ›› Canada ›› Ecuador ›› Hungary ›› Montenegro ›› Romania ›› Sri Lanka Kingdom Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 9 O U R M O D E L F O R C R E AT I N G VA L U E Our Model for Creating Value We aim to create long-term value for customers, employees, shareholders and society. Close, reliable long-term relationships with all our stakeholders underpin our ability to deliver that value. 6 Our business strategy to protect homes, workplaces and commuSecure that we are an attractive employer and a value-driven nities is a mission of mutual trust, based on our strong company company that continuously develop our employees. culture and a decentralized organization. Our most important assets are therefore our 345 000 employees, our strong brand, The components of the Securitas Model, the Toolbox, are the relationships with customers and the backing of our shareholders main tools for shaping managers into leaders and culture-bearers. who support the long-term development of the business. It serves as a guide at all levels, so that work is done in the right A robust company culture nurtures each of these assets. The order and in the right way. The Securitas Toolbox brings all the Securitas culture is distinguished by responsibility, ownership, elements of the model together into a hands-on management entrepreneurship and what we call the Securitas Model. High ethitool. It is used internally to convey the company’s corporate culcal standards and our core values Integrity, Vigilance and Helpture and create a shared platform on how we work. It is symbolfulness define how we work, wherever we are located. These ized through a focus on Securitas’ core values. A key element of standards and values define how we treat one another, how we our culture is continuous improvement, which is measured and make decisions and respond to challenges. They shape what we followed up. believe is important for success and how we are rewarded in our workplace. A model that yields results Our decentralized, non-hierarchal approach encourages each An integrated service offering is the outcome of our business country of operation to assume responsibility for building the model. We efficiently integrate people, knowledge and technology business in their regions, maintain close relationships with cusby combining on-site, mobile and remote guarding with electronic tomers and align with the challenges and opportunities of their security solutions, fire and safety, and corporate risk management. respective markets. Our business model enables us to create synergies across the Group and be proactive in the industry’s ongoing transformation, Our strategic priorities from traditional guarding to a much broader spectrum of protecOur business strategy has these strategic priorities: tive services and at the same time stay ahead of risks. 1 Electronic security at the customers’ sites means fewer interCreate increased customer value through development of ruptions and incidents and improved day-to-day operations. Techprotective services, combining on-site, mobile and remote nology-driven security solutions are more cost and resource-effiguarding with electronic security, fire and safety, and corporate cient. They bring more value for money and increased predictabilrisk management. ity in terms of future costs. They also generate better business 2 Create enhanced and sustainable shareholder value through opportunities and profitability for Securitas’ customers. growth in sales of security solutions and technology, which Better and financially more predictable security leads to longer will increase profitability. contracts. We have the financial strength to finance installations at customers’ sites. We demonstrate innovative ability along with 3 Extend our mobile patrol and response local knowledge, and a global presence. Finally, we can offer stanetwork and density. bility and continuity. Together, this makes Securitas a strong, trusted partner. 4 Work proactively to expand the security market by assuming responsibility for security that is currently insourced, and to support the police. 5 Make selective acquisitions, predominantly of electronic security companies that support the strategy, and of security companies in emerging markets. 10 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 FOC USED VA LU E CRE AT IO N For each key stakeholder group, we create value based on the When assignments pose physical risks, employees need to be three aspects of the New face of security: people, knowledge and equipped for the task. Strong relationships with customers are technology. also vital to our people, as they spend much of their time at customer facilities. This is important not only to secure future work Customers but also for employees’ well-being and satisfaction on the job. With better risk analysis and improved proactivity, crime, fire and With the growth of monitoring technologies, employees want to other threats can be prevented, resulting in strengthened security know that their privacy and information are protected. and lower costs from damages and disturbances. Safeguarding information not only protects our customers and prevents inciSociety dents and crimes, but also – in many cases – supports their busiSafety and stability is key in a well-functioning society. In an ness and adds value. Our emphasis on employee safety, fair labor increasingly unpredictable world, Securitas’ role is to help compapractices and wages help ensure that we are delivering services nies, infrastructure and government authorities to operate the way that customers can rely on. they are intended, without interruptions. The protection of workplaces, public areas and properties, carried out in a responsible Shareholders way, plays an important part in how we contribute to a safer and For financial stability our focus is on improved cost efficiency and more sustainable and productive society. As an employer, implemore predictable costs. Long-term thinking enabled by higher menting high standards of labor practices and paying taxes are customer retention rate and a workforce equipped to deliver on also of value. new solutions and digitization heightens the stability of future income and cash flow. Our ability to understand, manage and be transparent about risks decrease operational costs and protects our reputation, which in turn, protects shareholders’ investments. Altogether, this result in increased profitability, which will ultiDividend, MSEK Current taxes paid, MSEK mately help Securitas attract new shareholders. 1250 1250 1000 1000 Employees Employees seek a reliable employer who guarantees that they are 750 750 paid fairly for their work, empowers them to reach their full poten500 500 tial and encourages employee development through training and 250 250 experience. 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 11 O U R M O D E L F O R C R E AT I N G VA L U E O U R MOD EL FOR VA LU E CRE AT IO N MACROECONOM IC AND P OLITICAL DE VELOPMENT, MARKE T DRIVERS, COMPE TITORS AD Y TI A IT M PT C UR ICS ET IN SE LYT TH O D RE ER NA AL W SO E RI ELI A LU GH VER PO ITH TI T W ON , ADD SKS OUR PEOPLE VA T RI CUS DIC ACT TOM LUE TO PRE Y RE ONL ATS E NOT BUS RS’ CO HRE INE RE TO T SS BE MORE VISIBLE TO THE CUSTOMER THROUGH DIGITAL INTERFACES CUSTOMERS SOCIE T Y EMPLOYEE S SHAREHOLDERS › Increased security › Safer cities and communities › Safe working conditions › Enhanced with fewer business › Fewer interruptions in › More qualified shareholder value interruptions critical functions assignments › More attractive › More value for money › Reduced risk of violence › Higher job satisfaction investment › Increased focus on core › Reduced costs for business disruptions SI X A RE A S OF F U T U RE SEC U RI T Y 4 These six areas describe how we envision security in the future. Invisible/visible: Security becomes more and more invisible 1 for the end user but increasingly visible for the customer Analytics: Security will be powered by large amounts of through digital interfaces with full, real-time transparency of events data that is gathered from multiple sources, for example from and actions taken. security officers and from cameras or other electronic security 5 equipment. Analytics create the possibility to monitor ongoing Predictive prevention: Security means predicting risks rather threats, draw conclusions about future events and to evolve differthan reacting to immediate threats, and focusing more on preent security solutions. venting incidents from occurring in the first place. 2 6 Real-time adaptiveness: Security will adapt in real-time to People: People are at the center of all our security delivery. deliver the right solution when it is needed. Built on remote People interpret data and most importantly, they understand monitoring, mobile units and real-time data, security will be there the needs of the customer. when needed. 3 Evolved value: Security is no longer an issue for the security manager alone but can be used as a tool to make business run more efficiently. 12 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 U N D ER S TA N D IN G E X P EC TAT IO NS We value the insights of our stakeholders to inform our strategy internal and external stakeholders noted “Not accepting child and better understand the issues most important to them. We labor or forced labor” as a top issue regarding Securitas’ perforhave regular, often daily, contact with our stakeholders. Each year mance. external and internal stakeholders, including customers, employAmong internal stakeholders, anti-corruption, risk assessment, ees, investors, suppliers and NGOs are invited to participate in our training and health and safety issues were ranked most material, annual survey about our sustainability work and communication. followed by working conditions. Some 70 percent of respondents In the 2017 survey, working conditions such as minimum agreed sustainability is an integrated part of Securitas operations. wages and overtime regulations were considered the most mateAnd 63 percent of external respondents and 80 percent of interrial issue by external stakeholders along with labor/management nal respondents replied that Securitas’ work on sustainability relations and human rights reviews of Securitas’ operations. Both exceeded or fulfilled their expectations C US TOMER SAT ISFAC T IO N SU RV E YS Customer satisfaction surveys are one way of better understand> Training – security officers need assignment-appropriate training our customers and their expectations. Securitas conducts ing. these surveys regularly in our major markets. Three conclusions > Increased communication – more communication is needed from surveys conducted in 2017 are: to make things easier for our customers. > Service quality – continue to ensure high quality with respect to services and personnel. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 13 XXX PEOPLE 14 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 P EO P L E Our Greatest Asset We aim to take care of our people – ensure that they are paid fairly, protected from harm and that they can live up to their full potential. Increasingly, we see this as our competitive edge. Securitas’ most valuable assets are our more than 345 000 FO C US A RE A S employees. In 55 countries around the world, it is our aim to be the employer of choice. In an industry with a high employee > Fair wages ­turnover rate in some countries, fair wages and ensuring a good > Labor practices, non discrimination working environment give us access to the best and most and human rights engaged talent in the sector. It is important that we attract people who reflect our values and that we empower them to > Occupational health and safety Number of employees per business segment deliver on our evolving security offering. > Attracting talent Paying fair wages Paying fair wages is important for us. We work in many diverse markets around the world and prioritize fair wages and working Number of employees per business segment conditions wherever we operate. We exert our influence in discussions with customers, unions and with industry associations, for example National Association of Security Companies ■ Security Services North America, 33% (NASCO) in the US, all of which are important stakeholders for Security Services Europe, 35% ■ improving workers’ conditions across markets. Another example ■ Security Services Ibero-America, 18% ■ Other, 14% is in the UK, where Securitas in 2017 worked with the Living Wage Foundation to receive accreditation as a Recognized ­Service Provider (see also page 17). ■ Security Services North America, 33% 2017 2016 ■ Security Services Europe, 35% 2017 2016 Security Services North America 113 636 111A997 good working environment ■ Services North SecurityServices Security America18% Ibero-America, 113 636 111 997 ■ Other, 14% Security Services Europe 120 513 117With 155 such a large workforce, working conditions are important. Security Services Europe 120 513 117 155 Security Services Ibero-America 60 993 60Decent 848 labor practices, the right to organize, human rights and Security Services Ibero-America 60 993 60 848 Other 50 383 45non-discrimination 945 are all vital to Securitas, our employees and Other* 50 383 45 945 Total 345 525 335our 945customers. 2017 Total 345 525 2016 335 945 Security Services North America 113 636 111 997 Among our challenges to ensuring decent practices is to conSecurity Services Europe 120 513 117 155 trol the working environment of our employees when they are on Security Services Ibero-America 60 993 60 848 Other 50 383 45 945 New employees – age group and gender Total 345 525 335 945 New employees Employee turnover, % in relation to total new employees, % % Antal % Women Men 59 150 000 48 ■ Under 30 years ■ Under 30 years 46 56 120 000 44 ■ 30–50 years ■ 30–50 years ■ Over 50 years ■ Over 50 years 53 90 000 42 50 60 000 40 38 47 30 000 36 44 0 34 Women Men Total 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Under 30 years 13.2 36.8 50.0 % of average number of yearly employees. 30–50 years 8.1 27.2 35.3 2017: 61% (59) Over 50 years 2.7 12.0 14.7 ■■ Actual number. 2017: 175 057 (165 084) Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 15 P EO P L E assignments at customer sites. As an important part of our due In countries where Securitas does not have collective bargaindiligence prior to accepting a contract, we evaluate the working ing agreements or union representation such as Serbia and the conditions. This helps us ensure that our customers offer our UAE, we encourage other ways of maintaining open dialog with employees a good work environment. If we see that conditions our employees including workplace meetings, employee are not deemed adequate or we cannot come to a mutual agreeombudsmen, call centers, and channels for reporting concerns ment on how to remedy the situation, we will not accept the such as the Securitas Integrity Line. assignment. Promoting inclusive employment Shared agenda Non-discrimination is a basic tenet of our approach to decent Our sector is highly staff-intensive, and for many workers, a posilabor practices. People with disabilities face obstacles that pretion as a security officer is their first entry to the labor market. For vent them from actively participating in society and work life. For these reasons, dialog with unions is crucial to strong employee over a decade Securitas in Latin America has promoted inclusive relations. employment for people with disabilities. Securitas Colombia, Securitas has entered into framework agreements with UNI which has worked with this since 2006, in 2017 employed more Global Union, the Swedish Transport Workers’ Association, and than 100 people with physical disabilities. These employees the European Workers’ Council (EWC) in our European division. work in different security functions, particularly retail and shopUNI represents more than 20 million workers from over 900 trade ping centers in the cities of Bogotá, Cali, Ibague and Bucaraunions in skills and services sectors, including security services. manga. Securitas in Colombia carries out its inclusive employThe agreement underlines our joint commitment to universal ment initiatives in alliance with the Arcángeles Foundation, dediprinciples of business conduct as outlined by the United Nations cated to improving the rights of people with disabilities Global Compact and ILO’s core conventions and sets our level of In 2017 Securitas Colombia was awarded the Ibero-America ambition and open dialog. For us, the agreement has opened an Award from the Ibero-American Social Security Organization in important channel of communications between union represenrecognition of innovations to promote the employment of people tatives and Securitas on issues of mutual concern. with disabilities in the region. The EWC also brings us together with employee representaOther countries of operation in Latin America joined this initives from our operations in Europe. Meetings, which occur at tiative, employing more than 320 people in Argentina, Chile, least three times every year, are opportunities to address issues Costa Rica, Peru and Uruguay. jointly with senior management. Focus areas include fair wages and ensuring human rights, and Occupational health and safety that workers are equipped with proper equipment and uniforms. We do not compromise on safety. Our security officers are Particularly in markets with increasing use of technology to track and trained not only to protect themselves, but also to help others trace movement, privacy and integrity issues are gaining ground. while on assignment, for example, by performing first-aid and Work-related injuries Share of employees 2017 covered by collective Workforce split on Arbetsstyrka uppdelad 2017 2016 2015 bargaining agreements employment category Managers/ på anställningskategori office personnel 15 825 Actual number of work-related injuries 5 647 6 139 6 361 Security officers 317 659 Injury rate 1.7 1.8 1.9 Total* 333 484 Actual number of work-related fatalities 7 4 8 Definitions according to GRI Standards * The difference compared with total number of employees is explained by missing information from eight countries of operation. Causes, work-related fatalities 2017 2016 2015 ■ 58% (55) ■ Security officers, 95% (96) ■ Managers/office personnel, 5% (4) Traffic accident 4 2 6 ■ Väktare, 96% Crushing accident 0 0 0 ■ Chefer/tjänstemän, 4% Heart attack 1 0 0 Shooting, other fatal attack 1 1 1 Fire accident 0 0 1 Gender distribution Fall accident 1 0 0 average number of Gender distribution, Other accident 0 1 0 yearly employees Board of Directors Notes: One of the traffic accidents 2017 (Vietnam) occurred while traveling to or from work, but are % % according to local rules classified as work related fatalities. 100 100 Fatalities caused by heart attack is in the case reported classified as work related fatalities according to local rules, as the incident occurred during working hours. 80 80 60 60 40 40 Countries of operation with formal health and safety committees* 20 20 0 0 2017 2016 2015 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Number of countries with formal health and safety committees* 78 % 77 % N/A ■■ Women, 2017: 21% (20) ■■ Women, 2017: 33% (33) ■■ Men, 2017: 79% (80) ■■ Men, 2017: 67% (67) * Reporting countries represent 98% of total sales / 96% of total number of employees. 16 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 P EO P L E CPR, and fire safety. Health and safety aspects can vary dependListening to our people ing on the assignment, and customer sites are therefore We conduct recurring employee surveys as one way of listening assessed from a health and safety perspective. Security officers to our employees. In 2017, employee surveys were carried out in receive training, instruction and equipment in line with the Security Services Europe covering all employees. Security Serassignment. We work actively with occupational health and vices North America conducted an employee survey for the first safety issues in all countries. 17 countries of operation are time in 2017, covering managers and office personnel. Our longOHSAS 18001 certified. term ambition is to extend the survey to all employees in all An important part of our risk assessment revolves around major markets. safety issues. Most of our operations have a ‘near-miss program’ Results consistently indicate that a critical factor for employreporting system, which helps us identify and scope safety hazees’ job satisfaction is feeling empowered. Securitas in Sweden ards. Our learnings from our approach have become part of serintroduced a new way to help ensure that everyone’s voice is vices we offer our customers. heard. Through an internal website, employees have the opporA frequent question concerns the health and safety aspects tunity to express themselves and share their ideas, opinions and associated with the risk that our security officers might be criticisms: Workplace by Facebook (see page 19). exposed to violence in the line of duty. Although the types of assignments Securitas focuses on carry low risk of getting Gender balance involved in conflicts, the risk of conflict is an occupational hazard In a male-dominated industry, one of our challenges is increasing in our industry. gender diversity. We recognize this is an area of growing priority, Securitas makes extensive efforts to secure the health and for both Securitas and our stakeholders and we are working on safety of both our security officers and the individuals they must, achieving a better balance. In the current Securitas workforce, from time to time, act against. If threatening situations occur, the there are 79 percent men and 21 percent women. In senior mansecurity officers are instructed to avoid confrontation and await agement, the share of females is 7 percent, compared to 8 perthe arrival of the police. The vast majority of our security officers cent in 2016. do not carry weapons. Those who do have undergone specialist The share of women on Securitas’ Board of Directors with the training and licensing requirements and are usually placed in current proposal is 33 percent, two percentage points below the special assignments, for example, in a critical infrastructure facillevel of ambition recommended by the Swedish Corporate Govity such as an airport or a nuclear power plant. ernance Board. It is the ambition of the Board’s Nomination Most officers report online through a mobile device that often Committee to continue the work to create an equal gender distriincludes a panic button. If employees encounter an issue where bution on the Board. It is our ambition to increase the number of they need help, the primary action is to call the police. women in operational manager positions. C A SE UK: TOWA RDS A L I V IN G WAGE Securitas UK believes that every member of staff should earn a wage that meets the cost of living. In 2017, the company worked closely with the Living Wage Foundation to earn accreditation as its 100th Recognized Service Provider. Securitas UK is committed to offer a real Living Wage option alongside every tender opportunity to all prospective and current customers. This means the customer always has the choice to implement the Living Wage at the point of tender and there is a pathway towards the real Living Wage. Securitas UK is part of a strategic community of over 3 500 organizations that support and promote the real Living Wage, and who are committed to ending low pay in the UK’s lowest paid service sectors. While currently not all of Securitas UK’s employees receive the real Living Wage, it is hoped that by offering a Living Wage option to both existing customers as well as within tender opportunities, more and more people will see its benefits. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 17 P EO P L E CO N T RIBU T IN G TO T H E LOC A L COMMU N I T IES We contribute to local communities through creating work > Spain – Securitas Spain has taken an active approach in the opportunities and prioritizing procurement from local suppliers fight against gender violence by signing an agreement with and employing local managers. In fact, 96 percent of our top the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to employ managers in our countries of operation are locally employed. women who have been victims. An internal communication Securitas companies around the world also engage actively in campaign raises awareness of the issue to employees. various local community projects, such as security training in schools, promoting cooperation with local communities and sup> India – In India, many women feel unsafe in public spaces. To pliers, mentorship programs for young people, and employment contribute to a safer society, Securitas India has introduced opportunities for people having difficulties entering the job market. several initiatives, including one that actively promotes womBelow are a few examples where we have participated in en’s self-defense classes, where Securitas employees train local community initiatives. our customers’ female staff. > Argentina – Securitas Argentina established a supplier develop> Denmark – Together with a number of municipalities and priment program, where they purchase products from small local vate companies in Denmark, Securitas is participating in a mensuppliers who provide employment opportunities for people torship project. Our employees serve as mentors to young with disabilities or contribute to vulnerable sectors of society. people entering the work force, and in some cases young Securitas Argentina also has a Ministry of Education people with criminal backgrounds. The mentor prepares an accreditation as a support center for the Secondary Education action plan for the daily work and then accompanies the young Program, which allows us to offer all employees and their family person to the workplace as support to help develop the necesmembers an opportunity to complete their secondary educasary social and professional skills. tion through the Ministry’s Adult Education e-learning platform. In addition, the company has a number of scholarships, open > United Arab Emirates – Securitas is working closely with a both for employees and their family members. One example is school for children with special needs in the United Arab Emira grant available for children of security officers that covers ates. Employees regularly visit the school, which Securitas has expenses for school material or other necessary items. supplied with cameras and access controls as well as first aid and firefighting training to teachers, free of charge. > USA – Securitas participates in a national initiative to create jobs for military veterans. Since 2012 Securitas has hired more than 40 000 veterans. C A SE U N I T ED A R A B EMIR AT ES: HOME AWAY F ROM HOME People from all over the world come to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to find work. Private companies and public-sector entities alike depend on a foreign workforce. Security officers in Securitas UAE come from many different countries. For Securitas, all aspects of employment, from the recruitment process to employment conditions, must follow both local laws and our own policies. At times, recruitment campaigns are carried out in the job seekers’ home countries. In these cases, Securitas’ managers are directly involved in the process and ensure that agents representing Securitas in the foreign country follow our policies. Like most foreign workers in the UAE, security officers live in labor accommodations. Securitas ensures that the accommodations are clean, well-equipped with good kitchen facilities, Internet connection, exercise equipment, and with organized activities such as beach outings, quiz nights and sports. Employees are also provided with a full yearly medical check-up, including eye and dental examinations. 18 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 XXX C A SE S W ED EN: A P L AT FORM FOR D I A LOG Internal communication has traditionally been a challenge for large companies, and Securitas is no exception not least because of the nature of our operations. Many of our employees work at night and often carry out their assignment at customer sites. Most work alone and seldom meet their manager. This has made employee/manager communication difficult. Lack of dialog with an immediate manager has been highlighted as a problem in our regular employee surveys. In response, Securitas Sweden launched a new internal website in October 2017 where all of our close to 9 000 employees have the same opportunity to express themselves and share their ideas, opinions and criticisms: Workplace by Facebook. Users can send live videos to groups, create and upload documents, hold votes, and plan meetings and events. The structure also reflects Securitas’ organization, making it easier to see a person’s position in the organization as well as his or her job and manager. Social and business benefits There are social benefits to the website in a company where interaction between colleagues has often been limited, but there are business benefits as well: > Enabling everyone to share their experiences and knowledge increases understanding of the company’s strategy in all areas of the organization. > The website makes it easy to give one another tips about which technical equipment works best in which situation or to pass on information. > New ideas and innovative ways of thinking become a more natural part of day-to-day communication when it is easy to share them with others. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 19 XXX KNOWLEDGE 20 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 KNOWLEDGE Building Our Knowledge Capital Securitas’ customers are demanding a higher degree of security and more advanced security solutions. We are leveraging our core competence while at the same time tapping into innovation and developing the knowledge of our workforce to meet new challenges. rate risk management, adapted to each customer and segment. FO C US A RE A S This includes expertise in security solutions to improve fire safety, risk evaluations and disaster assistance. > Talent training > Security solutions Intelligent security beyond 2020 > Intelligent security The next step in our knowledge journey is intelligent security. Securitas has been anticipating this trend and have made significant investments. We turn predictive security into intelligent security by reporting, analyzing and relying on large volumes of data. This increases a sense of security, reduces crime and protects property, information and people. Surveillance services The role of the security officer is changing and the tasks they ensure real-time detection of incidents and enable prompt perform are multiplying. Most importantly, the value they add is actions or mitigate their consequences. growing larger. Security officers are increasingly equipped with Our ambition is to use both historical and real-time data genadvanced security systems that enhance the value they deliver erated by our security officers and equipment such as sensors and raise the bar for safety in their surroundings, and for themand cameras at the sites. These measures, combined with exterselves. Using this technology efficiently requires both a wide set nal crime and data sources, improve our fact-based risk assessof skills and specialized capabilities. ments. We have our own training centers in most countries of operation, to ensure that the employees have the necessary competence to provide the customers with high quality security services. By improving the knowledge and skills of employees, we contribute to their professional growth and to the understanding of the security profession. Empowering employees means greater focus on training, skills and opportunities for professional development. We also encourage people to take on responsibility early in one’s career. Training hours Approximately 90 percent of our managers and office person2017 2016 nel have completed the course in Securitas’ Values and Ethics, and approximately 80 percent of the security officers. Total number of hours of training 8 046 648 7 957 045 Average number of hours of training per employee 25.78 24.09 Investing in our people Definitions according to GRI standards Since 2011, we have made major investments in technology resources, hired a large number of engineers and technical support experts, integrated numerous acquisitions and made subTraining hours, per employment category stantial investments in equipment installations at customers’ sites. 2017 Security solutions Managers/office staff 283 065 We provide our customers with on-site, mobile and remote Security officers 7 763 583 guarding, electronic security, fire and safety services and corpoDefinitions according to GRI standards Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 21 KNOWLEDGE C A SE T R A IN IN G O U R EMP LOY EES Continuously developing employees’ skills and competencies is central to our ability to offer industry-leading knowledge. Our employees are offered a number of different courses, from basic induction courses to highly specialized training for specific customer segments or in electronic security. The main objective is to increase the professionalism and specialization of the security officers and the industry. Employees are offered a number of different courses and programs. Different methods of training are available, such as classroom training in our training centers or in a branch office, or e-learning remotely, to reach as many employees as possible. C A SE SH A RI N G K N OW L ED GE W I T H O U R C US TOMER S We seek innovative ways to transfer our knowledge about security and our solutions to our customers and to society. One of the ways in which we do this is through the Securitas Experience Center in Malmo, Sweden. This is an environment that in a realistic way demonstrates how advanced technology in combination with trained employees enhances security. The center functions as an important knowledge center for all the countries in which Securitas have operations. Visitors can experience how security solutions work in different environments and test the equipment and solutions themselves. For example, they can test how the technology can automatically detect intruders in complete darkness. The overall aim is to show customers and other stakeholders how the Securitas approach – people, knowledge, technology – all fits together. 22 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 XXX TECHNOLOGY Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 23 T EC H N O L O G Y Sharp focus on technology We consider and address the implications of an increasingly technology-driven industry on data privacy and surveillance practices. Monitoring services FO C US A RE A S Monitoring services ensure real-time detection of crimes and other incidents and enable prompt actions to stop criminals or > Protecting information mitigate the consequences of incidents. Our ambition is to > Monitoring practices deliver predictive security that enables us to detect crimes and other incidents and, if possible, prevent them from occurring. > Digitization Among the areas of exploration are robotics and use of drones. The use of drones offers monitoring possibilities that can enhance, for example, the customer’s fire and safety security. Securitas takes seriously the benefits and risks to privacy posed by technology. Modern software in surveillance cameras can be With our combination of on-site, mobile and remote guarding, and programmed so that the camera surveillance at the customer’s electronic security we can deliver a heightened level of safety, site only starts when something happens that is different to the improved operations with fewer disruptions and incidents and, in usual pattern, for example irregular movements in a parking many cases, cost savings. We can improve risk assessments and garage. That way, the cameras do not film the whole time, which scale security needs, and customers are partners in this process. protects the integrity of people who have legitimate reasons to Doing our job well depends on working with large amounts of data be on the site. and making the best and most intelligent use of it. We address negative implications of these technological The technology-based part of our services is growing at a advances by, at a minimum, complying with all relevant legislagood pace. This varies from country to country and in different tive requirements. In addition, our policies, including Securitas’ regions. The strongest demand for electronic security solutions Values and Ethics Code and purchasing guidelines help support is in Europe and the US. These are also the regions that have us to address these issues. come farthest in developing robust, forward-looking regulation Our emphasis on processes for risk assessment has enabled designed to protect information and privacy. us to analyze risks efficiently, including newer implications of Securitas has policies, processes and training are built on the increased digitization of the industry and society. General Data Protection Guidelines (GDPR), adopted by the Security officers using monitoring systems can minimize and European Parliament and which will come into force in 2018. control incidents remotely. This improves the safety of our people as well as our customers. Responsible approach As we continue to invest in increasingly sophisticated elecSignificant opportunities lie in developing our technology offertronic security solutions, it will be important to continue to ing, but it also poses challenges and high expectations to deliver ensure trust in the technology and our ability to deploy it responthese solutions responsibly. These include the societal impacts sibly. of big data, the Internet of Things, robotics and connectivity. It is important to put checks and balances in place to protect data on behalf of our customers and the general public. It is also essential that data is only shared and aggregated based on customer approvals, legal requirements and in the interest of protecting the privacy rights of individuals. For example, cameras are only installed and the customers’ sites. Many large corporations have strict requirements for the use of big data. It is important to be watchful and establish processes and practices to safeguard data privacy. At Securitas we have policies, processes and training to manage these concerns. No cases of data privacy breach were reported in Securitas Integrity Line in 2017. 24 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 XXX C A SE A X IS – PA R T N ER SH IP FO U N DED O N SH A RED VA LU ES The use of remote video is on the rise – and with it, the need for heightened data security. To meet this need, Securitas has a global cooperation to drive the development of remote video solutions with Axis Communications, a market leader in IP (Internet Protocol) cameras and network video solutions. Axis offers intelligent network video solutions to customers around the world through partners in 179 countries. The partnership is built on a set of shared values. Axis meets the Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and actively works with sustainability issues within their supply chain. Axis’ goal is to take integrity and privacy into consideration in all business processes and to promote it in the entire value chain, from product development and manufacturing to distribution and sales. Data privacy is particularly important within our remote video solutions, where we offer a secure and protected framework for video surveillance. Axis also has a sharp focus on IT security and data privacy issues. It aims to eliminate vulnerabilities in its solutions, with customer information handled in well-protected systems. Axis’ suppliers are selected based on how they work with business ethics, their environmental impact and social issues such as working conditions and respect for human rights. Axis requires responsible sourcing of minerals to avoid conflict minerals in their products, an important consideration in the sourcing of electronic technology. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 25 XXX OUR WAY OF WORKING 26 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G How we lead We lead by example in our company through experience and knowledge, a solid culture and strong values. observe, listen and evaluate in order to do what is reasonable to FO C US A RE A S protect the customer’s premises and the values and ethics that Securitas represents. > Customer relations With Helpfulness, Securitas strives to make people’s lives > Transparency easier. Employees are expected to be ready to assist within the > Organizational integrity and accountability context of a particular assignment. We must be prepared to support our colleagues, customers and others who need assistance. > Ethical business practices Our structured and systematic work methods are based on > Long-term profitable growth Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. The Code provides guidance pertaining to acceptable standards of integrity and appropriate business conduct. It covers areas including our values, compliance Wherever we operate in the world, the Securitas culture is characwith laws and regulations, human rights (including that Securitas terized by responsibility, ownership and entrepreneurship. does not employ or accept any form of child labor or forced or Securitas’ Ethics and Values Code and our core values — Integrity, bonded labor), business ethics, environment, community involveVigilance and Helpfulness — define how we work. Our flat, non-­ ment, implementation and compliance. hierarchal organization fosters an environment of openness, accessibility and empowerment. Compliance and beyond Conducting our business according to laws and regulations, mainGrounded in our values taining high business ethical standards and upholding our shared Shared at the highest levels of the company, starting with the values are important components of all of Securitas’ operations. Board of Directors, our values play an important role in the selecWithout exception, all employees and business partners must tion of managers and other leaders. comply with the laws and regulations in the countries in which Integrity starts with the tone at the top. Mandatory training of Securitas operates. all employees backs policies such as Securitas’ Values and Ethics. The Securitas Integrity Line provides a channel for reporting cases Giving everyone a voice on non-compliance. The Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code is also We take the pulse of our employees’ views about their work in our well integrated into our risk assessment (see Risk section, page biannual employee surveys. So far, the surveys have been carried 34). out in Security Services Europe covering all employees. Security Securitas’ management model, the Toolbox, is a hands-on Services North America conducted an employee survey for the guide to all managers of how Securitas works. It is used as a first time in 2017, covering managers and office personnel. shared platform to convey the company’s corporate culture, Other input is the use of internal reports of non-compliance ensuring that we have the same focus on quality, on people, on with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. We believe it is important responsibility and values across the company. By having these to have several different communication and reporting channels fundamental qualities at our core, we create trust in the company, so that employees can find a channel they are comfortable with to our values, our brand and our people. report actions do not reflect our values and ethics. Those include With Integrity, Securitas insists on an open approach to busiemployee ombudsmen, local call centers and internal e-mail ness. We are uncompromising in our demands for integrity and addresses. All employees are informed about the Securitas Integtruthfulness. Integrity also includes the right to openly express rity Line (Securitas Hotline in the US and Canada, Linea de Alerta one’s opinion and report improprieties and other relevant informain Mexico), which is manned around the clock. External parties can tion without risking reprisals. also use Securitas Integrity Line to report concerns. With Vigilance, Securitas insists on a professional approach to business. We expect employees to be attentive and able to Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 27 Risk assessments of new markets There are some markets that pose higher risks than others for Before entering a market or beginning a new relationship with a operating a business. customer, it is important for us to ensure that we can carry out For further information on Securitas’ enterprise risk manageassignments safely and securely and that we do not risk being ment, see pages 34-37. complicit in human rights violations. Securitas has processes in place to ensure we live up to all To assess and verify our ability to operate in a new market in legal standards, following local and regional legislation and reguan acceptable way, we conduct risk assessments prior to entering lations regarding for example, social security charges and taxaa new market. The issues and market conditions analyzed include tion. We pay taxes according to local laws and regulations in the human rights and risk of corruption when conducting business. location where we do business. When deemed necessary, customers are also risk assessed. 28 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G Integrating sustainability priorities Securitas has a well-developed system for managing our work in environmental, social and governance areas. Our system for managing its work in environmental, social and Accountability across the board governance areas comprises six key components: The Board of Directors decides on Securitas’ sustainability strat1 Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code: egy and policies together with the President and CEO of Securitas One of the company’s most important policies, it stipulates AB, who has ultimate responsibility for the realization of the the basic principles that Securitas expects all of its employees Group’s sustainability work. and business partners to follow at all times (see How We Lead). The Group Sustainability Officer is supported by the Group Sustainability Steering Committee, which establishes the princi2 Employee training: All Securitas employees undergo ples for our work and follows up cases of alleged non-compliance training in Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. An in-depth with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. The committee meets e-learning program for managers and office personnel is availregularly and comprises the General Counsel and the Director of able in more than 40 languages. Local-language e-learning and Corporate Communications and Public Affairs. classroom training sessions are held for the company’s security officers. Relevant employees also receive training in other core In support of the UN Global Compact policies, such as the anti-corruption policy. Securitas has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2015. By incorporating the UNGC’s Ten Principles into 3 System for reporting non-compliance: Securitas Integrity our strategies, policies and procedures, and our focus on a culture Line (known as Securitas Hotline in the US and Canada, and of integrity, we contribute to protecting both people and planet. Linea de Alerta in Mexico) is a Group system used for reporting These principles are built on labor and human rights set out in the cases of non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Code. All employees and business partners are encouraged Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and and expected to report any cases of non-compliance, with the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. assurance that the reporter will not be subjected to any negative consequences (see How We Lead). Strong anti-corruption stance 4 Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and the anti-corruption policy Risk management: Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values set out minimum requirements that ensure compliance with appliand Ethics Code is considered a risk, and as such, it has been cable local and extraterritorial laws. Group Policies establish the classified as one of six priority risks in the Group’s enterprise risk framework for all policies and compliance monitoring in the Group. management process. These risks are followed up on a regular The anti-corruption policy underlines our zero tolerance for any basis. corrupt practices, with clear definitions, requirements for risk 5 Monitoring: To meet the demands of customers and other assessment, training and follow-up. It provides examples as well stakeholders with respect to increased transparency and as guidance on how to evaluate and deal with forms of bribery communication, Securitas AB publishes a sustainability report and corruption facilitation payments and third-party relationships. that follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. Acting with integrity and ensuring we take an active stand against corruption are prioritized issues. Certain markets are more 6 Group Sustainability Officer: The Group Sustainability challenging than others in this regard. However, this does not Officer leads ongoing work, and in addition to following the mean that low-risk countries are not subject to situations of bribregular reporting line, also reports to the Board of Directors’ ery or corruption. For Securitas, it is important to train all relevant Audit Committee. Responsibilities include coordination of employees in awareness and management of suspected corrupsustainability activities across the Group, which involves working tion in all our markets. No cases of bribery were reported in closely together with other core functions, for example, the legal Securitas Integrity Line in 2017. and risk organization at different levels in the company, as well as Local entities are asked to create policies for gifts and enterHR managers at the country level. Other responsibilities include tainment. Relevant managers and administrative staff have to stakeholder engagement on sustainability issues, and supporting countries of operation with respect to sustainability matters. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 29 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G complete an e-learning course on the anti-corruption policy. according with Securitas’ specific requirements could severely Approximately 90 percent of these have completed the course. impact our performance or brand, locally or globally. Suppliers’ adherence to our anti-corruption policy is also a key Setting high standards area for monitoring performance. While selecting, assessing and It is important that the decisions we make reflect our ambition to monitoring critical suppliers, we also evaluate whether the supplier do business responsibly, even though our climate impact and the has identified, established a selection procedure, and conducted impact of our purchasing are not deemed areas where we can risk assessments of its own critical suppliers. make the greatest difference. That is why we have relevant policies that cover these areas: Securitas Integrity Line Securitas encourages all employees to report incidents of > T  he Securitas Group emissions policy, which states that we non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code or any strive to reduce our climate impact, focusing primarily on the irregularities that they encounter in their work. This can be done energy and transport areas. through various channels, for example, the Group’s reporting system Securitas Integrity Line, which is publicly available on our > T  he Securitas supplier and subcontractor policy, which website at www.securitasintegrity.com. establishes that all procurements should be in accordance with The most common types of issues reported through Securitas applicable laws and all suppliers must comply with Securitas’ Integrity Line concern terms of employment, harassment and Values and Ethics Code. equal opportunities. After being investigated, approximately 80 Each country in which Securitas operates has its own percent of these cases turned out to be unsubstantiated. In situaapproach to monitoring how suppliers adhere to Securitas’ Value tions where the investigation concluded that the case constituted and Ethics Code, which is followed up in the Group’s Enterprise non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code or local Risk Management process. Each country monitors critical supplilaw, actions have been taken according to local laws and regulaers, defined as those suppliers whose failure to perform in tions and Securitas’ policies. 30 Securitas hållbarhetsrapport 2016 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G Influencing change Our aim is to influence the security industry to continuously raise the bar on wages, working conditions and responsibility. We are in a position to lead our industry towards a greater focus the ten UN Global Compact principles. As a service company, our on responsible business practices. Our aim is to create a level supply chain is less material to our sustainability approach; this playing field, grounded on operating in ways that, at a minimum, includes primarily purchase of uniforms, some electronic equipmeet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, ment and vehicles. Insights into our suppliers’ impacts are gathlabor, environment and anti-corruption. Foremost, we do this by ered through self-assessments and our own risk assessments, building a profitable business model and staying true to our culamong other processes. ture where responsibility, employee focus and ethical business Securitas also engages with other members of our sector, for practices lie at the core. example through International Security Ligue, employee represenIn this way, we are well-positioned to influence our value chain, tatives such as UNI Global Union and our customers to raise both with our customers and in prioritizing sound business partawareness of sustainability issues, and influence conditions across ners in our choice of suppliers. In regions considered high risk, our industry. We are engaged in organizations such as the Internacustomers are mainly global companies or other actors that are tional Code of Conduct Association and National Association of deemed as having lower risk for non-compliance to human rights. Security Companies (NASCO) in the US. Through our relationships with customers, we are better able to We comply with economic and trade sanctions issued by the ensure that our employees are provided with good working condiUnited Nations, the European Union and the United States of tions and fair wages. We have a vetting process in place to evaluAmerica, where applicable. ate customer contracts where company practices do not reflect T H E U N ’S SUS TA IN A B L E DE V ELOP MEN T GOA L S Through the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals Goal 8: (SDGs) and across all sectors of society people are mobilizing Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainaefforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle clible economic growth, full and productive mate change to 2030. Securitas supports the SDGs and we take employment and decent work for all. the chosen SDGs into consideration into our strategy work and in Securitas is a large employer with operations in our daily operations. Through our work to improve labor condimany countries around the world. We strive to be a stable and tions, promote and protect human rights and the environment responsible employer that offers good working conditions and across our value chain, our greatest opportunity to contribute to opportunities to grow. the SDGs lies in the following areas. Goal 16: Goal 5: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Achieve gender equality and empower all sustainable development, provide access to women and girls. justice for all and build effective, accountaSecuritas is an equal opportunity employer and ble and inclusive institutions at all levels. we strive to increase the number of women in We have an important role to play in providing a sense of secumanagement positions. rity to the general public and protecting important infrastructure. Securitas also has a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of bribery and corruption. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 31 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G O U R VA LU E CH A IN We offer a broad and expanding spectrum of security services, including a rapidly increasing range of technology-based solutions. Our value chain comprises the following components. DEVELOPMENT OF SUPPLIERS OUR OPERATIONS CUSTOMERS THE GENERAL SERVICES We must ensure that It is important that We offer our PUBLIC Innovation is importour suppliers live up to Securitas’ core values customers on-site, The general public, ant for us to be able to our requirements, and – Integrity, Vigilance mobile and remote represented by continue to lead the they must all adhere and Helpfulness guarding, electronic our customers’ security industry. Our to Securitas’ Values – are shared by all security, fire and safety, customers, for exemployees’ extensive and Ethics Code. employees and that and corporate risk ample, in shopping experience in and Suppliers of uniforms everyone follows management. Our malls, at airports or knowledge about and electronic security the Group’s policies, solutions are based on in municipalities, security is a strength equipment are defined such as Securitas’ thorough analysis to also encounter our and a competitive adas critical suppliers, Values and Ethics ensure that we provide security services vantage. It is essential meaning suppliers and the anti-corappropriate and tailorand security that we are able to whose failure to perruption policy. We made services to every solutions. In this attract people with form in accordance train all employees customer. For our way, we contribute the right competence with Securitas’ specific in Securitas’ Values customers, these to making society and values, and to requirements could seand Ethics, and there increasingly safer to live and retain and develop our verely impact Securitas’ are different channels sophisticated security work in. employees. performance or brand, for reporting cases of solutions lead to a Possibility to locally or globally. non-compliance with safer environment with Possibility to influ­influence: indirect. Possibility to the ethics code and fewer interruptions and ence: direct. ­influence: indirect. other key policies. incidents. They also Possibility to influprovide a greater ence: direct. sense of safety and lead to improved operations and, in many cases, cost savings. The increased use of technology in our security solutions must also be safe from an integrity perspective.. Possibility to ­influence: indirect. EN G AGIN G IN T H E IN D US T RY Securitas are members in the following industry organizations: > National organizations for security companies in most of > International Security Ligue countries where we operate, for example National Association of Security Companies (US), Bundesverband der Sicherhe> International Code of Conduct Association (ICoCA) itswirtschaft (Germany), Cámara Argentina de Empresas de > Aviation Security Services Association International (ASSA-I) Seguridad e Investigación (Argentina), The Hong Kong Secu> ASIS International (ASIS) rity Association (Hong Kong) 32 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 XXX RECO GN IZED FOR O U R P ERFORM A N CE > Sustainability indexes > Supplier rating systems and reporting – STOXX Global ESG Leaders (STOXX) – EcoVadis (silver level and industry leader) – FTSE4Good Index Series – Sedex – CDP > International commitments – UN Global Compact – International Security Ligue’s Code of Conduct and Ethics – International Code of Conduct for Private Security Services Providers (ICoCA) Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 33 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G Risk management of focus areas Securitas’ process for enterprise risk management (ERM) seeks to identify, prioritize and manage the key risks to our business at all levels and in all parts of the business. At the highest level, the Board considers where future strategic the controls in place (reduce, transfer/share or accept the risk in opportunities and risks lie, and helps shape the corporate stratquestion). egy. Balanced and focused risk management is necessary for the Internal control covers all divisions and subsidiaries in the fulfillment of Securitas’ strategies and the achievement of its corGroup. Internal control activities are established by policies and porate objectives. processes, which help ensure that all management directives for Enterprise risk management is an integral component of risk management are executed. Controls are performed at several Securitas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the company levels within the organization and are established based on the culture. Risk assessment is a dynamic process that aims to idenprocess concerned. For more information on the Group’s risk tify and analyze risks in relation to Securitas’ objectives. It serves management, see Securitas AB’s Annual Report 2017, pages as the basis for implementing mitigating actions after considering 36–44. B ELOW IS A DESCRIP T IO N OF T H E RISK S FACED IN E ACH FOC US A RE A A N D H OW W E M A N AGE T H EM . PEOPLE – Focus areas Fair wages not to be represented by a trade union for the purpose of collecAs a leading player in the security industry, it is important that we tive bargaining. pay wages that meet or exceed legal or industry minimums. The Securitas has sound processes in place to ensure we live up to security business is characterized by low margins and fierce price all legal standards, and comply with local and regional legislation competition in many markets. Securitas’ strategy is to move up and regulations regarding social security contributions and taxathe value chain and offer security solutions instead of only guardtion. In order to assess and verify our ability to conduct business ing hours. This enables us to avoid competing solely on the basis in a new market in an acceptable manner, an in-depth risk assessof price and to pay wages that are in line with our standards. ment is performed before entering a new market. Issues and We exert our influence in discussions with customers, unions market conditions analyzed include, among other things, human and industry associations, all of which are important stakeholders rights. When deemed necessary, we can also conduct a risk for improving workers’ conditions across various markets assessment of the customers. Labor practices, non-discrimination and human rights Occupational health and safety With such a large workforce, working conditions are important. Health and safety aspects can vary depending on the assignment, Decent labor practices, the right to organize, human rights and and customer sites are therefore assessed from a health and non-discrimination are all vital to Securitas, our employees and safety perspective. The most common causes of work-related our customers. The major risks that we have identified are disinjuries are slips and falls, traffic accidents and assault. crimination and the rights of all employees to choose whether or We are working to prevent these risks and taking measures to 34 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G ensure the health and safety of our security officers. Employees Access to talent are trained continuously to ensure they can perform their tasks EOne of our biggest challenges is to attract new employees, and safely and avoid work-related injuries. It is also important to allow them to develop so that they stay in the company. We must ensure that they have equipment in line with the assignment. also be able to attract the right employees from a declining supply There are formal processes for reporting and investigating occuof labor, especially as we work in an industry with a high staff pational safety incidents and for addressing underlying causes. turnover rate in some countries. If threatening situations occur, our officers are instructed to Employees who remain with the company longer become avoid confrontation and await the arrival of the police. Most secumore qualified through training and experience, and are a vital rity officers report online through a mobile device that often part of realizing our strategy to offer protective security through includes a panic button. our security solutions. Part of this strategy involves expanding our In a male-dominated industry, one of our challenges is increasmobile guarding services and emergency services networks to ing gender diversity. We recognize this is an area of growing prienable rapid growth. We have the advantage of already having ority, for both Securitas and our stakeholders, and we are working numerous qualified guards for this kind of work. Another part of to achieve a better balance. the strategy is to expand the mobile patrol and response network Our sector is highly staff-intensive, and for many employees, and density to be able to respond quickly. At the same time, this their position as a security officer is their first experience of the creates a development opportunity for our employees, since we labor market. Accordingly, engaging in a dialog with unions is crumust always improve our service quality and efficiency. cial to strong employee relations. Securitas has entered into To be the leading global security company specialized in proframework agreements with UNI Global Union, the Swedish tective services, we must continue to train our employees at all Transport Workers’ Association, and the European Workers’ levels, and according to our customers’ requirements. Refining and Council (EWC) in our European division. developing our processes for recruitment, onboarding and talent management are other essential activities. The strategy also requires new competencies, such as engineers and technicians, which will create cross-functional development opportunities. KNOWLEDGE – Focus areas Training The role of the security officer is changing, and the tasks they Over the past decade, the security industry has undergone a perform are multiplying. They are increasingly equipped with major transformation, from traditional guarding to a wider range advanced security systems, and using this technology efficiently of security solutions. Securitas is leading this transformation, and requires both a wide set of skills and specialized capabilities. one of the challenges we face in maintaining our position is to Securitas must be able to attract and retain the right talent to ensure that we train our employees at all levels to provide remain a leader in the development of the security industry. This high-quality professional security services. applies to both security officers and new specialists in technology, To meet customer demands, Securitas has training centers in digitization, data analysis and statistics. Our ability to share best most countries and provides both basic and highly specialized practice and innovation and work in cross-border projects must also training for employees at all levels. In some countries, it is not be honed. mandatory to complete basic training before being allowed to work as a security officer, but Securitas ensures that all new Intelligent security employees receive at least basic security training. In other counThe next paradigm shift in the security industry is about moving tries, training is required and Securitas often plays an active role in from predictive security to intelligent security. This requires developing this education. investments in, among other things, employees, training, elecBy improving the knowledge and skills of our employees, we tronic security, remote monitoring, smart cameras, digitization contribute to their professional growth and to a greater underand risk management. In order to succeed in this transformation, standing of the security profession. Empowering employees financial stability, innovative ability and a global presence are means greater focus on training, skills and opportunities for prorequired. fessional development. By continuing to develop our services and employees, we will have the opportunity to be a leading player in the future security Security solutions industry. We have the required components, and continue to Securitas’ customers are demanding a higher degree of security invest and develop the tools needed to report, analyze and use and more advanced security solutions and in all markets where large volumes of data and leverage the largely unutilized datawe operate. In all markets where Securitas is present, the technolbase we have at our customers’ sites. Intelligent security using ogy-based part of our services is growing. If we cannot develop artificial intelligence will give us a decisive competitive edge by services that meet customer requirements regarding modern creating productivity gains and customer value. technology, there is a risk that they may choose another supplier. Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 35 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G TECHNOLOGY – Focus areas Protecting information these technological advances by complying with all relevant legWe see the potential of big data, the Internet of Things, artificial islative requirements. In addition, our policies, including Securitas’ intelligence, robotics and connectivity when it comes to the digitiValues and Ethics Code and purchasing guidelines, provide us zation of the security industry and intelligent security developwith support in addressing these issues. ment. But these technological advances also entail risks, such as integrity breaches and inadequate information security. Digitization It is important to protect data on behalf of our customers, The risks of digitization are similar to those described for moniemployees and the general public. It is also essential that data is toring services. Increasing digitization also requires stable and only shared and aggregated based on legal requirements and in efficient infrastructure and protection against theft of data. the interest of protecting the privacy rights of individuals. A large amount of information from customer facilities is Securitas has policies, processes and training based on the Genreported digitally. This gives Securitas the opportunity to collect eral Data Protection Guidelines (GDPR), which have been all possible data from incident reports, camera materials, sensors adopted by the European Parliament and will come into force in and access control systems, and combine them with data from 2018. external sources, such as crime statistics and police reports. This new type of database permits us to analyze and utilize large volSurveillance practices umes of information, thus laying the foundation for predictive Modern monitoring services ensure real-time detection of crimes security, which enables us to detect crimes and other incidents and other incidents, and enable prompt actions to stop criminals before they happen. or mitigate the consequences of incidents. At the same time, the Our emphasis on processes for risk assessment has enabled use of security technology may in some cases threaten personal us to analyze risks efficiently, including the more recent implicaintegrity. tions of increased digitization of the industry and society. We Securitas takes the benefits and risks to privacy posed by have solid routines for storing and protecting collected data. technology seriously. We address the negative implications of 36 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G HOW WE LEAD – Focus areas Customer relations Our structured and systematic approach is based on Securitas’ In order for us as a supplier to meet our customers’ sustainability Values and Ethics Code, which provides guidance pertaining to requirements, we must have an in-depth understanding of our acceptable standards of integrity and appropriate business concustomers’ needs and industry-specific requirements, and a busiduct. ness that is sustainable in all areas. With better risk analysis and improved proactivity, crime, fire Ethical business standards and other threats can be prevented, resulting in strengthened Certain markets present greater challenges in terms of corruption security and lower costs from damages and disturbances. Safethan others. However, this does not mean that situations of bribguarding information not only protects our customers and preery or corruption never arise in low-risk countries. vents incidents and crimes, but also – in many cases – supports Conducting our business according to laws and regulations, their business and adds value. Our emphasis on employee safety, maintaining high business ethical standards and upholding our fair labor practices and wages helps ensure that we are delivering shared values are important components of all of Securitas’ operservices that customers can rely on. Securitas’ size, financial staations. Without exception, all employees and business partners bility, innovative capabilities and global presence mean we are a must comply with the laws and regulations in the countries in long-term partner. which Securitas operates. We have a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of bribery Transparency and corruption. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code and the Not giving our stakeholders the information they require in order anti-corruption policy set out minimum requirements that ensure to properly evaluate our business can lead to a loss of customer compliance with applicable local and extraterritorial laws. Local contracts and investors. entities are subsequently asked to create their own detailed poliWe strive to always provide accurate and relevant information cies for gifts and entertainment. Relevant managers and administhat supports our strategy, such as how the transformation of our trative staff have to complete a detailed e-learning course on the offering is affecting our financial performance, how we are mananti-corruption policy. aging the risks of investing in digitization and the sustainability risks we face in our business. Risk management is an integral Long-term profitable growth component of Securitas’ business, and risk awareness is part of Risks that can affect long-term growth for Securitas include our corporate culture. restrictions on private security companies operating in a certain market, increased insourcing of security services and diminished Integrity and responsibility in the organization confidence in private security companies. In order to deliver security services, our customers, employees An important global demand driver is the new and complex and other stakeholders must be able to trust us. That is the founthreats that the police and other authorities are facing, many dation for everything we do. A lack of trust could lead to a risk of times in combination with budget restraints. As a result, authoridamaged reputation and brand. ties are increasingly seeking ways to cooperate with the private Wherever we operate in the world, the Securitas company culsecurity industry, recognizing the potential gains of outsourcing ture is characterized by responsibility, ownership and entreprecertain tasks. neurship. Securitas’ Ethics and Values Code and our core values – If, at the same time, the security market in these countries Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – define how we work. Our becomes more regulated and security officers are better screened flat, non-hierarchal organization fosters an environment of openand trained, public trust in private security providers will improve, ness, accessibility and empowerment. which in turn will provide an opportunity for growth for security Securitas’s management model, Toolbox, is a practical guide companies. for all executives on how Securitas works. It is used to convey our Our culture is based on values, ownership and long-term business culture and create a common platform. This ensures the achievement, and we share a great sense of responsibility same focus on quality, employees, responsibilities and values towards our customers and a commitment to delivering throughout the company. By having these basic features at our high-quality services. Sustainability is well integrated into our core, we create confidence in the company, our values, our brand operations, which we believe will help secure long-term and profand our employees. itable growth Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 37 O U R WAY O F W O R K I N G Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code Our ethics code, Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, is one of our key policies. It sets out the fundamental principles that all employees and business partners are expected to follow. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code ensures that the company Process for analysis and monitoring upholds and promotes the highest ethical business standards. An example of risk management activities in relation to compliSecuritas’ basic requirement is to act within the framework of laws ance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Compliance is illustrated and international conventions, such as the United Nation’s Univerbelow. sal Declaration of Human Rights. This means that Securitas respects and complies with competition rules, labor market reguTraining and awareness are key components of risk lations, agreements and safety requirements, environmental legismanagement lation and any other provisions that set the parameters of our Securitas has training centers in most countries and provides both operations. basic and highly specialized training for employees at all different Non-compliance with Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code has levels. In some countries, it is not mandatory to complete basic been classified as one of six prioritized risks in the Group’s ERM training before being allowed to work as a security officer, but process. Securitas ensures that all new security officers receive at least Group Management sets risk management policies for the basic security training. All our employees are trained in Securitas’ entire Group. Accountability for managing risks is assigned to Values and Ethics Code. In addition, we also have training requiremanagement at Group, divisional and local level. Securitas takes a ments for the policies related to Securitas’ Values and Ethics precautionary approach to risk management and internal control. Code, such as the Anti-corruption policy, Competition law policy In addition to Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, the Group has and Supplier and subcontractor policy. It is important that managadopted a number of policies as complement to the Values and ers undergo training to ensure proper understanding of the princiEthics Code: ples of these policies, including any local rules and regulations. > Anti-corruption policy sets out the principle of zero tolerance for any corrupt practices, with clear definitions, requireExtended due diligence ments for risk assessment, guidance regarding third-party For each acquisition, it is a requirement to consider the Sustainrelationships, training and follow-up. ability aspects included in the Group acquisition policy. The policy > Securitas group emissions policy states that we should states that sustainability due diligence must always be performed strive to continually reduce our climate impact, focusing priwhen entering into new markets. Conducting any business in marily on the energy and transport areas. countries outside our permanent operational presence requires approval from the CEO and CFO, which is stated in the Group geo> Securitas supplier and subcontractor policy stipulates that graphical scope policy. Securitas should avoid establishing a presall supply arrangements are to be in accordance with applicaence in countries with a disproportionate risk according to ble laws and all suppliers are to comply with Securitas’ Values Securitas’ Values and Ethics code or where Securitas cannot operand Ethics Code. ate due to any other restrictions. When conducting the investiga> Geographical scope policy defines the conditions under tions, particular attention should be paid to countries where cirwhich Securitas is permitted to establish a permanent or temcumstances indicate an increased risk for corruption. porary presence in a country where it has not done business before. Each new country should be assessed based on its Risk based monitoring suitability, taking into consideration a values and ethics perRisk-based monitoring is performed by different functions spective. depending on whether it is related to operational or financial > Competition law policy to ensure that Securitas and its subreporting matters. An example of how Securitas’ Values and Ethics sidiaries or affiliates are committed to full compliance with all Compliance risks are monitored is below. competition laws and regulations. Since Securitas’ values and ethics compliance risk is considered a key risk, Securitas monitors this risk through various Group > Securitas integrity reporting policy addresses investigaactivities, in addition to local monitoring activities: tions of cases regarding possible violations of Securitas’ poli> Efterlevnadsrisken är en del av den årliga ERM-självutcies, including Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. värdering där alla länder i koncernen utvärderar sig själva i relation till vissa områden. Dessa återfinns i figuren till höger. Resultaten analyseras noga och följs upp. 38 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 S T R AT EG Y, TA R G E T S A N D O F F E R I N G > Securitas’ values and ethics compliance risk is included in ERM Scoring Model: Example Country Y the yearly ERM self-assessment process, during which coun– Securitas’ Values and Ethics Compliance risk tries evaluate themselves in relation to certain areas, included A scale from poor (red) to excellent (blue) is used to give in the graph to the right. The results are analyzed closely and a quick overview and feedback to the country’s president followed up. and risk owner(s). Good is the acceptable level1 for most > Sustainability reviews are performed to test compliance with of the risks. Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. > The comprehensive country-focused risk assessments Securitas’ Values and Ethics Compliance risk that are carried out prior to acquisitions in countries where General principles, implementation and compliance Securitas does not currently conduct operations are monitored at Group level. Employees > The Group Sustainability Steering Committee establishes Business Ethics the principles for Securitas’ sustainability work and closely folEconomic and Trade Sanctions lows up cases of alleged non-compliance with Securitas’ Competition law compliance Values and Ethics Code, reported through various reporting 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 channels. Poor <50% Fair 50 –70 Good 71–90 Excellent >90 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 39 T H R O U G H A M AT E R I A L I T Y L E N S Through a Materiality Lens We apply a materiality lens to better understand and manage the non-financial topics that are most important for delivering value to customers, employees, investors and other stakeholders, and building a resilient company. Material issues are topics that reflect Securitas’s most significant the value chain. Importantly, it yields deeper insights into expececonomic, environmental and social impacts. These are issues tations on Securitas, how the sustainability agenda will evolve, that substantively influence stakeholders’ perception of our perand how customers, employees and investors perceive the outformance and impact our ability to create and sustain value. come of our progress and strategy. Materiality is the point at which an issue becomes important In 2017, we strengthened our approach to this process. enough to be included in the business strategy and the way we To gain insight, we sought the knowledge of internal experts manage and report on non-financial issues. on sustainability, brand, customer and employee insight and the Our process for identifying materiality provides a future focus business strategy. The process is as follows: to our sustainability work and helps us analyze our impacts across M AT ERI A L I T Y A N A LYSIS 1. A FUTURE FOCUS Four global drivers demographic shifts, an interconnected evolving, what impacts our employees want to work for, world, climate change, and access to resources helped us customers’ perceptions and competitors’ and partners’ priorities. identify how our business landscape may change, how society is 2. LONG LIST OF TOPICS We compiled a list of 25 topics of potential importance for our reducing negative impacts. They were categorized under the company and stakeholders that contribute either to creating headings: People, Knowledge, Technology and Our way of long-term economic, social and environmental value or to working. 3. COMP ONENTS OF THE BUSINE SS AND THEIR WEIGHTED INFLUENCE The insights of internal experts, those with an understanding suppliers and other feedback. This weighting was validated of stakeholder priorities and the business strategy contributed through interviews with senior managers from North America, to this stage of the process as we considered each topic’s Europe and AMEA and a representative from UNI Global Union. relevance to 2020 from two perspectives. > Strategic: The degree of impact each topic has on the The process yielded a list of the most relevant issues, that business strategy, corporate culture, and Securitas impact on is, those of high relevance to both stakeholder groups and each topic. business priorities. > Stakeholder: The degree of impact each topic has on During 2018, we aim to continue to develop this materiality stakeholder perceptions and the degree they influence how process by validating the results of the ranking process through Securitas delivers value for them. in-depth interviews, polling and analyzing our impacts across During the weighting process, we also considered the survey our value chain. sent during 2017 to investors, employees, customers and 40 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 T H R O U G H A M AT E R I A L I T Y L E N S RESU LT OF T H E M AT ERI A L I T Y A N A LYSIS PEOPLE KNOWLEDGE FOCUS ARE AS: FOCUS ARE AS: > Fair wages > Training > Labor practices, non discrimination > Security solutions and human rights > Intelligent security > Occupational health and safety > Attracting talent OUR WAY OF WORKING TECHNOLOGY FOCUS ARE AS: FOCUS ARE AS: > Protecting information > Customer relations > Surveillance practices > Transparency > Digitalization > Integrity and responsibility in the organization > Ethical business standards > Long-term profitable growth Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 41 ABOUT THIS REPORT About this report Securitas AB’s 2017 sustainability report is framed around three ways we are shaping security – through our people, knowledge capacity and technology solutions. We also outline how our governance structure equips us to meet new opportunities and manage risks. The report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative Report scope (GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application This report is a complement to the Securitas AB Annual Report level. Where relevant, this report also highlights how our priorities 2017. Unless otherwise noted, the report pertains to the 2017 reflect the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for labor and calendar year and it encompasses all companies within the human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and therefore Securitas Group. acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. In 2017, Securitas’ operations were organized into a flat decentralized structure with three business segments: Security Material topics Services North America, Security Services Ibero-America and Based on an analysis of topics of potential relevance for Securitas Security Services Europe. Operations in Africa, Middle East, Asia AB, the report outlines our positive and negative impacts, our and Australia are included in the division AMEA, which is included approach to managing them as well as associated policies. Our under Other in the Group’s segment reporting. most important topics are presented under each of the report’s Combined, Securitas employs approximately 345 000 four focus areas. A GRI index points readers to associated indica(335 000) in 55 (53) countries. Wherever possible, the baseline tors as defined by the GRI’s standards and by Securitas. Measurof the report data is 2016. ing progress against these indicators allow readers to gauge our Significant changes in our operations occurred during the progress and better understand where our greatest sustainability reporting year: impacts lie. Securitas entered the Australian security market in 2017 through the acquisition of the security services company PSGA Relevance to the business that provides consulting and investigation services and guarding The report outlines why these topics are relevant to our business services. model, as well as to our company’s culture and long-term success. The Board of Directors and the President on March 15, 2018 We also present how our focus on material topics enhances our submit Securitas AB’s Sustainability Report for 2017. The sustainability to stimulate and create economic, social and environmental ability report describes the Group’s work with regards to ecovalue for our stakeholders, such as customers, shareholders, nomic, environmental and social aspects. The report is prepared employees and society at large. according to the Sustainability Reporting Standards, issued by Through a future focus, we aim to communicate how Securitas Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). is equipped to be resilient and agile by managing risks, engaging The 2016 Sustainability report was published on April 11, in society’s priorities and capturing new business opportunities. 2017. For more information, contact: Cecilia Alenius Group Sustainability Officer E-mail address: cecilia.alenius@securitas.com 42 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 ADDITIONAL KPIs Additional KPIs EMP LOY EES Specification of years of service per employment category Managers and office personnel, 2017 No. of employees % Less than 1 year 3 510 19% 1–2 years 2 394 13% 2–5 years 3 753 20% 5–10 years 3 562 19% Over 10 years 5 187 28% Total 18 406 Security officers No. of employees % Less than 1 year 103 649 33% 1–2 years 52 332 17% 2–5 years 59 650 19% 5–10 years 48 117 15% Over 10 years 50 581 16% Total 314 329 Total No. of employees % Less than 1 year 107 159 32% 1–2 years 54 726 16% 2–5 years 63 403 19% 5–10 years 51 679 16% Över 10 years 55 768 17% Total 332 735 * The difference compared with total number of employees is explained by missing information from seven countries of operation. Reporting countries represent 95% of total sales / 95% of total number of employees. Specification of years of service per employment category Share of employees with Share of employees with Share of employees with full-time and part-time full-time and part-time permanent and temporary employment, respectively employment, split per gender work contracts, respectively ■ Full-time, 85% (85) ■ Full-time, men, 74% (70) ■ Permanent, 92% (88) ■ Part-time, 15% (15) ■ Full-time, women, 18% (15) ■ Temporary, 8% (12) ■ Part-time, men, 6% (11) ■ Part-time, women, 2% (4) Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 43 ADDITIONAL KPIs EN V IRO NMEN T OT H ER Average CO2 emissions from vehicles Subscription to / endorsement of external Environment was not considered a material topic in our declarations, principles, etc materiality analysis, but as we areGram a signatory / km No.UN of Global of vehicles Compact, it is important for us to 250 be transparent and14work 000 for ISO ISO ISO OHSAS Country 9001 14001 27001 18001 reduced climate impact, and we have 230 therefore chosen to 13 000 report CO2 emissions anyway.. 210 12 000 Security Services North America 190 11 000 Canada ■ 170 10 000 Average CO2 emissions from vehicles 150 9 000 Security Services Europe 130 8 000 Austria ■ Gram / km No. of vehicles Belgium (inkl. Luxembourg) 13 14 15 16 17 ■ ■ 250 14 000 Czech Republic (incl. Slovakia)* ■ ■ ■ 230 13 000 Max CO2 gram per km for Croatia ■ ■ ■ ■ 210 12 000 new minivans (6-7 seater): Denmark ■ ■ 175 190 11 000 Max CO2 gram per km for Estonia ■ ■ 170 10 000 new company cars Finland ■ ■ ■ (max 5 seater): 130 France 150 9 000 ■ Average CO2 emissions 130 8 000 from vehicles: 140 Hungary ■ ■ ■ 13 14 15 16 17 ■■ Number of vehicles: Ireland ■ ■ ■ 14 541 Latvia ■ Max CO2 gram per km for Montenegro ■ ■ ■ ■ new minivans (6-7 seater): Netherlands ■ ■ ■ 175 Gross direct emissions and indirect marked-based emissions Norway ■ ■ ■ Max CO2 gram per km for of CO2 equivalent, 2017 new company cars Poland ■ Tonnes(max 5 seater): 130 Romania ■ ■ ■ ■ Average CO2 emissions 160 from 000 vehicles: 140 Serbia ■ ■ ■ Sweden 140 Number of vehicles: ■ ■ ■■ 000 14 541 Switzerland ■ 120 000 Turkey ■ ■ ■ ■ 100 000 Tyskland ■ 80 000 UK ■ ■ ■ ■ 60 000 40 000 Security Services Ibero-America 20 000 Argentina ■ Chile ■ 0 Direct Indirect Indirect Total Colombia ■ ■ (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Ecuador ■ Peru ■ ■ ■ Portugal ■ ■ ■ Direct Indirect Indirect 2017 (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Spain ■ ■ ■ Uruguay ■ Security Services North America 10 684 2 538 9 465 Security Services Europe 57 172 24 130 30 342 Africa, Middle East and Asia Security Services Ibero-America 22 324 2 572 9 791 Hongkong ■ Africa, Middle East and Asia 2 272 1 146 3 195 India ■ ■ ■ ■ Other 54 83 1 368 Singapore ■ Totalt 92 506 30 469 54 161 Vietnam ■ Change compared with 2016 1% 11% e/t UAE ■ * OHSAS 18001 certification pertains to Slovakia 2016 is the base year for the market based emissions, and it is chosen as it was the first year that Securitas assessed its climate impact using the market based calculation method. The boundary of the climate assessment includes 53 reporting units, the same units as currently reporting in accordance with the location based method. A GHG assessment quantifies all seven Kyoto greenhouse gases where applicable and it is measured in units of carbon dioxide equivalence, or CO2e. For Securitas the following greenhouse gases are applicable and have been included in the assessment: • Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O). • Biogenic CO2 emissions: 22.1 tonnes (2016: 28.2 tonnes) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard is a standard for reporting climate data. The system Our Impacts has been used as the calculation tool. Operational control is the chosen consolidation approach. Definitions according to GRI Standards 44 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 AUDI TOR ’S REP ORT This is a translation of the Swedish original report AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders in Securitas AB (publ) statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of corporate identity number 556302-7241 the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with InternaEngagement and responsibility tional Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has prosustainability report for the year 2017 and that it has been previded us with sufficient basis for our opinion. pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinion The scope of the audit A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the Stockholm, 15 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Patrik Adolfson Madeleine Endre Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 45 GRI INDEX GRI index Securitas AB’s sustainability report is prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting standards, with the Core application level. Where relevant, this report also highlights how our priorities reflect the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for labor and human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and therefore acts as our UNGC Communication on Progress. AR = Securitas AB Annual Report 2017 HR = Securitas AB Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Note UN Global Compact GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: Organizational profile General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization AR 49 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services SR 9, Our business model; AR 10-11 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 49 102-4 Location of operations SR 9, Our business model 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 134-135 102-6 Markets served SR 9, Our business model; AR 17-19 102-7 Scale of the organization SR 3, People, knowledge and technology; AR 87 (note 9), 114 (note 38) 102-8 Information on employees and other SR 3, People, knowledge and Includes data from the 6 workers technology; 15-16, Our greatest asset, associated companies 43, Additional KPIs in India and Vietnam 102-9 Supply chain HR 32, Our value chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization SR 42, About this report and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach HR 38, Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code 102-12 External initiatives SR 31, Influencing change 102-13 Membership of associations SR 33, Engaging in the industry Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 4-5, CEO statement 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities SR 7, The evolving role of security Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms SR 27, How we lead 10 of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns HR 30, Securitas Integrity Line about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR 24-45 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for AR 29, Accountability across the board economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, SR 13, Understanding expectations environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance AR 26-30 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 31 46 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Note UN Global Compact Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 11, Focus on value creation 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR 16, Shared agenda Includes data from the 3 associated companies in India and Vietnam 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 11, Focus on value creation 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 11, Focus on value creation; 13, Understanding expectations 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 8, Where we can make a difference Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated AR 124 (note 49) financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic SR 40, Through a materiality lens boundaries 102-47 List of material topics SR 40, Through a Materiality Lens 102-48 Restatements of information SR 42, About this report 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 42, About this report 102-50 Reporting period SR 42, About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report SR 42, About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 42, About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding SR 42, About this report the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with SR 42, About this report the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index SR 46 GRI Index 102-56 External assurance SR 42, About this report; 45, Auditor’s report MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 10, Our model for value creation boundary 103-2 The management approach and its AR 24-30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach AR 24-30 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated SR 11, Focus on value creation Performance and distributed Market presence Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 10, Our model for value creation boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR 27, How we lead components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 38, Process for analysis and monitoring GRI 202: Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from SR 18, We contribute to local Includes data from the 6 the local community communities associated companies in India and Vietnam Anti-corruption Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 29, Integrating sustainability boundary priorities 103-2 The management approach and its SR 29, Integrating sustainability components priorities 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 29, Strong anti-corruption stance; 30, Securitas Integrity Line; 38, Process for analysis and monitoring GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiSR 29, Integrating of sustainability Includes data from the corruption policies and procedures priorities associated companies in India and Vietnam Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 47 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page reference Note UN Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Emissions Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Environment was not considered a and its boundary material topic in our materiality analysis, but as we are a signatory of UN Global Compact, it is important for us to be transparent and work for reduced climate impact, and we have therefore chosen to report CO2 emissions anyway. 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 44, Countries that are ISO14001 certified GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 44, Additional KPIs Includes data from the 7, 8, 9 associated companies in India and Vietnam 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR 44, Additional KPIs Includes data from the 7, 8, 9 associated companies in India and Vietnam 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR 44, Additional KPIs Includes data from the 7, 8, 9 associated companies in India and Vietnam SOCIAL Employment Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 15, Our greatest asset boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 27, How we lead 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 17, Listening to our people GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 15, Our greatest asset Does not include data 6 Employment from the associated companies in India and Vietnam. Occupational Health and Safety Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 15-17, Occupational health and boundary safety 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 15-17, Occupational health and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 44, Countries that are Includes data from the associated OHSAS18001 certified companies in India and Vietnam GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint SR 16, Occupational health and safety Includes data from the associated Occupational health and management-worker health and safety committees companies in India and Vietnam safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, and number SR 16, Occupational health and safety Includes data from the associated of work-related fatalities companies in India and Vietnam Training and education Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 21, Investing in our people boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR 21, Investing in our people components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 21, Investing in our people GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 21, Investing in our people Includes data from the 6 Training and education associated companies in India and Vietnam Diversity and equal opportunity Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 17, Gender balance boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 27, How we lead 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 30, Integrating sustainability priorities, Securitas Integrity Line GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 16, Our greatest asset Includes data from the associated opportunity companies in India and Vietnam CUSTOMER PRIVACY Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR 24, Sharp focus on technology boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 24, Sharp focus on technology 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 44, Countries that are ISO27001 Includes data from the associated certified companies in India and Vietnam GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches SR 24, Sharp focus on technology Includes data from the associated of customer privacy and losses of customer data companies in India and Vietnam Risk for child labor SR 13, 27 1, 2, 5 Risk for forced labor SR 13, 27 1, 2, 4 48 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 Production: Securitas AB in cooperation with Purple Ivy and Intellecta Corporate Photo: Ingemar Lindewall: Cover, pages 5, 6, 7, 13, 14, 17, 19, 20, 22 (lower), 23, 25, 26, 33, 39, 41 Raf Ketelslagers: Page 11 Fares Jammal: Page 18 Agustín Baeck: Page 22 (upper) Ingemar Lindewall/Robert Stjerndahl: Page 28 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017 49 ­Securitas AB P.O. Box 12307 SE-102 28 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensplan 70 www.­securitas.com 50 Securitas Sustainability Report 2017
