ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINGERPRINTS IN BRIEF THE LEADING GLOBAL BIOMETRIC COMPANY Fingerprint Cards AB, or Fingerprints, is a leading customer base mainly comprises companies that manVISION global biometric company with Swedish roots. Our soluufacture smartphones. As the usage of biometric soluA secure and seamless universe, where you tions are integrated into millions of devices and applications expands, Fingerprints is endeavoring to broaden are the key to everything. tions and are used billions of times every day. We deliver its offering, adding more biometric modalities, and secure and convenient identification and authentication bringing solutions into new market segments like smart and create value by facilitating the everyday lives of our cards, vehicles and the Internet of Things (IoT). global user base. Fingerprints is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm (ticker Fingerprints develops biometric systems consisting FING B). Most of its workforce is located in Sweden, but of sensors, algorithms, software and packaging techthe company also has offices in Denmark, China, South nologies. Our success is built on product development Korea Taiwan and the US. with leading edge-specialist competence that spawns world-leading products in terms of security, userfriendliness and performance. Most of our current product offering consists of fingerprint sensors, and our This Annual Report is an English translation of the Swedish original. In the event of any discrepancies, the Swedish version shall govern. CONTENTS The year in brief 2 Sustainability 26 Board of Directors 56 Ten-year summary 95 Value creation model 5 Human resources 33 Management 58 In-depth sustainability disclosures 97 Message from the CEO 6 Risks and risk management 39 Statutory Administration Report 60 GRI index 98 Our biometric world 10 Auditor’s opinion regarding Consolidated Accounts 65 Shareholder information 100 Market and trends 13 the Statutory Sustainability report 42 Parent Company Accounts 69 Glossary 101 Products and solutions 16 The share 43 Notes 73 Business concept, objectives and strategy 20 Message from the Chairman 47 Board certification 91 Value chain 22 Corporate Governance Report 48 Audit Report 92 Fingerprint Cards AB was incorporated in 1997, but the patent that prefaced our history, later dubbed the Löfgren Patent, had been granted 15 years before this. The patent was granted to Swedish film director, and passionate inventor, Bo Löfgren. Accordingly, we have been in business for 20 years. In this period, a huge amount has happened in the world of technology. But one thing that hasn’t changed is our conviction that people should be able to avoid the hassle of PINs and passwords. In 2017, patent law firm Noréns rated Fingerprints as Sweden’s most innovative company for the second consecutive year. Product development and innovation are our lifeblood, and patent protection is an essential part of our business. With our competence and curiosity, we want to keep Bo Löfgren’s inheritance alive every day across our whole business, from Silicon Valley to Shanghai. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 1 2017 SEK 155 M 33 % IN BRIEF OPERATING PROFIT (SEK 2,578 M) GROSS MARGIN (48%) SEK 2,966 M SEK 377 M 0.38 SEK EARNINGS PER SHARE CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING revenues (SEK 6,638 M) ACTIVITIES (SEK 1,130 M) (6.40 SEK) 10 billion Fingerprints’ products are used over 1st place Sweden’s most 300 smartphone models with ten billion times a day innovative company Fingerprints’ touch sensors REVENUES, OPERATING PROFIT FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY AND GROSS MARGIN SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenues, SEK M 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 95.4 SEK M % Gross profit, SEK M 988.9 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 39.2 7,000 60 Gross margin, % 33 48 43 31 41 6,000 45 Operating profit, SEK M 154.6 2,578.5 910.3 –145.2 –34 5,000 30 Operating margin, % 5 39 31 –62 –36 15 4,000 EBITDA, SEK M 234.0 2,627.1 953.7 –83.6 –21.4 0 3,000 Profit before tax, SEK M 141.8 2, 613.5 910.0 –143.6 –32.9 –15 2,000 –30 Net profit for the year, SEK M 120.3 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 –32.9 1,000 –45 Earnings per share, SEK 0.38 6.40 2.53 –0.49 –0.12 0 –60 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Equity/asset ratio, % 67 64 60 71 87 Revenues, SEK M Operating profit, SEK M Gross margin, % Number of coworkers 558 438 254 175 80 2 The year in brief Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Fingerprints’ fingerprint sensors are integrated in 300 smartphone models FIRST QUARTER SECOND QUARTER THIRD QUARTER FOURTH QUARTER 18 mobile devices with the company’s touch 19 mobile devices with the company’s touch 27 mobile devices with the company’s 31 mobile devices with the company’s sensors launched by 13 OEM customers sensors launched by 12 OEM customers sensors launched by 14 OEM customers sensors launched by 13 OEM customers • Contract signed to acquire Delta ID of • For the first time, Fingerprints’ touch • Partnership with Qualcomm to integrate • Two smartphones launched with multithe US sensor is integrated by an Indian OEM capacitive fingerprint technology into modality (ActiveIRIS® iris recognition and • Delivery of the world’s first fingerprint • New collaborations with module suppliQualcomm’s Snapdragon mobile platFPC fingerprint sensors) sensor on a smartphone keyboard for ers Fingerchip and A-Kerr (SPEED) forms • Collaboration with Idemia, a leading BlackBerry’s KEYone • The FPC1145 touch sensor is embedded • Membership of the Electronic Industry global vendor of charge cards, to develop • FPC1268 touch sensor integrated into in Huawei’s Matebook E PC Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the next generation of contactless bioHuawei’s P10 series Eurosmart metric charge cards • Launch of T-Shape™ module design for • Partnership with NXP Semiconductors on biometric smart cards contactless fingerprint-on-card technol• First product launch with the FPC1028 ogy breakthrough touch sensor Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The year in brief 3 Fingerprints’ acquisition of Delta ­ID in 2017 means we can offer the market multimodal solutions that integrate iris recognition with Fingerprint sensors. This acquisition is consistent with Fingerprints’ strategy of expanding from our positioning as the leader in Fingerprint sensors for smartphones, with the objective of being a leading global biometric company. 4 The year in brief Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 FINGERPRINTS’ VALUE CREATION MODEL BIOMETRIC SOLUTIONS FOR DIGITAL INTERACTION RESOURCES PERFORMANCE INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL 558 coworkers, 296 in R&D RES Customers, sales SEK 2,966 M EAR Patent portfolio CH Suppliers, manufacturing & DE GE MOBILE V costs SEK 1,977 M FINANCIAL CAPITAL SA Employees, salaries SEK 406 M PRO NT Cash and cash equivalents SEK 920 M DU ME Public sector, income tax SEK 22 M CT OP Development costs SEK 391 M EL Shareholders, dividends SU Selling expenses SEK 237 M and buy-backs SEK 0 M BUSINESS CONCEPT SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Fingerprints develops SOCIAL NELS Customers and sells biometric For end-users CHAN PROCUREMEN solutions to companies ION Coworkers Greater integrity and security T SMA globally that develop T& IBU R Shareholders 95 models launched with Fingerprints’ T CAR TR Partners products and services solutions S MBEDDED DS DI ND E Suppliers interfacing with people. Users VEA For wider society I OT PR Regulators OD More security for people and property, OM UCT Communities AU prevention of fraud and identity theft T IO NGOs N DE Academia LIV For coworkers ERY & SA TING & LES Jobs are also created with Fingerprints’ RKE MA subcontractors Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The year in brief 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO A year when the conditions changed The market for capacitive fingerprint sensors for smartphones has very rapidly evolved into a mature mass market with intense competitive pressure. We’re focusing on driving cost-efficiency, while simultaneously developing new biometric technologies and expanding into new application segments. 2017 was a very challenging year for Fingertributors and module suppliers progressively Several external commentators estimate ter of gravity of our investments towards new, prints, when earnings were by no means reducing previous stockpiling rather than that smartphone deliveries on the Chinese emerging biometric markets. In the smartsatisfactory. Revenues fell by 55% to SEK placing new orders for sensors. This inventory market were down somewhat in the year phone segment, our investments will primar2,966 M, while our operating margin nardynamic impacted our earnings negatively in compared to 2016. We think the Chinese ily target cost-efficiency by developing new, rowed to 5%, from 39% in the previous year. the first two quarters of 2017. Inventory levels smartphone market slowed further towards updated sensors that deliver high-perforThe market for capacitive fingerprint sendidn’t normalize in the value chain until midyear-end. mance and security at a competitive cost. sors for smartphones, which makes up year, when the influx of new orders increased. I expect negative price progress to conmost of our business, has very rapidly However, the smartphone market is exceptinue in 2018, and that in value terms, the 2018—A YEAR OF ADAPTATION evolved into a mature mass-market with tionally dynamic and fast moving, and we market for smartphone fingerprint sensors While we see major potential to grow in intense competitive pressure. Demand did experienced a significant shift in our product will contract in 2018. All our major Chinese new segments—not least biometric smart not increase to the extent that we, or Indemix in the second half-year. Another clear OEM customers are now using dual/triple cards—it will take some time before we pendent sector commentators, expected at change is that premium-segment smartsourcing strategies, firstly to guarantee their achieve significant business volumes outthe beginning of the year. phones are increasingly being equipped with volumes, and secondly to strengthen their side our core business of smartphones. Our addressable market in the smartsmaller and cheaper sensors. We are also price negotiating position. We have fared well 2018 will be a challenging year for Fingerphone segment, expressed in volume terms noting a trend towards smartphone displays against the competition over business volprints because we’ll be operating in harsh (unit sales of smartphones equipped with fincovering chassis fronts completely. This tenumes, even if our market share was down on business conditions on the mobile side, gerprint sensors excluding Apple), amounted dency has meant many of our OEM customers the previous year. This is a natural consesimultaneous with investing for growth in to some 700 million units in 2017. Our fulltransitioning to rear-mounted sensors, which quence of being active on a rapidly maturing new focus segments. year market share for 2017 was some 40%. have lower pricing. Overall, the average pricmarket. Meanwhile, I want to emphasize that As previously announced, we initiated an However, in the first half-year, a considering of smartphone sensors was down by some our ambition is to retain leadership in this extensive action plan at the beginning of able share of demand was addressed by dis30% in the year. segment, simultaneous with shifting the cen2018 to adapt the company’s cost base to 6 Message from the CEO Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Our objective is for new segments to make up some 10% of sales in 2018, as we diversify our business. rapid changes in the market and ensure the for smartphones represented some 95% of company’s long-term development and our total sales in 2017. Our objective is for success. This will involve us downsizing our new segments to make up some 10% of workforce by some 185 positions, while also sales in 2018, as we diversify our business reducing our external expenses. We estiinto new growth segments. The rapid evolumate these measures will achieve cost savtion of mobile telephony has also revealed ings of some SEK 360 M in 2018, taking the opportunities that biometrics presents effect in the second quarter. At the same in a raft of other application segments, time, we’re realigning our resources to which is now starting to translate into a ensure we have a sharp enough focus on growing number of development initiatives, new growth segments, and that our organimarket tests and product launches. We are zation is shaped to be able to compete sucwell positioned to secure long-term advancessfully on an expanding global biometrics tage from this process. This includes new market. About half of our R&D investments applications for our existing technology, ­ already relate to initiatives designed to and developing solutions based on new develop new biometric technologies and biometric modalities. expand in new, promising applications in various sectors. NEW APPLICATION SEGMENTS Our technology in capacitive fingerprint STRONG POSITIONING TO CREATE sensors is tried and tested and something SUSTAINABLE VALUE IN NEW hundreds of millions of smartphone users SEGMENTS appreciate worldwide. The fundamental Biometrics made its true global breaktechnology can be adapted, enhanced and through in mobile telephony. Fingerprints then applied in all-new segments like biowas one of the segment’s pioneers, and our metric door locks, which have sales of sevbusiness in capacitive fingerprint sensors eral million units every year in China alone. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Message from the CEO 7 BIOMETRIC SMART CARDS—THE NEXT MASSMARKNAD The fundamental technology can be where biometrics can help deliver individually tailored functionality that improves But in our view, the segment offering the adapted, enhanced and then applied in security and convenience. This is an important focus for Fingerprints. all-new segments like biometric door greatest potential in the coming years is biometric smart cards. The potential marIn January 2018, we entered an exclusive ket is huge, with some 4 billion smart cards (cards with chips) produced every year. locks, which have sales of several million collaborative agreement with Gentex, a leading automotive industry technology About 3.5 billion of them are charge and units every year in China alone. vendor, to jointly develop biometric systems credit cards, with the remainder being entry that can authenticate drivers using iris cards, ID cards and loyalty cards. brands have become more active in their Semiconductors late in the year on their scanning. When the driver’s authorization to The combination of the scale of the communication and marketing about bionew contactless fingerprint-on-card techuse the vehicle has been verified, the vehiglobal card market and the substantial benmetric cards, towards groups including nology breakthrough. We launched cle can start and its compartment modify efits inherent in implementing biometric retailers, where the advantages of T-Shape™, an ultra-thin sensor module automatically, including mirrors, steering authentication in the payment segment, smoother, faster and more secure payoptimized for integration in smart cards, wheel settings, seat positioning and satnav mean that smart cards have every prospect ments are substantial. compliant with the applicable sector stansystems. of becoming the next biometric mass marTests on a number of major markets, not dard, in 2017. This is the lowest-current ket. The idea of replacing PINs with a finonly North America and Europe, but also module on the market, with very positive DEVELOPING AND EXPANDING OUR gerprint sensor in charge cards has been Asia, are being executed in 2018. These contactless charging characteristics, a funBIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGY PORTFOLIO around a long time and was actually the moves are an important step in evaluating damental criterion for functional biometric Our strategic partnership with Gentex in foundation of this company (hence our and qualifying various systems for the next contactless cards. We are already geared up the automotive industry is based on ActiveIname: Fingerprint Cards). phase of the process, the certification of to deliver commercial volumes. RIS®, our iris recognition technology. This Even if it will still be some time before we technology solutions. Although the brands is a practical example of the strategy of achieve significant commercial volumes, are in different stages of the process, much BIOMETRICS IN MORE SEGMENTS expanding our biometric technology portfolio. there are clear signs that the market is of the evidence indicates that the first certiWe are also seeing a significant growth in In March 2018, we were able to announce starting to gather pace, with several market fication process may be complete in lateinterest in biometric solutions across an our next step—we will be offering a facial test programs executed and planned. For 2018. This will be a momentous milestone array of other segments where secure and recognition solution. This solution will be example, at the beginning of 2018, we and may create an all-new volume market user-friendly authentication is critical. To for smartphones initially, but because announced a partnership with Visa on the for Fingerprints’ biometric solutions. some extent, this is being driven by the ­Fingerprints is expanding into new applicafirst market test of contact and contactless Fingerprints has well-established partgrowing Internet of Things (IoT), which tion segments across various sectors, it will biometric charge cards in the US, in partnerships with several of the major card proaccentuates the need for secure and useralso be suitable for customers in other nership with Mountain America Credit ducers, such as IDEMIA and Gemalto (via friendly systems to verify user identities. fields. Union. We are also witnessing how card Zwipe). We also started partnering with NXP The automotive industry is a good example, 8 Message from the CEO Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Our objective is to be the leading biometric company, which requires us to continuously The development of multimodal solutions involve difficult changes for many of our coworkers, but adaptation is essential to develop and enhance our technology. This is is a critical precondition for becoming a protect our competitiveness. I’d like to take about building out our fingerprint sensing this opportunity to thank all our employees technology and adding specialist technology leading biometric company. for their hard work and commitment in a in other segments. Different biometric challenging 2017. modalities have different characteristics, as Fingerprints’ first commercial deal in this users and wider society, through secure well as unique advantages and disadvansegment as soon as in 2018. identification and authentication in an tages, making them more or less suitable Our in-display fingerprint recognition increasingly vulnerable digital environment. GOTHENBURG, SWEDEN, APRIL 2018 for different application segments. Meantechnology is another priority development In this way, our solutions also contribute to while, there is great potential in combining segment. By applying unique ultrasound reducing the risk of fraud. Christian Fredrikson several modalities into a single application. technology that Fingerprints is developing, It’s also important that we ensure our CEO & President This also enables greater security for espefingerprint recognition will become even business is conducted within ethical guidecially sensitive systems or applications, more user-friendly. Our ambition is to lines. As a member of the UN Global Comthrough multi-stage authentication, for enable users to authenticate themselves by pact, Fingerprints stands wholeheartedly example. But it can also enhance userplacing their fingertips anywhere on a behind all its principles in human rights, friendliness by offering more authentication smartphone screen. This eliminates the labor, the environment and anti-corruption. options for different situations. need for a physical button. It also contrasts Our sustainability goals are aligned to the In 2017, we were able to announce our with other in-display sensor technologies, UN’s Global Sustainable Development first commercial multimodality launch, in where fingerprints can only be read in a goals. the form of a smartphone that integrates a small dedicated section of displays. This In 2017, we brought our sustainability fingerprint sensor and iris scanning from technology will serve as the foundation for work onto a more strategic footing and Fingerprints. The development of multithe continued development of a new generenhanced our controls by integrating susmodal solutions is a critical precondition for ation of fingerprint sensing products, in coltainability right across our business. Finbecoming a leading biometric company. laboration with new and existing partners. gerprints executed a structured stakeholder Secure cloud solutions for central biometric and materiality analysis in 2017, which matching are another important compoSUSTAINABLE BUSINESS served as the foundation for new sustainnent, not least in terms of implementing DEVELOPMENT ability goals for 2018-2020. Read more biometrics in smart cities. We have develFingerprints’ operations contribute to susabout this on pages 26-31. oped a high-security solution for this applitainable development and have a positive We’ll be streamlining our organization in cation, for fingerprint and iris recognition, social impact, not least through our product 2018 and continuing to realign our business and I’m looking forward to being able to sign portfolio creating value for customers, towards new segments. I know this will Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Message from the CEO 9 OUR BIOMETRIC WORLD A technology that will transform society Biometrics identify people using their characteristics. These characteristics may be physiological, but habits and behaviors can also be applied to human-machine interaction. Fingerprints, faces, irises, voices, hand or history doesn’t reveal whether it was Hergerprints, then classified patterns after the lie. If we like someone, our pupils dilate, and blood vessel patterns are all biometric idenschel himself that had the idea, or if the type of spiral, loop or curve. Edward Henry, if we don’t, they contract. tification methods. In many senses, biometmethod was a Bengali tradition. What is Herschel’s successor who was working as Iris is the Greek word for rainbow. The rics are the perfect way to identify and clear, though, is that his intention was to an administrator in India, assisted him. rainbow membrane, or iris, is a thin, circuauthenticate a human because the method prevent illiterate workers from accruing Scotland Yard started to use the Galtonlar pigmented tissue that controls the is with the user—always and everywhere. double salary payments. Henry system, as it came to be known, in amount of light falling on the retina. Iris recMeanwhile, in the same period, Henry 1901. Even today, most countries use methognition is one of the most effective biometFINGERPRINTS—AN ANCIENT IDENFaulds was working as a colonial physician ods based on the same system. Fingerric identification methods thanks to its perTIFICATION METHOD in Tokyo. He observed fingerprints on prints still retain very high evidential value manence. Irises start to take on their strucSpirals, stripes and papillary lines—fingerantique Japanese ceramics, reporting his in criminal investigations, but obviously, ture two months after birth and adopt their tips and palms have been used to identify observations in scientific journal Nature. He have many other applications. final form after about one year. Frank Burch individuals since before the modern era. proposed that because every individual had the original idea of iris recognition as an The papillary layer contains papillae, whose retains their unique pattern for their whole IRIS RECOGNITION—A BIOMETRIC identification method back in 1936. Howfunctions include keeping skin in place. The life, fingerprints could be used to register METHOD THAT STANDS THE TEST OF ever, it did not become practical until sevpapillae are larger in those places where criminals. Herschel also wrote an article for TIME eral years later, when John Daugman of the skin is thicker, forming tiny ridges, the same periodical, so exactly who had the The eyes are one of the most sensitive Harvard University created the algorithms which is what creates our fingerprints. idea first is open to debate. organs in the human body. They can be so that are the foundation of contemporary By the mid-19th century, British colonial About ten years later, anthropologist spellbinding that they make us completely biometric iris recognition. civil servant William Herschel’s Bengali Francis Galton created the first system to lose our perception of time and space. This workers were signing for their wage and classify fingerprints. He worked from the may be one of the reasons our eyes never pension payments with fingerprints. But delta—the triangle form present in all fin10 Our biometric world Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The need for secure authentication is growing as digitalization proliferates with the Internet of Things. BIOMETRICS—A TECHNOLOGY THAT ment authority. By scanning fingerprints BIOMETRIC MODALITIES TRANSFORMS AND CREATES VALUE and irises into a biometric database, peoIN SOCIETY ple’s 12-digit ID numbers associate with Biometrics are being applied in a growing their fundamental identity data such as number of segments and will transform our name, address, date of birth and sex. This society in many ways. The need for secure ID number becomes their personal identiauthentication is growing as digitalization fier anywhere in India. Every individual, proliferates, with the IoT. This means we regardless of age and sex that is resident in also need to remember more PINs and India and satisfies the verification process Face Iris Voice passwords. But they can be replaced using stipulated by the UIDAI, can register with biometrics, which can improve security, Aadhaar. saving time and making life more conveIn other spheres, biometrics help reduce nient. But we also know that biometrics the risk of fraud. The rapid evolution of bring everyday benefits at another level for smart cards and payments using biometrics many people worldwide. They can even help are evidence of the world’s need for more safeguard the rights to personal identities, secure payments. But regardless of context, as in a system called Aadhaar, which ably we want to be there, helping create a more demonstrates the value of biometrics. Aadsecure world—a biometric world. Palm blood vessel pattern Finger blood vessel pattern Fingerprint haar is a rational, digital identification system issued by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) an Indian GovernFingerprint Cards AB 2017 Our biometric world 11 Biometric smart cards have every prospect of becoming the next biometric mass market. 12 Market and trends Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 MARKET AND TRENDS Biometrics—an expanding global market In recent years, smartphone fingerprint sensors have evolved into a mature mass market. Simultaneously, biometrics are being applied across an array of new segments. There is a pressing need for biometric verifiments and control access to apps. Genertion of fingerprint sensors into device disexpect that this modality will become more cation and authentication methods, which is ally, security and user-friendliness are plays. This enables display sizes to be maxiwidespread, i.e. that phones or tablets uticontinuing to grow with the IoT. In our view, considered the biggest positives of bio­ mized, so displays cover the whole of the lize fingerprint recognition, as well is one or the big advantages of biometrics mean that metric ID technology. smartphone chassis front, while still more other biometric technologies. this technology is now proliferating into a The total market for capacitive smartembedding fingerprint recognition func­ wealth of new segments, notably cards and phone and tablet fingerprint sensors in tionality. The first large-scale in-display BIOMETRIC SMART CARDS—AN payments. 2017* was some 700 million units. Fingersensor launches were announced at the APPROACHING MASS MARKET prints’ market share for the full year was end of 2017. If the technology gains a posiMuch of the evidence suggests that biometCAPACITIVE SENSORS IN SMARTsome 40% at the OEM level. A number of tive reception with end-users, the demand ric smart cards—mainly charge cards—with PHONES AND TABLETS—A MATURE concurrent technology trends and uncerfor capacitive sensors for mobiles in the user fingerprints replacing PINs, will MASS MARKET tainty factors caused Chinese smartphone premium segment may be adversely become the next major biometrics market, Fingerprint sensors for smartphones and manufacturers to take a more hesitant affected. the primary drivers being: tablets have evolved into a mature mass approach in the year than previously. In tandem with this progress, we are see• User-friendliness—payments should be market very rapidly, with more competition Fingerprints are the most common bioing how fingerprint sensors are starting to easy, quick and convenient and falling pricing. At present, some 60% of metric modality in smartphones. Capacitive be supplemented by alternative biometric • Security—security standards for card smartphones have integrated fingerprint sensors dominate the market, although modalities, such as face and iris recognipayments are becoming ever more strinsensors. As the pricing of sensors declines, more sector players are developing optical tion. Apple’s introduction of facial recognigent, while greater security cannot be a devices in lower-end price segments are or ultrasound-based sensors. The purpose tion in one of its iPhone models in fall 2017 threshold against ease of use. increasingly integrating them. Sensors are of these in-display sensors, as they are triggered significantly increased interest in • The need for contactless cards with mainly used to unlock phones, make payknown, is to enable more complete integrathis touchless technology. Fingerprints higher transaction limits * Excluding Apple Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Market and trends 13 • Biometric charge cards may be the key to reducing the incidence of fraud chip providers for cards are a fourth player, although this segment is also dominated by The market for biometrics in the • New potential for innovation and revenue a small cluster: NXP, Infineon and ST. automotive sector and other embedded for card producers, issuers and other In 2017, card manufacturers, issuers, market participants chip producers, biometric companies, and system solutions covers a large and Fingerprints’ definition of the smart card market is all cards with chips. The yearly collaborative and certification bodies were highly active in their efforts to get the condigrowing array of application segments. volume of new cards is some 4 billion units, tions in place for creating a mass market for of which 3.5 billion are charge cards. Half of biometric charge cards. Several market test The growing IoT accentuates the need for infotainment or mileage reporting, leasing, new cards have dual interfaces, supporting schemes were executed and prepared for secure and user-friendly systems to verify linking to insurance, etc. The implementacontact and contactless transactions. Much 2018, which marks another milestone personal identities. Obviously, there is also tion of biometrics in vehicles is expected to of the remaining volume consists of ID towards the creation of a mass market for a need to identify individuals quickly and start in the higher-end segments. cards and access cards to open doors and biometric cards. However, it will be some easily, for entry systems in airports, hospilog in on devices. Half of new cards manutime before market volumes are expected to tals and workplaces. Overall, this means factured are dual interface, supporting conbe comparable to those currently in smartsystems need to be user-friendly, cost-effitact and contactless payment transactions. phones. cient, and obviously, secure. Card manufacture is dominated by three This is urging the need for biometric major players, which control some 70% of AUTOMOTIVE & EMBEDDED solutions. In this segment, most progress the market— Gemalto of the Netherlands, The market for biometrics in the automotive has been made in Asia, notably in the Idemia of France and Giesecke & Devrient sector and other embedded system soludemand for door locks with integrated finof Germany. Charge cards are issued by tions covers a large and growing array of gerprint sensors. banks, who have contracts with credit proapplication segments. Potential applicaBiometric vehicle solutions can be viders who serve as transaction intermeditions include vehicles, locks, entry systems, applied in different ways, and associated aries. Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay manufacturing technology and medical with different functionality—access, perrepresent some 80% of this market. The devices, as well as everyday home usage. sonal settings such as driving positions, 14 Market and trends Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Multimodality—fingerprint sensing supplemented by other biometric technologies—is becoming more common. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Market and trends 15 PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS An offering that creates benefit Fingerprints delivers a strong product portfolio of biometric system solutions that help create easier and more secure everyday lives for its users. At present, most of Fingerprints revenues are generated from sales of the company’s biometric system solutions based on fingerprint verification. Apart from smartphones, currently the ment, hardware development of biometric Software development for enhanced Packaging—physical integration largest application segment for the compasensors, and packaging. end-user experiences Packaging focuses on integrating the senny’s products, Fingerprints’ solutions are Software development focuses on Fingersor in other materials, as well as complete also applicable to product segments like Algorithms—reading unique biometric prints’ biometric systems solutions in system solutions with processes for plugsmart cards, vehicles and the IoT. patterns smartphones, for example. This process and-play functionality. Complete systems The portfolio comprises over 20 different Algorithms are the software that optimizes manages sensor communication with the solutions of this type are primarily develproducts. Fingerprints’ biometric systems image quality and executes image processmobile platform for verification in a secure oped for application in other solutions than solutions are protected by extensive pating that finds the information in images, platform, generating more value-added in smartphones and smart cards. ents. We are always endeavoring to obtain a which in the case of fingerprint sensors, are end-user functionality. Fingerprints operates through three balanced and high-growth patent portfolio images of the fingerprint sourced from the business lines, focusing on the Mobile extending from algorithms, through biochip. There is a continuous development Developing fingerprint sensors (smartphones and tablets), Smart Cards metric image processing to sensors and process to increase the utilization of infor—the hub (cards, mainly charge cards) and Automohardware packaging technology. mation from progressively smaller chips in The hardware development of fingerprint tive & Embedded (automotive industry, IoT a growing array of packaging options, i.e. sensors focuses on functionality and design etc.) segments. BIOMETRIC SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT sensor location and embedding solutions solutions in the creation of the sensor. For IN FOUR DIMENSIONS under different materials. Our in-house fingerprint sensors, this translates to chip MOBILE Fingerprints’ development of fingerprint algorithm competence enables partnerarea and thickness, power consumption and The product portfolio in the smartphone/ sensors is integrated across four focuses: ships with customers, and accordingly the capability to detect images through diftablet segment is multi-faceted and broaddeveloping algorithms, software developaddresses these requirements of biometric ferent types of material. based, comprising solutions for all price development. levels, from low-end to premium. 16 Products and solutions Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Low-end solutions are largely standardized, unlike the premium segment, where our SMART CARDS In 2017, Fingerprints launched the Automotive solutions based on FPC-BM (plug and play module) or Active IRIS, T-Shape™ is the products are generally delivered with more tailoring and unique system solutions. T-Shape™ sensor module, optimized for ­Fingerprints’ iris recognition technology, can be applied in several locations such as lowest-current integration in smart card conforming to the ­Fingerprint sensors can be delivered in a relevant sector standards, and ready for doors, keys, steering wheels, dashboards or module on the market. variety of sizes and with different surface contemporary efficient mass production integrated in rear-view mirrors. In January coatings for easy integration into end-­ processes. It is designed to satisfy ISO 2018, Fingerprints entered an exclusive colproducts. Design diversity confers flexibility smart card standards, and functions for laborative agreement with Gentex, a leading facilitating sensor location in product contact and contactless cards. T-Shape™ is automotive industry technology vendor, to design. In smartphones, sensors can be the market’s lowest-current module, with jointly develop biometric systems capable of placed on chassis fronts, rears or on the very good contactless charging characterisauthenticating drivers using iris recogniside of units with pigmented surface coattics, which is the fundamental criterion for tion. Once the driver’s rights to use the vehiings, adapted for placement under glass or functional biometric contactless cards. cle have been verified, the car can start and ceramic surfaces. Most of our shipments to the passenger compartment adapted autocustomers involve hard and software adapAUTOMOTIVE AND EMBEDDED matically, including mirrors, steering wheel tation. Fingerprints has a dedicated funcAutomotive & Embedded includes solutions settings, seat positions and satnav systems. tion supporting end-customers, such as for the IoT and automotive industry. Examsmartphone manufacturers, in adapting ple applications include door locks, entry their solutions. This enables differentiated systems, home electronics, smart watches functionality. and vehicle dashboard functionality. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Products and solutions 17 KEY FACTS—ACTIVE IRIS TOUCHLESS—THE ROUTE TO SECURE BIOR&D resources realigning from CONVENIENT AUTHENTICATION METRIC MULTIMODAL SOLUTIONS capacitive sensors for smartphones to other technologies. Fingerprints is the leading—and currently AND IDENTIFICATION only—provider delivering fingerprint sen• The world’s first iris recognition techsors and iris recognition in a single multinology with mass market-ready promodal solution for smartphones. At presduction ent, the core of our customer base is in mobile phone manufacturers), the solutions tion technology, with the aim of enabling fin• The combination of advanced iris recIndia, Japan and the US. Apart from applyare cost-efficient and easy to integrate. Fingerprints to be read anywhere on the disognition software and simple, low-cost ing this technology in smartphones, we see gerprints expanded in this segment in 2017, plays of smartphones or other devices, and easily integrated hardware that substantial potential across a number of launching multimodal solutions that eliminating the need for physical buttons. enables usage in mobile devices other identification segments. Fingerprints’ include iris recognition technology. As This also contrasts with other in-display • When the user activates the iris system, solutions, which combine fingerprint recogannounced in March 2018, Fingerprints is sensor technologies, where fingerprints the irises of both eyes are scanned in nition with iris recognition, create twofold now expanding its portfolio in touchless by can only be read in a small dedicated secless than 150 milliseconds, then comauthentication systems that bring greater developing a facial recognition solution. tion of the display. We see multiple applicapared to stored templates to verify the security and convenience to the user. This solution is being developed for smarttion segments, but our primary focus is on user. There are multiple factors driving the phones initially, but may also be offered to high-end smartphones. Fingerprints market at present, and this technology is customers in other segments. expects to collaborate with key customers applied in situations where quite simply, in the first half-year 2018 to continue develtouchless is more suitable. This may be In-display—technology in development oping this technology and then bring it to solutions in vehicles, secure entry and exit A growing share of Fingerprints’ R&D the mass market. systems, or other applications with esperesources have been realigned from capacicially stringent security standards. For our tive sensors in mobiles to other technoloconsumers, iris identification technology gies, one of which is in-display sensor techmeans speed, user-friendliness and high nology. Fingerprints is developing an ultrasecurity. For our customer base (OEMs, sound-based in-display fingerprint recogni*Source: Noréns patent law firm. 18 Products and solutions Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The launch of T-Shape™ The launch of our module design T-Shape is a big step towards mass production of biometric smart cards. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Business concept, objectives and strategy 19 BUSINESS CONCEPT, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY Focusing on diversification and expansion into new segments By managing the unique qualities of biometrics, Fingerprints provides solutions for simpler and more secure everyday lives. Operations are based on responsiveness to market needs, professionals with specialist competence, financial capital and long-term relationships. A STRATEGY FOR LONG-TERM PROFwith a continuously increasing share of from segments outside capacitive fingerembedding a multimodal solution based on ITABLE GROWTH IN BIOMETRICS handsets equipped with fingerprint sensors print sensors for mobile phones. iris and fingerprint technology launched in Fingerprints delivers biometric solutions and other biometric solutions. Our solutions can be applied across a 2017. Fingerprints is currently the only prothat increase security and create value in We are now seeing how the major advanraft of segments in different sectors, and vider of multimodal solutions that combine users’ everyday lives. To drive the biometric tages of biometrics are causing the technolare embedded in products including mobile fingerprint and iris recognition, with marmarket and satisfy the world’s need for ogy to proliferate into other segments. Finphones, tablets, computers, mouses, locks ket-leading security. The acquisition of secure biometric solutions, Fingerprints is gerprints is extremely well positioned to and smart cards. Delta ID, completed in 2017, supports Finupscaling investments in segments beyond benefit from the expanding global biometPriority segments: gerprints’ ambitions to expand its customer smartphone capacitive fingerprint sensors rics market. • Smartphones base, regions and sectors where the comand putting more focus on innovation for the Simultaneous with us continuing to focus • Smart Cards pany is active. continued strength of its patent portfolio, on developing our core business—volume • Automotive & Embedded We are also conducting a high-priority innovative products and long-term profitdeliveries of capacitive mobile phone findevelopment project in ultrasound technolable growth. gerprint sensors—we are realigning a ENHANCING OUR TECHNOLOGY ogy, with the aim of enabling fingerprints to growing share of our resources to new segPORTFOLIO be read anywhere on the display of a smartFROM A SEMICONDUCTOR PROments. Over half of our R&D expenditure is At present, Fingerprints is focusing on finphone or other device. Fingerprints expects DUCER TO A BIOMETRIC COMPANY associated with initiatives designed to gerprint and iris recognition, simultaneto collaborate with key customers in the In recent years, Fingerprints has been a develop new, biometric technologies and ously with continuously evaluating other first half-year 2018 to continue developing driving force in creating the first mass marexpand in new, promising growth segments biometric modalities, and we are developing the technology and then bring it to the mass ket for smartphone fingerprint sensors. We in different sectors. Our objective is that in multimodal solutions in tandem with this market. are the world’s leading vendor of fingerprint 2018, 10% of our revenues will be sourced process. Multimodality offers greater secusensors for this segment, a volume market rity and user-friendliness. The first product 20 Business concept, objectives and strategy Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Fingerprints is well positioned to benefit card manufacturers to drive the market forwards in partnership with them. A number A WELL-BALANCED AND FAST-­ from the expanding global biometrics of market test schemes on charge cards with our sensors were conducted in 2017 in GROWING PATENT PORTFOLIO market. Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and • Covering all aspects of our systems such as biometric algorithms, biometric image Japan. In early-2018, we announced that processing, recognition systems and Fingerprints is collaborating with VISA and packaging technology Mountain America Credit Union on the first • 206 patents granted in December 2017 Expansion in new application segments ually increasing. Fingerprints is in a very large-scale market test of biometric dual • Over 125 of these patents relate directly to Fingerprints sees great potential in utilizing strong starting position as the market for interface (contact and contactless) charge biometric solutions the company’s economies of scale and biometric smart cards enters its next cards in the US. Fingerprints’ sensors are experience of mass production of sensors in phase. also being used in a similar market test with its expansion into new customer segments. We took a major step towards high-volthe Bank of Cyprus and Gemalto (via Zwipe) The market we judge to offer the greatest ume production of Fingerprints’ sensors for in early-2018. potential in the short term is smart cards, smart cards through the launch of our new Fingerprints expects activity levels to with some 4 billion cards manufactured module design T-Shape™ in 2017, which is keep rising in 2018, focusing on qualifying every year. Fingerprints also sees potential distributed in a format compliant with sectechnology solutions to achieve certification in the IoT, i.e. Internet-connected devices, tor standards for smart cards and compatiby the leading card brands in the next the automotive industry, the care sector and ble with card manufacturers’ existing prophase. Apart from several in-depth partnerthe industry in entry and attendance sysduction infrastructures, contributing to ships with card producers, subcontractors, tems. Several million biometric door locks lower overall cost. Cards also become aesthe card brands and issuers, Fingerprints is are already sold every year in China. thetically pleasing thanks to the module also committed to central sector collaboraThe interest in Fingerprints’ smart cards being ultra-thin and compact. T-Shape™ is tive organizations, notably EMVCo and offering is high and growing, even if it will the lowest-current module on the market, Eurosmart, who are keynote players in take time before expected market volumes with very positive contactless charging ­standardization and certification. For more become comparable with those currently in characteristics. The module is already ready information on our partnerships, see smartphones. Fingerprints started shipping for commercial volumes, after an extensive page 28. small-scale commercial volumes of fingerdevelopment process and collaborations print sensors for access cards in 2017. We with Fingerprints’ sector partners in smart expect that commercial deliveries of smart cards. cards with fingerprint sensors may get Fingerprints has established collaboraunderway in 2018, with volumes then gradtions with a number of the world’s largest Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Business concept, objectives and strategy 21 VALUE CHAIN Business relationships spanning several links Our business is based on the sale of complex biometric systems that integrate high value-added hardware and software. We c­ reate business relationships with multiple partners through our supply chain. MOBILE our major OEM customers setting higher sensor footprints, which means lower unit manufacture a broader-based product mix Most of Fingerprints’ revenues are genersales targets than they were able to realize. cost because significantly more sensors can with varying volumes. To ensure delivery ated from shipments of capacitive fingerThis had a negative impact on Fingerprints’ fit on each wafer. This is an important comreliability at higher volumes and more hardprint sensors to mobile phone producers in revenues in the first half-year 2017, as disponent of addressing price downturns of ware versions, Fingerprints utilizes dual China. This business is part of the semicontributors and module suppliers gradually sensors, a consequence of the sector very sourcing for every chip series, i.e. two ductor industry and features a value chain destocked. rapidly evolving into a mature mass market ­different producers. with a large number of participants and with high competitive pressure. Apart from procurement from semiconlong lead-times. Semiconductor manufacturers The manufacture of silicon wafers has ductor manufacturers, value is also added Fingerprints has good visibility over Fingerprints manufactures its hardware similarities to the processing industry, through channels including OSAT (Outforthcoming launches of smartphones that using external contractors. The company’s where once a production line is started, it is sourced Semiconductor Assembly & Test) use our sensors. However, the company has largest procurement item in volume terms continuous and assumes the lowest volume suppliers, who encapsulate chips for sublimited visibility over the sales volumes are our silicon chips, mainly sourced from to maximize the utilization of production sequent assembly. these smartphone models will generate, two of the world’s largest semiconductor capacity, and thus attain the lowest possible which is what ultimately drives revenues. manufacturers, SMIC of China, which is unit cost. Accordingly, semiconductor manDistributors The inventory levels of the various particilisted on the NYSE and Hong Kong Stock ufacturers primarily select customers that Distributors are an established part of the pants in the value chain are affected by flucExchange, and TCMC of Taiwan, which is can fill their capacity. This not only affects electronics industry, and the party that tuating demand. This inventory dynamic can listed on the NYSE and Taiwan Stock the allocation of existing capacity, but also ­Fingerprints delivers its hardware too.­Finhave a material impact on Fingerprints’ Exchange. the likelihood of investing in new capacity. gerprints’ revenues arise due to hardware in sales volumes and earnings in individual Sensors are constructed in wafers, layers Thanks to high volumes and good planthe form of silicon wafers (sensors in their quarters. There was a significant inventory of silicon in standard format. Product develning, Fingerprints has secured very positive original format) or packaged sensors being build-up in all links of the value chain in opment and more efficient algorithms are relationships with semiconductor manufacshipped to the distributor. Agreements 2016, mostly as a consequence of several of enabling Fingerprints to gradually reduce turers, which enhances its potential to ­normally include software development. 22 Value chain Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 MOBILE A VALUE CHAIN WITH MULTIPLE PARTICIPANTS AND LONG LEAD-TIMES FINGERPRINT CARDS AB Delivery of sensors via semiHardware design and Software customization, conductor manufacturers customization ­integration and maintenance SEMICONDUCTOR DISTRIBUTORS MODULE SUPPLIERS OEMs RESELLERS USERS MANUFACTURERS APPROX. 4–6 MONTH LEAD-TIME Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Value chain 23 SMART CARDS ECOSYSTEM FINGERPRINTS COLLABORATES WITH MANY OF THE LEADERS* CARD ISSUER AirPlus, MACU, Bank of Cyprus SECURE ELEMENT NXP CARD MANUFACTURER IDEMIA, Gemalto (via Zwipe), Kona I, Jinco CARD HOLDER FINGERPRINT SENSOR FPC 1300-series T-shape™ SOLUTION PROVIDERS AND PAYMENT SCHEME INLAY MANUFACTURES VISA, JCB Zwipe, Linxen, CardLab * Published partnerships 24 Value chain Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Module suppliers The production of smartphones and tablets selected suppliers, these decisions mean a design win. Customer adaptation of hardIn 2017, Fingerprints was accepted as a is through the assembly of modules sourced ware and software then commences, and a member of Eurosmart, and also leads its large batch of sensors is then shipped for Biometrics Committee. from a range of subcontractors. In the mobile industry, they are largely produced by production and functional testing. Assuming module suppliers, with each OEM having these tests are successful, mass production selected module supply partners. Module commences. suppliers deal with the assembly and packSmartphone and tablet producers mainSubcontractors Fingerprints was accepted as a member of aging of various components into modules tain high tempo in the development and Subcontractors in various segments deliver Eurosmart, and also leads its Biometrics that are ready for assembly in a smartphone launch of new models. The commercial products and solutions to card manufacturCommittee. Standardization is a prerequior tablet. lifespan of a smartphone model is some ers such as chips, and in Fingerprints’ case, site for the market for smart cards with pay Fingerprints has established close part12–18 months, with the main volumes fingerprint sensor modules. functionality and biometric verification to nerships with about ten module suppliers shipped in the first 12 months. Tablets have gain momentum. A number of market tests including CrucialTec and O-film. Module a longer commercial lifespan of some three Manufacturers and issuers and pilot projects have already been exesuppliers can be viewed as partners and years. Charge/credit cards are issued by banks cuted and will continue in 2018. customers, because they set standards, who have contracts with the card brands. while also serving as a collaborative partner SMART CARDS The leading brands are VISA, MasterCard in Fingerprints’ product customization The value chain in the smart cards market and China UnionPay, who dominate this ­process. (all cards with chips, mainly charge cards) market. differ from the smartphone value chain in Payments and cards are a sector featurOEMs many respects. But there are also fundaing regulation and a high degree of stanSmartphone and tablet manufacturers mental similarities, because both sectors dardization. Certification and standardiza(OEMs and ODMs, the latter: original design feature high volume production by a limited tion of charge/credit cards with fingerprint manufacturers, who manufacture products cluster of global manufacturers that enter sensors is under the auspices of EMVCo sold under other parties’ brands) make decicomplex value chains with multiple memcertification body. International association sions on, and specify constituent compobers. The dominant card manufacturers are Eurosmart is another important player, nents, in their technical specifications. For based in Europe. which develops security standards. In 2017, Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Value chain 25 SUSTAINABILITY AT FINGERPRINTS An integrated component of Fingerprints’ governance Fingerprints’ biometric solutions contribute to sustainable development. Our offering enables secure identification and authentication in a formerly high-risk environment. FOCUSING ON SUSTAINABILITY DESPITE NEW MARKET CONDITIONS ActiveIris®, which is part of this project, is Fingerprints’ first Aadhaar-certified proFingerprints is working to sharpen and We secured our sustainability work on a firduct. Aadhaar is an example of an applicaclarify the benefits our products create mer footing in 2017, and improved governance by integrating sustainability further tion segment supporting UN Global Sustainable Development Goal 1 (No Poverty), by from a sustainability perspective. into our business. delivering a technology that supports Fingerprints expanded its product portpeople’s rights to an official identity. folio in 2017, through channels including Our offering in smart cards, which enaconducted through continuous efforts Fingerprints is governed by a companyacquiring Delta ID. Meanwhile, we are conble secure payments, is another example of towards sustainability goals. wide balanced scorecard, with sustainability sidering new application segments for the our connection to UN Global Sustainable goals being part of the assessment criteria, company’s biometric solutions, which in Development Goals. This supports Goal 16 SUSTAINABILITY—AN INTEGRATED which helps sustainability aspects secure turn, open up opportunities for stronger (Peace and Justice Strong Institutions) by COMPONENT OF FINGERPRINTS’ equal status with the company’s other integration of sustainability within different enabling more secure authentication and GOVERNANCE objectives. Sustainability targets were brobusiness segments. payments. Fingerprints’ Sustainability Forum was creken down by function and business line in With Delta ID, Fingerprints has played an Fingerprints is working on sharpening ated in 2016, and focuses on the sustainabithe year two actualize how they can contriactive role in developing Aadhaar. Aadhaar and clarifying the benefits our products crelity aspects of its organization, developing bute to sustainability goals. This enhances is operated on behalf of the Indian Governate from a sustainability perspective, and on work towards sustainability goals. The commitment and participation in sustainament with the aim of creating official identireducing the negative impact Fingerprints Forum also serves as a referral point, with bility work. The visibility and integrity of susties, and thus ensure access to local and has through its operations, products and certain segments subject to further approtainability goals also facilitates Fingernational social insurance systems in a supply chain. This work is primarily being val by management and the Board of Direcprints’ managers following up on work simple and secure manner for citizens. tors. where relevant. 26 Sustainability Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 STAKEHOLDER AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS MATERIALITY ANALYSIS In 2017, Fingerprints did its first work on a Fingerprints has defined the following The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and SOCIAL ASPECTS structured stakeholder and materiality anagroups as stakeholders and identified dedistipulations of the Swedish Annual • Attract and retain competence and talent lysis. The materiality analysis was the founcated activities for each stakeholder group. Accounts act on non-financial information • Secure access to the right competence dation for the new sustainability goals for Fingerprints’ end-customers are catego(ÅRL §10) have been combined as the starand attract, develop and retain talented 2018–2020 presented on page 30–31. These rized according to: smart cards, smartphoting-point of the methodology for producing individuals goals also linked to the UN Global Sustainanes and mobile phone manufacturers Fingerprints’ materiality analysis, which is • Diversity ble Development Goals. (OEMs), and for PCs and other application integrated into the company’s overall risk • Occupational health & safety The work on stakeholder analysis was segments management process. • Conflict minerals managed by the SVP of Strategy & Corpo• Module suppliers and distributors Fingerprints considers the following as • Accessing citizens’ rights and social insurate Development and Fingerprints’ Sustai• Coworkers the most material sustainability segments. rance systems through official identities nability Manager. All business lines and • Financial analysts A more detailed explanation on how (opportunity) functions were involved, and the stakehol• Suppliers Fingerprints works on risks associated with • Biometric integrity der analysis was approved by management. • Collaboration partners within ecosystems its materiality analysis are on page 39–41. A review of the stakeholder analysis is now a • Institutional investors ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS scheduled activity in our annual strategy • NGOs • CO2 emissions work and an integrated component of our • Watchdogs • Environmental impact of suppliers management system. • The media • Recycling • Competitors • Utilization of materials • Users • Private investors ECONOMIC ASPECTS • Political decision-makers • Corruption • Reduced risk of fraud (opportunity) • Product quality • Entry barriers for biometrics Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Sustainability 27 In 2017, Fingerprints maintained internal focus on building processes to assure quaResponsible sourcing: Fingerprints’ work on responsible sourcing was integrated into Our sustainability goals were broken lity and a strong organization where everyits management system in the year, and down by function and business line in the one is working towards the same objectives. covers direct suppliers. To integrate sustainability into our internal A three-step method has been develoyear to transform them into practical processes, we have gained inspiration from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our ped, with step 1 implemented in 2016, and steps 2 & 3 implemented in 2017: contributions to our goals management system also has ISO 14001 Step 1) all suppliers must sign our Code of Eurosmart: sustainability work is conducwork on conflict minerals. The RBA is the and ISO 9001 certification, both of which Conduct for suppliers; ted through its CSR committee, which Fingworld’s largest sector coalition for supply were renewed in 2017. Apart from securing Step 2) selected suppliers respond to the erprints’ Sustainability Manager is a memchains in electronics, which include semisustainability in the company’s overall straself-assessment questionnaire and; ber of. Eurosmart is the sector organization conductor production. The RBA is headqutegy process, we also focused on improving Step 3) selected suppliers undergo a thirdfor businesses that work in smart security, artered in the US. that part of corporate governance that party audit based on Responsible Business such as digital identities, data security, includes sustainability—corporate responAlliance (RBA, formerly EICC) standards. cyber security, the IoT, payment solutions United Nations Global Compact Nordic sibility and responsible sourcing. and interface controls. Euro smart is headNetwork As a business with its headquarCorporate responsibility: a working method COLLABORATIONS SECURED quartered in Brussels. ters in Sweden and member of the UN Glohas been produced to manage our overall IN THE YEAR bal Compact, Fingerprints thinks that the We believe that companies working collectiResponsible Business Alliance (RBA) forcompany should also work nationally and policies and Code of Conduct. This has been vely on sustainability challenges is the best merly the Electronic Industry Citizenship regionally on developing the UN Global approved by Fingerprints’ management. way to achieve long-term results. FingerCoalition (EICC). Fingerprints currently conCompact’s Ten Principles and UN Global Internal ownership of all policies was estaprints has been a member of the UN Global ducts much of its work on responsible sourSustainable Development Goals. blished in the year, and we have determined Compact since 2016, and decided to expand cing based on the EICC’s Code of Conduct Fingerprints’ Sustainability Manager is a how new policies are to be issued, approved, its external collaborations in the year by and Validate Audit Process. member of the Network’s Steering Comupdated, implemented and controlled. This becoming a member of three strategically Membership brings Fingerprints access mittee. approach enables all policy segments to be selected organizations. to the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative’s managed on an equal footing. 28 Sustainability Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Fingerprints currently conducts much of Following up on sustainability goals in its work on responsible sourcing based 2017, as presented in the Annual Report on the EICC’s Code of Conduct. for 2016 Fingerprints’ sustainability framework consists of a vision, core values and all the company’s policies, including its Code of Conduct and sustainability targets. All these collaborations were initiated in The framework has four segments that define how we organize our sustainability 2017, and Fingerprints plans even more work. These cover our whole business and are also stated in our Code of Conduct. active involvement in these organizations’ work in 2018. This means that Fingerprints will be able to exchange competence and best practice with other companies, thus Trusted and Environmental driving the sustainability issue resolutely Transperent Protection and forward together. Business Conduct Efficient use of Resources Respecting and Smarter and Rewarding People Safer Solutions Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Sustainability 29 GOAL DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2017 ACHIEVED IN 2017 WITH COMMENTS DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2020 GOAL 2020 TRUSTED AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS CONDUCT Recognition of, and compliance A. Annual confirmation of Code of Conduct A. All coworkers sign the Code of Conduct on taking up employment and A. Annual written acceptance of the Code of A. Annually by 100% of all coworkers with, the Code of Conduct (corby all coworkers. Code of Conduct mandatory introductory training for new coworkers. Conduct. porate responsibility) B. Annual further training for selected tarB1. 50% of coworkers have taken Code of Conduct E-learning, which conB. Percentage of coworkers that have taken B. 100% of all coworkers get groups, e.g. anti-corruption. tains in-depth information within anti-corruption, insider information and the Code of Conduct E-learning each year. sexual harassment including #metoo. B2. 33% of managers have taken further health & safety training. C. Internal audits on the Code of Conduct C1. ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 external audits conducted. Internal audits conN/A executed on selected segments in accorducted as part of ISO work, in accordance with predetermined plan. dance with predetermined plan. C2. Corporate responsibility framework prepared in 2017 dealing with N/A issuance, approval, implementation, training and internal audit of all corporate policies (total 17) and the Code of Conduct. New goal: recognition and comA. New goal segment for 2020 A. Annual written acceptance of all corpoA. Annually by 100% of all coworkers pliance with corporate policies rate policies (corporate responsibility) B. New goal segment for 2020 B. Percentage of workforce that have taken B. 100% of all coworkers corporate policy training programs associated with roles, functions and areas of responsibility Acceptance and compliance A. 100% of suppliers of direct material A. All suppliers of direct materials have signed the Code of Conduct for N/A B1. 80% of total spend from direct suppwith the Code of Conduct for should have accepted the Code of Conduct suppliers, which continues and is renewed as required B1. The share of direct suppliers that have liers covered by self-assessment quesSuppliers (corporate responfor suppliers. B1. 3/4 of direct suppliers have conducted (RBA, formerly EICC) selfundertaken an industry-specific self-assesstionnaires sibility) B. Audits executed to ensure compliance assessment questionnaire audits ment questionnaire B2. 70% of total spend from direct suppwith the Code of Conduct on 1/3 of suppliB2. 1/3 of direct suppliers have undertaken an external third-party audit in B2. The share of direct suppliers that have liers covered by an audit, with all serious ers of direct materials.1 accordance with the RBA’s validated assessment process. undergone audits and rectify potential nonbreaches concluded. compliances revealed in the audit on time New goal: biometric integrity New goal segment for 2020 Prepare a process to identify and mitigate All risks have action-plans, all serious potential ethical risks associated with misuse risks successfully executed action-plan. of Fingerprints’ products ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Reduce CO2 emissions A. Continuously reduce directly generated A. Scope 2: 36 ton aggregate reduction or -41% in CO2 equivalents achieA1. Reduce CO2 emissions pursuant to scope A1. 20% reduction achieved CO2 emissions2 ved despite brisk growth in the same period, with an aggregate increase in 2 with 2017 as base year (including all offices) B. Practical activities defined and 70% of B. Achieve CDP (Carbon Disclosure Prodirect energy of 323 MWh, or 24%. Reduction achieved by actively selecting B. Work continuously to reduce CO2 emisactivities fully implemented with measuject) level C suppliers using renewable energy. sions from scope 3 by identifying practical rable effect • Greenhouse gas emissions—Unit: ton CO2-eq 2017: 51 2016: 87 activities at the supplier level, business travel • Energy—Unit: MWh 2017: 1,659 2016: 1,336 and product usage. B. Achieved CDP level C New goal: reduced environmenNew goal segment for 2020 Develop a tool capable of evaluating and 80% of pre-defined existing suppliers have tal impact from suppliers assessing and comparing suppliers’ environbeen assessed. mental impact. 80% of new suppliers have been assessed based on pre-defined groups. New goal: implement proceduNew goal segment for 2020 Develop and implement procedures for recyProcedures fully implemented and the res for utilizing resources and cling Fingerprints’ products effect is measurable recycling Develop and implement procedures for waste management at offices Utilization of resources in A. At least 95% of produced sensors should 96.7% waste utilization achieved on average during 2017 Fingerprints Work continuously on improving the utiliza97.5% of silicon wafers are either recycled production be usable (waste utilization)3 ­continuously measures how much of the silicon wafer for fingerprints tion of materials or disposed of. ­sensors is utilized 30 Sustainability Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 GOAL DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2017 ACHIEVED IN 2017 WITH COMMENTS DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2020 GOAL 2020 RESPECTING AND REWARDING PEOPLE Advance positioning as an attA. Maintain or improve achievements on The engagement index score for 2017 was 71, and the net promoter score Identify and implement activities that create Coworker evaluation of motivation and ractive employer the outcome of 80 (2016 base year) in the was -1, which is a significant deterioration. High growth with extensive motivation and commitment of coworkers, commitment to return to 2016 levels coworker satisfaction Netsurvey of Comhiring followed by a major change to market conditions and new focuses and improve leadership. – Engagement index -71 mitment Index. The Commitment Index4,5 have adversely affected the motivation of some coworker groups. Active – Net promoter score -1 illustrates overall coworker satisfaction. initiatives to increase motivation have been initiated, including an extended B. Retain or improve the net promoter strategic conference for the company’s 80 managers. score of 43 (2016 base year). The net promoter score illustrates willingness to recommend your workplace to friends and acquaintances. New goal: attract and secure New goal segment for 2020 Regular meetings for coworkers and manaAll coworkers take two formal meetings talent gers to support coworker satisfaction, career per year, ??divided by: gender, coworker development and progress towards goals set. category and region. Equal opportunities Achieve 25% women of all coworkers of the 25% of the company’s coworkers are women, 9% in some form of manageModification of goals; define and implement All coworkers undergo formal meetings company at all levels by 2020.6 rial position. Collaboration with Women’s Executive Search to actively attaction-plans that support a diversified worktwice a year, by: ract more women. All applications are treated equally, and decisions taken force with equal opportunities regardless of – reviews and career development interviews on the basis of how well a candidate satisfies predefined criteria, and if all gender – Gender other things are equal, the female candidate is favored above the male. – Coworker category – Region Health & safety A. No serious work-related accidents. A. 0 serious accidents occurred. Identify and implement activities to improve A. No serious work-related accidents. occupational health & safety B. Not more than 1% of coworkers affecB. 2% of coworkers have been affected by long-term sickness absence. B. Not more than 1% of coworkers affected by work-related long-term sickness ted by work-related long-term sickness absence.7 absence. C. Perceived stress levels at a maintained C. Index of 14 in perceived stress level C. Perceived stress levels at a maintained or improved level compared to benchmark, or improved level compared to benchmark with 2016 baseline index of 15 in perceived with 2016 as baseline index 15 in perceived stress levels. stress levels. Conflict minerals Work for all products to be free from conA conflict minerals policy has been created and reported pursuant to the Goal expires Goal expires flict minerals Conflict Minerals Sourcing Initiative, CMRT Going forward, this goal will be dealt with in the same manner as other policy segments, and covered by corporate responsibility SMARTER AND SAFER SOLUTIONS Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction survey executed in Customer satisfaction survey conducted in May, followed up by 13 in-depth Drive active improvement work in key corpoThe CSI should be above benchmark (4.12) 2017, as well as development of methointerviews with key customers rate functions with the objective of increafor corresponding peer companies and dologies for gathering customer and endCustomers appreciate our products’ performance, quality, flexible solusing the CSI. the sector user needs. tions and Fingerprints’ high level of technology competence. Customers want more presence and local support. New goal: to capture the value New goal segment for 2020 Actively define Fingerprints’ biometric soluMethodology to measure the sales share creation of Fingerprints’ biometions’ value creation for customers, users and that contributes to reducing fraud estatric solutions wider society blished New goal: strengthen strategic New goal segment for 2020 Identify partnerships and collaborative seg100% of identified strategic partnerships partnerships and collaborative ments with the aim of reinforcing and mainand collaborations fully established platforms taining Fingerprints’ positioning as biometric leader Explanatory notes Goal achieved Goal proceeding as planned/partly achieved Goal not achieved 1 Supplier audits only conducted on suppliers that delivered to Fingerprints throughout 2017. 4 Employees are defined as all individuals with a direct and valid employment Direct suppliers are defined as those supplies that deliver materials that are constituent to the contract with ­Fingerprints. Coworkers are defined as all employees and consultants products Fingerprint sells to its customers. with consulting assignments occupying at least 50% of their total working-hours. 2 CO2 emissions in Scope 2 cover the offices in Sweden and Denmark. The GHG Protocol Corpo5 Benchmark data produced by Netsurvey. rate Accounting & Reporting Standard, market-based approach was used to measure Scope 2. 6 Equal opportunities information is for all employees. 3 Utilization of materials in production is for wafers 7 Information on sickness absence is for Sweden only. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Sustainability 31 Fingerprints’ coworkers at a kickoff event in Malmö, Sweden, in February 2017. 32 Sustainability Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 HUMAN RESOURCES An entrepreneurial and innovative company creating the biometric future Fingerprints is an entrepreneurial company that is aware that diversity is a competitive edge for understanding our customers. As Sweden’s most innovative company* the birth of new, creative ideas, with a consistent focus on end-user experiences, happens every day. PROFESSIONALS CLOSE TO CUSTOful collaborations worldwide. Fingerprints’ Pontus Jägemalm, formerly our VP of A VALUE-BASED WORKPLACE WITH MERS WITH A HIGH LEVEL OF TECHsuccess also depends on linguistic and culResearch & Development, was appointed as THE POTENTIAL FOR CONTINUOUS NOLOGY EXPERTISE ARE THE CORE tural closeness to our customers, which is our CTO in Spring 2017. The focus in the DEVELOPMENT OF OUR BUSINESS why we give our people great opportunities year was to adapt Fingerprints’ technology In order to succeed in a fast-moving market, Fingerprints’ coworkers share a genuine for international exchange between operasolutions for new application segments and we need to constantly ensure that we posinterest in technology and are driven by tions, depending on project—from Silicon to extend our basic technology. Consesess the competence our customers taking the creation of our future biometric Valley to Shanghai. quently, we reallocated a significant share demand, and accordingly, we work continusociety in a positive direction. Our professiTo maintain and improve our high-level of resources to new biometrics segments in ously on developing our professionals. onals possess specialist competence in bioof technology competence, we continued to the year, as against our previous positioWhether people join us straight after gradumetrics, electronics, materials technology, invest in teams that produce new biometric ning, when most of our development ation or already possess many years of procoding, production technology, marketing solutions and develop new technologies in resources were assigned to capacitive fingfessional experience, it is important that we and sales. Many are graduate engineers, close partnership with our customers in erprint sensors for smartphones. offer then stimulating and challenging and some 25% of these hold Ph.D.s in tech2017. Our goal has been to develop more development projects that are close to nology development. Because so many of solutions that can be applied to our offering customers. There are no ready answers at our professionals have rigorous sector across more sectors and with broader geoFingerprints, but rather, we believe in our experience from telecom, banking, paygraphical coverage. Our acquisition of Delta coworkers learning from their experiences ments and charge cards, we understand our ID plays a significant role in achieving this and each other. This is when we believe customer needs in a way that creates fruittarget. the innovation process becomes most * Source: Noréns patent law firm Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Innovation and intellectual capital 33 OUR CORE VALUES Smart Brave With our highly skilled and competent We are encouraged to take initiatives and people, we deliver smart and user-friendly bravely take on challenges. Our people products and solutions to the global marmake a difference every day, with individual ket. We encourage smart working by procontributions being the key to our success. moting a good work-life balance. We demonstrate integrity in our decisions, and stand up for our values. Open United We communicate with each other and our We work together towards common goals. customers openly, and with compassion and We build trust to create long-lasting relaintegrity. We are open to new ideas, markets tionships. We care for each other and treat and products and continuously refine our each other with respect. We help each other ways of working. We build trust by commuand share our knowledge for continuous nicating openly and transparently with stadevelopment. We have fun together. keholders. 34 Innovation and intellectual capital Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 558 415 EMPLOYEES 143 CONSULTANTS Coworkers in 2017 (of a total of 558) (of a total of 558) 40 311 men 104 women Average age EMPLOYEES BY AGE, GENDER AND REGION Geographical division, men Geographical division, women Age profile, men Age profile, women Employees, men in Europe, 73% Employees, women in Europe, 83% Employees, men aged under 30 år, 9% Employees, women aged under 30 år, 15% Employees men in Asia, 22% Employees, women in Asia, 16% Employees, men aged 30–50 år, 78% Employees, women aged 30–50 år, 80% Employees, men in the Americas, 5% Employees, women in the Americas, 1% Employees, men aged over 50 år, 13% Employees, women aged over 50 år, 5% Management consists of ten people, all of them men, half in the 30–50 age range, and the remainder aged over 50. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Innovation and intellectual capital 35 i­ nteresting. But an impactful and competent biometric company by being smart, brave, To bring all our businesses worldwide ing the value of an equal opportunities and organization doesn’t come cheap. Accoropen and united. together, we launched an app called Fingerfair search & selection process, with the dingly, our core values are central, and are print News in the year where we publish potential to access the market’s best female deeply rooted right through our organizaPARTNERSHIPS TO FIND TALENT news affecting all coworkers in our organicandidates. Our aim, in time, is to achieve tion. Our values permeate our whole busiFingerprints maintains fruitful and close zation. As part of bringing our management more multi-faceted leadership and sharpen ness and are critical in search and selection, partnerships with relevant faculties at uniteam members more into the spotlight and our competitiveness in the sector. We also internal training programs and when introversities and institutes of further education exchanging best practice between operaconducted a two-day strategy workshop at ducing new coworkers, as well as for goalin Denmark and Sweden to enhance its protions, we have also evolved our monthly allthe end of 2017 for all managers to improve setting and appraisal interviews. spects of identifying young, talented candiemployee meetings using our videoconfetheir understanding of our business, its We work tirelessly to achieve compliance dates for our business. Apart from these rencing system, so that they now not only goals and direction. with our core values during the working day, partnerships, we also participate at job fairs, keep us all updated on what’s happening in and are convinced that this not only improtraditional advertising channels and work the company, but also enable dialogue betves customer relationships and more effecwith recruitment agencies for special ween staff and management. tive decision-making, but greater job satisassignments. We also use referral programs Last year, we also worked intensively faction, commitment and long-term motivain China. towards our goal of getting a new digitalized tion. HR system in place in 2018 to streamline, 2017—A YEAR TO LAY A STABLE enhance quality, and not least, devote more FINGERPRINTS’ FIRST KICKOFF FOUNDATION FOR OUR FUTURE man-hours to our core business. This is EVENT We focused on getting working methods and another major step towards facilitating our Fingerprints held its first kickoff event ever structures in place in the year, so we can be managers’ duties, in turn enabling them to for all coworkers at the beginning of 2017, the sustainable employer we are endeavocreate better conditions for our coworkers. which was a significant milestone in the ring to become. This, not least, considering Fingerprint also started a partnership with company’s history. Much of the agenda centhat we have the had the pleasure of welcoWes (Women’s Executive Search), Sweden’s tered on discussions of our four core values, ming new members to our family through fastest-growing management recruitment and many of the activities were about how the acquisition of Delta ID. agency, in 2017. This collaboration is founFingerprints will become a world-leading ded on us sharing the same values, and see36 Innovation and intellectual capital Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 COWORKER INTERVIEWS 1 Why do you work at Fingerprints? 2 What drives you at work? 3 How would you describe the culture at Fingerprints? FREDRIK RAMBERG SOFIE WESTERDAHL HAIYUAN BU Manager of ASIC System Integration & Verification, R&D Project Manager, Malmö Senior Director, Head of Customer Engineering, Shanghai Gothenburg 1 When I started at Fingerprints three years ago, it was a 1 I work at Fingerprints because it is the outstanding 1 Because it’s unique in Sweden! Being at a workplace small enterprise that not many people had heard of. company in biometrics, and I get the opportunity to with high ambitions and driven professionals is an inspiBeing part of developing technology that’s used by millions work on exciting technologies and deliver products and ration. I really like the working environment because there’s of people every day is really interesting. Biometrics are excisolutions that create value in people’s everyday lives. It’s always something stimulating happening, and I have the oppting because they are based on something that you always interesting to see how biometrics is starting to become a ortunity to influence things. Without a doubt, my colleagues have with you, and the potential applications are infinite. I natural part of people’s lives and how our technology makes are the most important thing for me at work. Participating in really enjoy the daily challenges, and the high tempo. I also human-machine interaction more secure and accessible. producing capacitive sensors for mobile phones and being have great freedom at work and the opportunity to get involThere’s so much more to be done in biometrics to change part of developing new application segments is rewarding in ved in different phases of projects means good variation. society. I want to be part of that. many ways. For example, we were the first to succeed with integrating them into Android. That felt awesome! 2 I work on a lot of projects in parallel, and am driven by 2 My work as a manager is largely about helping and delivering what the customer wants on time, and with motivating my colleagues. I feel motivated myself, and 2 It’s great to help build at team with a specific responsibihigh quality. I think that my efforts in producing biometric think it’s exciting when thanks to team effort and hard work, lity. If you have good ideas, turning them into reality isn’t solutions make consumers’ everyday lives easier because we succeed in launching products that are well-received on so difficult. We work on everything from early-phase project they don’t need to remember PINs and passwords, while the market. Our products and solutions are used by a lot of ideas to integrating them with our customers. Watching they don’t need to worry about other people accessing their people worldwide, and we make people’s lives easier and something evolve from an idea to a finished product is excitdata. more secure in many contexts, with mobile payments and ing. Quite clearly, biometrics is gaining ground, and becodoor locks being good examples. In the future, I think we’ll ming more widely adopted. In mobile telephony, the market 3 At Fingerprints, we have a working sentiment where we see a world where biometrics are everywhere. always wants something new—anything from performance to help each other to achieve our goals. It’s also important attractive functionality, which makes me motivated to develop to work smart, think innovatively and dare to succeed in a 3 Fingerprints is a company that’s always thinking ahead. new solutions. sector that’s changing rapidly. Our customers perceive us We always need more innovation and people with brave as effective, which is largely possible thanks to our close ideas that will keep us one step ahead of the competition. 3 We have a flat organizational structure with open comcollaborations with other teams at our offices worldwide. Winning assignments and resolving customers’ challenges munication, where everyone can participate and influUnderstanding other cultures is key. smartly and effectively are strong drivers for us. Obviously, ence in some way. Generally, I describe our culture as staour values feature in our daily work. tus free. We operate close to our customers and some of my colleagues are stationed with them every day. The trust and relationship between us and the customer is everything— something I think would be hard to accumulate without such a strong and solution-oriented culture in-house. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Organization and human resources 37 FOX The implementation of FOX (Fingerprints operational excellence) is a major internal process conducted through the year. FOX is an ISOcertified quality assurance and environmental management system that supports every employee in their daily work. This system includes process definitions for developing and delivering products, but also, various policy documents. The system is located at the offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg Malmö, Linköping and Copenhagen. The Asian sales office is not covered by FOX, even if employees at these offices also apply its processes in their operations. 38 Organization and human resources Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Risks and risk management Like all business activities, Fingerprints’ operations are associated minimize their effects, Fingerprints has processes in place to conwith risk. Risks include Fingerprints’ dealing with situations errotinuously identify and manage risks that can affect its operations. neously, and events or decisions outside the company’s control As part of this process, the company evaluates the probability and Operational risks that could result in disruptions to operations, damage or losses consequences of operational risks, market risks, financial risks, as 1 Delivery capacity of contracted suppliers with a material impact on the company. Fingerprints’ risk managewell as legal and other risks. (risks 2 and 3 combined in risk 23) ment is critical to the company’s success. To anticipate risks and 4 Reduced technological leadership IMPACT 5 Leaks and infringements regarding business secrets 20 Internal scalability 1 1 9 10 14 14 Market risks 6 Geopolitical instability High 23 7 Supplier costs 15 18 18 4 8 Economic fluctuations 15 9 Currency risk 13 10 10 Loss of customers and price pressure due to increased competition 7 11 Financial risks 19 7 25 16 5 8 11 Credit risk Medium 12 22 5 20 12 Financing 22 Corporate governance structure 8 6 20 12 24 Legal risks 14 Competitors’ IP 15 Value of proprietary IP 26 Risk unchanged 17 Other sustainability risks and opportunities Risk increase Risk decrease 13 Product defects and product liability Low 21 21 New risk 16 Corruption 17 Conflict minerals 18 Limitations on planned business development PROBABILITY 19 Biometrics and integrity Low Medium High 21 Discrimination and limited diversity 23 Skills management 24 Environmental Impact Operational risks Market risks Financial risks Legal risks Other risks 25 Reduced risk of fraud 26 Civil rights Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Organization and human resources 39 Probability Impact Total Risk Number Name of Risk How Fingerprints is impacted Risk Mitigating Activities/Risk Control score (1-6) score (1-6) Score Operational risks 1 Delivery capacity of contracted Financial damage as a result of delivery disruption Maintaining a diversified supplier base of hardware and input materials. 2 6 12 suppliers 4 Reduced technological need Loss of competence Continous product development an dunderstanding of customer demands, increase 5 5 25 R&D collboration with customers 5 Leaks and trespass in respects Economic consequences, and impact rumour mongeImplement IT Policy through training and integration in management system 4 4 16 of corporate secrets ring in connection with leaks of development informaDevelop procedures for platforms, systems and cloud when managing high risk data tion 20 Internal agility Challenges in adapting an agile organization and Investment made in Management system, processes development is ongoing. Invest5 3 15 management systems fit for market fluctuations ment in HR system, implementation is ongoing. Market Risks 6 Geopolitical instability Loss of business opportunities for local/regional politiDifferentiate Fingerprints biometric solutions towards low cost products with low bio3 3 9 cal reasons metric integrity 7 Supplier costs Reduced margins due to increase in supplier costs Ensure market-aligned pricing by using several suppliers. Continuous reviews of 4 4 16 suppliers' prising and market analysis 8 Economic Fluctuations Demand fluctuations impact the company's revenues Reduce cyclicality through diversifying to new markets and continuously analyse whole 6 4 24 value chain to foresee demand fluctuations. Reduce cyclicality through broad product portfolio and customer base. Systematized business intelligence. 9 Currency risk Negative financial impacts from currency fluctuations Fingerprints has elected not to hedge its net exposure in USD, since hedging may itself 3 6 18 be viewed as speculation on the direction of the exchange rate 10 Loss of customer and price Sales revenues and market shares decline due to price Move towards a full solution provider. Increased focus on customer satisfaction, 6 6 36 pressure, due to increased pressure and customer requirements for a number of ­service, quality and quick response time. Maintain direct customer contacts competition suppliers Cultivate new customers in new markets. Develop strategic partnerships. Finance Risk 11 Credit risk The counterparty does not fulfil his/her payment obliCompliance with credit policy and established process for credit assessment and set2 4 8 gations ting limits. Use of credit insurance 12 Insufficient capacity to finance Limited growth in operations, development and proKeeping positive cashflow from mobile by focusing on competitive pricing and diversi3 3 9 duction. Loss of competence fication and investing in new markets. Proactively communicate with capital markets. 22 Governance Structure Many smaller private owners can affect stability and Actively working with attracting institutional and larger investors. 3 3 9 financing Legal Risks 14 Competitors IP Patents held by others impede the applications of FPCs Patent strategy and active patent monitoring. Close cooperation between patent 5 6 30 technology manager and development department 15 Value of Property IP Loss of competitiveness due to patent infringements Maintain well-protected patents and work actively to leverage proprietary IP 3 5 15 Other Sustainability Risks and Opportunities 13 Products defects and product Financial consequences and impact on customer satisEnsure the right product design and that all of Fingerprints’ hardware products are 3 5 15 liability faction tested prior to delivery. Measure and work actively on faults and product returns within the quality organization. 16 Corruption Financial consequences and loss of reputation Further implement Fingerprints’ Code of Conduct in Management system. All 3 4 12 ­coworkers shall complete Code of Conduct E-learning where anti-corruption is ­included. Assess anti-corruption policy and update where needed. Conduct more ­in-depth training activities for target audience. Take steps to develop internal audit practices. 17 Conflict Minerals Impact of rumours and financial consequences should Annual inspection of our suppliers. Assess suppliers through Responsible Minerals 1 2 2 conflict minerals enter products. Initiative CMRT. 40 Organization and human resources Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Probability Impact Total Risk Number Name of Risk How Fingerprints is impacted Risk Mitigating Activities/Risk Control score (1-6) score (1-6) Score 18 Limitations on planned busiEntrance barriers, laws and regulations barriers for Structured stakeholder ananlysis to understan stakeholoders requirements and 3 5 15 ness development new segments expectations. Work with existing partners to reduce industry barriers for biometrics in general as well as for Fingerprints. Are actively seeking new partnerships to reduce entrance barriers 19 Biometrics and Integrity Impact on demand if public confidence in biometric Application of TEE (Trusted Execution Environment) to ensure that data be accessed 2 4 8 solutions diminishes through operating systems and apps. Communicate transperently about the secure usage of our solutions and be transparent about risks and Fingerprints risk mitigating activities. Ongoing project to ensure GDPR compliance by May 2018. 21 Discrimination and limited Positive affect of diversity diminish, negative impact on Gender diversity in total has significantly improved still uneven balance in seniority. 3 2 6 diversity attractiveness as employer Identify and support female and non Swedish talents with progress plans 23 Talent attraction and retention Negative impact on competitiveness in terms of attracActively work on hiring and transferring skills to new market segments. Implement 3 4 12 ting talent and retaining talent new performance management process with personal objectives and defined career paths. Work actively on coworker motivation and leadership and formulate targets to measure progress. 24 Environmental Impact Negative environmental impact from Fingerprints proWork actively on environmental targets within CO2 emissions and supplier environ­ 2 3 6 duction, suppliers, own operations and products usage. mental performance Loss of customers, brand and markets 25 Reduced risk of fraud FPCs biometric solutions can reduce risk of fraud Actively working with developing procedures to measure fraud reduction from smart 4 4 16 when used to facilitate financial payments cards with biometric solutions 26 Access to citizen and residenFPC Delta ID is Aadhaar certified and can contribute to Work on issuing Aadhaar-certified products to the market 3 2 6 tial rights access to citizen rights in that project. FPC biometric solutions provides a safer option for identification which can be used broadly for access to citizen or residential rights such as social security Deleted Risks / Or Merged 0 Risks 2 Insufficient competence sourPlanned growth in new markets is delayed and compeDedicated recruitment plan within growth areas 4 4 16 cing titiveness in existing markets is impacted (Combined in Working with selected recruiters risk 23 jointly with risk 3) 3 Loss of key competence Impact on competitiveness (Combined in risk 23 jointly 5 3 15 with risk 3) Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Organization and human resources 41 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS IN FINGERPRINT CARDS, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556154-2381 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 26-41 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our ­examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in s­ cope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 24 April 2018 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorized Public Accountant 42 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The share Fingerprints’ class B shares have been quothe share capital. For more information on prints group. Participants were offered repurchase a total of as many of the ted on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2000 and ownership see pages 43–44 of this Annual the opportunity to receive class B shares company’s class B treasury shares so that transferred from the Mid Cap to the Large Report. within LTIP 2017, called “Performance at any time, the company’s holdings do not Cap list at the beginning of 2016. FingerShares” free of charge, assuming the exceed ten (10)% of all the shares of the prints was initially listed on the Stockholm SHARE PRICE TREND satisfaction of certain terms. See the invitacompany, on one or more occasions until Nya Marinade (“New Market”) marketplace The closing price of Fingerprints’ class B tion to the AGM for more information at the next AGM. Purchases should be on Nasin 1998. The ISIN code is SE 0000422107 (IT, share fell by 75% to SEK 15.8 (62.8) in 2017. www.fingerprints.com daq Stockholm only. The Board also propoelectronic equipment & instrument sector). The OMX Industrial Goods Index climbed by ses that the AGM authorizes the Board to The company trades under the ticker FING 18% in the same period. Fingerprints’ class DIVIDEND POLICY decide on transfer of the company’s class B B. Fingerprint Cards is a CSD company, B share set a high of SEK 66.6 and a low of The Board of Directors’ top priority is to treasury shares on one or more occasions which means the company’s share register SEK 15.7. At year-end 2017, Fingerprints’ ensure that Fingerprints maintains a finanin the period until the next AGM, waiving is maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. market capitalization was approximately cial position that is strong enough to supshareholders’ preferential rights. Transfers As of 31 December 2017, the share capiSEK 4,964 M (19,733). port organizational growth and selective of class B treasury shares should be on tal of Fingerprint Cards AB was SEK acquisitions. Fingerprints also wishes to Nasdaq Stockholm. The purpose of these 12,975,667, divided between 6,000,000 class HIGH TURNOVER maintain a strong Balance Sheet. authorizations is to increase the Board’s A shares and 307,967,675 class B shares, 2,856 (2,454) million class B shares were Transfers of capital to shareholders scope to act in its work on the company’s each with a quotient value of SEK 0.04. traded in the year. An average of 11.4 million should be adapted to Fingerprints’ earnings capital structure, and to create flexibility in Class A shares carry ten votes and class B (9.7) class B shares were traded per day. trend and cash flow, while also considering the company’s potential to exploit attractive shares carry one vote, and the total number the company’s growth potential and finanbusiness opportunities. The Board’s comof votes amounts to 367,967,675. INCREASED SHAREHOLDER BASE cial position. plete proposals for resolution will be preAll shares carry equal participation in There were 70,057 (63,467) shareholders at sented in the invitation to the AGM. capital, but different voting rights, and are year-end 2017, a 10% increase on the corDIVIDEND freely transferable. A class a share lot corresponding point of the previous year. The Board of Directors is proposing that no responds to 16.3% of the vote and 1.9% of dividend is paid for the financial year 2017. the capital of Fingerprints. INCENTIVE PROGRAM At year-end, the ten largest shareholders The AGM approved the proposal to adopt a SHARE REPURCHASES had total holdings corresponding to 29.3% long-term incentive program (“LTIP 2017”) The Board of Directors proposes that the of the vote. Foreign shareholders 38.8% of for up to 25 individuals within the FingerMeeting authorizes the Board to decide to Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The share 43 FORECAST Participating Share class Votes No. of shares No. of votes interest, % Voting share, % Fingerprints is not presenting a forecast for 2018. Class A 10 6,000,000 60,000,000 1.9% 16.3% FINANCIAL ANALYSTS Class B 1 307,967,675 307,967,675 98.1% 83.7% In 2017, Fingerprints was monitored by the following financial analysts: Total 313,967,675 367,967,675 100% 100% • Arctic Securities, Oscar Semb Fredricsson Source: Modular Finance • Carnegie Investment Bank, Håvard Nilsson • Handelsbanken Markets, Daniel Djurberg Proportion No. of known of known • Pareto Securities AS, Fredrik Steinslien and Espen Klette Allocation of holdings No. of shares Capital Votes shareholders shareholders • Redeye, Viktor Westman 1–1 000 13,917,136 4.4% 3.8% 52,929 75.6% • SEB, Victor Höglund and Johanna Ahlqvist 1 001–5 000 28,620,989 9.1% 7.8% 11,708 16.7% • UBS, Francois Bouvignies 5 001–10 000 19,296,875 6.1% 5.2% 2,577 3.7% 10 001–20 000 20,800,907 6.6% 5.7% 1,434 2.0% 20 001– 173,319,149 55.2% 61.8% 1,409 2.0% Anonymous ownership 58,012,619 18.6% 16.2% Total 313,967,675 100.0% 100.0% 70,057 100.0% Shareholders, ten largest 31 December 2017 Class A shares Class B shares Capital Votes Shareholder type No. of shares Capital Votes Avanza Pension 17,318,324 5.5% 4.7% Swedish private individuals 150,401,934 47.9% 40.9% Ålandsbanken Funds 5,831,000 1.9% 1.6% Other 48,947,402 15.5% 27.5% Vanguard 5,819,798 1.9% 1.6% Foreign institutional shareholders 29,060,056 9.2% 7.9% Velociraptor LTD 6,000,000 1.9% 16.3% Swedish institutional shareholders 27,545,664 8.8% 7.5% Nordnet Pension Insurance 5,770,687 1.8% 1.6% Anonymous shareholders 58,012,619 18.6% 16.2% BlackRock 3,448,470 1.1% 0.9% Total 313,967,675 100.0% 100.0% Danica Pension 3,099,474 1.0% 0.8% Source: Modular Finance Folksam 2,939,612 0.9% 0.8% Swedbank Robur Funds 2,928,601 0.9% 0.8% Swedbank Insurance 2,179,303 0.7% 0.6% Other 0 258,632,406 82.4% 70.3% Total 6,000,000 307,967,675 100.0% 100.0% Source: Modular Finance 44 The share Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Share capital to 2017 Change in Total Increase Total SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2017 Quotient number of number of in share share Year Event value, SEK shares shares capital capital SEK Thousand 1997 Split 500:1 0.2 249,500 250,000 0 50,000 240,000 80 1997 Bonus issue 0.2 250,000 500,000 50,000 100,000 70 210,000 1997 New issue 0.2 2,000,000 2,500,000 400,000 500,000 60 180,000 1997 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 370,000 2,870,000 74,000 574,000 1998 New issue 0.2 2,000,000 4,870,000 400,000 974,000 50 150,000 2000 New issue 0.2 540,000 5,410,000 108,000 1,082,000 40 120,000 2000 New issue 0.2 938,258 6,348,258 187,651 1,269,651 30 90,000 2005 New issue 0.2 3,000,000 9,348,258 600,000 1,869,651 20 60,000 2006 New issue 0.2 2,804,475 12,152,733 560,895 2,430,546 10 30,000 2009 New issue 0.2 7,682,060 19,834,793 1,536,412 3,966,958 2009 New issue 0.2 19,834,793 39,669,586 3,966,959 7,933,916 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 New issue 0.2 3,940,000 43,609,586 788,000 8,721,917 Total share turnovers, 000s Class B Fingerprint share OMX Stockholm Industrials GI 2012 New issue 0.2 4,198,549 47,808,135 839,710 9,561,927 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 95,485 47,903,620 19,097 9,581,024 2013 New issue 0.2 1,400,000 49,303,620 280,000 9,861,024 2013 New issue 0.2 1,600,000 50,903,620 320,000 10,180,724 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 335,407 51,239,027 67,081 10,247,805 SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2013–2017 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 263,500 51,502,527 52,700 10,300,505 SEK Thousand 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 158,608 51,661,135 31,722 10,332,227 160 120,000 2013 New issue 0.2 2,500,000 54,161,135 500,000 10,832,227 140 2014 New issue 0.2 2,500,000 56,661,135 500,000 11,332,227 100,000 120 2014 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 1,760,000 58,421,135 352,000 11,684,227 80,000 2015 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 4,818,000 63,239,135 963,600 12,647,827 100 2016 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 1,300,000 64,539,135 260,000 12,907,827 80 60,000 2016 Pro forma reverse split 1:5* 0.04 0 322,695,675 0 12,907,827 60 40,000 2016 Repurchase of treasury shares 0.04 –10,424,000 312,271,675 0 12,907,827 40 2016 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.04 826,000 313,097,675 33,040 12,940,867 20,000 20 2016 New issue, exercise of warrants registered 3 Jan. 2017 0.04 870,000 313,967,675 34,800 12,975,667 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 Cancelling of treasury shares 0.04 0 313,967,675 -416,960 12,558,707 2017 Bonus issue 0.04 0 313,967,675 416,960 12,975,667 Total share turnover, 000s Class B Fingerprint share OMX Stockholm Industrials GI Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 The share 45 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 47 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSURANCE BY THE BOARD 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 48 Note 1 Critical accounting policies 73 Note 22 Financial liabilities 85 AUDIT REPORT 92 Note 2 Revenues 74 Note 23 Other current liabilities 86 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 56 Note 3 Operating segments 75 Note 24 Accrued expenses and TEN-YEAR SUMMARY 95 Note 4 Business combinations 75 deferred income 86 GROUP MANAGEMENT 58 Note 5 Cost of goods sold 75 Note 25 Financial risks and risk GRI INDEX AND DETAILED SUSTAINABILITY Note 6 Other operating income 76 ­management 86 INFORMATION 97 STATUTORY ADMINISTRATION REPORT 60 Note 7 Other operating expenses 76 Note 26 Leases 88 Note 8 Employees, personnel cost and Note 27 Transactions with related SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 101 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 65 remuneration of senior parties 88 GLOSSARY 101 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION executives 76 Note 28 Shares and participations GROUP 66 Note 9 Fees and reimbursement in subsidiaries 88 of auditors 78 Note 29 Statement of cash flows 89 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Note 10 Operating expenses by Note 30 Information on the cost class 78 Parent Company 90 GROUP 67 Note 11 Development expenditure 78 Note 31 Post balance sheet events 90 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Note 12 Net financial income/expense 78 Note 32 Assets pledged 90 Note 13 Appropriations 78 Note 33 Proposed appropriation GROUP 68 Note 14 Taxes 78 of profits 90 Note 15 Shareholders’ equity and INCOME STATEMENT number of shares 79 PARENT COMPANY 69 Note 16 Intangible assets 80 Note 17 Property, plant and equipment 82 BALANCE SHEET Note 18 Inventories 83 PARENT COMPANY 70 Note 19 Financial assets 83 Note 20 Prepaid expenses and accrued STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY income 84 PARENT COMPANY 71 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 84 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY 72 46 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Focusing on cost adaptation and creating more revenue streams In last year’s Annual Report, I discussed To improve future profitability, the Board’s plifying people’s everyday lives and enhancing towards higher profitability and a broader Fingerprints’ very rapid transformation work in the year featured supporting mancustomer experiences. revenue base. The mission of contributing from a small development enterprise into a agement in adapting operations to the funWhile it has been necessary to downscale to the company’s positive progress in close world leader on a global market. As one of damental and rapid change in business conour cost base to address the altered circumpartnership with its management, is a the pioneers of capacitive fingerprint senditions on the mobile side. Meanwhile, stances in the company’s core business of ­challenge the Board is still taking on with sors, the company was in a good starting strategy issues have taken up more time. smartphones, the board is continuing to hard work and great enthusiasm. position once biometrics broke through on This is partly about realigning the organizawork to give the organization the best possia broad front in the smartphone segment a tion to the circumstances in the smartphone ble potential to be able to compete successfew years ago. Very quickly, Fingerprints business, and partly about intensifying work fully on emerging global markets for bioJan Wäreby secured very strong market positioning on expanding operations to cover more biometrics. Chairman of the Board among the major Chinese smartphone metric technologies and new application I am convinced that Fingerprints’ experi­producers, reflected in unprecedented ­ segments in various sectors. Regular items ence and technology-driven innovation and sales growth of over 2,700% between 2014 on the Board’s agenda in the year included cost-efficient mass production is positionand 2016. actions to ensure operations are governed ing the company well for its future. I’m also Expansion of this magnitude obviously sustainably, responsibly and effectively, to pleased that the organization harbors great attracts more players. Accordingly, the realize its long-term strategy. This includes decisiveness to succeed by continuing to Board’s focus since 2016 was on adapting remuneration issues and following up on deliver innovative products and solutions. the company’s strategy, with the goal of targets. Sustainability issues have been Ultimately, the company’s level of innovation diversifying our business, in terms of geogintegrated more deeply into Fingerprints’ is what makes it stand out on the market. Its raphy and products. However, the evolution operations, which has implications includR&D organization is strong, with many of its towards a mature mass-market with very ing producing a number of new sustainabilstaff holding Ph.D.s. The competence and intense competitive pressure has occurred ity goals linked to the UN’s Global Sustainexperience the company possesses means far faster than the Board and management able Development Goals. the Board is confident about the future and anticipated at the beginning of the year. As technology and digitalization permethe company’s prospects of capitalizing on While Fingerprints remains a leading player, ate ever more aspects of our everyday lives, the significant opportunities it has. market value contracted due to falling prices protecting sensitive information becomes I, and the rest of the Board, appreciate and a migration towards simpler sensors. more important and more difficult. I’m conmanagement’s great commitment and Consequently, sales and operating margin vinced that biometric solutions will play a efforts in the year. Being part of Fingerfell on 2016. Earnings performance was not key role in information and cyber security, prints’ progress is exciting and stimulating, satisfactory, and resolute measures have because this technology enables secure and but also challenging, and I’m really looking been taken to adapt the company’s costs. reliable services to be delivered, while simforward to the company’s continued journey Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited company with its registered office in Gothenburg in the County of Västra Götaland, and is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The corporate governance of Fingerprint Fingerprint Cards’ auditors have read this 307,967,675 class B shares. Class A shares ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Cards is based on legislation and other report and a statement from the auditor has each carry ten votes and class B shares each The Annual General Meeting (AGM) approves regulation; the Swedish Companies Act, the been appended to it. carry one vote. Class A and B shares carry the the Income Statement and Balance Sheet Articles of Association, Nasdaq Stockholm’s same participating interest in the company, for the previous financial year for the Parent Rulebook for Issuers, the Swedish Code SEGREGATION OF DUTIES and equal entitlements to dividends. At yearCompany and group. The AGM also resolves of Corporate Governance (www.corporatThe shareholders exercise their influence end, the ten largest shareholders had a total on dividend and discharging the Directors egovernanceboard.se, the “Code”), other over Fingerprint Cards at the Annual General holding corresponding to 29.3% of the vote. and CEO from liability, elects the Board of applicable laws and ordinances, and internal Meeting, which is the company’s chief For more information on ownership, see Directors and the Chairman of the Board, and regulations. decision-making body. Responsibility for the pages 43–44 of this Annual Report. approves their fees, elects the auditor, and Fingerprint Cards endeavors to create company’s organization and administration long-term value for shareholders and other of the company’s affairs rests with the Board SHAREHOLDERS stakeholders. This involves ensuring an of Directors and the Chief Executive officer in effective organizational structure, systems for accordance with applicable laws and regulainternal control, risk management, as well as tions, and the Board of Directors’ internal NOMINATION COMMITTEE Proposals AGM transparent internal and external reporting. control instruments. This Corporate Governance Report Election Election Information has been prepared in accordance with the SHAREHOLDERS Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code of Fingerprint Cards is a central securities BOARD, REMUNERATION AND AUDIT COMMITTEES AUDITOR Information Examines the annual accounts and Corporate Governance. Its primary purpose depository-registered company, which means the Board of Directors’ and Chief Objectives and strategies Reporting and control Executive Officer’s administration of is to review corporate governance within that the company’s share register is mainthe company. Reports to the Board of Fingerprint Cards. For this purpose, the tained by Euroclear Sweden AB. CEO AND MANAGEMENT Information Directors and shareholders. Report will only be used to report information At year-end 2017, the company had 70,057 that ensues from applicable regulation to a known shareholders, an increase of 10% on INTERNAL CONTROL INSTRUMENTS EXTERNAL CONTROL INSTRUMENTS Business concept and objectives, Articles of lesser extent. the corresponding point a year previously. The Association, Board of Directors’ Rules of Swedish Companies Act, Swedish Annual Accounts Act, other applicable laws, Rulebook registered share capital was SEK 12,975,667, Procedure, Instructions for the CEO, strategies, for Issuers and the Swedish Code of Corporate policies, Insider Policy, Code of Conduct and divided between 6,000,000 class A shares and core values. Governance.­ 48 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 resolves on audit fees, and also deals with Invitations to an EGM, where an amendment Directors in good time before the invitation is THE AGM REACHED RESOLUTIONS ON: other statutory matters. Resolutions are taken to the Articles of Association is to be considissued. • Adopting the presented accounts for the on the Nomination Committee and guidelines ered, should be issued at the earliest six, Most shareholders’ meeting resolutions financial year 2016. for remunerating senior executives, and other and at the latest four, weeks prior to the are reached with a simple majority. However, • Approving the appropriation of profits proposals from the Board of Directors and Meeting. Notifications to other EGMs should in certain cases, the Swedish Companies Act with earnings carried forward. shareholders. be issued at the latest six, and the latest stipulates that resolutions must be supported • Discharging the Board of Directors and The AGM is normally held in Gothenburg. three, weeks prior to the Meeting. by a qualified majority, for example for resoluChief Executive Officer from liability for Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the All shareholders recorded in the share tions on amending the Articles of Association, the financial year 2016. AGM may also be held in Stockholm, register on a specific record date, which usuwhich requires shareholders with at least • That the number of Directors should be although only Extraordinary General Meetally occurs one week prior to the day of the two-thirds of the votes stated and the votes nine. ings (EGMs) have been held in Stockholm. Meeting, and that have notified attendance represented at the Meeting supporting the • Election of Directors, Chairman of the Invitations to shareholders’ meetings shall on time, are entitled to participate at shareresolution. Resolutions regarding incentive Board and auditor. be through an announcement in the Swedish holders’ meetings, and vote in accordance programs require an even greater majority • Approval of Directors’ fees. Official Gazette and on the company’s website. with the shares registered with the Meeting. for approval, with in certain cases, qualified • Election of the Nomination Committee. Notification that the invitation has been issued Shareholders can attend via a proxy that has majorities of up to 90% of the shares and votes • Remuneration guidelines for senior execwill be announced in Swedish daily newspaper been issued with power of attorney. However, represented at the Meeting. utives and guidelines for appointing the Svenska Dagbladet. Invitations to AGMs are shares must be registered with the meeting Nomination Committee. issued at the earliest six and the latest four with information regarding the proxy, and preAGM 2017 • Adoption of a long-term incentive proweeks prior to the Meeting. Meetings should sentation of the power of attorney. In order to The AGM for the financial year 2016 was held gram. contain information on the procedure for the exercise voting rights at shareholders’ meetin Gothenburg on 20 April 2017. The invitation • Cancellation of treasury shares and bond notification of attendance and the closing date ings, shareholders with nominee-registered to the AGM was published on 21 March 2017. issue. for notification, entitlement to participate in holdings must temporarily re-register their 418 shareholders representing 29.77% of the • Authorization of the Board of Directors to and vote at the Meeting, a numbered agenda shares in their own name, pursuant to the votes and 17.69% of the number of shares repurchase shares. with business for consideration, information stipulations of the invitation to the Meeting. attended the Meeting. Additionally, the AGM resolved to authorize the on appropriation of profits and an outline of Proposals for matters to be considered at Board of Directors to take decisions on new other proposals. the AGM shall be submitted to the Board of share issues up to an aggregate maximum of Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 49 25 million shares with preferential rights for shareholders that can be co-opted to the ber to appoint a new representative of the tors, a proposal on the Chairman of the shareholders, in the period until the following Nomination Committee. The Chairman of Nomination Committee within a reasonable Board, a proposal on the auditor, a proposal AGM. the Board should convene the Nomination time. If this shareholder does not appoint a on Directors’ fees, a proposal on audit fees, More information on the AGM 2017 is Committee’s first meeting. That member new representative, the entitlement to a proposal for guidelines for appointing the available at Fingerprint Cards’ website: www. that represents the largest shareholder in appoint a new representative of the NomiNomination Committee. fingerprints.com. terms of votes should be appointed Chairnation Committee defers to the next largest man of the Nomination Committee, unless shareholder in terms of votes that is not Fingerprint Cards’ Nomination Committee AGM 2018 the members agree otherwise. The term of already represented on the Nomination had the following members for the AGM The AGM will be held at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, office for the appointed Nomination ComCommittee. Any changes to the composition 2018: 29 May 2018 at Elite Park Avenue Hotel, mittee extends until a new Nomination of the Nomination Committee should be • Johan Carlström (personal holdings), Kungsportsavenyn 36-38, Gothenburg, Committee has been appointed. The compublished as soon as they have occurred. Chairman Sweden. For more information on the AGM position of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee should con• Dimitrij Titov (Velociraptor Ltd.) 2018, see page 101 and Fingerprints’ webshould be published by no later than six sult on proposals on the following issues to • Jan Wäreby (Chairman of the Board) site, www.fingerprints.com, where the necmonths prior to the AGM. be presented to the AGM 2018 for resoluessary documentation for the Meeting is The Nomination Committee should be tion: a proposal for the Chairman of the Clas Romander, representing Ola Rollén, available. established based on the largest shareholdMeeting, a proposal on the Board of Direcserved on the Nomination Committee but ers recorded in the share register, or otherNOMINATION COMMITTEE wise known as of the final banking day The AGM 2017 resolved that the company before the end of August. If one or more of Board of Directors’ work should have a Nomination Committee conthe shareholders that have appointed memDecember sisting of four (4) members. In the year, the bers of the Nomination Committee are no Budget Chairman of the Board should convene the longer one of the three larger shareholders February Year-end Report three (3) largest shareholders of the comin terms of votes, its representative should October/November Q4 Dec Jan Q1 pany in terms of votes to each appoint a repput its seat at the disposal of the NominaInterim Report 3 Nov Feb March resentative, with the Chairman of the Board tion Committee, whereupon the or those Strategy and target fullfilment also being a member of the Nomination shareholder(s) that have become one of the September/October Oct Mar Committee. If one of the three largest three larger shareholders in terms of votes Strategy day shareholders declines its entitlement to April/May will be entitled to appoint a new representaSep Apr AGM and Board meeting appoint a representative of the Nomination tive. However, marginal changes in numfollowing election July Interim Report 1 Committee, the next shareholder in terms bers of votes can be disregarded, unless in Interim Report 2 Aug May of size will be offered the opportunity to special circumstances. Q3 Jul Jun Q2 appoint a member of the Nomination ComIf a member leaves the Nomination mittee. If considered appropriate, the NomiCommittee before its work is complete, the nation Committee can also decide to Nomination Committee should request that appoint a representative of a group of major the shareholder that has appointed a memAt all meetings—CEO's status report, investment decisions 50 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 put his seat at the Committee’s disposal on the appraisal of the Board of Directors and of the following AGM. The Board of Direcdirection of operations and the company’s 13 February 2018. Consequently, and due to the work of the Board of Directors, and the tors and the Chairman of the Board are overall organization. the Nomination Committee consisting of a Chairman of the Board’s report on the comappointed by the shareholders at each AGM Each year, the Board adopts written majority of Directors as of 13 February 2018, pany’s operations, objectives and stratefor the period until the following AGM, and Rules of Procedure that formalize the work the company is departing from the Swedish gies, jointly with the Chairman of the Board. accordingly, their term of office is one year. of the Board and its internal segregation of Code of Corporate Governance. The NomiThe Nomination Committee also analyzed Apart from the AGM, changes to the Board duties, decision-making within the Board, nation Committee has approached the nextthe competence and experience of the of Directors can be executed by resolution by the Board’s meeting schedule and the duties largest shareholder in terms of votes, offerDirectors, and their gender division, and an EGM or by a Director choosing to resign his of the Chairman. In addition, the Board has ing it the opportunity to appoint a member, compared them with identified needs. The or her appointment in advance. issued documents including written instrucbut it declined to participate. The NominaNomination Committee’s opinion is that the The AGM 2017 resolved to re-elect Jan tions regarding the segregation of duties tion Committee’s work is continuing as Directors possess considerable breadth and Wäreby, Urban Fagerstedt, Michael Hallén, between the Board and the Chief Executive planned. extensive experience of activities including Åsa Hedin, Tomas Mikaelsson and CarlOfficer. Shareholders may submit proposals to business operations, technology and the Johan von Plomgren Directors, and to elect The Board also approves policies and the Nomination Committee. Proposals financial markets, telecom and IT, and of the Alexander Kotsinas, Ann-Sofie Nordh and instructions for operating activities. Operating should be sent by email to: investrel@finsemiconductor industry. At present, the Dimitrij Titov. Jan Wäreby was re-elected as activities are managed by the Chief Executive gerprints.com Board of Directors consists of two women Chairman of the Board. Michael Hallén volunOfficer. The Chief Executive Officer provides and six men. The Nomination Committee is tarily left the Board in November 2017. the Board with regular information on events WORK OF THE NOMINATION endeavoring to achieve even gender balance The Nomination Committee judges that are significant to the company’s progress, ­COMMITTEE FOR THE AGM 2018 on the Board of Directors. The Nomination that eight Directors are independent of the results of operations, financial position, For the AGM 2018, the Nomination CommitCommittee applies point 4.1 of the Code as company and management. Seven Directors liquidity or other information of such signifitee held five meetings where minutes were its Diversity Policy, and continuously are independent of major shareholders. cance that the Board should be informed of. taken, maintained regular intervening conendeavors to satisfy the Code’s standards Accordingly, the Board of Directors satisfies The Directors are presented separately on tact on various Nomination Committee for diversity, breadth and gender balance on the requirements of independence as stipupages 56–57 of the Annual Report. matters, and held meetings with candidates the Board of Directors. The Nomination lated by the Code. for Directorships. A Board appraisal was Committee also made several contacts with The Board of Directors is responsible for WORK OF THE BOARD OF conducted through the Directors respondthe Audit Committee regarding the Audit Fingerprint Cards’ organization and adminDIRECTORS IN 2017 ing to a number of questions on the work of Committee’s recommendations on the elecistration, in the interests of the company and Pursuant to the current Articles of Associathe Board. These responses were then tion of an auditor. its shareholders. The Board should regularly tion, the Board of Directors should meet on compiled and reviewed by the Chairman of evaluate Fingerprint Cards’ financial situation at least four scheduled occasions and one the Board, and discussed within the Board BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CEO and ensure that Fingerprint Cards is orgameeting following election per year. Addiof Directors. Subsequently, in order to make Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Finnized so that its accounting, management of tional meetings can be held for special an accurate assessment on matters regardgerprint Cards’ Board of Directors should funds and the company’s other accounting issues as required. In 2017, there were 24 ing the composition of the Board of Direcconsist of four to ten Directors with a maxicircumstances are controlled satisfactorily. Board meetings. The Board’s work in the tors, the Nomination Committee conducted mum of five deputies elected by a shareThe Board appoints the Chief Executive year featured supporting management in measures including reading and reviewing holders’ meeting for the period until the end Officer, decides on issues regarding strategic adapting operations to the fundamental and Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 51 rapid change in business conditions on the to its employees is competitive. The Chief AUDITOR c­ ompany’s systems for internal control and mobile side. Meanwhile, strategy issues Executive Officer’s compensation is The Articles of Association stipulate that risk management over financial reporting have taken up more time. approved by the Board of Directors. Fingerprint Cards should have one or two yearly. Regular items on the agenda of Board Compensation to other senior executives auditors with or without deputies, or one or The Board of Directors is responsible for meetings in the year are Group Manageis decided by the Chief Executive Officer two registered public accounting firms. The the company’s internal controls, whose ment’s reporting of business conditions, after consulting with the Remuneration AGM 2017 re-elected KPMG AB as auditor overall purpose is to ensure protection of operations, organization, results of operaCommittee. The Remuneration Committee until the AGM 2018. KPMG AB has the company’s assets, and thus its owners’ tions, financial position and liquidity. During members are Jan Wäreby (Chairman), appointed Joakim Thilstedt as Auditor in investments. the fall, and before Christmas, Board meetUrban Fagerstedt and Åsa Hedin. Charge. The duty of the auditor is to review The Board of Directors has adopted and ings consider the budgets and business the company’s annual accounts and approvals list, finance policy and other polplan for the following year. AUDIT COMMITTEE accounting records, and the Board of Direcicy documents comprising instructions and Board meetings are held at quarter-ends The Audit Committee’s duty is to support tors’ and Chief Executive officer’s adminisprocedures for operations that should be to reach decisions on publications of the work of the Board on ensuring hightration on behalf of the shareholders. The monitored regularly and reported. The interim, half-year and annual financial quality and efficiency within internal conauditor also conducts a summary review of approvals list includes instructions regardstatements. Meetings to decide on invitatrols, financial reporting and external one quarterly financial statement and ing company signatories as well as roles tions, annual accounts, corporate goveraudits. This includes reviewing interim issues opinions regarding the Board of and authorizations regarding decisionnance documentation and other matters for reports and annual financial statements Directors’ reporting in tandem with events making and the approval of agreements, business are held prior to AGMs. prior to publication, and considering all critsuch as new share issues and decisions on investments, expenses and other expendiThe senior executives of Fingerprint ical accounting issues and judgements warrant programs. Each year, the Board of ture. The Finance Policy sets mandates for Cards have participated at Board meetings regarding assessments of risk. The Audit Directors meets the company’s auditor for a investments, management of liquidity, curas required, and presented reports on speCommittee meets the external auditor at report on whether the company’s organizarency hedging and credit issuance on sales. cial issues. least once per year and reviews and monitional resources are structured so that Sales are subject to credit insurance as far tors the auditors’ impartiality and indepenbook-keeping, the management of funds as possible, when this is viable and where REMUNERATION COMMITTEE dence, and identifies particularly where the and other circumstances can be controlled credit insurance is granted, only if there are The Remuneration Committee evaluates auditor is supporting the company on other satisfactorily. In the financial year 2017, the good grounds to expect the borrower to fulfil and consults on matters regarding remuservices than auditing, and provide support auditor reported to the Board of Directors its commitments. Fingerprint Cards endeavneration and employment terms, and conon proposals for AGM resolution and elecon one occasion, and to the Audit Commitors to maintain its historical minimum level siders proposals and guidelines for comtion of auditors. tee on four occasions. The auditor attended of bad debt, and thus maintain good profitpensation to the Chief Executive Officer and In 2017, the Audit Committee’s members the AGM on 20 April. ability and a healthy financial position. senior executives for approval by the AGM. were the Directors Alexander Kotsinas During the year, the company evaluated The Remuneration Committee should (Chairman) Carl-Johan von Plomgren and INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK the need for a special internal audit function, ensure that remuneration is commensurate Ann-Sofie Nordh. (Ann-Sofie Nordh MANAGEMENT and the Board of Directors does not consider with prevailing market conditions for correreplaced Michael Hallén after his departure The Swedish Annual Accounts Act stipulates that such a funcion is required. The controlsponding executives in other companies, as a Director in November 2017.) that the Board of Directors shall submit a ler function and management’s monthly and accordingly, that the company’s offering review of the material elements of the ­follow-up are expected to meet the needs, 52 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 as the company’s operations are essentially CONTROL ACTIVITIES development projects is through ongoing Directors’ fees may be invoiced from indeconducted within a single company. The Control activities are designed to manage project monitoring with reporting of partpendent consulting practices. If a Director Board of Directors reviews this issue on an the risks that the Board and company manprojects. Efforts made and expenditure invoices for a Directors’ fee via such firm, annual basis. agement consider material to internal conincurred in related to plans and budgets, the fee shall be increased by an amount that trols over financial reporting. and expected remaining project expenditure corresponds to legislated social security CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Control activities designed to prevent, until project completion are also reported. contributions and value-added tax. The fundamental control environment of discover and rectify misstatement and variOperational control is supplemented by Directors that draw a salary from Fingerfinancial reporting consists of guidelines and ances are evaluated. The segregation of monitoring of the quality and performance of print Cards are not eligible for Directors’ policy documents, including the Board of duties and organization constitutes the suppliers, customers and internal processes. fees. Directors that join the Board in the Directors’ Rules of Procedure and instrucstructure of controls. Follow-ups are within Monitoring of liquidity and cash flow is on year receive fees in relation to the remaintions to the Chief Executive Officer, and the each area of responsibility, and across all an ongoing basis with updates of forecasts ing period until the following AGM. segregation of duties and authorization operations. Approvals and the segregation and the resulting liquidity planning. The regarding the organization of operations. of authorization constitutes the structure of continuous analysis of financial reports at REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR Primarily, it is the Chief Executive Officer’s control activities, as do clear rules for decivarious levels is central for ensuring that SENIOR EXECUTIVES responsibility to established the control envisions regarding investments, sales, profinancial reporting does not contain mateThe AGM 2017 approved the proposal that ronment instructed by the Board of Directors curement and contracts. Activities also prorial misstatement. Control activities and the the Remuneration Committee internal to in daily operations. The CEO reports reguceed from the business concept, strategies division of various functions is embedded in the Board of Directors should consult on larly to the Board according to established and objectives, and mission-critical activithe whole financial reporting process. guidelines regarding salary and other procedures. The company’s auditor also subties. A high level of IT security is a prerequiemployment terms for the Chief Executive mits reports from audits conducted. site for good internal controls over financial REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR Officer and other senior executives, and reporting. Fingerprints’ IT strategy emphaTHE BOARD OF DIRECTORS submit proposals to the Board of Directors RISK ASSESSMENT sizes security and functionality, with secuThe AGM 2017 decided on unchanged remufor decision on such matters. The Board of Risk assessment is an ongoing process rity being more important because without neration of the Board of Directors, with total Directors takes decisions on salary and encompassing the identification and mansecurity, functionality is compromised. fixed Directors’ fees of SEK 4,050,000, of other benefits for the Chief Executive Offiagement of risks that can impact on operaExternal financial reporting with the which SEK 850,000 to the Chairman of the cer. The Chief Executive Officer takes decitions and financial reporting. The primary ensuing controls is on a quarterly basis, and Board and SEK 400,000 per Director to the sions on salary and other benefits to other risk within the auspices of financial reportinternal financial reporting is monthly. other Directors. Fees for committee work of senior executives pursuant to the Board of ing consists of material misstatement in Financial controls are based on business SEK 460,000 would be payable, to be alloDirectors’ guidelines. Other senior execuaccounting. Risk management is a part of plans that are broken down to yearly budcated as follows: Audit Committee: SEK tives mean individuals that are members of operational processes and various methodgets. Budgets are reviewed through the year 150,000 to the Chairman and SEK 75,000 to Group Management with the Chief Execuologies are applied to ensure that risks are and constitute forecasts and supporting the other member. Remuneration Committive Officer. Fundamental compensation levmanaged pursuant to regulation, instrucdata for monitoring against results tee: SEK 80,000 to the Chairman and SEK els should be on market terms. Compensations and procedures with the aim of makachieved. Reporting involves analysis and 40,000 to the other member. If the tax cirtion should consist of fixed basic salary, ing accurate disclosures. comments on progress in relation to estabcumstances for invoicing are in place, and variable salary computed in accordance lished objectives. The management of providing it is cost neutral to the company, with established objectives set in advance, Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 53 Independent of Major Attendance at Directors’ fee 2017/18 Committee fee 2017/18 Name Function Elected Left Committee Company ­shareholders ­meetings 2017 (SEK 000) (SEK 000) Chairman of the Board (from 4 May 2016) Remuneration Jan Wäreby Director 3 Jun 2015 ­Committee Yes Yes 24/24 850 80 Director Chairman of the Board (until 4 May Remuneration Urban Fagerstedt 2016) 4 Jun 2009 ­Committee Yes Yes 23/24 400 40 Katarina Bonde Director 3 Jun 2015 20 Apr 2017 Yes Yes 7/9 Carl-Johan von Plomgren Director 3 Jun 2015 Audit ­Committee Yes Yes 22/24 400 75 Lars Söderfjell Director 3 Jun 2015 23 Jan 2017 Yes No 2/3 Audit Committee (replaced by Ann-Sofie Michael Hallén Director 4 May 2016 8 Nov 2017 Nordh) Yes Yes 18/20 206 39 Tomas Mikaelson Director 4 May 2016 Yes Yes 24/24 400 Peter Carlsson Director 4 May 2016 20 Apr 2017 Yes Yes 7/9 Remuneration Åsa Hedin Director 4 May 2016 ­Committee Yes Yes 22/24 400 40 Alexander Kotsinas Director 20 Apr 2017 Audit Committee Yes Yes 15/15 400 150 Audit Committee (replaced Michael Ann-Sofie Nordh Director 20 Apr 2017 ­Hallén) Yes Yes 15/15 400 36 Dimitrij Titov Director 20 Apr 2017 Yes No 15/15 400 54 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 and other benefits, pensions and financial The company’s Articles of Association are At least one interim and half-year report, instruments in the form of performanceavailable at Fingerprint Cards’ website: and all annual financial reports with the AUDITOR’S STATEMENT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT related shares. www.fingerprints.com associated financial statements, are To the general meeting of the shareholders The division between basic salary and audited. The CEO provides monthly reports in Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.), corporate variable compensation should be in proporINFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION to the Board of Directors, involving all parts identity number 556154-2381 tion to the executive’s duties and authorizaFingerprint Cards’ policies and guidelines of operational functions. Management tion. For the Chief Executive Officer and are especially important for accurate meets frequently, basically weekly, and Engagement and responsibility other senior executives, variable compensaaccounting, reporting and corporate commonitors business development, financial It is the board of directors who is responsible munication. Information should increase for the corporate governance statement for the tion is a maximum of 100% of basic annual performance and position, and significant year 2017 on pages 48 55 and that it has been salary, apart from sign-on bonus. knowledge of Fingerprint Cards, increase events. The Board of Directors meets the prepared in accordance with the Annual AcPension terms should be defined contriconfidence in Fingerprint Cards, its manauditor during the year to review the audit of counts Act. bution pension solutions. The notice period agement and employees, and promote busiinternal controls and other assignments. from the company’s side should not exceed ness activities. A Corporate Communication Forecasting and budgeting work is continuThe scope of the audit Policy is in place for communication with ous with a rolling, forward-looking forecast Our examination has been conducted in accorsix months. During the notice period of a dance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 maximum of six months, full salary and internal and external parties, containing based on updated information on sales, The auditor’s examination of the corporate employment benefits are due. Upon termiguidelines for the company’s corporate procurement, operating expenses and governance statement. This means that our nation by the company, severance pay may communication. The purposes to ensure ­product development and technology examination of the corporate governance statebe payable up to an amount corresponding compliance with the liability of communica­development. ment is different and substantially less in scope tion on an accurate and comprehensive than an audit conducted in accordance with to a maximum of 12 months’ salary. DeciInternational Standards on Auditing and genesions on share and share price-related footing. Board of directors rally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. incentive programs are taken by the AGM. Gothenburg, April 23, 2018 We believe that the examination has provided The Board shall be entitled to depart from MONITORING us with sufficient basis for our opinions. these guidelines if there are special reasons Compliance with the Rules of Procedure, instructions, policies and procedures is Opinion for this in an individual case. A corporate governance statement has been monitored by the Board of Directors and prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Group Management. Board meetings conter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 The Articles of Association stipulate that sider business conditions and the compathe Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section the company’s operations, the number of ny’s financial position. The Board of Direc31 the second paragraph the same law are Directors and auditors, procedure for contors reviews financial statements, and consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance vening shareholders’ meetings, matters for decides on publication prior to the publicawith the Annual Accounts Act. consideration at the AGM and where meettion of financial reports. The Board of Direcings are held, as well as share classes, tors appraises its own work, and the Chief Stockholm 24 april 2018 preferential rights and pre-emption rights Executive Officer’s work, yearly. KPMG AB, Joakim Thilstedt, regarding the company’s class A shares. Authorized Public Accountant, KPMG AB Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 55 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JAN WÄREBY ÅSA HEDIN URBAN FAGERSTEDT ALEXANDER KOTSINAS Chairman of the Board since 2016. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2009. Board member since 2017. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Born in 1962. Born in 1953. Born in 1967. Board member since 2015. Born in 1956. Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee. Other directorships: Chairman of the Board of Other positions and directorships: Board memOther positions and directorships: Proprietor and Other positions and directorships: Finance DirecRISE AB and Obelixus AB. Board member of Tobii ber of Nolato AB, Tobii AB, Immunova AB, CellavChairman of Fagerstedt Dynamics Radio AB, Fagtor of Lindorff Sverige AB. Director of Intervacc AB, Gapwaves AB, Incell International AB and ision AB and E. Öhman J:or Fonder AB. Industrial erstedt Finance AB and Fagerstedt Dynamics UK AB (publ), Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB (publ) and Agapi Boating AB. Advisor to the Department of Microtechnology Ltd. Director of Cuptronic AB and Crowdsoft AB. Delta Projects AB. Partner of venture capital firm and Nanoscience at Chalmers University of TechNexttobe AB. Education: M.Sc. from Chalmers Institute of nology. Education: M.Sc. in electronic engineering, Technology. ­Faculty of Engineering, Lund University. Education: M.Sc. (Eng. in engineering physics), Professional background: SVP and Head of Sales Education: M.Sc. in biophysics from the Univerthe Royal Institute of ­Technology, Stockholm. Group Function at Ericsson 2015-2016. SVP and sity of Minnesota, B.Sc. in physics from Gustavus Professional background: Vice President and MBA, Stockholm School of Economics. Head of Sales & Marketing Group Function at Adolphus College. General Manager of Radio Networks design unit Ericsson 2011-2015. Formerly SVP and Head of at Ericsson AB, Vice president R&D, Huawei Professional background: Vice President and CFO Multimedia Business Unit, and Executive Vice Professional background: longstanding experiTechnologies Sweden AB. of Q-Med AB, CFO of Life Europe AB, CFO of President and Head of Sales & Marketing at ence of senior executive positions in the medical mobile operator Tre (Hi3G Access AB), Vice PresiSony Ericsson Mobile Communications. devices sector from global corporations including Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 32,000* dent of Investor AB (publ), various positions at Elekta, Gambro and Siemens Healthcare, also Ericsson. Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 116,950* possesses in-depth microtechnology expertise. Independent of major shareholders, the company and executive management. Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 3,500* Independent of major shareholders, the company Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 5,500* Independent of major shareholders, the company and executive management. and executive management. Independent of major shareholders, the company and management. * As of 31 December 2017. 56 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 ANN-SOFIE NORDH TOMAS MIKAELSSON CARL-JOHAN VON PLOMGREN DIMITRIJ TITOV Board member since 2017. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2015. Board member since 2015. Born in 1969. Born in 1956. Born in 1961. Born in 1962. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Other directorships: Board member and CEO of Other positions: Attorney and Partner, Other positions: Vice President of Investor RelaZetiq AB and Board member of Sourcingprovider Other positions and directorships: Sales Director ­Advokatfirman Fylgia. tions at Sandvik AB. Sweden AB. of Northern Europe & Chief Compliance Officer, Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg, co-opted Board Education: LL.B., Stockholm University. Education: Diploma in marketing, IHM Business Education: IHM Business School, Stockholm. member of Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg AB, Vil2 (4) School, Stockholm. Chief Accountant program, leroy & Boch Gustavsberg AS (Norway), ­Villeroy & FEI, Stockholm. Professional background: experience of marketBoch Gustavsberg AS (Denmark) and Villeroy & Other directorships: Chairman of the Italian ing & sales. Extensive knowledge of the telecom Boch Gustavsberg OY. Chamber of Commerce in Sweden, Italienska Professional background: 20 years’ experience in and mobile communications industry, where he Education: LL.B., Stockholm University. Handelskammarens Service AB, Din Studio the finance sector, based in London and Stockheld senior executive positions with companies Sverige AB and Phantome de Genolier AB. holm, including 11 years as an equity analyst including Omnipoint (T-Mobile) and Affinity InterProfessional background: considerable profesProfessional background: 29 years’ experience focused on Swedish manufacturing with firms net, as well as broad experience of marketing & sional experience from senior positions in the IT as a business lawyer. Attorney since 1993, and including Alfred Berg Fondkommission AB 3(4) sales in Europe. industry in 1987–2001 with companies including Partner of Advokatfirman Fylgia since 1995, spe(publ) and Nordea markets. The past three years, Dell, Compaq and WM-data, and subse-quently, cializing in M&As, company law and international active within Sandvik, including serving as Vice Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 3,000* from 2001, with manufacturing and finance compaindustrial contracts. President of Sandvik Investor Relations. nies, such as General Electric, Havells Sylvania and Former Chairman of the Nomination Committee Independent of major shareholders, the company Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg. Member of various of ­Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) and Mr. Green & Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 740* and management. sector bodies such as Belysningsbranschen (the Co AB (publ). Swedish sector organization for lighting compaIndependent of major shareholders, the company nies) in Sweden, and equivalents in Denmark, LWF, Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 3,300* and executive management. and Finland, FLIP, as well as Ecogaisma of Latvia. Independent of the company and management, Holdings in Fingerprint Cards: 88,825* but non-independent of major shareholders. Independent of major shareholders, the company Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 and executive management. 57 GROUP MANAGEMENT CHRISTIAN FREDRIKSON HASSAN TABRIZI ** PONTUS JÄGEMALM TED HANSSON NIKLAS STRID CEO since 2016. Interim CFO since 2017 CTO, Senior VP Research & DevelopSenior VP Mobile business line since Senior VP of PC & Embedded business Born in: 1964 Born in 1965 ment since 2009. 2017 line since 2017 Born in: 1971. Born in: 1976. Born in: 1972. Education: M.Sc. in Engineering, Turku Education: B.Sc. in business manageUniversity. ment, Ain Shams University, Cairo. Education: M.Sc. and Ph.D. in engiEducation: M.Sc. in electrical engineerEducation: M.Sc. in electronic neering physics, Chalmers University ing, Blekinge Institute of Technology. ­engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Previous assignments: CEO of Professional background: Interim CFO of Technology, Gothenburg. Lund University. F-Secure, 2012–2016, Christian also of Transmode (publ), 2015–2016. Previous assignments: Country had a long career with Nokia Networks Interim CFO of Birdstep Technology Previous assignments: extensive ­Manager of Fingerprint Cards China, Previous assignments: Interim SVP of and Nokia Siemens Networks (1994– (publ), 2014–2015. Head of Enterprise international experience, including 2013–2016, Marketing Director/China Smart Cards business line in 2017, VP 2012), holding several senior positions Development at G&D, 3S division, Technical Lead and Head of System Country Manager of Nanoradio AB of Customer Projects at Fingerprints, including VP of Asia (2008–2010) and 2011–2014. Prior to that, CFO of Design at Displaytech Inc., USA China, 2010–2013, Customer Engi2014–2016. Senior Project Manager Global Sales VP of Mobile InfrastrucSmartTrust (private equity), 2007– neering Director of ST-Ericsson Korea, and Program Manager of Ericsson BU ture (2010–2012) for Nokia Siemens 2010. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 800,125 2007–2010, Software Manager of Modems, ­ST-Ericsson. Networks. class B shares.* ­Ericsson Mobile Platforms Taiwan, Other assignments: Board member of Shareholding in Fingerprints: 0* 2006–2007, Software Consultant of Shareholding in Fingerprints: 5,000 Stena AB and Remedy Entertainment Ericsson Mobile Platforms China, class B shares.* Ltd. Board member of the Åbo Akademi 2003–2006. University Foundation. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 20,000 Shareholding in Fingerprints: 32,750 class B shares.* class B shares. * 58 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 JONAS SPANNEL JAN JOHANNESSON PETER BERGSON THOMAS REX MATTIAS HAKERÖD Senior VP Operations & Quality since Senior VP Strategy & Corporate DevelGeneral Counsel since 2017 Senior VP of Smart Cards business Senior VP of Human Resources since 2013. opment since 2013. Born in 1965 line since 2017. Prior to that, VP of 2017 Born in: 1963 Sales at Fingerprints, November Born in 1974 Born in: 1969 Education: LL.M., University of 2011–October 2016. Education: officer training at the former Uppsala. Born in 1963 Education: B.S., international working Officers’ College, War College and the Education: M.Sc. in electronic engilife, University of Gothenburg HR proSwedish Armed Forces Staff. Business neering, Faculty of Engineering, ­ Previous assignments: General Counsel Education: M.Sc. in electrical gram, Mid-Sweden University. Administration at Örebro University. Lund University. Consumer Marketing of Bisnode AB, 2012-2017, General ­engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Strategy, Kellogg School of ManageCounsel of Orc Group AB (publ), Lund University. Previous assignments: Global Vice Previous assignments: Director ment at Northwestern University. 2007–2012, Legal Director of Sun President of HR Mölnlycke Commercial, of Electronics Sourcing and VP of Microsystems Inc., 1996-2007, Senior Previous assignments: VP of Sales in 2017, Global HR Director of Mölnlycke ­Strategic Sourcing at Sony Mobile. Previous assignments: VP, Head of Associate of Schagers law firm, Asia, Ericsson Mobile Platforms. VP of Commercial, 2014–2017, HR Director Strategic Planning at ST-Ericsson, 1992–1996, Assistant Counsel Sales, Nanoradio. of Mölnlycke Surgical Division, 2009– Shareholding in Fingerprints: 50,000 Director of Portfolio Management at ­EuroCredit AB, 1990-1992. 2014, Global Business Partner of class B shares Ericsson Mobile Platforms. Senior Shareholding in Fingerprints: AstraZeneca R&D, 2008, Regional HR Advisor at Northstream. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 1,500.* 1,000,000 class B shares* Business Partner of AstraZeneca These shares are held through R&D, 2003–2008. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 26,250 ­endowment insurance. class B shares* Shareholding in Fingerprints: 33,500 class B shares.* Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 59 STATUTORY ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief Execustaff in Sweden are employees of the Parent brands in smartphones, PCs and embedded ing previously accumulated inventories tive Officer (CEO) of Fingerprint Cards AB Company. These companies’ operations consystems; PCs for Samsung and smartphones rather than placing new orders for sensors. hereby present the Annual Accounts for the sist of marketing and customer support. for Google being two examples. A clear transition in the company’s product fiscal year 2017. All external business operations were conFingerprints continued to invest in developmix towards smaller, cheaper sensors also ducted through Parent Company Fingerprint ing new products, partnerships with appronegatively impacted revenues. Overall, FINGERPRINTS’ OPERATIONS Cards AB in 2017, where all critical decisions priate players in prioritized business segaverage pricing of sensors for smartphones Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) is a leading highregarding transactions, finance, product portments, and by enhancing its offering of biowas down by some 30% in the year. technology company that develops, manufolio, research & development, intellectual metrics and fingerprint technology to the Gross profit for the year was SEK 989 M factures and markets biometric technology, property and strategies are taken. market. Its product portfolio gained more (3,165) and the gross margin contracted to which by analyzing and matching people’s The registered office of the Parent breadth and depth in terms of application 33% (48). The lower gross profit is a result unique biometric characteristics, verifies Company is in the Municipality of Gothenburg segments, technical performance and funcof price reductions and altered product mix. personal identities. This enables secure and in the County of Västra Götaland, Sweden. The tionality; for example, the company took its Additionally, provisions to the insolvency convenient processing for the user, obviating company’s shares have been listed on Nasdaq next step towards high-volume production reserve of SEK 122 M had a 4 percentage point the need for passwords or PINs. Fingerprints’ Stockholm since 2000. of Fingerprints’ sensors for smart cards in negative impact on gross margin. technology delivers world-leading perforthe year by launching its new module Operating profit for the year was SEK 155 mance, benefits and includes unique image SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN THE YEAR design, T-Shape ™. M (2,578), and the operating margin conquality, extreme robustness, low power conRevenues for 2017 were SEK 2,966 M Fingerprints completed the acquisition tracted to 5% (39). In operating profit, currency sumption and complete biometric systems. (6,638), a decrease of 55% on 2016. This of Delta ID in the year. Operations have been effects are accounted under the other exterWith these benefits, and in combination with reflects a rapid change in market conditions integrated into the company’s organizational nal income and expenses item. Organizational low manufacturing costs, the technology can for capacitive fingerprint sensors for smartresources, enabling Fingerprints to offer resources expanded in 2017, which resulted in be implemented in volume products including phones, a market that represents the majority biometric solutions based on fingerprint senincreased operating expenses. At the beginsmartphones, tablets and smart cards, such of Fingerprints’ business, which has rapidly sors and iris recognition. In 2017, Fingerprints ning of 2018, Fingerprints initiated a costas charge cards, which are subject to extreme evolved into a mature mass market with was also able to announce the company’s first savings program, which will have outcomes standards in these respects. Fingerprints’ high competitive pressure and falling prices. commercial multimodality launch, in the form including the number of positions in the technology is already tried and tested across The average sales price of the company’s of a smartphone that combines fingerprint company reducing by approximately 185. The a number of application segments. products decreased by some 30% in 2017, sensors and iris scanning from Fingerprints. company is reducing its external expenses, partly because of general price pressure, mainly consultants, although also expenses GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY but also as the result of a product mix tranEARNINGS TREND for its own employees. These overall meaThe annual accounts cover the financial sition towards smaller, and cheaper, sensors. The Group’s revenues for 2017 decreased by sures are expected to achieve cost savings of year 1 January-31 December 2017. 96 smartphone models integrating 55% to SEK 2,966 M (6,638). Net profit for some SEK 360 M in 2018. At present, restrucFingerprint Cards AB (publ) (corporate Fingerprints’ fingerprint technology were 2017 was SEK120 M (2,035). In the first halfturing expenses are estimated at some SEK ID no. 556154-2381) is the Parent Company launched in 2017, which included products year, revenues were negatively impacted by 40 M, most of which will be accounted in the of a Group including ten subsidiaries. All from the world’s largest and most recognized distributors and module suppliers destockfirst half-year 2018. 60 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Profit before tax for the year was SEK 142 M in capitalized development and intangible Accordingly, for the full-year 2017, the total FINANCE POLICY (2,614), while the income tax expense was assets were SEK 1,039 M (63), of which SEK net change in cash and cash equivalents Fingerprints’ Finance Policy regulates and SEK -22 M (-579). 836 M were from the acquisition of Delta ID was SEK -212 M (96). clarifies responsibilities, and states guideOverall, the Group’s full-year profits and in property, plant and equipment were lines in specific segments within financing, decreased to SEK 120 M (2,035). SEK 32 M (22). SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND credit insurance, investment and currency The Group’s earnings per share for 2017 Total depreciation and amortization FINANCE TRENDS management with the aim of supporting were SEK 0.38 (6.40). according to plan increased to SEK -80 M 870,000 class B shares with share capital of operations, managing financial risks and (-49) in 2017. Of this total, plan amortization SEK 34,800 from the final exercise of the controlling their impact on financial posiFINANCIAL POSITION of intangible assets was SEK -66 M (-41), and TO6 warrant program were undergoing regtion, results of operations and cash flow. Positive net profit increased shareholders’ plan depreciation of tangible assets was SEK istration on the reporting date 31 December The most important net currency flow is equity to SEK 2,331 M (2,226). The equity/ -14 M (-7). 2016. in USD, whereupon a significant portion of asset ratio increased to 66% (64) as a result Accordingly, the carrying amounts of intanIn accordance with a resolution of the Fingerprints’ finance activities were in forof shareholders’ equity increasing more gible assets in 2017 increased to SEK 1,188 AGM 2017, shares were cancelled, and a mulating a strategy for selling USD and purthan total assets overall. M (71), and property, plant and equipment to bonus issue was conducted, in May 2017. chasing SEK. The increased net surplus Non-current assets increased to SEK 1,235 SEK 47 M (29). The company’s registered share capital did from the sale, which is denominated in USD, M (101), mainly because of the acquisition of not change, although the number of shares and increased operating expenses that are Delta ID in the year. The non-current asset CASH FLOW TREND decreased. predominantly in SEK, generates a continushare of total assets increased significantly. Operating profit made a positive contribuThe share capital decreased through the ous need to convert USD to SEK. Materials Inventories decreased to SEK 646 M tion to cash flow of SEK 142 M (2,614). Cash cancellation of a total of 10,424,000 class B procurement, manufacture and sales are (673), and outstanding accounts receivable flow from changes in working capital comshares that the company held in treasury. basically denominated in USD only. Almost decreased to SEK 438 M (1,132). ponents were affected by reduced capital Share capital decreased through a SEK 0.4 all liquidity is deposited with banks in SweAccounts payable at year-end amounted to tied-up in operating receivables of SEK M cancellation, from SEK 12.9 M to SEK 12.5 den. Fluctuations in other exchange rates SEK 268 M (822), and other current liabilities 1,080 M (-913), and a decrease in inventoM. Share capital increased through a SEK have an insignificant impact on earnings. were SEK 541 M (319), of which the shortries of SEK 27 M (-520). This positive impact 0.4 M bonus issue, without issuance of new Currency hedging with derivatives and term portion of loans was SEK 243 M (-). on cash was partly offset by a SEK -663 M shares. hedging instruments is not permitted purCash and cash equivalents in cash and (433) reduction in operating liabilities. Cash After the cancellation of shares and suant to the Finance Policy. See note 25 for bank balances amounted to SEK 920 M (1,162) flow contributed by operating activities bonus issues, the number of shares is more information on financial risks. at year-end. decreased to SEK 377 M (1,130). 313,967,675, of which 6,000,000 class A Cash flow from investing activities was shares and 307,967,675 class B shares. The ORGANIZATION AND HUMAN INVESTMENTS, DEPRECIATION, SEK -1,071 M (-78). The acquisition of Delta ID total number of votes is 367,967,675. Share RESOURCES AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT in the year resulted in an outflow of cash and capital remains unchanged after the above In total, the number of coworkers, including Total net investments in 2017 increased to cash equivalents of SEK 836 M (-). actions, and amounts to SEK 12.9 M. employees and consultants, increased in SEK 1,071 M (78). Of this total, investments Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 61 2017 to 558 people at year-end, from 438 at Expenditure for technology development is has decided to prepare a statutory SustainINCENTIVE PROGRAMS the beginning of the year. partly recognized as a cost in the Consolidated ability Report as a separate document from The AGM approved the proposal to adopt a The number of employees as of 31 Statement of Comprehensive Income (Parent the annual accounts. long-term incentive program (“LTIP 2017”) December 2017 amounted to 415 (306), of Company Income Statement) under the develFingerprints’ Sustainability Report, for up to 25 individuals within the Fingerprints which 311 (244) men and 104 (62) women. As opment costs heading, and partly through which constitutes Fingerprints’ statutory group. Participants were offered the opporof 31 December 2017, and including employcapitalization in the Consolidated Statement Sustainability Report, has been prepared tunity to receive class B shares within LTIP ees and consultants, Fingerprints’ employed of Financial Position (Parent Company pursuant to GRI standards, Core option, and 2017, called “Performance Shares” free of 558 (438) people. Balance Sheet), and capitalized developsatisfies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s charge, assuming the satisfaction of certain Fingerprints initiated a cost savings proment expenditure, under intangible assets. requirements of sustainability reporting. terms. See the invitation to the AGM for more gram at the beginning of 2018. One result of Capitalization conducted after an assessment The Report is on pages 26–41. The scope of information at www.fingerprints.com this will be the number of positions reducing of factors such as each project’s commercial, the Sustainability Report is stated in the GRI by approximately 185. The company is reducfinancial and technical potential, its future index on pages 97–100. EXPECTATIONS OF FUTURE PROGRESS ing its external expenses, mainly consultants, value for the Group, disposal over rights to the Fingerprints is not issuing a forecast of but also expenses for its own employees. The product/solution, the potential for completing OWNERSHIP 2018. aggregate expenses are estimated to involve development, and the presence of a market The number of shareholders increased to As previously communicated, the company cost savings of some SEK 360 M in 2018. for the product. The rate of amortization is 70,057 at year-end 2017 from 63,467 at the anticipates that sales will continue to decline Restructuring expenses are currently estidetermined on the basis of the technical and beginning of the year. At year-end 2017, in the first quarter of 2018, and that in value mated at some SEK 40 M, most of which will commercial lifespan of the product or solution Velociraptor Ltd. held all 6,000,000 class A be accounted in the first half-year 2018. related to the extant market. Accordingly, the shares. amortization term varies between products RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT and projects. Shares and capital, % Votes at year-end, % ACTIVITIES Expenditure for technology development Shareholder 2017 2016 2017 2016 Through continuous initiatives to enhance and patents increased to SEK 595 M (367) in Sunfloro AB 0 1.9 0 16.3 biometric technology, Fingerprints has the Group in 2017, of which SEK 204 M (63) Velociraptor LTD 1.8 0 16.3 0 attained leadership in fingerprint sensor was capitalized in the Consolidated Statement technology. of Financial Position, and the remaining SEK No. of shares No. of votes Over 53% (55) percent of the Group’s orga391 M (304) was expensed in the Consolidated Share class 2017 2016 2017 2016 nizational resources were focused on techniStatement of Comprehensive Income. Class A 6,000,000 6,000,000 60,000,000 60,000,000 cal development work, and with engineers in the customer projects organization, these two SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Class B 307,967,675 307,967,675 307,967,675 307,967,675 components represented over 69% (71) of all In accordance with chapter 6 §11 of the Total 313,967,675 313,967,675 367,967,675 367,967,675 coworkers. Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Fingerprints Ownership of at least one-tenth of the votes for all shares as of 31 December 2017: Velociraptor Ltd. 16.3%. 62 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 terms, the market for fingerprint sensors for REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR THE Officer and other senior executives, and pay may be payable up to an amount corresmartphones will contract in 2018. BOARD OF DIRECTORS submit proposals to the Board of Directors sponding to a maximum of 12 months’ salary. The company is realigning its resources to The AGM 2017 decided on unchanged remufor decision on such matters. The Board of Decisions on share and share price-related ensure sufficient focus on new growth segneration of the Board of Directors, with total Directors takes decisions on salary and incentive programs are taken by the AGM. The ments, and that its organization is adapted to fixed Directors’ fees of SEK 4,050,000, of other benefits for the Chief Executive OffiBoard shall be entitled to depart from these successfully compete on an expanding global which SEK 850,000 to the Chairman of the cer. The Chief Executive Officer takes deciguidelines if there are special reasons for this biometrics market. Simultaneous with us Board and SEK 400,000 per Director to the sions on salary and other benefits to other in an individual case. seeing significant potential for our sensors in other Directors. Fees for committee work of senior executives pursuant to the Board of new application segments, which will create SEK 460,000 would be payable, to be alloDirectors’ guidelines. Other senior execuFINANCIAL TARGETS future growth, it will take some time before we cated as follows: tives mean individuals that are members of Considering the cost savings program the achieve significant business volumes outside Audit Committee: SEK 150,000 to the Group Management with the Chief Execucompany has initiated and altered market our core business in smartphones. Chairman and SEK 75,000 to the other tive Officer. Fundamental compensation conditions in capacitive sensors for smartmember. level should be on market terms. Compenphones, as previously reported, the comSEASONALITY Remuneration Committee: SEK 80,000 to sation should consist of fixed basic salary, pany needs to review the long-term finanAs penetration of fingerprint sensors in the the Chairman and SEK 40,000 to the other variable salary computed in accordance cial objectives communicated in the Yearsmartphone segment has increased, the member. with established objectives set in advance, end Report for 2016. The company intends company’s market is increasingly tracing If the tax circumstances for invoicing other benefits, pensions and financial to adapt its financial targets to the altered the same patterns and seasonality as the are in place, and assuming that this is cost instruments in the form of performancecircumstances, and will provide revised rest of the mobile phone sector, albeit with a neutral to the company, Directors’ fees may related shares. objectives in the second quarter of 2018. time lag. There is a tendency for the fourth be invoiced from independent consulting The division between basic salary and variquarter to generate a very high share of practices. If a Director invoices for a Directors’ able compensation should be in proportion EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING yearly mobile phone volumes, and the secfee in this way, the fee shall be increased by an to the executive’s duties and authorization. DATE ond quarter is usually the weakest. amount that corresponds to legislated social For the Chief Executive Officer and other On 25 January 2018, Fingerprints For component vendors to mobile phone security contributions and value-added tax. senior executives, variable compensation is announced that the company anticipated manufacturers such as Fingerprints, volumes a maximum of 100% of basic annual salary, that its earnings for the fourth quarter 2017 in the third quarter tend to be the year’s highREMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR apart from sign-on bonus. Pension terms would be below market estimates. At this est, with volumes some 10% higher than in SENIOR EXECUTIVES should be defined contribution pension solutime, the company also reported that it had the fourth quarter. The AGM 2017 approved the proposal that tions. The notice period from the company’s initiated a cost savings program. As part of the Remuneration Committee internal to side should not exceed six months. During the this, the number of positions will be the Board of Directors should consult on notice period of a maximum of six months, reduced by some 185. guidelines regarding salary and other full salary and employment benefits are due. On 20 March 2018, Fingerprints reported employment terms for the Chief Executive Upon termination by the company, severance that Pernilla Lindén had been appointed as Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 63 CFO effective 7 June 2018. The company The following amounts are at the disposal of also announced that Hassan Tabrizi will the Annual General Meeting (SEK): leave his position as Interim CFO effective 6 Share premium reserve 79,059,431 June 2018, and that Jan Johannesson will Accumulated profit or loss 1,356,036,552 leave the position of VP of Strategy & CorpoNet profit for the year 57,921,664 rate Development effective 30 June 2018. Total 1,493,017,647 REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE The Board of Directors proposes that net BOARD IN THE YEAR profit for the year and unrestricted reserves, Scheduled agenda items in Board meetings as well as the accumulated profit or loss, in the year are Group Management’s reportare appropriated as follows. ing of business conditions, operations, organizational resources, results of operaCarried forward: SEK 1,493,017,647. tions, financial position and liquidity. The Board meetings in the fall and before Regarding the company’s results of operaChristmas consider the budget and busitions and financial position otherwise, the ness plan for the coming year. reader is referred to the following financial The Board met on 24 occasions in 2017. statements with the associated notes. A more detailed statement on corporate governance in 2017 including regulations, shareholders’ meetings, the Nomination Committee, the composition of the Board and its work, as well as governance processes and internal control are stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report. AGM 2018 The AGM will be held at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, 29 May 2018 in Gothenburg at the Elite Park Avenue Hotel, Kungsportsavenyn 36-38. Proposed appropriation of the company’s profit. 64 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP SEK M Note 2017 2016 REVENUES, OPERATING PROFIT AND GROSS MARGIN Revenues 2, 3 2,966.0 6,638.3 SEK M % Cost of goods sold 5, 10 –1,977.1 –3,473.0 7,000 70 Gross profit 988.9 3,165.3 Selling costs –236.9 –176.6 6,000 60 Administrative expenses 9 –145.6 –117.2 5,000 50 Development costs 11 –391.3 –304.2 4,000 40 Other operating income 6 28.2 11.2 3,000 30 Other operating expenses 7 –88.7 – Operating profit 3, 8, 10, 26, 27 154.6 2,578.5 2,000 20 Financial income 12 0.5 36.0 1,000 10 Financial expenses 12 –13.3 –1.0 0 0 Profit before tax 141.8 2,613.5 –1,000 –10 Tax 14 –21.5 –578.8 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net profit for the year 120.3 2,034.7 Revenues, SEK M Operating profit, SEK M Gross margin, % Earnings per share 15 before dilution (SEK) 0.38 6.40 after dilution (SEK) 0.38 6.33 Other comprehensive income Net profit for the year 120.3 2,034.7 Translation differences for the year on translation of foreign operations –15.2 0.3 Other comprehensive income –15.2 0.3 Comprehensive income for the year 105.1 2,035.0 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Moderbolagets aktieägare 105.1 2,035.0 105.1 2,035.0 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Consolidated Accounts 65 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION GROUP SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 WORKING CAPITAL Assets SEK M % Intangible assets 16 1,188.3 71.4 3,000 300 Property, plant and equipment 17 46.6 29.2 Total non-current assets 1,234.9 100.6 2,500 250 Current assets 2,000 200 Inventories 18 646.1 672.7 Accounts receivable 19 437.5 1,132.1 1,500 150 Other receivables 284.0 413.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 29.1 21.7 1,000 100 Cash and cash equivalents 19, 21 920.2 1,162.2 500 50 Total current assets 2,316.9 3,402.4 Total assets 3,551.8 3,503.0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Shareholders’ equity 15 Share capital 12.9 12.9 Working capital, SEK M % of revenues Other paid-up capital 854.4 854.8 Translation reserve –14.9 0.3 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 1,478.4 1,358.1 Total Shareholders’ equity 2,330.8 2,226.1 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 14 189.8 136.3 Long-term loans 22 221.9 – Total non-current liabilities 411.7 136.3 Current liabilities Short-term portion of long-term loans 22 243.4 – Accounts payable 22 268.0 821.6 Current tax liability 14 1.5 54.1 Other current liabilities 23 106.5 6.7 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 189.9 258.2 Total current liabilities 809.3 1,140.6 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 3,551.8 3,503.0 66 Consolidated Accounts Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Retained earnings Other Translation incl. profit Total shareholders’ SEK M Share capital paid-up capital reserve for the year equity Retained earnings incl. profit for the year Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2016 12.6 757.7 –0.1 376.6 1,146.8 Net profit for the year 2,034.7 2,034.7 Other comprehensive income for the year 0.4 0.4 Repurchase of treasury shares –1,053.2 –1,053.2 Exercise of warrants 0.3 97.1 97.4 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2016 12.9 854.8 0.3 1,358.1 2,226.1 Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2017 12.9 854.8 0.3 1,358.1 2,226.1 Net profit for the year 120.3 120.3 Other comprehensive income for the year –15.2 –15.2 Cancellation of shares –0.4 –0.4 Bonus issue 0.4 –0.4 – Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2017 12.9 854.4 –14.9 1,478.4 2,330.8 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Consolidated Accounts 67 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS GROUP SEK M Note 2017 2016 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CASH FLOW Operating activities 29 SEK M SEK M Profit before tax 141.8 2,613.5 1,400 1,200 Adjustment for non-cash items 136.1 14.6 Income tax paid –345.4 –498.0 1,200 1,000 Cash flow from operating activities before changes 1,000 800 in working capital –67.5 2,130.1 800 600 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories 26.7 –519.7 600 400 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables 1,080.4 –913.0 400 200 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in operating liabilities –662.7 432.9 Cash flow from operating activities 3 376.9 1,130.3 200 0 Investing activities 0 –200 Purchase and internal development of intangible assets 16 –203.5 –62.8 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 4 –835.8 – Cash and cash equivalents, SEK M Cash flow from operating activities Sales of property, plant and equipment 17 – 6.6 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 17 –31.7 –22.1 Cash flow from investing activities 3 –1,071.0 –78.3 Financing activities Borrowings 22 508.1 – Repayment of loans 22 –26.0 – Exercise of warrants –0.4 97.5 Repurchase of treasury shares – –1,053.2 Cash flow from financing activities 3 481.7 –955.7 Cash flow for the year –212.4 96.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,162.2 1,031.3 Effect of translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –29.6 34.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 29 920.2 1,162.2 68 Consolidated Accounts Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 INCOME STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 2017 2016 Revenues 2, 3 2,955.5 6,638.3 Cost of goods sold 5, 10 –1,957.6 –3,473.0 Gross profit 997.9 3,165.3 Selling costs –231.8 –176.6 Administrative expenses 9 –162.8 –129.0 Development costs 11 –382.3 –304.2 Other operating revenues 6 – 11.3 Other operating expenses 7 –70.7 – Operating profit 3, 8, 10, 26, 27 150.3 2,566.8 Profit from financial items 12 Other interest income, etc. 13.2 36.0 Interest expenses, etc. –13.1 –0.8 Profit after financial items 150.4 2,602.0 Appropriations 13 –74.0 –650.0 Profit before tax 76.4 1,952.0 Income tax 14 –18.4 –433.7 Net profit for the year 58.0 1,518.3 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Parent Company Accounts 69 BALANCE SHEET PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Assets Shareholders’ equity 15 Non-current assets Restricted equity Intangible assets 16 230.1 69.8 Share capital 12.9 12.9 Property, plant and equipment 17 39.2 25.9 Statutory reserve 41.5 41.5 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 28 338.0 5.1 Fund for development expenditure 209.1 46.7 Non-current receivables from group companies 27 493.9 – Non-restricted equity Other non-current receivables 0.1 0.1 Share premium reserve 79.2 79.6 Deferred tax asset 14 32.8 6.6 Accumulated profit or loss 1,355.9 – Total non-current assets 1,134.1 107.5 Profit for the year 58.0 1,518.3 Current assets Total shareholders’ equity 1,756.6 1,699.0 Inventories 18 646.1 672.7 Untaxed reserves 13 724.0 650.0 Receivables from group companies 27 1.1 2.5 Non-current liabilities Accounts receivable 19 437.3 1,132.1 Long-term loans 22 221.9 – Tax receivables 14 246.8 – Total non-current liabilities 221.9 – Other receivables 33.0 412.8 Accrued expenses and deferred income 20 25.8 19.1 Current liabilities Cash and bank balances 19, 21 878.9 1,142.3 Short-term portion of long-term loans 22 243.4 – Total current assets 2,269.0 3,381.5 Accounts payable 22 266.9 820.7 Total assets 3,403.1 3,489.0 Liabilities to group companies 27 8.9 9.2 Current tax liabilities 14 – 53.9 Other current liabilities 23 5.6 4.4 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 175.8 251.8 Total current liabilities 700.6 1,140.0 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 3,403.1 3,489.0 70 Parent Company Accounts Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Statutory Fund for development Share premium Accumulated Net profit Total shareSEK M Share capital reserve expenditure reserve profit or loss for the year holders’ equity Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan. 2016 12.6 41.5 – 525.8 –236.9 793.5 1,136.5 Net profit for the year 1,518.3 1,518.3 Fund for work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized 62.3 –62.3 – Amortization of work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized for the year –15.6 15.6 – Repurchase of treasury shares –543.3 –509.9 –1,053.2 Appropriation of profit 793.5 –793.5 – Deposited premium for warrants *,** 0.3 97.1 97.4 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec. 2016 12.9 41.5 46.7 79.6 0.0 1,518.3 1,699.0 Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan. 2017 12.9 41.5 46.7 79.6 0.0 1,518.3 1,699.0 Net profit for the year 58.0 58.0 Change in fund for work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized 192.9 –192.9 – Amortization of work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized for the year –30.5 30.5 – Appropriation of profit 1,518.3 –1,518.3 – Cancellation of shares –0.4 –0.4 Bonus issue 0.4 –0.4 – Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec. 2017 12.9 41.5 209.1 79.2 1,355.9 58.0 1,756.6 * There was subscribed but unregistered share capital of SEK 34,000 (870,000 class B shares) as of 31 December 2016. ** Transaction expenses for share issues amounted to SEK 0.4 M (1.4). Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Parent Company Accounts 71 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 2017 2016 Operating activities 29 Profit before tax 76.4 1,952.0 Adjustment for non-cash items 161.9 661.0 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 238.3 2,613.0 Income tax paid –345.4 –495.3 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories 26.6 –519.7 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables 1,075.0 –909.0 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in operating liabilities –628.9 435.0 Cash flow from operating activities 365.6 1,124.0 Investing activities Purchase and internal development of intangible assets 16 –203.5 –62.8 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 17 –25.0 –19.9 Acquisitions of subsidiaries –332.9 – Purchases of financial assets – –2.4 Sales of property, plant and equipment 17 – 6.6 Cash flow from investing activities –561.4 –78.5 Financing activities Borrowings 22 508.1 – Repayment of loans 22 –26.0 – Loans to subsidiaries –519.7 – Exercise of warrants –0.4 97.3 Repurchase of treasury shares – –1,053.2 Cash flow from financing activities –38 –955.9 Cash flow for the year –233.8 89.6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,142.3 1,018.0 Effect of translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –29.6 34.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 29 878.9 1,142.3 72 Parent Company Accounts Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES are wholly owned through direct or indirect ownership, and accordating liabilities are recognized in operating profit. For 2017, ingly, are considered to lie under the group’s control. exchange rate differences on financial receivables and financial liaAll amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherbilities are recognized in net financial income/expense. wise stated. Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and Critical estimates and judgements Basis of presentation unrealized gains or losses arising from intra-group transactions With its Audit Committee, management has discussed the progThe consolidated accounts comprise Fingerprint Cards AB (Publ) between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety when ress, selection and disclosure of the group’s critical accounting pol(the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group). The consolithe consolidated accounts are prepared. icies and estimates, as well as the application of these principles dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with Internaand estimates. tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS) issued by the InterTranslation to Swedish kronor on consolidation of companies in with Pursuant to IAS 1, the company should disclose the assumptions national Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as endorsed by the EU. different functional currencies and other important sources of uncertainty in estimates, which if The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in each entity’s actual outcomes differ, can have a material impact on the financial (Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups) has also been functional currency. Each Group company’s functional currency is statements. In cases where this occurs, estimates and judgements applied. determined on the basis of the primary economic environment have been moved to the relevant note. A summary of the segments The Parent Company applies recommendation RFR2 (Accounting where the company conducts operations. The parent company’s management considers to contain material estimates and judgefor Legal Entities) issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, functional currency is Swedish kronor, which is also the presentaments follow: whereby the Parent Company applies the same accounting policies tion currency of the parent company and group. This means that the • Deferred tax (note 14) as the Group; i.e. IFRS to the extent possible under Swedish law. financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor. All amounts • Capitalization of development costs (note 16) The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved are in millions of Swedish kronor unless otherwise stated. • Impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for publication by the Board and the President on 23 April 2018. The When preparing the Group’s account closes, revenues and (note 16) Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Statement expenses in the Income Statement are translated at average rates • Inventory valuation (note 18) of Financial Position and the Parent Company Income Statement of exchange for each year. Balance Sheet items are translated to • Bad debt reserve (note 19) and Balance Sheet will be adopted by the Annual General Meeting Swedish kronor at closing day rates. Translation differences that (AGM) on 29 May 2018. are a result of this translation are recognized via other comprehenNew accounting policies The accounting policies are stated in the introduction of each sive income in the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. Such New accounting policies for 2017 note. The focus is on reviewing the accounting decisions the Group translation differences are recognized in profit or loss on the sale of No new accounting policies applied from 1 January 2017 have a has made within the auspices of the applicable IFRS principle and the foreign operation. material effect on the financial statements. avoiding repeating body text, unless considered of particular importance to understanding note content. Those accounting policies Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency New accounting policies, 2018 or later without a specific note are stated in note 1. Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional A number of new and revised IFRS have been issued but not yet currency at the rate of exchange ruling on the transaction date. come into effect. Those IFRS are regarded as more material Consolidation principles Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated because they may influence the consolidated financial statements Subsidiaries to the functional currency at closing day rates. Non-monetary are reviewed below. Accordingly, these IFRS have been analyzed in The consolidated accounts comprise Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) assets and liabilities recognized at their respective historical cost terms of whether their effects are material or not. Fingerprints has (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group). Subsidiaries are translated at rates of exchange ruling on the transaction date. not decided to adopt any of them prospectively. are companies that are under the controlling influence of the ParNon-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value are ent Company. A controlling influence is secured when the Parent translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Company has control over the investment, is exposed or entitled to on the date of fair value measurement. IFRS 9 has three components: classification and measurement, a variable return from its holding in the company and can exercise Exchange rate differences are recognized in net profit for the impairment and hedge accounting, and replaces IAS 39 Financial control over the investment to influence the return. All subsidiaries year. Exchange rate differences on operating receivables and operInstruments: recognition and measurement. This new accounting Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 73 NOTE 1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT Parent Company accounting policies Classification and presentation formats The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prepared in Earnings for the Group are recognized in the Statement of Compreaccordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and hensive Income, and for the Parent Company, in the Income Statestandard has a limited impact on the accounting of financial instruthe Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 ment. In addition, the Parent Company uses the terms Balance ments. No effect has been demonstrated on classification and Accounting for Legal Entities. According to RFR 2, the Parent ComSheet and “Cash Flow Statement” for the statements the Group measurement. Regarding impairment, the effect of the impairment pany should apply all IFRSs and statements endorsed by the EU in refers to as the Statement of Financial Position and Statement of model for expected bad debt is considered to be non-material. its annual accounts as far as possible within the auspices of the Cash Flows respectively. The Parent Company Balance Sheet has Because the effects are non-material, the transition does not affect Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Pension Obligations been presented according to the format stipulated in the Swedish the opening balance for 2018. Vesting Act and with respect to the relationship between accounting Annual Accounts Act, while the Statement of Comprehensive and taxation. The recommendation stipulates the exemptions from, Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the Cash Flow IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and supplements to, IFRS that are to be applied. Statement are based on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial StateIFRS 15 replaces IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and ments, and IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. SIC 31. In Fingerprints’ case, the adoption of IFRS 15 has primarily Differences between the group’s and parent company’s accounting policies affected disclosures to be made in financial statements. The main differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s At present (on the implementation of IFRS 15), Fingerprint accounting policies are stated below. The accounting policies stated NOTE 2 REVENUES Cards’ fundamental business model consists of the sale of wafers below for the Parent Company have been applied consistently to all Accounting policy to distributors for the manufacture of mobile telephones. This funperiods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized in profit or loss for the damental business generates basically 100% of the company’s net year when the material risks and benefits associated with ownersales. On this basis, the revenue-generating operation is straightNew accounting policies ship of the good have been transferred to the purchaser. Revenues forward; distributors order wafers, Fingerprint Cards receives the Those amendments applying for the financial year beginning are not recognized if it is likely that the economic benefits will not order and delivers the goods. 1 January 2017 did not have any material effect on the financial flow to the Group. If there is significant uncertainty concerning Sensors consist of hardware, with software included as an intestatements. ­payment, associated costs, risk of returns or if the seller retains a grated component. There are very limited separate sales of softcommitment to the ongoing management that is usually associated ware at present, which means there is no possibility of allocating Subsidiaries with ownership, revenue is not recognized. Revenue is recognized recognized revenue. Recognized revenue is adjusted for discountShares and participations in subsidiaries are reported at cost in the at fair value of what is received, or is expected to received, after ing and marketing incentives, which in all likelihood, will be paid Parent Company after deducting for impairment. On business comdeducting for discounts. when the hardware is sold to the distributor, a restatement made on binations, the Parent Company includes expenditure relating to the sale (this is also been conducted in accordance with an accounting acquisition in costs pursuant to RFR 2. FINGERPRINT CARDS AB model applied at present). For the above reason, there is no difference in revenue recogniLeased assets tion for the relationship between IAS 18 and IFRS 15. The starting In the Parent Company, all lease arrangements are recognized as Delivery of sensors (via semiHardware design and conductor manufacturers) customer adaptation Software adaptation, integration and maintenance point on the sale of these goods is the same at an overall level. operating leases. IFRS 16 Leases Intangible assets generated by the company SEMICONDUCTOR DISTRIBUTOR MODULE OEM RESELLER USER MANUFACTURER SUPPLIER IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 and associated interpretation stateWhen development costs for intangible assets generated by the ments. The standard requires, with some exceptions, that all leased company are capitalized, the corresponding amount is transferred assets are recognized in the Balance Sheet. Accordingly, all lease from retained earnings to the fund for development expenditure in arrangements will be classified as finance leases pursuant to IAS restricted equity. This reserve is dissolved against retained earnRevenues Group Parent Company 17. The standard is to be applied for Financial years beginning on 1 ings as the development expenditure is amortized. If the useful life SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 January 2019 or later. Prospective application is permitted providof an intangible asset generated by the company cannot be meaSale of goods 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,955.5 6,638.3 ing that IFRS 15 is also applied. A project to identify the effects IFRS sured reliably, this period is set at five years. may have is ongoing. Fingerprints revenues arise when hardware—in the form of wafers Untaxed reserves (sensors in their original format) or packaged sensors (LGA) are The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciadelivered to a distributor or module supplier. Normally, software tion and amortization according to plan and depreciation and amordevelopment is included in the agreement. tization conducted for tax purposes as accumulated excess depreciation and amortization, which is included in untaxed reserves. 74 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 3 OPERATING SEGMENTS Revenue from Non-current Group Geographical regions external customers assets* SEK M 2017 2016 Accounting policy SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Intangible assets 245.0 – Each operating segment is defined as a business activity that can Sweden 1.5 0.6 270.3 97.3 Total non-current assets 245.0 – give rise to revenue or expenses and its operating profit is regularly Asia 2,942.0 6,627.3 3.6 0.5 Current assets 5.5 – monitored by the group’s chief operating decision maker, and for which independent financial information is available. In Fingerprints’ EMEA 2.8 3.9 3.3 2.3 Total current assets 5.5 – case, the chief operating decision maker is defined as Group ManSouth and North America 19.7 6.5 957.7 0.4 Deferred tax liability –85.8 – agement, which decides how resources are to be allocated between Total 2,966.0 6,638.3 1,234.9 100.5 Total deferred tax liability –85.8 – the different segments, and which also regularly evaluates earnings. Total fair value acquired assets and liabilities *Non-current assets excluding financial instruments Because Group Management monitors the results of operations taken over, net 164.7 – and decides on the allocation of resources based on the products Consolidated goodwill 784.3 – Revenue from external customers has been assigned to geographimanufactured and sold by the Group, these comprise the Group’s cal regions according to where the customer is domiciled. Total purchase consideration 949.0 – operating segments. Accordingly, the Group’s internal reporting is structured to enable Group Management to review performance and Additional cash and cash equivalents in acquired group company 15.7 – results. The Group’s segments have been identified based on this NOTE 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS internal reporting structure. Fingerprints reports one operating segAdjusted for deductible purchase consideration* –29.5 – ment, which is fingerprint sensors, primarily for mobile phones. Accounting policy Adjustment, working capital 3.2 – The acquisition method has been applied, which means that an Remaining portion of purchase consideration Comprehensive payable as of 31 December 2017** –102.6 – acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a transaction through which income segments Fingerprint sensors Total the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and takes over Cash flow from acquisitions of group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 companies/operations 835.8 – its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is Revenues from external customers 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,966.0 6,638.3 determined by conducting an acquisition analysis in conjunction * In accordance with the acquisition agreement, the purchase price has been reduced by SEK 29.5 M. Operating profit 154.6 2,578.5 154.6 2,578.5 with the acquisition. The analysis deter-mines the cost of the par** The liability restated at the closing day rate amounts to SEK 95 M . Profit before tax 141.8 2,613.5 141.8 2,613.5 ticipations or operations and the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and the assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities on Assets/liabilities and the acquisition date. The cost of the subsidiaries’ shares and operaNOTE 5 COST OF GOODS SOLD cash flow by segment Fingerprint sensors Total tions comprises the total of the fair value of the paid assets or liabilities arising or taken over on the acquisition date. For business Constituent items in SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 cost of goods sold Group Parent Company Assets 3,551.8 3,503.0 3,551.8 3,503.0 combinations where the cost exceeds the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities taken over that are SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Liabilities –1,031.2 –1,140.6 –1,031.2 –1,140.6 recognized separately, the difference is recognized as goodwill. Materials –1,875.7 –3,414.8 –1,875.7 –3,414.8 Cash flow from operating activities 376.9 1,130.3 376.9 1,130.3 Subsidiaries are consolidated effective the acquisition date until the Amortization of capitalized develCash flow from investing activities –1,071.0 –78.3 –1,071.0 –78.3 date when the controlling influence ceases. opment –39.9 –34.1 –39.9 –34.1 Cash flow financing activities 481.7 –955.7 481.7 –955.7 On 7 June 2017, Fingerprint Cards acquired all the shares of Amortization of other intangible Delta ID Inc. through its subsidiary India Acquisition Holding Inc. In assets –19.5 – – – 2017, Fingerprints had a cash outflow of SEK 836 M for the acquisiProcurement and production overtion of Delta ID Inc. This acquisition means fingerprints is extending heads –42.0 –24.1 –42.0 –24.1 its technology portfolio into biometric security solutions based on Cost of goods sold –1,977.1 –3,473.0 –1,957.6 –3,473.0 the human eye. From the acquisition date 7 June 2017 onwards, Delta ID contributed SEK 10 M of revenues, and reduced operating profit by SEK 15 M. If the acquisition had been executed at the beginning of the year, its contribution to revenues would have been SEK 16 M. The goodwill item consists of Delta ID’s ability to regenerate existing technology to remain competitive, and to apply the technology in other sectors to drive future growth. The goodwill item also consists of Delta ID’s network for creating new customer relationships, and also of existing know-how. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 75 NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Short-term remuneration Pension terms should be defined contribution pension solutions. Short-term remuneration to employees is computed without disThe notice period from the company’s side should not exceed six Group Parent Company counting and is recognized as an expense when the related services months. During the notice period of a maximum of six months, full SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 are received. A provision is recognized for the expected cost of the salary and employment benefits are due. Upon termination by the Exchange rate gains on operating profit-sharing and bonus payments when the Group becomes subcompany, severance pay may be payable up to an amount correreceivables and liabilities – 10.6 – 10.7 ject to a legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as sponding to a maximum of 12 months’ salary. Decisions on share Gain on sale of property, plant and a result of the services rendered by employees and the obligation and share price-related incentive programs are taken by the AGM. equipment – 0.6 – 0.6 can be measured reliably. The Board shall be entitled to depart from these guidelines if there Restatement of additional purare special reasons for this in an individual case. chase consideration 28.2 – – – Remuneration guidelines for senior executives 28.2 11.2 – 11.3 The AGM 2017 approved the proposal that the Remuneration ComGroup Parent Company mittee internal to the Board of Directors should consult on guideExpenses for employee benefits 2017 2016 2017 2016 lines regarding salary and other employment terms for the Chief Salaries and benefits, etc. 304.6 209.2 177.3 136.6 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Executive Officer and other senior executives, and submit proposals Pension costs, defined contributo the Board of Directors for decision on such matters. The Board of tion plans 38.1 41.4 29.5 35.3 Group Parent Company Directors takes decisions on salary and other benefits for the Chief Other social security contributions 63.8 49.9 58.9 47.2 SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer takes decisions on 406.5 300.5 265.7 219.1 Exchange rate losses on operating salary and other benefits to other senior executives pursuant to the receivables and liabilities –70.7 – –70.7 – Board of Directors’ guidelines. Other senior executives mean individuals that are members of Group Management with the Chief Group Parent Company Transaction expenses, acquisitions –18.0 – 0.0 – Executive Officer. Fundamental compensation levels should be on 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 –88.7 – –70.7 – Gender balance Share of Share of Share of Share of market terms. Compensation should consist of fixed basic salary, in management women women women women variable salary computed in accordance with established objectives set in advance, and other benefits, pensions and financial instruBoard of NOTE 8 EMPLOYEES, PERSONNEL COST AND ments in the form of performance-related shares. Directors 25% 25% 25% 25% REMUNERATION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES The division between basic salary and variable compensation Other senior executives 0% 0% 0% 0% should be in proportion to the executive’s duties and authorization. Accounting policy For the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives, variable On termination by the company, severance pay may be due at an Pension benefits to employees compensation is a maximum of 100% of basic annual salary, apart amount corresponding to a maximum of 12 months’ salary. The The Group has defined-contribution pension plans. Defined-contrifrom sign-on bonus. notice period for the Chief Executive Officer is six months on termibution pension plans are classified as plans whereby the company’s nation by the employee or the company. obligation is limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. In such cases, the amount of the employee’s pension depends on the contribution the company pays to the plan, or to an insurance comAverage number of employees pany and the return on capital generated by the contributions. ConGroup Parent Company sequently, the employee bears the actuarial risk and investment 2017 2016 2017 2016 risk. The company’s obligation regarding contributions to Group Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total defined-contribution plans is recognized as an expense in profit or Sweden 181 76 257 115 45 160 181 76 257 115 45 160 loss in line with contributions being vested by the employee renderChina 40 15 55 19 4 23 — — — 1 — 1 ing services for the company over a period of time. Denmark 37 4 41 27 4 31 — — — — — — Severance pay Korea 9 — 9 9 — 9 — — — — — — An expense for severance pay when employees leave the company Taiwan 11 1 12 7 1 8 — — — 5 1 6 is recognized only if the company is demonstrably obligated, withUS 13 1 14 6 — 6 — — — — — — out a realistic possibility of withdrawing, by a formal detailed plan to Total, group 291 97 388 183 54 237 181 76 257 121 46 167 terminate employment before the normal point in time. There were 415 (306) employees as of 31 December 2017, of which 311 (244) men and 104 (62) women. 76 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Salaries and other benefits allocated between senior executives and other employees, and social security contributions Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other SEK M executives employees Summa executives employees Total executives employees Summa executives employees Total Salary and other benefits* 26.8 277.8 304.6 32.9 176.3 209.2 24.9 152.4 177.3 32.9 103.7 136.6 Of which Chief Executive Officers 14.1 – 14.1 14.4 – 14.4 14.1 – 14.1 14.4 – 14.4 Of which Sweden 24.9 152.3 177.2 32.9 100.1 133.0 24.9 152.4 177.3 32.9 100.1 133.0 Of which foreign countries 1.9 125.5 127.4 – 76.3 76.3 – – – – 3.6 3.6 Total salary and benefits 26.8 277.8 304.6 32.9 176.3 209.2 24.9 152.4 177.3 32.9 103.7 136.6 Of which bonus etc. 8.6 2.8 11.4 3.2 6.3 9.5 8.4 2.8 11.2 3.2 6.2 9.4 Social security contributions total 13.2 88.7 101.9 16.4 74.8 91.3 12.5 75.9 88.4 16.4 66.2 82.6 Of which pension costs Chief Executive Officers 1.8 – 1.8 1.6 – 1.6 1.8 – 1.8 1.6 – 1.6 Of which pensions costs, other 3.1 33.2 36.3 4.2 35.6 39.8 3.0 24.7 27.7 4.2 31.0 35.3 * Includes SEK 0.7 M of severance pay paid to senior executives. Salaries and other benefits to senior executives 2017 2016 Basic salary, Bonus, variable Basic salary, Bonus, variable Group and Parent Company Directors’ fee compensation Pension Total Directors’ fee compensation Pension Total Chairman of the Board Jan Wäreby, Director until May 2016 1.0 – – 1.0 0.6 – – 0.6 Urban Fagerstedt, Director from May 2017 0.5 – – 0.5 0.4 – – 0.4 Directors Alexander Kotsinas, until May 2016 and from April 2017 0.3 – – 0.3 0.2 – – 0.2 Carl Johan von Plomgren, from June 2015 0.5 – – 0.5 0.4 – – 0.4 Katarina Bonde, until April 2017 0.3 – – 0.3 0.5 – – 0.5 Lars Söderfjell, until April 2017 0.2 – – 0.2 0.3 – – 0.3 Michael Hallén, until November 20171 0.5 – – 0.5 0.2 – – 0.2 Peter Carlsson, until April 2017 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 Tomas Mikaelsson, from May 2016 0.4 – – 0.4 0.2 – – 0.2 Åsa Hedin, from May 2016 0.5 – – 0.5 0.2 – – 0.2 Ann-Sofie Nordh, from April 2017 0.3 – – 0.3 – – – – Dimitrij Titov, from April 2017 0.2 – – 0.2 – – – – Chief Executive Officers: Christian Fredrikson, from August 2016 6.6 7.5 1.8 15.9 5.1 – 0.8 5.9 Jörgen Lantto, until July 2016 – – – – 8.0 1.3 0.9 10.2 other senior executives (8/8 people) 14.0 1.1 3.1 18.2 15.2 1.9 4.2 21.3 Total from Parent Company 25.5 8.6 4.9 39.0 31.5 3.2 5.9 40.6 * One member of Management serves on a consulting basis and is not an employee. The CEO’s variable compensation for 2017 includes a sign-on bonus of SEK 6.0 M. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 77 NOTE 9 FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT NOTE 12 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE NOTE 14 TAXES OF AUDITORS Group Parent Company Accounting policy Group Parent Company SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 The group’s tax for the period consists of current tax and deferred SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Exchange rate financial receivtax. Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periAudit fee, KPMG –1.5 –1.4 –1.5 –1.3 ables and liabilities – 34.6 – 34.6 ods are measured at the amount expected to be paid to or by the tax Interest income attributable to authorities based on the tax rates and the tax legislation that is Audit fee, other –0.1 – – – group companies – – 12.7 – enacted or substantively enacted on the reporting date. Current tax Other services, KPMG –0.4 –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 is tax pertaining to taxable profit for the period. Deferred tax is recOther interest income 0.5 1.4 0.5 1.4 Total fees –2.0 –1.6 –1.9 –1.5 Financial income 0.5 36.0 13.2 36.0 ognized on all temporary differences that arise between the taxable value and carrying amount of assets and liabilities, and on deductExchange rate losses on financial receivables and liabilities –2.2 – –2.2 – ible loss carry-forwards. NOTE 10 OPERATING EXPENSES BY COST CLASS Other interest expenses –9.5 –1.0 –9.5 –0.8 Current and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss with the exception of transactions recognized in other comprehensive Group Parent Company Other financial expenses –1.6 – –1.4 – income and shareholders’ equity. Tax attributable to items recogSEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Financial expenses –13.3 –1.0 –13.1 –0.8 nized in other comprehensive income is also recognized in other Cost of materials –1,875.7 –3,414.7 –1,875.7 –3,414.7 comprehensive income and tax accruing on transactions recogPersonnel costs –406.5 –300.5 –265.7 –219.1 nized in shareholders’ equity is recognized in shareholders’ equity. Depreciation, amortization and NOTE 13 APPROPRIATIONS Deferred tax assets are recognized in the Balance Sheet to the impairment –79.4 –48.6 –57.0 –46.5 extent it is likely that they can be utilized to offset future taxable Parent Company surpluses. When calculating the Group’s deferred tax assets and Other operating expenses –449.8 –296.0 –606.8 –391.1 SEK M 2017 2016 tax liability, the tax rate applicable in the country concerned is Operating expenses –2,811.4 –4,059.8 –2,805.2 –4,071.4 applied. Appropriations Change in depreciation and amortization above plan –8.0 – Estimates and judgements NOTE 11 DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Change in tax allocation reserve –66.0 –650.0 Management especially considers the likelihood of whether Appropriations –74.0 –650.0 deferred tax assets can be offset against services in future taxation. The Group’s expenses for technology development and patents Deductible deficits are not recognized because they relate to a subUntaxed reserves increased to SEK 594.8 M (367.0), of which SEK 203.5 M (62.8) or sidiary with limited operations, and accordingly, there is uncertainty Accumulated depreciation and amortization above plan 8.0 – 33% (17), has been capitalized in the Consolidated Statement of as to whether the deficit can be offset against future surpluses. Financial Position and the remaining SEK 391.3 M (304.2) has been Accumulated tax allocation reserves 716.0 650.0 expensed. The corresponding expenses for technology developUntaxed reserves 724.0 650.0 Group Parent Company ment and patents for the Parent Company increased to SEK 585.8 SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 M (367.0), of which SEK 203.5 M (62.8), or 33% (17), has been capiCurrent tax expense talized in the Parent Company Balance Sheet, and the remaining Current tax expense –49.4 –441.5 –44.6 –439.4 SEK 382.3 M (304.2) has been expensed in the Parent Company Income Statement. Deferred tax expense 27.9 –137.3 26.2 5.7 Total reported tax expense –21.5 –578.8 –18.4 –433.7 78 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Reconciliation of effective tax NOTE 15 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Group Parent Company AND NUMBER OF SHARES SEK M 2017 % 2016 % 2017 % 2016 % Profit before tax 141.8 2 613.5 76.4 1 952.0 Accounting policy Theoretical tax at applicable tax rate for parent company –31.2 –22.0 –575.0 –22.0 –16.8 –22.0 –429.4 –22.0 Earnings per share before dilution are measured as consolidated net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent Non-deductible expenses –9.9 7.0 –4.8 –0.2 –1.7 2.2 –4.8 –0.2 divided by the average number of outstanding shares per financial Non-taxable revenues 7.5 –5.3 0.6 – 0.1 –0.1 0.6 – year. Differences in tax rates foreign subsidiaries 0.2 –0.1 0.4 0.1 – – – – When measuring earnings per share after dilution, earnings and Restatement of deferred tax 12.1 –8.6 – – – – – – the average number of shares outstanding are adjusted for potenTax attributable to previous years –0.3 0.2 – – – – – – tial dilution effects that arise during reporting periods from warReported effective tax –21.5 –15.2 –578.8 –22.1 –18.4 –24.1 –433.7 –22.2 rants issued to employees. The dilution of warrants outstanding only affects the number of shares in the measurement when the exercise price is less than the share price. Repurchased shares The tax effect of items reported in shareholders’ equity amounts to SEK 0.0 M (0.3) and consists of expenses for new share issues. held in treasury are not considered outstanding. The weighted average number of common shares is computed Unreported deferred tax assets as a weighted average of the number of outstanding shares, conDeductible loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax assets have Changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are sidering changes that have occurred in this number due to new not been recognized in the Statement of Financial Position. stated below. share issues. The dilution effect of warrants is computed by considering the average share price for the period, and thus includes the Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company number of shares for those programs whose exercise price is less 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. than the average share price. SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets, SEK M Current assets Total Deductible deficits 12.5 12.6 – – As of 1 January 2016 1.0 1.0 Before dilution After dilution Reported in Income Statement 5.7 5.7 SEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 As of 31 December 2016 6.7 6.7 Earnings per share 0.38 6.40 0.38 6.33 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are divided as follows: Reported in Income Statement 26.1 26.1 Deferred tax assets Group Parent Company As of 31 December 2017 32.8 32.8 Net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets arise as an effect of a reserve for inventories of the parent before dilution Deferred tax assets to be settled SEK M 2017 2016 after more than 12 months 32.8 6.7 32.8 6.7 Group Total deferred tax assets 32.8 6.7 32.8 6.7 Net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 120.3 2,034.7 Deferred tax liabilities, SEK M Other* Total As of 1 January 2016 – – Deferred tax liabilities Group Parent Company Reported in Income Statement 143.0 143.0 SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 As of 31 December 2016 143.0 143.0 Deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 222.6 143.0 – – Reported in Income Statement –1.8 –1.8 Total deferred tax liabilities 222.6 143.0 – – Acquisition of Delta ID Inc. 81.4 81,4 As of 31 December 2017 222.6 222.6 * Deferred tax liabilities in the Group are tax allocation reserve, excess depreciation and amortization and deferred tax on acquired assets. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 79 Weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares before and development expenditure is recognized in profit or loss as an Estimates and judgements after dilution expense when it arises. Capitalized development expenditure Research expenses aimed at obtaining new scientific or techniSignificant estimates by management are necessary to determine Number of shares 2017 2016 cal knowledge are recognized as an expense when they arise. Since whether expenses during the development phase should be capiClass A shares at beginning of year 6,000,000 1,200,000 all research originates from products and market demand, no talized as intangible assets, and which useful life these assets Share split (5:1) – 4,800,000 research arises. should have. These estimates focus on determining how long earnTotal number of class A shares 6,000,000 6,000,000 ings potential exists for the products, and in turn, these estimates Class B shares at beginning of year 307,967,675 62,039,135 Patents are based on the progress of markets, competitors and technology. Acquired patents are capitalized as intangible assets. New issue of class B shares – 1,300,000 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Share split (5:1) – 253,356,540 Goodwill To identify whether there is impairment of a non-current asset with New issue of class B shares – 1,696,000 Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset with indefinite useful definite useful life at the reporting date, management judges each Total number of class B shares 307,967,675 318,391,675 life. Over and above indication, non-amortizable assets such as asset’s commercial potential. No indication has been identified for Number of repurchased shares – –10,424,000 goodwill are subject to annual impairment tests by measuring the patents, and accordingly, no impairment test has been conducted asset’s recoverable amount. If the estimated recoverable amount is for patents. The remaining portion of other intangible assets have Total number of outstanding shares 313,967,675 313,967,675 less than the carrying amount, the asset is impaired to its recoverbeen tested jointly with goodwill below. Weighted average number of ordinary shares in able amount. For impairment tests, the recoverable amount of the cash-genthe year before dilution 313,967,675 317,726,761 erating unit Delta ID Inc. has been measured based on its value in Weighted average number of ordinary shares in Amortization and impairment use. Value in use is measured as the present value of expected the year after dilution 313,967,675 321,408,761 Amortization is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis future cash flows in accordance with management’s forecast. Quotient value, SEK per share 0.04 0.20 over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, unless such The critical assumptions in this forecast are sales and operating As of 31 December 2017, registered share capital amounted to useful lives are indefinite. Useful lives are determined on the basis margins, as well as the discount rate. Sales have been estimated in 313,967,675 common shares (313,967,675). Holders of common of expected commercial potential, earnings and the patent’s the short term based on estimated customer needs, from thirdshares are entitled to receive dividends that will be determined in remaining term of validity and technical significance. Useful lives party research and global market progress for iris recognition for the future, and the shareholding entitles the holder to vote at are reviewed at least yearly. Intangible assets with definite useful the medium term, and based on assumptions of a normalized shareholders’ meetings, with one vote per share. lives are amortized from the date when they are available for use. growth rate for the long term. Initially, the operating margin has The amounts applied in the calculation are stated below. Exercise Amortizable assets are tested for impairment, if at the reporting been estimated on the basis of current margins, and then based on of warrants is expected to generate expenses whose effect is not of date, there is an indication that a non-current asset is impaired. sector experience. material significance. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or that are not A nine-year cash flow forecast has been applied, the term of the The AGM 2017 resolved on an incentive program for up to 25 indiready for use are tested for impairment every year and as soon as period justified by the expectation that it will take many years before viduals within the Fingerprints group. For more information, refer to there is an indication of impairment. The recoverable amount of operations enter a mature developmental phase. After the end of the Statutory Administration Report. goodwill is measured through a value in use measurement accordthe forecast period, a growth rate of 1% has been adopted. ing to the discounted cash flow method. The discount rate has been estimated based on the operation’s If it is not possible to associate materially independent cash estimated weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS flows with an individual asset, and the asset’s fair value less selling before tax has been estimated at 18%. expenses cannot be used, for impairment testing, the assets are If the discount rates were to increase by 1 percentage point, the Accounting policy grouped at the lowest level from which it is possible to identify sigrecoverable amount would decrease by 7%. This would indicate Intangible assets are recognized at original cost after deducting for nificant independent cash flows, known as a cash-generating unit. impairment. If the adopted growth after the end of the forecast accumulated amortization and potential impairment. An impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s carrying amount period were to reduce by 1 percentage point, the recoverable exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized amount would reduce by 3%. This would not indicate impairment. Research and development as an expense in profit or loss. Development expenditure, aimed at achieving new or improved products or processes, is recognized as an asset in the Statement Estimated useful lives are: of Financial Position, if the product or process is technically and Products 1.5–4.0 years commercially viable, and the company has sufficient resources to Platforms 1.5–10.0 years complete the development process and subsequently use or sell Customer relations 10 years the intangible asset. The carrying amount includes directly attributPatents 4–5 years able expenses, such as materials and services used and consumed in connection with processing and registering legal rights. Other Useful lives are reviewed yearly. 80 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS, CONT. Impairment test, goodwill 2017 Recoverable amount 930 Carrying amount of which goodwill SEK 745 M 894 Interest rate, % (WACC), before tax 18 Interest rate, % (WACC) after tax 14 Group Parent Company Capitalized development Patents & other acquired Capitalized development Patents & other acquired Goodwill expenditure intangible assets Intangible assets expenditure intangible assets Intangible assets SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Accumulated cost Opening balance – – 198.3 135.5 28.0 28.0 226.3 163.5 192.5 129.7 28.0 28.0 220.5 157.7 Internally developed assets – – 194.9 62.8 – – 194,9 62.8 194.8 62.8 – – 194.8 62.8 Assets 784.3 – – – 255.8 – 1,040.1 – – – 10.8 – 10.8 – Translation difference -39.7 – – – -12.8 – -52.5 – – – – – – – Closing balance 744.6 – 393.2 198.3 271.0 28.0 1,408.8 226.3 387.3 192.5 38.8 28.0 426.1 220.5 Accumulated amortization Opening balance – – –120.9 –85.7 –15.0 –9.1 –135.9 –94.8 –116.6 –82.5 –15.1 –9.2 –131.7 –91.7 Amortization for the year – – –40.7 –35.2 –24.9 –5.9 –65.6 –41.1 –39.9 –34.1 –5.4 –5.9 –45.3 –40.0 Closing balance – – –161.6 –120.9 –39.9 –15.0 –201.5 –135.9 –156.5 –116.6 –20.5 –15.1 –177.0 –131.7 Accumulated impairment Opening balance – – –19.0 –19.0 – – –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 – – –19.0 –19.0 Closing balance – – –19.0 –19.0 – – –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 – – –19.0 –19.0 Carrying amount At beginning of year – – 58.4 30.8 13.0 18.9 71.4 49.7 56.9 28.2 12.9 18.8 69.8 47.0 At end of year 744.6 – 212.6 58.4 231.1 13.0 1,188.3 71.4 211.8 56.9 18.3 12.9 230.1 69.8 Amortization is included in the following lines in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cost of goods sold – – –39.9 –34.1 –19.5 0.0 –59.4 –34.1 –39.9 –34.1 – – –39.9 –34.1 Development costs – – –0.8 –1.1 –5.4 –5.9 –0.8 –7.0 – – –5.4 –5.9 –5.4 –5.9 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 81 NOTE 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Group Parent Company Machinery and equipment Machinery and equipment Accounting policy Accumulated cost, SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Property, plant and equipment are recognized in the Group at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. Cost includes the purchase price and any expenses that are directly attributable to the Opening balance 48.0 34.7 42.1 31.2 asset to put it in place and in the condition to be utilized for the purpose for which it was acquired. Purchases 0.5 – – – Assets leased through finance leases are recognized as non-current assets in the Statement of Sales/retirements –0.2 –8.8 –0.1 –9.0 Financial Position and recognized initially at the lower of the item’s fair value and the present value of Purchases 30.9 22.1 25 19.9 minimum lease payments on entering the arrangement. Closing balance 79.2 48.0 67.0 42.1 Depreciation and impairment Accumulated cost Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Leased assets are Opening balance –18.8 –14.1 –16.2 –12.6 depreciated over their estimated useful life, or if it is shorter, the contracted lease term. Depreciation is Purchases –0.3 – – – recognized in each function the assets belong to. Impairment testing of depreciable assets is conducted if there is an indication of impairment of the Reversed depreciation on sale and retirement 0.2 2.7 0.1 2.8 non-current asset at the reporting date. If there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable Depreciation for the year –13.7 –7.4 –11.7 –6.4 amount is measured. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and its value Closing balance –32.6 –18.8 –27.8 –16.2 in use, which is based on management’s estimate of future cash flows. If it is not possible to associate Carrying amounts significant independent cash flows with an individual asset, and the asset’s fair value less selling expenses cannot be used, the assets are grouped for impairment testing at the lowest level from which At beginning of year 29.2 20.6 25.9 18.6 it is possible to identify signifi-cant independent cash flows, known as a cash-generating unit. An At end of year 46.6 29.2 39.2 25.9 impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized as an expense in profit or loss. Group Moderbolaget Estimated useful lives: Depreciation is included in the following lines Machinery and other technical plant 5 years in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 2017 2016 2017 2016 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 3–5 years Cost of goods sold –1.3 –1.5 –1.3 –1.5 Administration expenses –10.0 –0.8 –9.2 –0.6 Estimates and judgements Selling expenses –0.2 –1.3 –0.1 –1.2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment Development expenses –2.2 –3.8 –1.1 –3.1 Estimated future cash flows, which are based on internal business plans and forecasts, are used to determine value in use. Even if management considers an estimated future cash flows are reasonable, Total –13.7 –7.4 –11.7 –6.4 other assumptions regarding cash flows can have a material impact on measurements. No indication that property, plant and equipment is impaired has been identified, and accordingly, no impairment tests have been conducted. 82 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 18 INVENTORIES NOTE 19 FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy Accounting policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost of inventories is meaA financial asset is recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when the group becomes party to sured by applying the first-in, first-out method (FIFO) and includes expenses arising in conjunction with the terms of the instrument’s agreement. A receivable is recognized when the company has delivered the purchase of inventory items and transportation to their current location and condition. Net realizand there is a contracted obligation for the counterparty to pay, even if no invoice has been sent. able value is defined as sales price less expenses for completion and selling expenses. Accounts receivable are recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has been sent. Estimates and judgements Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are divided into two subcategories; Individual judgements regarding potential to sell products are necessary to determined net sales value. financial assets held for trading and those classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss at An impairment loss has been recorded due to surplus inventories, which have arisen due to a change in acquisition. A financial asset is placed in this category if it has been purchased with the aim of sale in product mix during the year. the short term, or classified as such by management. Financial instruments are initially recognized at cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair value with a supplement for transaction expenses for all Group Parent Company financial instruments apart from those in the category of financial assets recognized at fair value SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 through profit or loss, which are recognized at fair value excluding transaction expenses. As of 31 Raw material inventory 460.1 560.8 460.1 560.8 December 2017, there were no financial assets measured at fair value. Products in process 59.5 48.1 59.5 48.1 Loan receivables and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets that have determined or determinable payments and that are not listed on an active marketplace. These assets are measured Finished goods 126.5 63.8 126.5 63.8 at amortized cost. Amortized cost is determined on the basis of the effective interest calculated at Total 646.1 672.7 646.1 672.7 acquisition. Cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable are recognized at the amount expected to be received, i.e. after deducting for doubtful debt. Impairment of inventories amounts to SEK 173.7 M (51.8) as of 31 December 2017. The market valuation of financial instruments was conducted using the most reliable market prices available. This means that all instruments that are market listed are measured using current spot prices. Conversion to SEK is at the closing rate on the reporting date. Book value less impairment is an approximate fair value of accounts receivable. Impairment losses (mainly the reserve for bad debt) are taken if management considers that there is sufficient objective evidence indicating that an asset’s carrying amount will not be recoverable. Impaired accounts receivable are recognized at the present value of expected future cash flows. However, receivables with short maturities are not discounted. Impairment of saleable financial assets is recognized in net profit for the year in net financial income/expense. Exchange rate fluctuations on operating receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating profit, while exchange rate fluctuations on financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in net financial income/expense. Financial assets are derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contracted rights to cash flows cease, or are transferred, and when essentially, the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the financial assets have been transferred. Estimates and judgements Management evaluates the need for individual reserves for all receivables, with this judgement based on age analysis, impairment history and customer creditworthiness. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 83 NOTE 19 FINANCIAL ASSETS, CONT Fair value and book value of financial assets by balance sheet item and category Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 SEK M Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value FINANCIAL ASSETS Current financial assets Loan receivables and accounts receivable Accounts receivable 437.5 437.5 1,132.1 1,132.1 437.3 437.3 1,132.1 1,132.1 Cash and cash equivalents 920.2 920.2 1,162.2 1,162.2 878.9 878.9 1,142.3 1,142.3 Financial assets, total 1,357.7 1,357.7 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,316.2 1,316.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 By category Loan receivables and accounts receivable 1,357.7 1,357.7 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,316.2 1,316.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 Financial assets, total 1,357.7 1,357.7 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,316.2 1,316.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 Group Parent Company SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Total accounts receivable 441.5 1,134.1 438.8 1,134.1 Reserve for doubtful debt –4.0 –2.0 –1.5 –2.0 Carrying amount 437.5 1,132.1 437.3 1,132.1 The expense for bad debt and doubtful debt for the Group amounted to SEK 2 M (0.7). NOTE 20 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME NOTE 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Parent Company Accounting policy SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash funds and immediately available balances with banks and Premises 7.5 3.8 6.1 3.6 corresponding institutions, as well as short-term liquid investments that are exposed to only insignifiInsurance expenses 5.4 4.6 5.1 4.6 cant risk of value fluctuation. Group Parent Company License costs 8.4 5.0 8.3 5.0 SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Other operating expenses 7.8 8.3 6.3 5.9 Cash and bank balances 920.2 1,162.2 878.9 1,142.3 29.1 21.7 25.8 19.1 Total recognized in the Statement of Financial Position/Balance Sheet 920.2 1,162.2 878.9 1,142.3 84 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 22 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Accounting policy A financial liability is recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party The market valuation of financial instruments was conducted using the most reliable market prices to the terms of the instrument’s contract. Liabilities are recognized when the counterparty has delivered available. This means that all instruments that are market listed are measured at market value using and there is a contractual obligation for the company to make a payment without an invoice having yet current spot prices. Conversion to SEK is at the closing rate on the reporting date. Carrying amount less been received. Accounts payable are recognized when the invoice has arrived. impairment is an approximate fair value of accounts payable. Loans arranged are measured at amorFinancial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are divided into two sub-categories: tized cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings are measured at amortized cost by applying financial liabilities held for trading and those classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss the effective interest method. Covenants to lenders are reported quarterly, with the company measured on acquisition. Financial instruments are initially recognized at cost corresponding to the instrument’s in terms of interest coverage ratio, as well as net debt/equity ratio in relation to EBITDA. fair value with a supplement for transaction expenses for all financial instruments apart from those in Exchange rate fluctuations on operating receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating profit the category of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, which are recognized at while exchange rate fluctuations on financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in net financial fair value excluding transaction expenses. As of 31 december 2017, there were no liabilities measured at income/expense. fair value. Loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payable, are measured at amortized A financial liability is derecognized from the Statement of Financial Position when the contractual cost. obligations are fulfilled or otherwise extinguished. Fair value and book value of financial liabilities by balance sheet item and category Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 SEK M Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Long-term loans, maturing 2019 (USD 27 M) 221.9 221.9 – – 221.9 221.9 – – Current financial liabilities Short-term portion of long-term loans* 243.4 243.4 – – 243.4 243.4 – – Remaining portion of purchase consideration for acquisition of subsidiary 95,0 95,0 – – – – – – Accounts payable 268.0 268.0 821.6 821.6 266.9 266.9 820.7 820.7 Financial liabilities, total 828,3 828,3 821.6 821.6 732.2 732.2 820.7 820.7 By category Financial liabilities at amortized cost 828,3 828,3 821.6 821.6 732.2 732.2 820.7 820.7 Financial liabilities, total 828,3 828,3 821.6 821.6 732.2 732.2 820.7 820.7 * Includes transaction expenses of SEK 3.6 M. Liabilities attributable to financing activities Group Parent Company Changes in Changes in exchange rate exchange rate differences not differences not SEK M OB 2016 Cash flows affecting cash flow CB 2017 OB 2016 Cash flows affecting cash flow CB 2017 Long-term loans – 229.7 –7.8 221.9 – 229.7 –7.8 221.9 Short-term portion of long-term loans – 252.4 –9.0 243.4 – 252.4 –9.0 243.4 – 482.1 –16.8 465.3 – 482.1 –16.8 465.3 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 85 NOTE 23 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES NOTE 25 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. Employee withholding tax 6.7 4.9 5.6 4.4 Financial risks mean fluctuations in the company’s earnings and cash flow due to variations in Remaining portion of purchase consideration for acquisition exchange rates, interest rates and risks relating to refinancing and credit issuance. The Group’s finanof subsidiary 95.0 – – – cial policy for managing financial risks has been prepared by the Board and comprises a framework of Other 4.8 1.8 – – guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financing activities. Financial transactions and risks are managed by the Parent Company’s Finance function. The objectives are to: Total 106.5 6.7 5.6 4.4 • Manage and control financial risks • Minimize the negative earnings impact of market changes in currencies and interest rates. • Plan and ensure adequate liquidity for operating activities. NOTE 24 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME • Optimize the use of capital and cash flows. Group Parent Company Financing risk SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Financing risk is the risk of access to financing capital, and the price of financing capital varying, with Salaries 31.9 26.6 19.9 24.9 the risk of unfavorable terms. Social Security contributions 17.5 18.5 17.5 18.5 Material and production expenses 1.7 10.9 1.7 10.8 Liquidity risk Directors’ fees and company expenses 1.7 4.4 1.7 4.4 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group encounters problems meeting its obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group has rolling liquidity planning, which is updated monthly. The Group’s Commissions 123.0 185.1 123.0 185.1 forecasts cover a minimum of six months of rolling liquidity planning over the medium term. Liquidity Audit 1.1 0.8 1.1 0.8 planning is used to manage liquidity risk and the cost of financing the Group. Other overheads 13.0 11.9 10.9 7.3 The aim is that the Group should be able to meet its financial commitments and have the necessary Total 189.9 258.2 175.8 251.8 contingency well in advance. It should be possible to offset upturns and downturns without incurring significant unforeseen costs. Available liquidity in the Group at year end amounted to SEK 920.2 M (1,162.2). In accordance with the Finance Policy, there should always be sufficient cash and cash equivalents and confirmed credit lines to cover short-term liquidity requirements. The company’s financial liabilities consist of supplier credits, totaling SEK 268.0 M (821.6) at year-end, with a short maturity of within one to two months. A loan of SEK 508.1 M (USD 60 M) was arranged in tandem with the acquisition of Delta, with a two-year amortization plan. The remaining portion of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of Delta ID Inc. amounts to SEK 95 M. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will vary due to changes in market prices. IFRS divides market risks into three types; currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk. The market risks that primarily impact the Group are currency risk and commodity price risk, while the interest rate risk has less of an impact since the company has no deposits. The Group’s aim is to manage and control market risks within specific parameters and simultaneously optimize the results of risk-taking within specific parameters. These parameters are established with the aim of ensuring that market risks have only a marginal impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position in the short term (6–12 months). However, protracted changes in exchange rates and interest rates will impact consolidated earnings in the longer term. 86 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 25 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. Sensitivity analysis A 10% appreciation of the Swedish krona against other currencies as of 31 December 2017, would imply Raw materials price risk shareholders’ equity and net profit for the period changing by SEK 71 M (42). The sensitivity analysis is The raw materials cost of products may be affected by price variations, mainly silicon. Silicon is the based on all other factors remaining unchanged. largest constituent part of products. Historically, the price of silicon has not fluctuated significantly, and Age analysis, accounts receivable Group Parent Company supply is good. If the supply of silicon on the global market were to reduce, there would be a risk of price increases. Accordingly, the company’s purchasing from external suppliers could increase in per unit 2017 2016 2017 2016 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying prices. There is no guarantee that in turn, Fingerprints is able to pass on increased costs to its customSEK M amount amount amount amount ers. The inability to pass on increased costs to the company’s customers may have negative conseNon-overdue accounts receivable 405.7 947.4 405.7 947.4 quences for the company’s operations, results of operations and financial position. Overdue accounts receivable, 0-30 days 31.0 180.8 31.0 180.8 Currency risk Overdue accounts receivable, 30-90 days 1.2 3.8 0.2 3.8 The risk that the fair value and cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate when the value of forOverdue accounts receivable >90 days 3.6 2.1 1.9 2.1 eign currencies changes. The Group is exposed to various types of currency risk. The main exposure is Reserve for doubtful debt –4.0 –2.0 –1.5 –2.0 derived from the Group’s sales and purchases in foreign currencies. These currency risks comprise the Total 437.5 1,132.1 437.3 1,132.1 risk of fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, accounts receivables and accounts payable and the currency risk inherent in expected and contractual payment flows. Such risks constitute transaction exposure. According to the Finance Policy, exchange risks should not be hedged. USD-denominated net surpluses are exchanged to SEK on a continuous basis. Net profit for the year includes exchange rate differences of SEK -70.7 M (10.6) in operating profit and SEK -2.2 M (34.6) in net financial income/expense. Effective 2017, exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents are recognized as financial expenses, and year-2016 figures have been restated accordingly. Transaction exposure The Group’s transaction exposure for sales and materials is allocated to the following currencies on the reporting date: SEK M Net flows 2017 USD exposure expressed in SEK and total 715.9 2016 USD exposure expressed in SEK and total 532.4 Transaction exposure has not been hedged. Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 % of total % of total % of total % of total Number of number of Number of number of Number of number of Number of number of Sales per year customers customers % of value customers customers % of value customers customers % of value customers customers % of value < SEK 1 M 81 81 0.3 66 76 0.1 77 82 0.3 66 76 0.1 SEK 1-10 M 9 9 0.9 10 12 0.4 7 7 0.6 10 12 0.4 > SEK 10 M 10 10 98.8 10 12 99.5 10 11 99.1 10 12 99.5 Total 100 100 100 86 100 100 94 100 100 86 100 100 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 87 NOTE 26 LEASES NOTE 27 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Accounting policy Group Parent Company Lease arrangements are classified either as finance or operating leases. Finance leases occur when Purchases of goods and services, SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 the economic risks and rewards associated with ownership essentially transfer to the lessee. If this is Purchases of group-wide services from subsidiaries – – –202.1 –126.3 not the case, the arrangement is an operating lease. Total – – –202.1 –126.3 Assets leased through operating leases are not recognized as an asset in the Statement of Financial Position. Nor do operating leases give rise to a liability. Expenses relating to operating leases are recogGroup Moderbolaget nized in profit for the year on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rewards received on entering an Receivables and liabilities at the end of the period, SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 arrangement are recognized in net profit for the year as the decrease in lease payments on a straightline basis over the term of the lease. Variable charges are expensed in the periods they arise. Receivables from subsidiaries – – 495.0 2.5 Asset leased through finance leases are recognized as non-current assets in the Statement of Liabilities to subsidiaries – – –8.9 –9.2 Financial Position and initially measured at the lower of the least item’s fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments on entering the arrangement. The obligation to make future lease payTransactions with related parties are price on an arm’s length basis. ments is recognized as non-current and current liabilities. Leased assets are depreciated over each Transactions with key individuals in management positions are limited to individual, clearly delinasset’s useful life, while the lease payments are recognized as interest and amortization of liabilities. eated, small-scale consulting assignments, which require specific competence. Interest expenses are allocated over the lease term, so that each accounting period is charged with an amount that corresponds to a fixed interest rate for the liability reported during the relevant period. Variable charges are expensed in the periods they arise. The reported asset is recognized in accordance NOTE 28 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS IN SUBSIDIARIES with the rules applying to corresponding assets, such as those for depreciation. The Group’s material lease arrangements are operating leases. Parent Company Shares in subsidiaries Operating leases Group Parent Company SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Lease arrangements where the company is the lessee, Accumulated cost SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Opening balance 33.9 31.4 Irrevocable lease payments amount to: Other investments 332.9 2.5 Within one year 33.4 17.9 25.4 14.4 Closing book value 366.8 33.9 Between one year and five years 55.6 15.6 43.5 10.9 Accumulated impairment Total 89.0 33.5 68.9 25.3 Opening balance –28.8 –28.8 Impairment for the year – – Operating leases consist of lease contracts the premises. The largest contracts terminate in 2018–2022, with extension options. These agreements are subject to ongoing indexation against Closing balance –28.8 –28.8 the CPI or equivalent. Carrying amounts Group Parent Company At beginning of year 5.1 2.6 Lease payments made for operating leases in the year, At end of year 338.0 5.1 SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Minimum lease payments 27.8 16.7 20.6 12.5 The increase in shares in subsidiaries in the year consists of the acquisition of a subsidiary in the US Total lease expenses 27.8 16.7 20.6 12.5 and an investment in the incorporation of a subsidiary in Japan. 88 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 NOTE 28 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS IN SUBSIDIARIES, CONT. • Fingerprint Inc. in the US: This company was incorporated in 2014. Operations consist of marketing and technical customer support on the US market. All staff in the US are employees of the American Subsidiary ParticipatParticipatcompany. The Parent Company’s holdings reg. office, Shareholding interest, ing interest, in subsidiaries country ers’ equity Net profit 2017 2016 • Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd. in Taiwan: This company was incorporated in 2016. Operations consist of marketing and customer support on the Taiwanese market. All staff in Taiwan are employees of the Anacatum Design AB Sweden 5.4 0.1 100% 100% Taiwanese company. Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. Korea 3.3 0.9 100% 100% • Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB: This company has been a subsidiary since 1998. This Fingerprint Cards ApS Denmark 12.5 4.6 100% 100% company conducts limited operations and has no employees. Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 5.8 2.3 100% 100% • India Acquisition Holding Inc: Incorporated to serve as a holding company for Delta ID Inc. Fingerprint Cards Inc US 4.2 1.1 100% 100% • Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K: This company was incorporated at the end of 2017, has limited operations and had no employees in the year. From 2018 onwards, operations consist of marketing and cusFingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd Taiwan 1.5 1.1 100% 100% tomer support on the Japanese market, and staff in Japan are employees of the Japanese company. . Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB Sweden 2.2 – 100% 100% India Aquisition Holding Inc US 299.4 – 100% 0% Delta ID Inc* US 412.2 14.3 100% 0% NOTE 29 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K. Japan 1.1 – 100% 0% Accounting policy * Indirect holding through subsidiary The Cash Flow Statement has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. Foreign group companies’ cash flows are translated at average rates of exchange. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are Specification of Parent Company’s direct holdings of participations in subsidiaries included in cash flow from investing activities, seen note 4 for more information on the influence of the acquisition on cash flow. Participations, Proportion, Group Parent Company Subsidiary/corporate identity number number % 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Anacatum Design AB, 556779-5371 24,466,668 100 1.0 1.0 The following components are included in cash and cash Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. 20,000 100 0.7 0.7 equivalents: 920.2 1,162.2 878.9 1,142.3 Fingerprint Cards ApS 800 100 0.1 0.1 Total in Statement of Financial Position 920.2 1,162.2 878.9 1,142.3 Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd – 100 2.4 2.4 Total in Statement of Cash Flows 920.2 1,162.2 878.9 1,142.3 Fingerprint Cards Inc 100 100 0.1 0.1 Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd – 100 0.1 0.1 Adjustments for non-cash items Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB, 556239-5938 1,000 100 0.7 0.7 Group Parent Company India Aquisition Holding Inc 1,000 100 331.8 – SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K. 100 100 1.1 – Interest not received – – –5.7 – Carrying amount, 31 December 338.0 5.1 Depreciation and amortization 79.4 48.6 57.0 46.5 Provision to tax allocation reserve – – 66.0 650.0 • Anacatum Design AB in Sweden: All the shares of this entity were acquired in 2014. This company conducts limited operations and has no employees. Depreciation and amortization above plan – 8.0 • Fingerprint Cards Korea Ltd: This company was incorporated in 2015. Operations consist of marketing Currency revaluation 56.7 –34.0 36.6 –35.5 and technical customer support on the Korean market. All staff in Korea are employees of the Korean Total 136.1 14.6 161.9 661.0 company. • Fingerprint Cards Aps in Denmark: This company was incorporated in 2013. Operations consist of technology development on assignment from the Swedish operation. All staff in Denmark are employees of Fingerprint Cards Aps. These operations and the employee headcount continued to grow in 2016. • Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd in China: This company was incorporated in 2016. Operations consist of marketing and customer support on the Chinese market. All staff in China are employees of the Chinese company. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Notes 89 NOTE 30 INFORMATION ON THE PARENT COMPANY Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) (the Parent Company), corporate ID no. 556154-2381, is a limited liability company, with its registered office in Gothenburg, Västra Götaland, Sweden. The Parent Company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Box 2412, SE-403 16 Gothenburg, Sweden and the visiting address is Kungsportsplatsen 2, Gothenburg, Sweden. The consolidated accounts for 2017 comprise the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, jointly designated “the Group”. NOTE 31 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 25 January 2018, Fingerprints announced that the company anticipated that its earnings for the fourth quarter 2017 would be below market estimates. At this time, the company also reported that it had initiated a cost savings program. As part of this, the number of positions will be reduced by some 185. On 20 March 2018, Fingerprints reported that Pernilla Lindén had been appointed CFO, an appointment effective 7 June 2018. The company also announced that Hassan Tabrizi would leave the position of Interim CFO on 6 June 2018, and that Jan Johannesson would leave the position of VP of Strategy & Corporate Development on 30 June 2018. NOTE 32 ASSETS PLEDGED Parent Company. SEK M 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Assets pledged for operating credit: bank balances 15 15 NOTE 33 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Proposal for appropriation of the company’s profits. The following funds are at the disposal of the AGM. Share premium reserve SEK 79,059,431 Accumulated profit or loss SEK 1,356,036,552 Net profit for the year SEK 57,921,664 Total SEK 1,493,017,647 The Board of Directors proposes that net profit for the year, non-­ restricted reserves, as well as accumulated profit or loss are appropriated as follows: Carried forward SEK 1,493,017,647 90 Notes Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 ASSURANCE BY THE BOARD The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer hereby give their ing standards. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts give companies included in the Group. As stated above, the annual assurance that the annual accounts have been prepared in accora true and fair view of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s finanaccounts and consolidated accounts were approved for issuance by dance with generally accepted accounting policies in Sweden and cial position and results of operations. The Administration Reports the Board of Directors on 23 April 2018. The Consolidated Statethat the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance of the Parent Company and the Group give a true and fair view of the ment of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement of with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulaprogress of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s operations, Financial Position and the Parent Company Income Statement and tion (EC) no. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the financial position and results of operations, and state the signifiParent Company Balance Sheet will be subject to adoption by the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of international accountcant risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the Annual General Meeting on 29 May 2018. Gothenburg, Sweden, 23 April 2018 Jan Wäreby Ann-Sofie Nordh Dimitrij Titov Urban Fagerstedt Chairman of the board Board member Board member Board member Alexander Kotsinas Åsa Hedin Tomas Mikaelsson Carl-Johan von Plomgren Christian Fredrikson Board member Board member Board member Board member Chief Executive Officer Our Audit Report was presented on 24 April 2018 KPMG AB Joakim Thilstedt Authorized Public Accountant Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Assurance by the Board 91 AUDIT REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Fingerprint Cards AB prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Response in the audit (publ.), corp. id 556154-2381 Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where We have obtained the documentation regarding the Delta ID Inc applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within acquisition and analysed the allocation of the purchase price into REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND the EU. the identifiable assets and goodwill. We have also evaluated the CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient judgments made regarding the contingent consideration in connecOpinions and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. tion with the acquisition. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of We have analysed the group’s goodwill impairment test in order Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.) for the year 2017. The annual accounts Key Audit Matters to determine whether it has been carried out in accordance with the and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesprescribed IFRS methodology. 60-91 in this document. sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Furthermore, we have assessed management’s cashflow foreIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accorannual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. casts and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions, such dance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all mateThese matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in as the long-term growth rate and discount rates. As part of this rial respects, the financial position of the parent company as of forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated analysis, we have considered how the numbers would be impacted 31 December 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on as the contingent consideration did not become payable. the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. these matters. We have also involved our internal valuation specialists to assist The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with us in the impairment test analysis. the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, Revenue recognition In our assessment of whether there are indications of asset the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2017 and See note 2 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for impairment, we have also considered management’s sensitivity their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended detailed information and description of the matter. analyses and the potential impact of reasonable changes in in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards assumptions. (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The Description of key audit matter With regards to the valuation of other intangible assets and sha­statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets such as res in subsidiaries, we have obtained and evaluated management’s the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. acquired technology, patents and customer relationships as well as documentation and forecasts to ensure that there are no impairWe therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholcapitalised development costs per 31 December 2017 amounts to ment indications. We have selected samples of capitalised costs for ders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent SEK 1.2 billion at group level, which represents 33% of the group’s testing and vouched them to supporting documents. company and the statement of comprehensive income and statetotal assets. A considerable share of the intangible assets is attriMoreover, we have verified that the disclosures in the annual ment of financial position for the group. butable to the acquistion of Delta ID Inc in 2017. report in all material respects are in accordance with the requireOur opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and conThe carrying value of capitalised development costs on the ments of the applicable accounting standards. solidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional parent company balance sheet is SEK 0.2 billion. The impact of this report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit comyear’s acquisition of Delta ID Inc is seen indirectly in the carrying Inventory valuation mittee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article value of the shares in subsidiaries, which is SEK 0.3 billion. See note 1 and 18 in the annual account and consolidated accounts 11. Goodwill should be subject to an annual impairment test. Other for detailed information and description of the matter. intangible assets should be tested whenever an indication of Basis for Opinions impairment is identified. Description of key audit matter We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The valuation of intangible assets is complex and involves signiThe carrying value of the group’s and the parent company’s invenon Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweficant levels of judgments regarding future developments. The tory per 31 December 2017 amounts to SEK 0.6 billion, which repreden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further descriexpected residual value of assets is determined with reference to sents approximately 18% of the group’s total assets. The inventory bed in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of forecasted discounted cash flows based on estimated discount balance consists of raw materials, work in progress and finished the parent company and the group in accordance with professional rates, revenues and long-term growth rates, which are inherently goods. ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our subjective and may be influenced by management. Similar calculaThe market for these products is constantly evolving and highly ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.This tion is performed whenever there is an indication that the parent competitive. New products are continuously being marketed. The includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no company’s shares in a subsidiary may be impaired. assessment of whether the inventory may be sold for more than the 92 Audit Report Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 initial cost is complex and involves significant levels of judgment of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control regarding whether the products may be sold as components in such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the ­relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are ­current or future constellations. preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of There is a risk that the evaluation of the need for inventory­writefree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s off may be overor underestimated. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The ­internal control. Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Response in the audit the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures We have read and analysed management’s assessment regarding as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. the need to provide for inventory obsolescence. We have challenged going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and management’s assessment and their assumptions regarding going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the the Managing Director’s, use of the going concern basis of future sales of the products currently in stock. Additionally, we have Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated evaluated the accuracy of historical sales forecasts. the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence We have considered whether the process of identifying a need for to do so. obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to an inventory obsolescence provision seems appropriate and we The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the have tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls. Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. oversee the company’s financial reporting process. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures This document also contains other information than the annual Auditor’s responsibility in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disaccounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–59 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether closures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual and 95-101 The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based responsible for this other information. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable report. However, future events or conditions may cause a comdoes not cover this other information and we do not express any assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that pany and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoliauditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstaannual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclodated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identitement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated fied above and consider whether the information is materially and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions manner that achieves fair presentation. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherof users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolida• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the wise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information ted accounts. financial information of the entities or business activities within ­otherwise appears to be materially misstated. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professithe group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, onal judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other inforthe audit. We also: the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. mation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the report in this regard. annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a deficiencies in internal control that we identified. for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board internal control. other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indeFingerprint Cards AB 2017 Audit Report 93 pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizadeviations and violations would have particular importance for the From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are organization is designed so that the accounting, management of basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropritherefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled ations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure in a reassuring manner. ­proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. about the matter. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and KPMG AB, Box 382, 101 27, Stockholm, was appointed auditor of REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.) by the general meeting of the shareREQUIREMENTS the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the holders on the 20 April 2017. KPMG AB or auditors operating at Opinions management of assets in a reassuring manner. KPMG AB have been the company’s auditor since 2003. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Auditor’s responsibility Directors and the Managing Director of Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.) Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and theStockholm 24 April 2018 for the year 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s reby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit eviprofit or loss. dence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in KPMG AB profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statuany material respect: tory administration report and that the members of the Board of • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which Joakim Thilstedt Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for can give rise to liability to the company, or Authorized Public Accountant the financial year. • any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Basis for Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the prostandards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities posal is in accordance with the Companies Act. section. We are independent of the parent company and the group Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accoraccepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions dance with these requirements. or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director ing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approprimaintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examiations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, nation of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas liquidity and position in general. and relationships that are material for the operations and where 94 Audit Report Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY Income Statement 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 DEFINITIONS Revenues, SEK M 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 95.4 10.3 68.6 60.9 38.5 27.5 Most of these key figures are Alternative Performance Measures according to ESMA’s definition. How these key figures are used is Gross profit, SEK M 988.9 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 39.2 –5.7 –37.0 20.4 6.0 –1.0 described below, as is how they are calculated. The alternative Gross margin, % 33 48 43 31 41 –55 –46 33 16 –17 ­performance measures are used to provide a more comprehensive Operating profit, SEK M 154.6 2578.5 910.3 –145.2 –34.0 –38.7 2.7 1.6 –24.7 –24.1 description of how operational activities are developing, such as Operating margin, % 5 39 31 –62 –36 –375 5 2.6 –64 –88 gross margin, gross profit, operating margin, EBITDA and revenue Profit for the year, SEK M 120.3 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 –32.9 –38.1 3.4 2.0 –24.6 –23.3 increase, while other alternative performance measures focus on the owner perspective, such as return on equity, and cases where Profit margin, % 4 31 28 –62 –35 –375 5 3.3 –64 –85 certain balance sheet items or cash flow items are placed in relaDepreciation and amortization, SEK M –79.4 –48.6 –43.4 –32.1 –12.6 –10.8 –4.9 –6.4 –4.1 –3.5 tion to the number of shares. In addition, the equity/assets ratio is Impairment, SEK M – – – –29.5 – – – – –5.9 – provided to describe the financial position and long-term financial EBITDA, SEK M 234.0 2,627.1 953.7 –83.6 –21.4 –27.9 8.2 8.3 –14.7 –20.8 sustainability. Financial position – Balance Sheet 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Average credit period Average value of accounts receivable over the period in relation to net sales, multiplied by 360 days. Intangible assets, SEK M 1,188.3 71.4 49.7 69.8 54.3 29.1 28.2 22.9 12.3 20.8 Property, plant and equipment, SEK M 46.6 29.2 20.6 18.8 5.4 4.8 4.2 3.7 0.3 0.3 Average number of shares Average number of shares in the Financial assets, SEK M – – 1.0 – – – 0.9 – – – period. Inventories, SEK M 646.1 672.7 153.0 98.8 19.9 11.4 4.3 7.9 9.1 15.4 Accounts receivable, SEK M 437.5 1,132.1 617.9 115.8 31.1 6.2 53.0 17.2 9.7 8.4 Average number of shares after dilution Average number of Other receivables + prepaid expenses, SEK M 313.1 435.4 36.6 19.5 10.1 3.1 3.2 3.8 2.3 1.4 ­shares plus an increase by the average number of shares that could be issued as a result of current remuneration and personnel Cash and cash equivalents + investments in securities, etc., SEK M 920.2 1,162.2 1,031.3 101.9 211.7 60.6 23.0 30.8 50.1 22.7 programs. Shareholders' equity, SEK M 2,330.8 2,226.1 1,146.8 301.1 289.7 101.9 106.3 78.0 74.3 58.1 Average number of shares at the end of the period Number of Deferred tax, SEK M 189.8 136.3 – – – – 1.2 – – – shares less treasury shares at the end of the period. Non-current liabilities, SEK M 221.9 – – 0.2 0.4 0.7 – – – – Current liabilities, SEK M 809.3 1,140.6 763.2 123.3 42.3 12.7 9.3 8.3 9.5 10.9 Capital employed Total assets minus non-interest bearing Working capital, SEK M 1,507.6 2,261.8 1,075.6 212.7 230.5 68.6 74.2 51.4 61.7 37.0 liabilities. Total assets, SEK M 3,551.8 3,503.0 1,910.1 424.6 332.5 115.3 116.8 86.3 83.8 69.0 Cash flow from operating activities/share Cash flow from Inventory turnover rate, days 120 43 29 132 94 181 74 103 154 211 operating activities after changes in working capital/average Average credit period, days 95 47 46 113 99 1035 184 80 85 81 number of shares before and after dilution. Return on capital employed, % 6 117 126 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –33 –40 Return on equity, % 5 121 110 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –132 –160 Cost of goods sold Cost of materials, production expenses Return on total capital, % 4 75 78 –34 –10 –38 3 2.3 –117 –135 and amortization according to plan of capitalized development expenditure. Equity/asset ratio, % 66 64 60 71 87 87 91 90 89 84 Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Ten-year Summary 95 Cash flow 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Gross profit Revenues less cost of goods sold. Cash flow from operating activities, SEK M 376.9 1,130.3 910.4 –174.2 –28.8 14.5 –22.2 –0.6 –11.3 –17.1 Inventory turnover rate, days Average value of inventory over the Cash flow from investing activities, SEK M –1,071.0 –78.3 –26.0 –90.6 –38.3 –11.4 –11.7 –20.4 –1.5 –7.8 period in relation to cost of goods sold, multiplied by 360 days. Cash flow from financing activities, SEK M 481.7 –955.7 47.4 155.0 220.5 34.5 24.9 1.8 40.3 13.7 Cash flow for the year, SEK M –212.4 96.3 931.8 –109.8 151.1 37.6 –7.8 –19.3 27.5 –11.2 Net margin Profit for the period as a percentage of revenues. The share 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of shares outstanding at period end Number of shares Earnings per share, SEK 0.38 6.40 2.53 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 –0.24 less bought back shares held in treasury. Earnings per share after full dilution, SEK 0.38 6.33 2.48 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 –0.24 Operating margin Operating profit as a percentage of revenues Cash and cash equivalents + investment at year-end/ share, SEK 2.93 3.70 3.26 0.35 0.83 0.17 0.11 0.16 0.25 0.37 Operating profit Operating profit before financial income/expenses Equity per share, SEK 7.42 7.11 3.63 1.03 1.06 0.47 0.49 0.39 0.65 0.61 and tax Equity per share, after full conversion, SEK 7.42 7.09 3.57 0.97 1.04 0.47 0.50 0.39 0.65 0.61 Cash flow from operating activities per average numProfit for the period Profit after financial income/expenses and tax ber of shares, SEK 1.20 3.56 2.86 –0.61 –0.11 0.14 –0.10 0.00 –0.10 –0.18 Shares at end of period, 000 313,967 313,967 316,196 292,106 270,806 239,041 218,048 198,348 198,348 60,764 Return on equity Profit for the period in relation to average shareAverage number of shares during the year, 000 313,967 317,726 315,349 287,574 254,470 228,841 216,943 210,719 89,283 101,419 holders’ equity for the period. Average shareholders’ equity is ­defined as shareholders’ equity at the start of the period plus Number of shares after dilution, average, 000 313,967 321,408 321,372 310,306 276,441 230,362 216,943 210,719 89,283 101,419 ­shareholders’ equity at the end of the period divided by two. Dividend per share, SEK – – – – – – – – – – Share price at end of period, SEK 15.81 62.85 118.20 7.00 10.90 2.50 1.90 1.80 0.70 0.50 Return on capital employed Operating profit + financial income as Market capitalization at end of period, SEK M 4,964 19,733 37,374 2,033 2,938 559 406 355 131 56 a percentage of capital employed. Number of employees at end of period 415 306 150 104 48 19 19 19 13 13 Return on equity Net income as a percentage of shareholders equity. Earnings per share for the period Profit for the period/number of Shareholders’ equity per share after dilution See “shareholders’ shares outstanding at period end. equity per share” plus adjustment for the number of shares and Return on total capital Operating profit + financial income as a the paid exercise price in current remuneration and personnel ­percentage of total capital. Earnings per share after dilution Earnings per share plus adjust­programs. ment for the number of shares and the paid exercise price resulting Revenue increase The increase in revenues compared to the from current remuneration and personnel programs. Earnings per EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and ­corresponding period one year previously, and expressed as a share after dilution can never exceed earnings per share before ­amortization. Operating profit before financial income/expense, ­percentage. dilution. taxes, depreciation/amortization and impairment losses. Working capital Current assets less current non-interest-bearing Shareholders’ equity per share Shareholders’ equity attributable Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. provisions and liabilities. to equity holders of the parent divided by the number of shares outstanding, before dilution, at the end of the period. Gross margin Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. 96 Ten-year Summary Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 GRI INDEX AND DETAILED SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Fingerprints’ sustainability reporting is our yearly reporting of how we work on ethics, the environment and social impact. The Report satisfies the standards on sustainability reporting stipulated by the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, and is found in it’s entirety on pages 26–41. The auditor’s statement that a sustainability report has been prepared is found on page 42. The sustainability report pertains to the fiscal year 2017. In order for information to be presented in a fair and reliable manuniversal sustainability principles into our business as far as tions from the Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative, and ner, reporting has been prepared pursuant to Global Reporting Ini­possible. is wholly voluntary. We want to participate in creating better and tiative (GRI) standards, Core option. Sustainability reporting is also We have also been applying the Nasdaq Nordic & Baltic Guide for broader-based sustainability reporting for listed companies, Fingerprints’ communication on progress for the Global Compact. ESG reporting, which is a complement to GRI Standards and the UN and thus, more sustainable and transparent markets. We are utilizing both regulatory structures in parallel, to integrate Global Compact, since 2017. This Guide is based on recommendaGRI INDEX – GENERAL DISCLOSURE Title Page Comment Fulfilment UN GC NASDAQ ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Cover/Fingerprint Cards AB Achieved 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 16-19 Products and solutions/Fingerprints’ range does not include any products prohibited on any market. Achieved 102-3 Location of headquarters Rear cover Achieved 102-4 Location of operations Fingerprints in brief Achieved 102-5 Ownership and legal form 42-44 Fingerprints in brief Achieved The share 102-6 Markets served 16-21 Products and solutions Achieved 102-7 Scale of the organization 58-62 Statutory Administration Report Achieved 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 35 Human resources/ Achieved S5. Temporary Worker Ratio • All data as of 31 Dec. 2017 • Employees; individuals with a direct employment contract • Coworkers; employees and consultants on assignment with at least of 50% of an FTE position • Fingerprints’ operations are not affected by seasonality 102-9 Supply chain 22-25 Value chain Achieved 102-10 S  ignificant changes to the organization 2-4 The year in brief/about changes to the organization and its supply chain 6–9 Message from the CEO 42-44 The share/about capital structure 22-25 Value chain/about changes at the supplier level 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 27-30 Sustainability Achieved Principle 7 • Fingerprints’ Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy apply the Precautionary Principle. • Fingerprints’ sustainability framework has specific environmental goals linked to the Precautionary Principle. 102-12 External initiatives 28-29 Sustainability section/Fingerprints is a member of the UN Global Compact. Achieved 102-13 Membership of associations 28-29 Sustainability section/Fingerprints is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, Eurosmart and the UN Global Achieved Compact Network. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Sustainability 97 GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURE Title Page Comment Fulfilment UN GC NASDAQ STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9 Message from the CEO Achieved 45 Message from the Chairman ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 29 Sustainability section/Sustainability Framework, Corporate Responsibility Achieved Principles G7. Anti-Bribery/ Anti-Corruption and norms of behavior 34 Personnel section/Fingerprints has four core values: Smart, Brave, United and Open. 3, 6 & 10 G6. Ethics—Code of Conduct G5. Supplier Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 46-53 Corporate Governance Report Achieved G2. BoardTransparent Practices • Governance of Fingerprints as a company E9. Environmental Policy 28 Sustainability section S8. Global Health Policy Governance of sustainability is through the Sustainability Forum G5. Supplier Code of Conduct Corporate responsibility governs all Policies and the Code of Conduct G6. Code of Conduct G7. Bribery Anticorruption Code STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 27 Sustainability section Achieved 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Fingerprints does not apply collective bargaining agreements but encourages its employees to join trade unions Achieved 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27 Sustainability section Achieved 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 27 Sustainability section Achieved • Fingerprints’ management system is certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. • Our materiality analysis is included in our management system and is followed up annually 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27 Sustainability section Achieved • Stakeholder dialogue and risk analysis are the foundation for producing the materiality analysis 39-41 Risks and risk management • Material issues that involve risks to operations are dealt with pursuant to Fingerprints’ risk management procedures 98 Sustainability Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 GRI INDEX – SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Title Page Comment Fulfilment UN GC NASDAQ REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the 31 Sustainability section Achieved consolidated financial statements • Procedures for gathering sustainability information are in development. Accordingly, specific sustainability data is for the Scandinavian offices only. See the sustainability section for specific detail 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 31 Sustainability section Achieved • Due to the acquisition of Delta ID and expansive growth, the Asian and American offices have not been under Fingerprints’ direct managemen. • Procedures for gathering sustainability information are in development • The year-2018 Report will include sustainability information from all Fingerprints’ business lines • Report contents and its boundaries are presented jointly with sustainability goals. 102-47 List of material topics 27 Sustainability section Achieved • Materiality analysis Risks and risk management 39-41 • Other sustainability risks and opportunities 102-48 Restatements of information 97 No restatements made since the previous year Achieved 102-49 Changes in reporting 97 No restatements made on the previous year affecting the company’s sustainability reporting Achieved 102-50 Reporting period 97 1 January–31 December Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 97 30 March, 2017 Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-52 Reporting cycle 97 Reporting is yearly. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 97 Stefan Pettersson, Head of Investor Relations. e-mail: investrel@fingerprints.com Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 97 GRI standards, Core level Achieved G9. Sustainability Report with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 98– See this index Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 100 102-56 External assurance Fingerprints does not apply external examination of the sustainability information in its Annual Report. Certain information has been Achieved G9. Sustainability Report examined as part of certification according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and reporting to the CDP. G10 Other Framework Disclosures G11. External Validation & Assurance MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27 Sustainability section Achieved • Stakeholder analysis • Materiality analysis 39-41 Risks and risk management • Other sustainability risks and opportunities, see in-depth review of each identified risk/opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components Generally; Policies have been produced for material segments under Corporate Responsibility (including a speak-up policy for escaAchieved lating sensitive issues) and specific targets related to each material segment are under sustainability targets 26-32 Sustainability section • Stakeholder analysis • Materiality analysis • Corporate Responsibilty • Sustainability Framework • Sustainability targets 39-41 Risks and risk management • Other sustainability risks and opportunities, see in-depth review of each identified risk/opportunity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach This year is the first occasion Fingerprints has conducted a stakeholder analysis, materiality analysis and GRI reporting. Work will be Partial evaluated for the first time next year. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Sustainability 99 GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURE Title Page Comment Fulfilment UN GC NASDAQ ECONOMIC Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 39-42 Risks and risk management Partial Principle 10 • A risk assessment for corruption is conducted at an overall level 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 30 Sustainability section Achieved Principle 10 • Sustainability targets/all employees undergo training in corporate responsibility, and specifically, on the Code of Conduct, in their induction training • 50% of employees have taken e-learning in the Code of Conduct, which contains an in-depth section on corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Fingerprints did not have any corruption incidents in 2017 Achieved Principle 10 ENVIRONMENT Materials Industry-specific targets for measuring spoilage levels in production 30 Sustainability section Principles Measures spoilage of silicon wafers and employs a target of continuos improvement 7, 8 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30-31 Sustainability section Principles E1. Direct & indirect GHG emissions The sustainability targets state a reduction of CO2 emissions pursuant to scope 2. The methodology is 7, 8 reviewed in the following notes. Supplier environmental assessments 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 30 Sustainability section Achieved Principle 8 1/3 of direct suppliers have undergone third-party audits pursuant to the Responsible Business Alliance industry standard (RBA formally EICC), which includes environmental issues. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 30 Sustainability section Partial Targets set for developing a tool to enable comparisons between suppliers’ environmental impacts. SOCIAL IMPACT Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 31 Sustainability section worker health and safety committees Health & safety councils and health & safety representatives were appointed at all Swedish offices in 2017. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 31 Sustainability section Achieved S7. lnjury Rate and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities • Under health & safety Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 31 Sustainability section Partial Principle 6 and career development reviews • New target; attract and retain talent Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 35 Personnel Partial Principle 6 S12. Board – Diversity Fingerprints does not record the minority origin of its staff, and accordingly does not disclose this item, S4. Gender Diversity only gender, age group, region and religion. 54-57 Board of Directors/Group Management Human Rights Assessment 412-3 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Fingerprints judges that the impact of human rights can primarily be on purchasing raw materials for Partial Principles plants if conflict minerals are utilized. Also through biometric integrity being protected in the usage of 1, 2, 4 Fingerprints’ products. Impact has not been analyzed by country. 100 Shareholder information Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 SHAREHOLDER GLOSSARY INFORMATION Fingerprints’ investor website Algorithm Matching Touch sensor Updated corporate, share and insider information, an archive of A systematic procedure for how to conduct The process of comparing an image of a A sensor that scans a fingerprint directly financial reports and press releases, and a subscription facility for a calculation or solve a problem in a given fingerprint with a pre-processed template, when a fingertip touches the sensor surfinancial reports and press releases is available at www.fingernumber of steps. In Fingerprints’ specific and as-sessing whether or not they are face; com-pare to swipe sensor. prints.com. case, the method refers to the comparison similar. For environmental and cost reasons, Fingerprints has decided of two fingerprints with each other. Wafer not to distribute physical Annual Reports to shareholders. Annual Modality A thin circular slice of silicon containing a and Quarterly Reports, and Press releases, are available from the Authentication Type of biometric feature, such as fingernumber of integrated circuits such as sencompany’s investor website. Control process for a particular entity; in print sensors and iris sensors. sor chips. conjunction with logging on, for example. Reporting dates The word is synonymous with verification. ODM Verification • Q1 Interim Report 2018 January–March,3 May 2018 Original Design Manufacturer, a company The comparison of compiled biometric data • Q2 Half-year Interim Report 2018 April–June, 19July 2018 Biometric system that develops and manufactures products with a given template for the purpose of • Q3 Interim Report 2018 July–September, 26 October 2018 A pattern recognition system that identifies sold under the trademarks of other compaverifying that the two match. This enables or verifies an individual by studying a phynies. the authentication of an individual with a Annual General Meeting siological characteristic of that individual, high degree of certainty. The AGM will be held at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, 29 May 2018 at Elite Park such as a fingerprint. OEM Avenue Hotel, Kungsportsavenyn 36-38, Gothenburg, Sweden. ShaOriginal Equipment Manufacturers—comreholders that wish to participate in the AGM should firstly be incluChip panies that manufacture the end product ded in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB as of A piece of silicon that an integrated circuit that is sold on an open market Wednesday 23 May 2018, and secondly notify the company of their is embedded in, such as a sensor chip. participation by no later than 4 p.m. on 23 May 2016, either via the Normally, a silicon wafer is divided into a Smart card company’s website www.fingerprints.com/arsstamma , by telepnumber of chips, with each chip being Plastic card with an embedded chip conhone +46 (0)8 518 01553, or by mail to Fingerprint Cards AB c/o essentially identical. taining information about the card and its Computershare, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd, Sweden. owner. Design win Contacts Decision by a customer (OEM or ODM) to Smartphone/tablet Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) start developing one or several commercial A combined mobile phone and handheld Box 2412 products using Fingerprints’ technology computer linked to the Internet via mobile 403 16 Gothenburg integrated into one or more of its products. broadband. A smartphone has a complete Sweden mobile operating system that is transferaVisitors: Identification ble between multiple devices enabling the Kungsportsplatsen 2 Comparison of compiled biometric data user to easily install mobile apps, which are Gothenburg with all stored templates for the purpose of small third-party programs that increase Sweden identifying one of these templates (and thus the phone’s functionality. an individual) from many. Tel: +46 (0)31 60 78 20 Template Fax: +46 (0)31 13 73 85 The Internet of Things An arrangement of unique data that repree-mail: investrel@fingerprints.com Internet-connected devices that are linked sents a specific fingerprint. Website: www.fingerprints.com to the Internet and can thus communicate with/be controlled via the Internet. Fingerprint Cards AB 2017 Glossary 101 POSTAL ADDRESS VISITING ADDRESS PHONE P.O Box 2412 Kungsportsplatsen 2, + 46 (0)31 60 78 20 SE-403 10 Gothenburg, Sweden SE-411 10 Gothenburg, Sweden
