48 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability The Dangote Women’s Network leadership at its annual workshop endorsed corporate aspirations to ‘inspire’ and ‘sustain’ through “The Dangote Way: 7 Pillars”, including Group Executive Directors, Halima Dangote and Fatima Dangote, Group Chief Risk Officer, Dr Nike Fajemirokun, As one of Africa’s leading Group Chief Tax Officer, Titi Fowokan and Group Chief manufacturers, we are Sustainability & Governance Officer, Dr Ndidi Nnoli. conscious that we must conduct our business in a manner that is sustainable for our stakeholders, our economy and our environment. The Dangote Way 50 Financial sustainability 58 Institutional sustainability 61 Operational sustainability 63 Cultural sustainability 65 Economic sustainability 68 Social sustainability 71 Environmental sustainability 74 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 49 The Dangote Way “We have invested billions of dollars to develop skills, create local value and build new capacity across Africa to support industrialisation that is mindful of the need to develop sustainable local economies in DR NDIDI NNOLI MASSIMO BETTANIN our countries of Group Chief, Sustainability & Governance Group Chief, Health, Safety & Environment operation” Over the past decade, the We play an important role in all of model around which our sustainability profitability and strong cash the economies in which we operate reporting is centered. generation of Dangote Cement’s and consciously strive to support local operations in Nigeria have enabled businesses that service our operations. Our sustainability pillars have been the expansion of our business This, in turn, improves the lives and developed through an extensive across Sub-Saharan Africa, with prospects of our host communities stakeholder engagement process, led a mixture of integrated, grinding and countries. by the Sustainability and Governance and import facilities to meet the Department of the Dangote Group. demands of local markets. Beyond global best practices, we understand that to fully implement They embody the Dangote approach We have invested billions of dollars and sustain our sustainability strategy, to sustainability and reflect our unique to develop skills, create local value there is a need to engage all our approach towards engendering and build new capacity across Africa stakeholders in developing our sustainability as a process across our to support industrialisation that strategy, approach and implementation operations, and the commitment we is mindful of the need to develop of our sustainability programme. have to embed at every level of our sustainable local economies in our operations, with support from the countries of operation. We believe that impact assessment highest levels of governance within the is crucial to understanding the roles organisation. We have contributed towards that key players must play in order Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in cement, to change their social and economic As is clear from the diagram opposite, with additional potential to improve environments. we regard the Cultural pillar as one the country’s balance of trade that is integral to all the others. It is through cement exports. To achieve this, we have developed therefore imortant that we observe a framework towards sustainability these cultural values when we Furthermore, we have created across seven sustainability pillars, consider all other aspects of the thousands of jobs across the which we call “The Dangote Way”. Company and its efforts towards continent by developing factories, achieving profitable and sustainable logistics, sales, distribution and These seven pillars encompass business operations across the African support services. our corporate values and provide a continent. 50 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability 7 Sustainability Pillars “The Dangote Way” Financial Institutional Economic Achieve sustainable financial Build a world-class Promote inclusive, health through a business institution centered around sustainable economic model that delivers strong corporate governance best growth, self-reliance, returns to shareholders, practices and sustainability self-sufficiency and whilst creating value in principles that promote legal industrialisation across the economies in which and regulatory compliance, Africa, by establishing we operate by selling transparency and business efficient production facilities high-quality products at continuity. and developing resilient affordable prices, supported local economies in strategic by excellent customer locations and key markets. service. CULTURAL Embody our core values in the way we do business, including a respect for cultural diversity and giving back to the societies in which we operate. To achieve this, we actively encourage teamwork, empowerment, inclusion, respect, integrity and meritocracy within our organisation Operational Social Environmental Serve and satisfy Create a learning Create sustainable our markets by working environment and platform environmental management together with partners to for our employees to grow practices, through a deliver the best products and achieve their fullest proactive approach to and services to our valued potential, whilst adhering addressing the challenges customers and stakeholders to the highest standards and opportunities of climate through continuous product of health and safety. In change, while optimising improvement, new business our host communities, we our performance in energy development, employing strive to develop resilient efficiency, water usage and state-of-the-art technologies and sustainable prosperity emissions. and systems to constantly through direct and indirect optimise cost-efficiencies employment, skills transfer and local entrepreneurial development DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 51 Our commitment to sustainability reporting As the global population rises As we align our efforts with both • Cement Sustainability Initiative: and urban infrastructure expands, domestic and international standards Key Sustainability Issues. building sustainable cities is both a on sustainability reporting, this report • Sustainable Development Goals challenge and a priority. As Africa’s builds on best practices encoded in: (SDGs) leading cement producer, we have • The Rulebook of the Nigerian the ability to make a real impact on Stock Exchange (Sustainability In line with our approach to whether that expansion is managed Disclosure Guidelines); sustainability, we have exceeded our in a sustainable way, not just for the • United Nations Global Compact commitment to the three-year road environment but for our Company. (UNGC), which is a principlemap published in our 2016 Annual based framework for businesses, Report, by initiating the development Every one of us is committed stating ten principles in the areas and implementation of a robust to making it a priority to share of human rights, labour, the sustainability reporting process, our sustainability journey, goals, environment and anti-corruption; methodology and benchmarking programmes and initiatives with all • Global Reporting Initiative: against international best practices. stakeholders. Global Standards/G4 Sustainability This roadmap is set out below. Reporting Guidelines; 2016 2017 2018 • Benchmarking: Lafarge, CEMEX, • Detailed management review of • Review of CSI KPIs and UNGC PPC, ACC; pilot results to improve reporting requirements; • Selection of pilot KPIs to monitor reliability and consistency to be • Development of procedure/criteria and report (Fatalities, FFR, LTIs, completed; for materiality assessment; LTIR, GHG, water); • Identification of key stakeholders • Roll-out of the monitoring and • Monitoring of the reporting and understanding of their reporting system across the framework we have developed; expectations; business to include depots and • Preliminary identification of • Identification of KPIs to report transport; applicable reporting standards; based on CSI/UNGC review and • Internal data assurance; • Reporting guidelines in line with stakeholder expectations; • Identification and set-up of targets CSI standards developed and • Foundation training for relevant for improvement, taking into communicated to all sites; staff. account stakeholders’ expectation • Management review of pilot and business needs/resources; results. • Management review of monitoring/reporting content (i.e. materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, completeness) and quality (i.e. comparability, accuracy, clarity, reliability, etc.). • Baseline studies against GRI and CSI standards. • Intermediate and professional training of relevant staff. 52 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Benchmarking our performance against global best practice We benchmark the performance of standards and the United Nations’ The World Business our 7 Sustainability Pillars against Universal Declaration of Human Council for Sustainable global indicators including the Rights. Development is a CEO-led Cement Sustainability Initiative global advocacy association of the World Business Council for In working towards the CSI of some 200 international Sustainable Development (WBCSD), benchmarking exercise, we have companies, dealing exclusively which merges human rights laws focused on the four main work with business and sustainable from the International Labour areas outlined below: development Organisation’s five core labor Financial Institutional Operational Cultural Economic Social Environmental Employee Local impacts Emissions Responsible CO2 reduction Sustainability Water impact health and on land and monitoring and use of fuels and and climate with concrete management safety communities reduction raw materials protection High impact Medium impact Low impact 1. GHG emissions and climate sourced locally from our quarries 4. Local impacts on land and protection and the overburden removed is communities Our GHG emissions are assessed used for land reclamation after We aim to create value not only monthly and the data reported to mining. for our Company but also for management and Group HSSE for the communities in which we discussion during monthly Executive 3. Occupational health & safety operate. At all of our plants we Committee meetings. We endeavor to adopt technical have a Community Development and organisational best practices Agreement that is discussed and 2. Responsible use of raw to continuously improve our H&S agreed with the community. Our materials performance. The Group HSSE contributions from these activities Our operations are dependent on team has deployed a Group-wide have ranged from building of having long-term access to mineralHSE reporting framework to track schools, hospitals to renovation of based raw materials in the vicinity of collective performance indicators on community facilities. our plants. These raw materials are health and safety. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 53 Aligning our 7 Sustainability Pillars to the UN Global Compact Aligning with the principles of the They incorporate a principled United Nations Global Compact, approach to how we do business our 7 Sustainability Pillars ensure by documenting and formalising the that our sustainability strategy is unique and integral culture that will embedded within our value system drive our sustained success across and corporate culture. the African continent. Financial Institutional Operational Cultural Economic Social Financial Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses Principle 3: Businesses Principle 7: Businesses Principle 10: Businesses should support and should uphold the should support a should work against respect the protection of freedom of association precautionary approach corruption in all its forms, internationally proclaimed and the effective human rights; recognition of the right to to environmental including extortion and collective bargaining; challenges; bribery. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Principle 4: Elimination Principle 8: Undertake in human rights abuses. of all forms of forced and initiatives to promote compulsory labour; greater environmental Principle 5: Effective responsibility; and abolition of child labour; Principle 9: Encourage Principle 6: Elimination the development of discrimination in and diffusion of respect of employment environmentally friendly and occupation. technologies. Communication Dangote Safety Group HSSE Incident Anti-Bribery and Governance Policy Golden Rule Reporting and Corruption Policy Investigation Standard Complaints Management Group HSSE Incident Conflict of Interest/ Policy Reporting and Group HSSE Performance Related Party Transaction Investigation Standard Reporting Standard Policy Whistle Blowing Policy Group HSSE Performance Group HSSE Risk Insider Trading Policy Reporting Standard Management Standard Group HSSE Risk Group Environmental Management Standard Management Standard Child Labour Policy Health and Safety, Environmental and Social Forced or Compulsory Corporate Policies Labour Policy HIV and AIDS Policy UNGC principles DCP standards and policies 54 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Aligning our 7 Sustainability Pillars to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The UN’s Sustainable Development economic development at a global These goals seek to address the Goals (SDGs) clearly recognise the level, with a specific focus on our most important economic, social role of businesses in sub-national, home market of Sub-Saharan Africa. and environmental challenges to national and global development. governance in our time. The 17 Sustainable Development At Dangote Cement we are Goals (SDGs) and their 169 related We contribute directly and indirectly continuously developing targets of the 2030 Agenda were to each and every SDG as we frameworks that enable us make adopted by world leaders in recognise the importance of our material contributions to sustainable September 2015. alignment to these goals. SDGs DCP Impact • Creating jobs in local communities, for example we have more than 15,000 staff in Nigeria. • Providing competitive wage rate that exceeds the national minimum wage. • Supporting local entrepreneurial initiatives including Micro SME programmes to promote access to finance, business development activities and access to markets. • Supplementing low-harvest periods with our annual food support program to local women across our areas of operations. • Providing jobs to residents of our host communities. For example, we have provided 632 direct jobs for Ogun State residents, 491 direct jobs for Ibese residents and enabled 530 jobs via awarded contracts. • Providing healthcare clinics for local communities near our Obajana plant • Providing healthcare facilities for staff at plants • Providing access to clean water through borehole drilling initiatives • Providing high-quality, industry-focused technical and management training to staff through Dangote Academy. • Demonstrating commitment to education through the award of annual scholarships to students in our host communities, enabling equal and social mobility opportunities regardless of circumstances of birth. For example, we award annual scholarships of NGN10million per year in Gboko and have awarded scholarships in Ibese year on yearsince 2012. • Improving school enrollment rates by removing financial barriers through scholarship programs. In Aga Olowo, near Ibese, we have built classrooms that have saved students from travelling long distances to other schools. • Promoting quality education by building classrooms, providing books and equipping science laboratories, improving the curriculum, awarding scholarships to qualified individuals and supporting enhanced training of teachers. • Fostering business relationships with women-owned enterprises as a good percentage (over 40%) of our suppliers are women. • Ensuring the inclusive growth of our women via the Dangote Women’s Network initiative. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 55 SDGs DCP Impact • Basing our manufacturing process on minimal water consumption. • Recycling water at our cement manufacturing plants. • Harvesting of rain water for cooling purposes at our plants. • Providing clean water through several borehole projects. For example, we have constructed 21 boreholes in Ibese. • Extending pipe water from our treatment plant for community use in Gboko. • Use of cleaner fossil fuel of natural gas at our largest Nigerian plants, making use of other sources of fuel as a necessary alternative when the gas supply becomes unreliable. • Well over N100m has been invested in rural electrification for our host communities. • Complying with labour laws and providing safe and healthy working environment for our employees. • Creating economic opportunities for local suppliers. • Building and upscaling skills and knowledge to make individuals ready for absorption into the industry, through the Dangote Academy (via junior, vocational and graduate engineers training schemes. • Continuously contributing to the Nigerian economy in terms of GDP growth, employment, diversification of the economy and balance of trade.. • Introducing higher-quality, stronger cement like the Dangote 3x (42.5R grade) cement. • Building plants with new and innovative specifications to reduce energy usage. • Intensifying our efforts to maximise use of locally sourced inputs such as coal and gypsum. • Constructing and repairing roads to improve access, interconnectivity and promote economic growth in our host communities. In Ibese, we spent about N3.8B on roads that have boosted economic activities along the route via significant appreciation of land, the opening of new businesses and improved mobility for products including farm produce, which helps to improve sales and distribution and reduce wastage of food. • Improving economic activities in rural, host communities that have now turned into thriving commercial centres evidenced by significant value appreciation of local land. • Upskilling and creating employment in the communities where we operate improves access to opportunities for economic empowerment in rural areas. • Executing direct economic empowerment initiatives with sensitivity to women and other vulnerable groups has contributed to better economic integration and reduced inequalities. • Providing clean water through several borehole projects across our host communities. For instance, 21 borehole projects have been completed in Ibese. • Providing high quality cement at affordable prices contribute to the goal of achieving well-built, safe and affordable housing for all. • Our CSR initiatives are developed with high sensitivity to the vulnerable and neglected, thus resulting in prosperous, peaceful and more sustainable communities. • Restoring mined land via reclamation strategy for use in agriculture and other purposes. • Consuming water in the production process responsibly. • Using rain water for cooling processes. • Committing to the implementation and maintenance of the National Industrial Standards ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System (EMS). 56 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability SDGs DCP Impact • Producing cement responsibly, limiting CO2 emissions to globally acceptable standards. • Investing in state-of-the-art bag filters and electrostatic precipitators at all plants to ensure minimal dust emissions, making DCP one of the industry’s cleanest cement companies in Nigeria and across Africa. • Adopting a manufacturing process with minimal water consumption. • Adhering strictly to non-discharge of toxic waste water or water pollutants. • Using rainwater to carry out cooling functions at our plants to lessen the pressure on other water sources. • Using relevant policies to curtail and bring within acceptable standards hazards to land associated with limestone mining and cement production such as dust emission, destruction of natural ecosystem, noise pollution, wastewater discharge, water acidification and deforestation. • Minimising our impact on the natural environment where possible. • Adopting responsible procurement policies and practices that allow for fair and transparent competition and zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. • Adopting a strong stance against child labour and other irresponsible labour practices here at DCP and from our suppliers. • Ensuring a safe work environment for all staff and external parties to keep at the least possible hazard level at our work sites. • We help in providing relief materials to victims and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in some conflict areas. • Participating in initiatives, partnerships and forums like GCCA and CSI that promote sustainable and responsible cement manufacturing practices. • Partnering with technical schools and universities via the Dangote Academy to improve skills for the industry and youth employment creation. • Committing to the Global Compact initiative with periodic communication on progress. • Collaborating with international organisations, governments and other private sector players to make SDGs mainstream on a national scale and global scale. • Collaborating with NGOs to conduct vocational training to youths in our host communities. For example: • Conducted vocational training for 50 youths in conjunction with the Otunba Ibikunle Foundation, for learning bead making, tie and die, graphic printing.. • Dangote Academy partnering with VETA (Vocational Education Training Authority) on training technicians for our plant in Tanzania. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 57 Financial sustainability As the largest public company direct and indirect contributions to standards and ensure adherence in Nigeria and one of only three national economic development. to best practices in corporate companies with a Premium Listing We quantify these impacts as our governance through structures on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Gross Value Added. and policies that consistently we are committed to ensuring comply with all relevant laws and we maintain profitable financial Furthermore, we operate in line regulations in the countries in which sustainability that in turn creates with international financial reporting we operate. GRI disclosures Description GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change DCP disclosures Align the financial system with sustainability indicators ROI, ROE: creating value beyond shareholders, to include employees and external stakeholders; strengthening financial system governance and regulatory oversight with respect to the triple bottom-line Driving consistent profitable growth in tandem with the other Pillars Regional growth as a Pan-African player DCP Pillar indicators Credit ratings Our impact Our mission “To deliver strong returns financial performance, enabled by The capital gains from our shares have to shareholders…” builds on the disciplined business practices and also been strong since we went public. Dangote Group’s founding vision of sound investment strategies across in 2010. Our shares began trading at being “...a world class enterprise that is Africa. N122 at the time of listing and traded passionate about the standard of living at N265 per share on the Nigerian of the general populace and giving Our commitment to growth and Stock Exchange in March 2017. high returns to stakeholders”. expansion has been accompanied by a strong commitment to provide This sustained increase in value These statements underline our returns for shareholders through reflects our consistent growth in commitment to shareholders and annual dividend payments that are revenue and profitability and our return stakeholders alike. recommended by our Board and on investment for shareholders. approved by shareholders. Our Financial Sustainability Pillar is the It also reflects continuing institutional cornerstone for the unprecedented Our history of dividend payments demand for our shares and we growth and impact achieved by predates our listing on the Nigerian regularly engage with major Dangote Cement over the years. Stock Exchange in 2010. We have international pension funds around the consistently paid annual dividends with world to discuss potential investment Our return to shareholders recent payments per share of N7.00, in our Company. As Africa’s largest cement company, N6.00, N8.00, N8.50 and N10.50 we have sustained high levels of between 2013-2017. 58 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Financial indicators 2015 2016 % change 2017 % change Revenue (NB) 491.7 615.1 25% 805.6 31% EBITDA margin 53.4% 41.8% -11.6pp 48.2% 6.4pp Net debt/EBITDA 0.78x 0.94x 0.16x 0.52x -0.42x Net gearing 31.7% 33.2% 1.5pp 26.1% -7.1pp ROCE 20.9% 18.5% -2.4pp 26.8% 8.3pp Our return to stakeholders direct and indirect jobs, paying wages, All of these activites contribute to We contribute to the general economic favoring local procurement where sustainable value creation in all sectors sustainability of the countries in which possible and by paying applicable local of the local host economy and the we operate by creating hundreds of taxes in our host countries. wider national economies. Economic impact of Dangote Cement – Gross Value Added N450B N102B N97B Direct impact Indirect impact Induced impact N649B x2 Total Gross Value Added generated in the Nigerian economy by Dangote Cement in 2017. Multiplier 1.44* Every Naira of Gross Value Added generated directly by Dangote Cement Double the value of the national healthcare operations in Nigeria generates a total of N1.44 in the wider Nigerian economy. budget of Nigeria in 2016 We measure our wider impact by to measure the direct contribution of When summed for all Nigerian calculating our Gross Value Added each individual producer, industry or businesses, GVA represents the total (GVA)**, which is a metric also used sector in the Nigerian economy and contribution of business entities to the by the Federal Government of Nigeria quantify its overall contribution. creation of GDP. * Presented multiplier refers to the impact generated among suppliers and sub-suppliers (indirect impacts) as well as the induced impact of household spending on the economy). It does not account for impacts generated across distributors and retailers. ** The following formula was used to calculate the GVA of Dangote Cement: Total revenues – bought-in materials and services. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 59 N101.489 trillion GVA in the Nigerian economy in 2016 8.8% represents the GVA contribution of the manufacturing sector to GDP (N8.903 trillion) 7.3% represents the GVA contribution of the cement industry to Manufacturing (N630B2) Of the total GVA attributable to the cement industry, DCP contributes around 70% (N450B) Through the use of the Inputeconomy, including our direct, of strong revenue streams and local Output model for the Nigerian indirect and induced impact, as procurement, we contribute to value economy, we are able to present explained below. By ensuring financial creation across all sectors of the our total contribution to the Nigerian sustainability through the generation economy. Input-Output Model Impact areas Gross Value Added Employment Household incomes Impact Dimensions Direct impacts, which are the primary direct suppliers (1st tier) have their the spending of Dangote Cement’s effects of Dangote Cement’s activities. own suppliers (2nd tier) whose employees and the spending of production increases in turn, creating a employees at our 1st and 2nd tier Indirect impacts, which are related ripple effect in the economy. suppliers. to Dangote Cement’s business transactions with its suppliers. Dangote These ripple effects, including all This activity, which is manifested Cement’s purchases of goods and rounds of transactions, are effectively through effective demand, is then services from local suppliers generate taken into account in the model used. reflected in an increase of output in business for these suppliers, enabling the economy, which translates into them to sustain jobs, generate value Induced impacts, which are a additional jobs, income generation and added and income. But the effects consequence of the additional activity value creation. do not end there: Dangote Cement’s created in the economy through 2 Estimate based on the GDP contribution of the Nigerian cement industry 60 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Institutional sustainability Our approach to institutional operations, driven by the highest trust at all levels of the organisation sustainability involves balancing level of governance. This, in turn, and ensures the sustainability of the interests and objectives of our provides strong guidance on the Dangote Cement as an organisation. internal and external stakeholders. way we do business. We believe It also encourages investment that We are committed to embedding that effective governance drives high we can deploy to the benefits of our sustainability in every aspect of our levels of performance, encourages stakeholders and to society. GRI disclosures Description Governance structure 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio DCP disclosures Corporate governance policies and structures Tax compliance Investment/investor relations disclosures Legal and regulatory compliance Strategies, policies and standards Succession planning DCP Pillar indicators Regulatory compliance Responsible tax payment Corporate governance policies Institutional capacity Employee Code of Conduct Succession planning Talent attraction and retention Our Impact Institutional capacity high ethical standards. These enable As one of the largest employers Our governance policies and practices responsible operations driven by highly in Nigeria, with more than15,400 are designed to ensure institutional qualified and committed employees, employees in Nigeria and 24,000 sustainability, where business is as well as the creation of strong employees across Africa, we seek to conducted in an objective, fair and and sustainable relationships with attract and retain the best talent to transparent manner that conforms to customers and suppliers. ensure the success of our business. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 61 Succession planning Our succession planning policy for the leading global player in the cement At Dangote Cement, we understand senior management incorporates industry. We will continue to focus our the importance of undisrupted strategic talent development through efforts on expanding our operations business operations to profitability. a process of identifying and preparing beyond Nigeria, and aligning our Succession planning is therefore a employees with strong potential for human capital and organisational strategic priority for us in order to mentoring, training and development development to support the maintain the stability, viability and to enable them move into a higher sustainability of our ambitious business bottom line of our Company. Ensuring role. Leadership transition is a strategic goals. In 2017, Dangote received a smooth transition of our top-level initiative driven by the Board and the ISO Certification for Business managers remains one of our most embraced by Human Resources and Continuity Management. This provides important priorities. We have looked the Executive Team. It is an ongoing assurance that we have the people beyond the Senior Exective level and process, not one that is triggered by an and resources required to respond ensured that our succession planning impending departure. to and resume business in the event efforts permeate all levels of staff in of a major disaster, with minimal the form of our Business Continuity This focus on institutional sustainability financial losses, reputational damage Management Strategy. is in line with our strategy to become or business shutdown. Strong Institution Most Compliant 15,416 Listed Company Staff in Nigeria Succession Business Sound Planning Continuity Policies Management Regulatory compliance We understand the importance of increased transparency on taxes paid. As a listed company, we adhere compliance with tax regulations In the interests of transparency, we strictly to the SEC regulations for listed and the overall importance of tax report on taxes paid per region on companies as well as the Nigerian payments in building the Nigerian an annual basis in our Annual Report Stock Exchange (NSE) Guidelines for economy. We are committed to and Accounts. Listed Companies (the “Green Book”). Dangote Cement received an NSE Award N87.5B 28 for the Most Compliant Listed Company in 2017. More than N87.5B was recognised In addition we strive to comply with as income tax by us in 2017. the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. The amount is equivalent to building 150-bed twenty eight 150-bed district hospitals. district hospital 62 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Operational sustainability Our focus on operational comprehensively and cost effectively striving for improvements in all sustainability involves maximising serve the needs of our customers. our operations. This includes the the addition of value to raw But operational sustainability must use of energy efficient technology, material and local content, including take account of economic and increasing the use of by-products technical and product development environmental considerations as for production and reducing our expertise, in order to more well. Therefore, we are constantly dependence on fossil fuels. GRI disclosuress Description GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment GRI 102-9 Supply chain GRI 414 Supplier social assessment GRI 204 Procurement practices GRI 301-306 301: Materials; 302: Energy; 306: Effluents and Waste DCP disclosures Operational efficiency; resource management; energy efficiency; innovation; supply chain management; procurement DCP Pillar indicators Resource management; local content development; operational efficiency; innovation; supply chain management Our Impact Resource management Local content development achieve greater self-sufficiency and Our operations depend on long-term Local content is a requirement for more sustainable economic growth. access to raw materials in the vicinity companies to use domestically of our plants. Such resources are manufactured goods or domestically For instance, in Nigeria we use coal finite and their local exploitation often supplied services in order to operate mined locally by Nigerian companies leads to local community concerns. in an economy. We prioritise local including our parent, Dangote We therefore view the sustainable resource utilisation and have Industries. This supports local jobs and sourcing of raw materials and explored backward integration where reduces the need for imported coal, resource efficiency, including water appropriate to source critical inputs. which in turn helps Nigeria’s trade management, as a key strategic goal. This, in turn, helps local economies balance. N177B 66% 34% local imports Total value of bought in 66% of our bought-in materials and services of materials and services are Dangote Cement in 2017 locally sourced DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 63 Operational efficiency Big process fans provided with distributors by taking on high capital We have deployed measures to Variable Frequency Drivers outlays needed to help them build maintain overall efficiency across our (VFD) to vary the ventilation their redistribution capacity to lastplants including: rate based on the actual mile markets. We invested more than demand/operating conditions. N15B to purchase 125 trucks that we Utilising effective particulate VSD can reduce input power gave our distributors (with a five-year emission control systems by 40-80% (depending on payback period at no interest) for including baghouse filters and the % flow rate) compared to transporting products from our depots electrostatic precipitators. dampers. to retail outlets in an efficient manner. Efficient energy recovery in kiln Pre-heater/pre-calciner In our own business, we have a100% operation using mechanical processes, which are quality culture with zero tolerance for flow regulator in the coolers. regarded as the most efficient failure to meet standards. This also technologies. applies to our suppliers. Use of cement additives to give a higher volume of Innovation We require our tier-1 suppliers to gain cement per Kg of clinker used, We are committed to research and certification to the following standards: which reduces energy usage development to improve our overall Quality Management System, QMS and CO2 emissions per Kg of production efficiency. We have ISO 9001:2015, Environmental cement produced. dedicated Research and Development Management System, EMS ISO Units across all our local sites and we 14001:2015 and Occupational Health Vertical roller mills for raw constantly strive to improve our quality and Safety Management System material, coal and cement standards based on feedback from the OHSAS 18001:2007. In addition, all grinding which are 40-50% seminars and training programs we suppliers are required to comply with more efficient of traditional ball hold with our customers. the DCP Supplier Guiding Principles, mills and allow the creation of which encompass workers’ rights and finer, stronger cement. Our plants are all equipped with ethical business practices. cutting edge technology like Prompt Mechanical material transport Gamma Neutron Activation Analysis Our focus on sustainable and and transfer system equipped (PGNAA) for online analysis of responsible sourcing is core to our only with conveyors and raw materials at the quarry, robotic operational sustainability. We strive to bucket elevators which are up laboratories and fully-automated ensure all of our plants work closely to 80% more efficient that the central control room systems. with local suppliers and service traditional pneumatic system. providers and through the creation We have constantly deployed the of local jobs we contribute to value Use of long OLBC conveyors most advanced machinery at our new creation at all our locations. for raw material transport plants, which improves the overall rather than the less efficient efficiency of cement production and Our emphasis on operational dumpers. the quality we achieve. Our Dangote efficiency translates to promoting 3X brand cement was formulated to sustainable local economies by Robot lab equipment for meet the needs of our customers means of enhanced earnings, wages, automatic sampling and for cement with the qualities of extra investment, purchases, and taxes. Our preparation for X-Ray strength, quality and yield. business operations have helped to screening which allow a better improve Nigeria’s balance of trade and process control with direct Supply chain management generated significant foreign exchange effect on the quality of our In 2017, our direct procurement savings by substituting imports with cement and indirectly a 3-5% spend was $1.3B. Our suppliers locally sourced raw material and energy reduction compared range from small independent firms human capital, which also gives us an to plant provided with manual to large international companies. We operational and competitive edge in sampling system. support our medium and small-scale Nigeria’s cement market. 64 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Cultural sustainability At Dangote Cement, we believe in Our 20 top Executive Managers led Among our employees, we the importance of embedding our training programmes at our Dangote promote a culture of inclusiveness, identity and values in our workplace Academy in 2017, all of which empowerment and giving back to and incorporating corporate culture contributed significantly to foster society, which aligns with our desire as a core driver in the way we do a consistent, sustainable culture to engage holistically and integrally business. We consider the training of mentoring and value alignment with our working environment. and development of our employees across Dangote Cement’s operations to be an Executive priority. across Africa. GRI disclosures Description 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior GRI 102:16-17 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 102:40-44 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised DCP disclosures Organisational values and culture aligned with vision and mission as part of our corporate culture Leadership buy-in and tone at the top Employee engagement and identity in all countries Talent development (Dangote Academy) Brand values and protection Stakeholder inclusiveness DCP Pillar indicators Employee identity Cultural integration Stakeholder inclusion Diversity in the workplace Inclusive work environment Brand, values and protection Our Impact Employee identity Cultural integration only be successful in the long term Our staff handbook guides employee As a Pan-African business we believe if we maintain good cooperative conduct, safeguards our ideal work it is important to act as good corporate relationships with the various ethic and ensures consistency of citizen in all our host communities. stakeholders in society. We seek to corporate culture across all of our Our employees are an integral part establish and maintain a dialogue locations. of our corporate culture in all our based on trust with all our relevant countries of operation. stakeholder groups, locally nationally The Handbook codifies the values and internationally. expected of all staff and is provided Stakeholder inclusion to them from joining. It is updated In view of the strongly local focus The resulting exchange of ideas and regularly to reflect our latest thinking. of our business operations, we can opinions helps us identify critical issues DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 65 Indigenous employees 15,416 14,572 94.5% 1,822 1,810 99.3% 1,753 681 1,550 629 88.4% 92.3% 126 118 93.6% 1,258 698 1,077 683 85.6% 97.8% 374 225 60.1% 1,245 1,188 93.6% 24,040 Total no of Employees 22,496 Total no of indigenous Employees 667 93.5% Percentage 666 99.6% 66 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability at an early stage and gain greater Inclusive work environment as products from other Dangote acceptance for our activities in our The Dangote Women’s Network, companies, which were given to immediate localities. founded in 2016, runs programmes Internally Displaced Persons in to empower, encourage, support Borno State. Plant management teams are and motivate women and offer them generally responsible for such opportunities to achieve their full Brand values and protection stakeholder relationships. Wherever potential within the Dangote Group. Doing business means a lot more than necessary, they are supported by the just achieving outstanding financial Group’s Corporate Communication The Network has developed a close results. At the core of the Dangote Department. We take criticism relationship with the Aliko Dangote Cement philosophy, we operate as an expressed by our stakeholder groups Foundation, with which it fulfils some empowering brand that aims to touch seriously and we discuss with them of its philanthropic outreach programs, the lives of ordinary people. the points they bring up. including support of our own women. As a result, our business has evolved We have adopted new approaches in The women of Dangote Cement into one that deploys significant many places in order to reconcile the play a critical role in developing and investment in building customer interests of the Company with those of integrating the 7 Sustainability Pillars as relationships. the local community. part of our day to day work-life. In 2017, we commenced the To further refine our sustainability In 2017, the Network recorded the process of deploying 1,000 trucks to ambitions during the past year, we following impacts: customers, which will be concluded by have engaged in ongoing dialogue • There has been an increase the middle of 2018. with internal and external stakeholders in female management in the on defining our Group-wide company, with more women In addition, 150 smaller trucks for sustainability vision, also implementing occupying leadership positions retail distribution have already been active changes to more effectively following the appointment in 2016 provided to customers at no cost. contribute to the global sustainable of our first female Board Member development agenda. • There were changes to the We are deploying 3,000 branded maternity leave policy, including containers to assist our partners with Diversity in the workplace women being entitled to draw dry and lockable storage facilities that We understand that a healthy mix of their full salaries during their improve security and reduce wastage people across gender, sex, race and maternity leave period. caused by moisture. ethnicity will contribute the differing • The Network offers programs points of view and opinion that are and discussions to it members This initiative will have a multiplier crucial to workplace success. This covering topics varying from effect on our distributors’ ability to diversity of experience and outlook financial security to improving serve their customers better. enables us to be more dynamic in work-home life balance generating ideas that help to improve • Health assistance is offered to We have also supported 25,000 our work processes and position us in Network members when required outlets across Nigeria (almost 80% the forefront of the adoption of new • Mentorship programs are offered of the universe of Dangote Cement’s and innovative business practices, to to provide a platform for women retailer base) with trade presence the benefit of all stakeholders. in business to support each other materials including branded tarpaulins, • Engraining the philanthropic parasols, tables and chairs. We have made a continuous effort to culture of the company and include more women in our leadership providing charitable platforms These help to create a higher-profile and workforce and have embraced to staff that want to give back to and more pleasant environment in the positive initiatives of the Dangote their communities, including N20 which to sell our cement to their own Women’s Network. million and donations in kind such customers. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 67 Economic sustainability As the leading cement producer in By ensuring financial stability providing decent working conditions Africa, we have the power to make through continuous growth, use and pay, we directly impact the a significant impact across all of our of locally sourced materials and sustainability of our host economies. areas of operation. services for our production, and by GRI disclosures Description GRI 201-6: Economic 201: Economic performance 202: Market presence 203: Indirect economic impacts 204: Procurement practices 205: Anti-corruption 206: Anti-competitive behaviour DCP disclosures Stakeholder return on investment Contribution to national economic growth across federal, state and base of the pyramid Job creation, new skills development Sustainable local economies and knowledge transfer Import substitution and local content development Value chain and economic impact on SMEs DCP Pillar indicators Job creation Household income Income generation Our impact With nearly 46Mta capacity across our In an era when unemployment, • Internship placements across operations in 10 countries, we have particularly amongst youth, has been all our business functions. This quickly become the continent’s leading a huge challenge confronting the improves the employability supplier of cement. Nigerian economy, Dangote Cement and business acumen of our remains committed to reducing the interns upon completion of their To put our size into context, our 13Mta unemployment rate in Nigeria through internships as they will have Obajana plant in Nigeria has enough various initiatives, including: acquired important skills and capacity to supply the total cement • Partnering with development capabilities during their training. needs of many African countries banks, non-governmental • Graduate traineeship programmes including South Africa and Ethiopia. organisations and vocational that enable young managers to training centers to equip understand our business in a Contribution to job creation unemployed persons to become holistic way, lead key projects and As the largest manufacturer in Nigeria, skilled employees and successful in the process build professional we have created jobs throughout our entrepreneurs; and leadership capabilities. operations for many thousands of • Partnerships at state and national Nigerians. Our activities also create level, encourage access to funding thousands of jobs in the economy by for newly trained entrepreneurs to way of indirect and induced impact. start their businesses 68 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability In Nigeria, we estimate that more than In fact, we believe that nearly 28,000 jobs Across Africa, we believe our operations 15,000 jobs we sustain directly have a are sustained in Nigeria because of the sustain more than 43,000 direct and multiplier effect in the economy beyond existence of our operations, enough to indirect jobs throughout the 10 countries in our operations. make a significant economic impact. which we have operations. Economic impact of Dangote Cement – Employment 15,415 4,724 7,813 employees employees employees Direct impact Indirect impact Induced impact 27,952 jobs Total numer of jobs sustained in Nigerian economy in 2017 by Dangote Cement 62% Multiplier 1.81* Every job provided directly by Dangote The creation of nearly 28,000 jobs would reduce Cement operations in Nigeria sustains unemployment in Katsina state by 62% a total of 1.81 jobs in the Nigerian economy. * Presented multiplier refers to the impact generated among suppliers and sub-supplier (indirect impact) as well economy as a whole through household spending (induced impact). It does not account for impact generated across distributors and retailers. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 69 Contribution to income Through this, not only do we provide quality of living and create an inclusive generation resources that ensure sustainable environment for the sustainable By creating jobs across Africa we also livelihoods, we also indirectly growth of our local host communities contribute to income generation in contribute to ensuring access to basic and the wider economies in which local communites. services and education, increase the they are located. Economic impact of Dangote Cement – Household Incomes N28.8B N22.2B N21.4B Direct impact Indirect impact Induced impact N72.4B x 14,480 Total household income generated in Nigerian economy in 2017 by Dangote Cement Multiplier 2.5* Every N1.00 of household income generated directly by Dangote Cement‘s operations in Nigeria generates a total N72B would fund the building of 14,480 average sized, of N2.50 in the Nigerian economy. three-bedroom bungalows in a rural area of Kogi state. We estimate that our contribution to Our presented multiplier refers to the through household spending (induced household income in the Nigerian impact generated among suppliers impact). It does not account economy is more than N72B, including and sub-suppliers (indirect impacts) as for impact generated across indirect and induced impacts. well across the economy as a whole distributors and retailers. 70 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Social sustainability Companies that have been Therefore, our social initiatives in local healthcare as well as in consistently rated as “best places work hand in hand with the local community welfare, we contribute to work” have higher market values communities in regions where we in a significant way to the United and employee morale, along with operate. Nations Sustainable Development lower than average employee Goals (SDGs) and reinforce our turnover. By building a strong workforce stand as an advocate for sustainable through the employment of development in Nigeria and At Dangote Cement, we understand local people and contractors, elsewhere. We strive to maintain a the importance of profitable the empowerment of youth, strong health and safety culture at growth that benefits not just the provision of educational all our locations, which reflects our our shareholders, but also our support, provision of high quality commitment towards a zero-harm employees and local economies. infrastructure, driving improvements working environment for all. GRI disclosures Description 401: Employment 410: Security practices 402: Labor/management relations 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 403: Occupational health and safety 412: Human rights assessment 404: Training and education 413: Local communities 405: Diversity and equal 414: Supplier social assessment GRI 400: Social opportunity 415: Public policy 406: Non-discrimination 416: Customer health safety 407: Freedom of association and 417: Marketing and labeling collective bargaining 418: Customer privacy 408: Child labour 419: Socioeconomic compliance 409: Forced or compulsory labour DCP disclosures Wages, pensions, leave, transportation, termination and National Housing Fund as per national laws Equal opportunity, diversity and human rights Health and safety Training and development, skills acquisition Social investments, community involvement DCP Pillar Indicators Health and safety Training and development Community engagement Social investment Our impact Occupational health and safety cement company, occupational health “Zero Harm” is the ultimate goal of initiatives (OHS) and safety are a priority for us. We are Dangote Cement. Most of our plants We have attained Occupational Health focused on improving our overall H&S are OHSAS 18001 certified meaning and Safety Assessment series BS: performance and making people more OHS is integrated into normal OHSAS 18001:2007 certification. As aware of workplace safety. We focus operations. a result of the scale and nature of our not just on our own employees but operating model as Africa’s largest also on external third parties. DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 71 We believe that a strong OHS culture OHS training This plan is augmented by the annual is promoted when the Executive The HSSE Unit has rolled out multiple learning and development budget leadership team is visible at shop training programs across our sites approved by Executive Management. floor level and seen to be leading by in Africa including confined space Furthermore, staff are also offered example. In order to enable us build training. opportunities to attend training that and reinforce a positive OHS culture, addresses their inter-disciplinary the following key initiatives were taken We are committed to improving needs and improves their leadership in 2017: the technical and organisational competencies in addition to their core • Monthly safety theme drive; aspects of OHS. Although we still competencies. There are extensive • Monthly safety gate meeting; have incidents at our facilities, we options for soft skills acquisition both • Safety observation tour by are making concerted efforts towards in class and with e-learning. Executive leadership team; achieving our goal of a Zero-Harm • Incident investigation of all work environment, especially through In order to maintain the high incidents including, near misses; group-wide training programs. We are work standards required of DCP • Sharing of experiences/findings of also increasing the responsibility of staff, we have also implemented all incidents; line managers to ensure compliance the Performance Management • Informal communication through with the Company’s health and safety System (PMS), which requires Key a WhatsApp groups and formal guidelines. Performance Indicators (KPIs) to be communication through shared set by staff at the beginning of each network folder; Skills development financial year. These are reviewed • Development and improvement Dangote Cement is constantly periodically to ensure optimal of relevant SOPs based on the providing training opportunities for its performance and development. results of inspections, audits and employees (and others) through the risk assessment activities; Dangote Academy. Technical skills development • Periodic training programs and The Dangote Academy was established workshops for high-risk activities; Our training department and in 2010 to develop the skills necessary • Establishing life-saving rules associated training institutions (within for the operation of cement plants and and progressive consequence and outside of Nigeria) have recorded other manufacturing facilities in the management; success in the development and Dangote Group. It provides training • Empowerment of employees to roll-out of robust technical training in technical and management skills stop any unsafe act or work. programs with modules specific to the for existing employees and people operation of our cement plants. wishing to join Dangote Cement and We are continuously working to reduce other Dangote companies. risk through people engagement, This is to ensure that existing and capability building, advance new employees receive the requisite Since 2014, 20,009 staff members engineering solutions for high risk training and skills set for their roles, have been trained at the Dangote activities and further strengthening and that we have a pool of competent, Academy in programmes such as our OHS management system. We skilled people on which to draw as we • Management and development have begun to embed OHS in our line grow and expand across Africa. • Information technology managers’ responsibilities rather than • Technical and engineering skills merely making it the responsibility of In 2017, our main human resources the OHS team. activities were focused upon the In 2017, the Academy continued following areas: to drive our key training initiatives, OHS data consolidated at corporate • Recruitment including the Graduate Engineers level on a monthly basis includes: • Training and development Training Scheme, the Vocational • leading indicators (i.e. training, • Organisational development training Scheme and the Junior inspections and audits) and • Reorganisation of the corporate Technician Scheme. • lagging indicators (i.e. fatalities, HR function. LTIs, near misses). OHS By 2017, the Dangote Academy had performance is reviewed monthly There is an annual learning and graduated more than 600 qualified and reported to the Board every development plan for staff, based engineers and technicians into the quarter. on competency gaps and training workforce. More than 90% of those needs identified during performance who graduated from the Academy are appraisal. now working in the Dangote Group. 72 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Social investments In doing this we help our local In 2017, we donated more than N1B Strategic social investment is achieved communities and contribute as part of our CSR efforts across Africa, through collaborative community significantly to tackling wider societal focusing on the development of projects based on our core themes needs, which in the long run helps infrastructure, the encouragement of of education, employment and us to maintain our social “license to entrepreneurship, improving education community health projects. operate.” and women’s empowerment. Community engagement Dangote Cement has three large cement plants in Nigeria: Gboko, Ibese, Obajana. Gboko Ibese Obajana Established by the Federal One of the largest non-oil Largest cement plant in Africa government of Nigeria, the company investments in Nigeria. was then privatised in 2000 when More than 10 large-scale projects Dangote Group acquired a 35% More than 35 individual projects have have been completed by the plant shareholding, and subsequently full been completed by the plant since its since its creation. control. inceoption. N854.24m spent by Obajana More than 50 individual projects have N4.1bn spent by Ibese plant on plant on initiatives including: been completed by the plant since Dangote Cement took control. initiatives including: • N588m spent on road • N3.8bn spent on various road reconstruction Almost N225m has been spent construction projects, including • N160m spent on a development by the Gboko plant on initiatives concrete roads centre including: • N84.2m spent on provision of • N23m spent on boreholes in • N100m spent on scholarships potable water various community areas Increasing access to high-quality • N83.7m spent on construction • N22m spent on electrification education of classrooms projects • N89m on community • N39m spent on healthcare • N20m spent on construction of a electrification interventions magistrate’s court Helping businesses such as • N22m spent on scholarships • N18m spent on scholarships and hairdressers, barbers and grinders • N17.3m spent on electrification education-related projects within the community projects • N20m spent on 30 tricycles • N3.8m spent on road Improved transportation within construction and repairs local communities • N2.4m spent on vocational • N15m spent on 21 boreholes training and community Providing access to clean and information technology training safe water supplies • N400,000 spent annually on the Food Support Program -Supporting women and children in low-harvest seasons DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 73 Environmental sustainability Dangote Cement believes that We are committed to maintaining We apply economically sound sustainable environmental excellent standards of sustainable development principles management, together with a environmental performance. We to our business and seek to proactive approach to addressing recognise the part that we can maximise energy efficiency and the challenges and opportunities of play in improving the environment, minimise the environmental impact climate change, is fundamental to particularly in and around our sites of our operations. maintaining a succesful business. of operation. GRI disclosures Description 301: Materials 302: Energy 303: Water 304: Biodiversity GRI 300: Environmental 305: Emissions 306: Effluents and waste 307: Environmental compliance 308: Supplier environmental assessment DCP disclosures Permits and license/environmental compliance Air emissions management Water management Environmental management DCP Pillar indicators CO2 emissions Dust emissions Water management Environmental governance Our performance and commitments GHG emissions We have put in place greenhouse gas GHG emission sources have been Due to the high temperatures needed emission reduction initiatives at our identified in line with the specific to turn limestone into clinker, the plants such as: guidelines published by the Cement production of cement consumes a Sustainability Initiative (CO2 and Energy significant amount of energy and this • Use of natural gas where practical to Accounting and Reporting Standard for in turn causes combustion-related CO2 minimise emissions of greenhouse the Cement Industry, 2011). emissions. gases and other pollutants. GHG emissions are assessed monthly When the raw material is heated to • CO2 emissions monitoring a view and the data reported to business over 1,450 Celsius, it is de-acidified, to reduction as required by national unit management and Group HSSE which leads to further, process-related and international bodies such as the and discussed during our monthly CO2 emissions. International Finance Corporation. Executive Committee meetings. 74 DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability Estimated total CO2 emissions at Dangote Cement’s Nigerian sites, 2017 (tonnes) 561,391 4,249,715 3,642,302 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 8,000,000 Gboko Ibese Obajana Dust emissions This water is pumped to the plant Environmental governance All our plants are equipped with upand fed into a water treatment plant We are committed to the to-date dust abatement technologies made up of a clarifier for suspended implementation and maintenance including electrostatic filters and particulate matter, settling tank, sand of the National Industrial Standards baghouse filters. These technologies filter, and carbon filters. Treated water ISO 14001:2004 Environmental allow our plants to maintain dust is then conveyed to on-site storage Management System (EMS), which emissions below 30 mg/Nm3 at tanks and circulated to the various ensures a systematic approach to the kiln stacks, well below the local plant sections through a closed circuit. environmental management within the regulatory and IFC threshold limits. defined scope of our operations. Our Ibese and Gboko plants also Water management collect water resulting from mine We aim to comply with relevant legal Water is scarce in many parts of operations and use it, after treatment, requirements with a view to providing the world and climate change is to support other operations in the a sustainable environment for exacerbating this situation. Even factory. manufacturing, packaging, distribution though the construction materials and sales of cement and continuous industry consumes relatively little These initiatives allow the three sites, improvement of our operations. water compared to other sectors, the which account for about 50% of total scarcity of fresh water at several of our DCP water consumption, to avoid We conduct environmental baseline locations presents a challenge. We are using more valuable groundwater studies before building our plants and committed to the goal of mitigating resources, thus reducing the DCP also carry out periodic environmental the impact of our activities on natural water footprint. monitoring of air emission and air water resources to the greatest extent quality with particular attention to possible. We comply with stringent dust, waste water discharge, and noise environmental regulations to ensure emissions. We ensure that all our Our Obajana plant operates an earthen that our raw material quarrying will not plants are issued EIA/ESIA permits as dam that collects storm water from the endanger local water sources, which required by the local legislation and catchment areas around the plant. may be used by local communities. the international good practices. Dr. Ndidi Nnoli Group Chief, Massimo Bettanin Sustainability & Governance Group Chief, HSSE DANGOTE CEMENT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 75
