UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 “British Land has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009. I am pleased to reaffirm our support for its principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to advance our approach in each of these important areas through our 2020 sustainability strategy. This is integrated into our placemaking strategy, governance and business operations.” Chris Grigg, Chief Executive Officer at British Land The table below outlines where our actions, policies and progress on the UN Global Compact principles can be assessed. Principles Information Principles Information Human rights www.britishland.com/about-us Labour www.britishland.com/about-us 1. Businesses should support • Inclusive culture 3. Businesses should uphold • Inclusive culture and respect the protection www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy the freedom of association www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy of internationally proclaimed and the effective recognition human rights; and • Skills and opportunity; Materiality • Skills and opportunity; Materiality of the right to collective www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance bargaining; www.britishland.com/careers 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights • Embedding Sustainability; Modern Slavery 4. The elimination of all forms • Working at British Land abuses. Act Disclosure of forced and compulsory www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance labour; • Embedding Sustainability; Modern Slavery • Progress on targets: Supplier Code of 5. The effective abolition of Act Disclosure Conduct child labour; and www.britishland.com/policies www.britishland.com/data 6. The elimination of • Sustainability Policy • Fig. 40 Supplier workforce discrimination in respect of • Supplier Code of Conduct employment and www.britishland.com/policies • Local Charter occupation. • Sustainability Policy • Health and Safety Policies and Guidance • Supplier Code of Conduct Our internal policies include Equal Opportunities. • Local Charter www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance • Whistleblowing • Performance Overview; Progress on Targets Our internal policies include Equal Opportunities. www.britishland.com/data www.britishland.com/annualreport • Figs. 4-7 Health and safety • Pages 17 and 30 • Fig. 12 Considerate Constructors • Figs. 36-37 Bright Lights • Fig. 40 Supplier workforce • Figs. 41-51 Group employment www.britishland.com/annualreport • Pages 17 and 30 British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Principles Information Principles Information Environment www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy Anti-Corruption www.britishland.com/about-us/governance 7. Businesses should support • Wellbeing; Futureproofing; Materiality 10. Businesses should work • Structure and committees a precautionary approach to www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance against corruption in all its www.britishland.com/annualreport environmental challenges; forms, including extortion • Embedding Sustainability • Pages 30, 55 and 67 8. Undertake initiatives to and bribery. www.britishland.com/policies www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance promote greater environmental • Sustainability Policy • Embedding Sustainability responsibility; and • Supplier Code of Conduct www.britishland.com/data 9. Encourage the development • Sustainability Briefs for Acquisitions • Fig. 50 Employee training and diffusion of • Sustainability Brief for Developments www.britishland.com/policies environmentally friendly • Sustainability Policy www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance technologies. • Performance Overview; Progress on targets • Supplier Code of Conduct www.britishland.com/data • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy • Fig. 3 Biodiversity • Whistleblowing • Figs. 13-15 Sustainability ratings • Fig. 16 Financial • Figs. 17-20 Carbon emissions • Figs. 21-26 Energy use • Figs. 27-29 Water use • Figs. 30-33 Waste and materials • Figs. 34-35 Physical risks www.britishland.com/sustainabilityreport • CDP Report 2017 • Scope 3 Insights 2016 www.britishland.com/annualreport • Pages 30, 31, 175 and 176 For examples of our sustainability strategy in action, visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/blogs British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability focus areas support many of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as outlined below. Sustainable development goals We support this through Other relevant links our focus on Visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy for insights into: SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing Wellbeing • Opportunities and responsibilities that SDGs represent to our business. for all at all ages. • Where our priorities lie with respect to SDGs. SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Community Visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance for: education and promote lifelong learning opportunities Skills and opportunity • Goals and indicators set by our company with respect to SDGs. for all. Visit www.britishland.com/stakeholders and www.britishland.com/suppliers for: SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all Inclusive culture • How our activities related to the SDGs are undertaken in collaboration with other women and girls. Skills and opportunity stakeholders. SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Futureproofing sustainable and modern energy for all. SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Skills and opportunity For primary reporting on our sustainability progress, see our economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Annual Report and Accounts, where we integrate economic, social and environmental information: www.britishland.com/annualreport SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Placemaking inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster Futureproofing innovation. For detailed sustainability data, see our Sustainability Accounts: SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among Inclusive culture www.britishland.com/data countries. Skills and opportunity SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements Wellbeing inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Futureproofing About British Land SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and Futureproofing production patterns. We are a leading UK commercial property company focused on high quality retail SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate Futureproofing and London offices. Our strategy is to provide places which meet the needs of our customers and respond to changing lifestyles – Places People Prefer. change and its impacts. SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable Wellbeing use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Futureproofing forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Placemaking sustainable development, provide access to justice for Community all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018
