VALUE INSIDE BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT 2017 TABLE DES MATIÈRES VA LU E C R E AT ION 07 8 CEO Interview/10 CFO Interview 11 Unlocking Value/12 Governance/15 Business Units 16 Value Chain/18 Locations/20 EHS 21 Manufacturing Excellence/22 Innovation B U SINESS VA LU E 23 24 Business Highlights/26 Automotive 28 Aerospace/30 Packaging/32 Defense 33 Transportation/34 Industry SU STA INA BLE VA LU E 35 36 Sustainability Targets 37 European Aluminium/38 Materiality Assessment 40 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/42 Beverage Can Recycling 43 Customer Satisfaction/44 Safety Records/45 People 46 Communities/47 Landfilled Waste/48 Energy Efficiency 49 Aluminium Standards/50 Sustainable Purchasing PER FOR51M A NC E 52 Financial Statements 56 Sustainability Performance/61 GRI Aluminium is the material of choice We are an industry leader in the recycling for 90% of the world’s beverage cans. of aluminium cans. With our plants It preserves product quality, travels well, WE in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, U.S. and can be recycled repeatedly without CAN and Neuf-Brisach, France, we have the any loss in performance. Recycling capacity to recycle the equivalent aluminium requires about 5% of the of 23 billion cans a year, bringing us closer energy needed to produce it from virgin to our goal of ‘closing the loop’ in beverage materials, reducing greenhouse gas can recycling. emissions by 95%. 02 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 Over the past 10 years, Airware® 2050 using Airware® 2195 and 2050. Airware® joined Airware® 2195 as a preferred started its history in space, replacing the plate material for pressurized and nonAIRWARE ® legacy 2219 alloy, for cryogenic tankage of the pressurized structural components of ALREADY Space Shuttle’s external tank. Responding space launchers and crew modules. IN OUTER to multiple challenging space launch Both alloys were selected by major space requirements, Airware® offers higher strength, programs – SpaceX’s Falcon Launchers, SPACE enhanced damage tolerance, and corrosion NASA Orion Crew Modules, and Boeing’s resistance, as well as lower density. It allows Space Launch System. Globally, several for a dramatic increase in payload capacity other space launch entities are performing and higher orbits. studies and building prototype launchers Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 03 Aluminium is a natural choice for electric using aluminium extrusion and sheet vehicles. Our advanced aluminium technologies. We design, rapid prototype, solutions for battery enclosures optimize MOVING and produce complete battery enclosure thermal management, contributing to TO assemblies from superior aluminium greater range and longer battery life. ELECTRIC alloys. Our solutions are thermally Constellium supplies complete battery conductive, crash and intrusion resistant, enclosure assemblies for Battery VEHICLES and use innovative joining technologies for Electric Vehicles and Plug-in Hybrids better performance. 04 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 Aluminium coils and sheets with They offer excellent insulating properties and high-grade surface qualities and formability and have a good finishing properties are essential to BRILLIANT strength-to-weight ratio. At a time when attain the degree of polish and elegance ALUMINIUM sustainability is a primary concern, we ensure that are requested by our customers. that our aluminium solutions support renewable Our aluminium solutions provide options energy and low-consumption housing, for such as bright, textured, brushed, anodized, minimal environmental impact. The markets and mill finishes, as well as various surface for functional surfaces are highly technical treatments. Our products are decorative, and extremely diverse. They include building, durable, and corrosion resistant. architecture, cosmetics, automotive, decorative applications, lighting, and solar. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 05 CONSTELLIUM We support communities living near our CARES! operations and are committed to being a good neighbor. Understanding that our local sites are the best positioned to identify local needs, we empower them to decide where they can make a difference and implement at least one community action per site per year. Food drives, home renovation projects, breast cancer awareness, support to returning veterans, service dog training, school outreach – these are just a few examples of the many community programs that our employees have implemented. 06 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 VALU E CR EATION We are Constellium We are a global leader in value-added aluminium solutions, with more than a century of growth. Lightweight, strong, and highly recyclable, aluminium is the metal of choice for modern life, its applications ranging from beverage cans to space travel. By constantly innovating to create value for our customers, we are shaping a lighter, safer, more sustainable tomorrow for all. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 07 Bowling Green and Neuf-Brisach. Automotive rolled products shipments were up 52% in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the same period in 2016. What do you predict for the automotive market? This market is an important growth driver for Constellium, and we are confident that increased “We remain aluminium use is a secular long-term trend. Demand for luxury cars, light trucks, and SUVs remains focused on safety, strong, and these are our most important markets. operational execution, In North America, studies indicate that aluminium will continue to increase as a percentage of vehicle harvesting the benefits weight, and that there will be significant growth in the products that we make – from structural parts of our investments, to sheet for closures and Body-in-White. Another important factor is the growing demand for electric disciplined capital vehicles, which have a higher content of aluminium deployment, and rolled and extruded products and allow us to bring new, engineered products to market. shareholder value How do you see the future creation.” of the aerospace market? Over the last five years we have invested in aluminium-lithium technology and casting capacity, our response to the challenge of composites. Our innovative “fuselage of the future” is being used for the Bombardier C Series, and we are working on demonstrators for our “wing of the future.” How did Constellium We believe there are more opportunities with perform in 2017? aluminium than with other aerospace materials. I am very pleased with the progress we made in Our industry continues to develop lighter alloys executing our strategy in 2017. Our results reflected with higher strength and improved toughness and the hard work of our entire team. Our Aerospace corrosion resistance. and Transportation and Automotive Structures and Industry business units reported record annual What is the status of other markets? Adjusted EBITDA. The Aerospace and Transportation The packaging market remains stable in North team benefited from new contracts in aerospace, America, while a conversion from steel to aluminium transportation, industry, and defense. is driving growth in Europe. We continue to expand into niche products and markets including The Automotive Structures and Industry business transportation, industry, and defense. The North unit secured €1.1 billion in automotive structures American transportation market is improving and in nominations – more than twice the current level Europe demand for our extruded products remains of annual sales in this business, and the second strong in the industry segment. consecutive year with more than €1.1 billion in nominations. As for our Packaging and Automotive What challenges lie ahead? Rolled Products business unit, we continued to We made significant progress in increasing our improve our operations at our Muscle Shoals plant, financial flexibility and deleveraging our balance and we are ramping up our Auto Body Sheet lines in sheet in 2017, reducing leverage by a full turn. 08 Value Creation Improvements in our operations and an equity offering in the fourth quarter made this possible. We must remain disciplined in how we use our resources, capital, and people. Our cash improvement initiative, FINANCIAL GUIDANCE Project 2019, focuses on reducing costs, improving trade working capital, and capital discipline. We achieved €22 million of run rate cost savings as of H  igh single digit Adjusted EBITDA December 31, 2017, and further opportunities remain. growth annually through 2020 Over €500 million of Adjusted EBITDA in 2020 How much progress did you make in sustainability? Targeting positive free cash flow in 2019 We made headway in several areas, including waste Net Debt/Adjusted EBITDA target of below 4.0x management, community initiatives, and employee engagement. Our safety results remain among the best in the industry. But while we have seen an improvement in our recordable case rate, our serious injury rate worsened. Safety is our utmost priority, and we are working on a new plan to address this fundamental challenge. O  UR COMMITMENT What are your ambitions TO THE UNITED for the near future? NATIONS GLOBAL Our goal remains to be free cash flow positive in 2019, and we reiterate our Adjusted EBITDA guidance COMPACT of high single digit growth annually through 2020, leading to over €500 million in 2020. We remain F  or the sixth consecutive focused on safety, operational execution, harvesting year we support the the benefits of our investments, disciplined capital Ten Principles of the United Nations Global deployment, and shareholder value creation. I am Compact (UNGC) in the certain that we’re on the right course and excited areas of human rights, about our prospects for the future. We have the right labor, environment, and team, we are in the right markets, and our customers anti-corruption. These principles lie at the heart trust us and want to work with us. of our commitment to sustainability. ­In this report we communicate on our progress and have ­referenced the UNGC Communication on Progress logo where applicable. Jean-Marc Germain Chief Executive Officer Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 09 on cash has permeated through the organization. I believe we are on target for positive free cash flow in 2019. On capital discipline, we achieved our goal of spending less. The €276 million of capex was in line with our target. This was a €79 million reduction compared to 2016, and a good step in the right direction. On strengthening the balance sheet, we successfully completed two important refinancings. “Project 2019 is a In the first quarter, we refinanced Senior Secured Notes due 2018 held at our Muscle Shoals facility. cash improvement This transaction allowed us to fully integrate initiative aimed at Muscle Shoals into the Constellium family, reduced our interest cost, and extended our nearest bond delivering positive maturity to 2021. In the fourth quarter, we completed a refinancing that included issuances of both debt free cash flow and equity. This transaction is expected to reduce our interest cost by €32 million per annum and in 2019.” was a major reason for our reduction of net debt to Adjusted EBITDA to 4.4x from 5.4x at the beginning Peter R. Matt of the year. I’m proud of the progress we made on the Chief Financial Officer balance sheet during the year and believe there is more to come in 2018. Where do you stand on Project 2019? Project 2019 is a cash improvement initiative aimed From a financial perspective, how did at delivering positive free cash flow in 2019. The three Constellium perform in 2017? pillars of Project 2019 are: reducing costs, improving Constellium delivered very strong performance trade working capital, and capital discipline. On in 2017. We increased Adjusted EBITDA by 14%, cost, Constellium achieved €22 million of run rate reaching €431 million for the year and above our cost savings as of December 31, 2017. We also made initial high single digit guidance. The Packaging and progress reducing trade working capital and capital Automotive Rolled Products business unit Adjusted expenditures. We made great strides in 2017, and­ EBITDA was comparable to 2016. The Aerospace and I believe there are still significant opportunities Transportation business unit increased Adjusted ahead of us. EBITDA by 28%, reaching a record €133 million. Our Automotive Structures and Industry business unit What can investors expect over the reported record Adjusted EBITDA of €119 million, next few years? an increase of 16% compared to 2016. Overall, I am We are committed to regular and transparent pleased with the results and I am encouraged about communication on our strategic direction and our momentum heading into 2018. financial performance. We are confident in the Company’s future. We expect to deliver high single How did you progress on your finance digit growth in Adjusted EBITDA annually through priorities in 2017? 2020, culminating in over €500 million in 2020. We We laid out three finance priorities last year: a are also committed to generating positive free cash focus on free cash flow, rigorous capital discipline, flow in 2019. We are completely focused on delivering and strengthening our balance sheet. We made these commitments, reducing our net debt, and substantial progress on each of these priorities. increasing shareholder value. On free cash flow, we improved by €159 million compared to 2016. I’m pleased with how the focus 10 Value Creation UNLOCKING VALUE REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA** FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES €5.2 bn €431 m ~12,000 5.153 5.237 431 343 377 4.743 2015* 2016 2017 2015* 2016 2017 *Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the **Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP date of acquisition, which occurred on measure.” For a reconciliation of this January 5, 2015. measure to “Net Income,” see the reconciliation in our publicly filed earnings press release for Q4 2017. 1 1 6 1 5 4 3 3 3 2 2 2 1. Packaging and 1. Packaging and 1. France 37% Automotive Rolled Products Automotive Rolled Products 2. North America 26% 54% €202 m 3. Germany 21% 2. Aerospace and Transportation 2. Aerospace and Transportation 4. Eastern Europe 7% 25% €133 m 5. Switzerland 6% 3. Automotive Structures and 3. Automotive Structures 6. Asia 3% Industry and Industry 21% €119 m The difference between the sum of reported business unit’s Adjusted EBITDA and the Group Adjusted EBITDA is related to Holdings and Corporate. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 11 GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, the general Board of Directors conduct of the Company’s business and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-today management of the Company. Richard B. Evans Jean-Marc Germain Michiel Brandjes Martha Brooks Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Evans has served Mr. Germain has served as an Mr. Brandjes has served Ms. Brooks has served as Chairman of our Board Executive Director of the Board as a member of our Board as a member of our Board since December 2012 and of Directors since June 2016 of Directors since June 2014. of Directors since June 2016. as a member of our Board of and as Chief Executive Officer Directors since January 2011. since July 2016. Philippe Guillemot Peter F. Hartman Nicolas Manardo Guy Maugis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Guillemot has served Mr. Hartman has served Mr. Manardo was appointed Mr. Maugis has served as a member of our Board as a member of our Board as a Non-Executive Director as a member of our Board of Directors since May 2013. of Directors since June 2014. in June 2017. of Directors since January 2011. John Ormerod Werner P. Paschke Lori A. Walker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Ormerod has served Mr. Paschke has served Ms. Walker has served as a member of our Board as a member of our Board as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2014. of Directors since May 2013. of Directors since June 2014. 12 Value Creation Human Resources and Remuneration Committee DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE On December 31, 2017, the Remuneration Committee consisted of four Directors: We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of • Peter F. Hartman (Chairman) an Executive Director and Non-Executive Directors (each • Martha Brooks a “­D irector”). Under Dutch law, the Board of Directors is • Richard B. Evans responsible for the policy-making and management of the • Guy Maugis Company. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director. Nominating/Corporate Governance As a foreign private issuer under the Securities and Exchange Committee Commission (SEC) rules, we are not required to have On December 31, 2017, the Nominating/Corporate Independent Directors on our Board of Directors (but it is Governance Committee consisted of three Directors: required that our Audit Committee consist of Independent • Richard B. Evans (Chairman) Directors). • Michiel Brandjes However, our Board of Directors has determined that, under • John Ormerod current NYSE listing standards regarding independence (which we are not currently subject to), and taking into account any applicable committee standards, as of December 31, 2017, Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, Maugis, Ormerod, Manardo, Paschke and Ms. Brooks and Ms. Walker POLICIES are Independent Directors. Code of Conduct Board meetings in 2017 Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets The Board of Directors held eight meetings and reviewed out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees. a number of matters, including: reports from the Board’s The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business, and Committee; reports from the CEO (including environmental, how we expect our business partners, customers, and suppliers health & safety, markets, and competition); bond refinancing to behave. It applies to all Constellium employees, subject to and equity offering; conversion and relocation of Constellium applicable local law. Compliance with the Code is essential N.V.; review and approval of the 2016 Annual Accounts; to preserving and enhancing the Company’s reputation as a approval of Form 20-F filing with the SEC; approval of the responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately, to maximizing agenda items for the Annual General Meeting 2017; approvals shareholder value. For suppliers, we have developed a specific of repurchases of Class A Ordinary shares issued as part of Code of Conduct. the free share program (May 2013) pursuant to the Company’s 2013 Equity Incentive Plan; reports from business units; Whistleblower policy review of Company strategy; review of 2018 budget; finance Our whistleblower policy fosters an environment where reports; presentation on investor perception and selfour employees can act without fear of retaliation and evaluation results. report wrongdoing or suspected wrongdoing, corruption, or irregularities in finance, accounting, or banking as concerns Constellium to a reporting official. To facilitate this reporting, we have established an external hotline in all the countries in which we have operations and in various languages. OUR COMMITTEES Insider Trading policy Audit Committee We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the restrictions On December 31, 2017, the Audit Committee consisted of five on trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside Independent Directors (according to the NYSE requirements): information. • Werner P. Paschke (Chairman) • Martha Brooks • Philippe Guillemot • John Ormerod • Lori A. Walker Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 13 GOVERNANCE Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, Executive Committee commercial developments, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. Jean-Marc Germain Peter Basten Nicolas Brun Jack Clark Chief Executive Officer President, Packaging and Senior Vice President, Public Senior Vice President, Automotive Rolled Products Affairs, Communications, and Manufacturing Excellence business unit Sustainability and Chief Technical Officer Corinne Fornara Ingrid Joerg Ryan Jurkovic Jeremy Leach Vice President, Group President, Aerospace Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Controller and Transportation business and Chief Human Resources and Group General Counsel unit Officer Peter R. Matt Vittorio Rossetti Paul Warton Executive Vice President Vice President and Chief President, Automotive and Chief Financial Officer Information Officer Structures and Industry business unit 14 Value Creation ORGANIZATION Three core business units 1,302 1,335 103 133 AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with wide applications across the global aerospace, transportation, industry, and defense sectors. The business unit offers a wide range of products 2016 2017 2016 2017 including plates, sheets, and extrusions which allows Constellium Revenue Adjusted EBITDA* to provide tailored solutions, pre-machining, and other added value (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) services to its customers. 2,498 2,812 201 202 PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE ROLLED PRODUCTS 2016 2017 2016 2017 Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications Revenue Adjusted EBITDA* (beverage and food cans, closures, foils, functional surfaces), as well (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) as automotive solutions, including high-performance products for Auto Body Sheet and heat exchangers. In addition, the business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used beverage cans. 119 1,002 1,123 102 AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES AND INDUSTRY 2016 2017 2016 2017 Produces advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS), structural components, Revenue Adjusted EBITDA* (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) battery enclosures, and other safety parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures a wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions, as well as large proﬁles for road and rail transportation, energy and other industrial applications. It also offers downstream technologies *Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” and services, including fabrication, surface treatment, see the reconciliation in our publicly filed earnings and logistic support services. press release for Q4 2017. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 15 OUR ROLE 1. EXTRACTION, REFINING, AND SMELTING Extraction, refining, and smelting are Creating value production steps which create value for raw material suppliers and local communities. throughout Extraction, refining, and smelting can also have impacts related to biodiversity and human rights in the life cycle bauxite mining, waste management in alumina refining, and greenhouse gas emissions in aluminium smelting. of aluminium As a buyer of slabs, billets, and ingots, we have developed our own responsible purchasing policy. However, we recognize that this is not enough to cover the whole value chain. This is why we became a founding member of the Aluminium Aluminium is the world’s third Stewardship Initiative. most abundant element and a vital material for the 21st century. 2. C ASTING, ROLLING, EXTRUSION, AND Here, we explain the various stages COMPONENT FABRICATION 2 of production and outline our role Casting: Other metals are added to the molten aluminium to create in the process. We are committed customized alloys, and then cast into billets or slabs. to improving the overall footprint Rolling: Slabs are rolled to produce of aluminium’s life cycle and to plates, sheets, or coils which are then used to produce cans, creating value for customers, car hoods, or aircraft wings, CASTING, for example. ROLLING, AND suppliers, and society. EXTRUSION Extrusion: Billets are transformed into extruded products which can then be used in products such as Crash Management Systems. Components fabrication: In some of our plants, we go beyond semi-fabrication and machining, and assemble complete components such as Crash Management Systems. In our plants, we work hard to mitigate the potential impact of our operations. 3. P RODUCT DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING R&T and production teams work to leverage aluminium’s inherent advantages, including lightness, flexibility, durability, and recyclability. Along with our Plymouth hub and Brunel University Technology Center, 1 C-TEC, our world-class technology center, is at the heart of our commitment to continuous innovation. Through C-TEC, Plymouth, and Brunel, EXTRACTION, as well as our plants, we work closely REFINING, with our customers to develop, AND SMELTING Constellium influences produce, and deliver innovative and sustainable aluminium solutions. We Constellium directly controls also offer product design capabilities, particularly for component fabrication Constellium indirectly controls in our automotive structures business. 16 Value Creation 4. PRODUCT USE 3 4 Our products are primarily used PRODUCT PRODUCT in the aerospace, packaging, DESIGN AND USE and automotive sectors – reducing MANUFACTURING weight and improving fuel consumption in a large range of applications that enhance products and improve lifestyles. We have developed stable, diversified, and longstanding customer relationships through which we deliver products that offer improved strength, lightness, and durability. Of particular relevance to the transportation sector, our material reduces weight, thus leading to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions during use. 5. COLLECTING AND SORTING Recycling aluminium within the manufacturing process loop makes sense both economically and environmentally. We have rigorous processes in place to collect and sort scrap produced LIFE CYCLE at our own facilities and also offer these services to customers, OF ALUMINIUM creating value by reducing costs and enhancing the recycling of products into new ones. Efficient collection and sorting systems are critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life scrap and also help retain the value of the alloy in the loop. 5 COLLECTING AND SORTING 6. RECYCLING Aluminium can be endlessly recycled to deliver new products with the same properties as the original products. There are three sources of recycled aluminium: • Scrap produced during our processes • Scrap produced during our customers’ processes • Scrap recovered at the end of a product’s life 6 We recycle all of these categories, with a focus on end-of-life recycling. We believe we can further improve recycling through collaboration and partnership with all relevant RECYCLING stakeholders including customers, associations, and research centers. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 17 OUR NETWORK WORLDWIDE A global sector leader Constellium operates a global Kirkland, network of production facilities, WA, US state-of-the-art technology centers, and offices around the 1 8 4 2 2 world to serve our customers 1 3 7 where they are. 5 Baltimore, 6 5 1 MD, U.S. 3 8 7 6 AMERICAS Automotive Aerospace 1 Bowling Green, 5 Ravenswood, West Kentucky, U.S. – JV Virginia, U.S. Packaging Constellium and UACJ’s JV One of the world’s largest Defense, Industry, Auto Body Sheet finishing line rolled products facilities, & Transportation serving the North American supplying the aerospace, automotive industry transportation, and defense R&D industries Joint Venture 2 Lakeshore, Ontario, Canada (Astrex) – JV 6 San Luis Potosí, Mexico Constellium and Can Art’s Customized Crash Corporate and JV for extruding specialty Management Systems sales offices alloys for Crash Management and structural components Systems and automotive body for automakers structures 7 Van Buren, Michigan, U.S. 3 Muscle Shoals, Customized automotive Alabama, U.S. structures and Crash One of our largest sites, with Management Systems with the widest strip mill in the U.S. advanced development and and a world-class beverage prototyping capabilities can recycling center; sheet products for canstock and 8 White, Georgia, U.S. Auto Body Sheet substrate Advanced structural components and Crash 4 Plymouth, Michigan, U.S. Management Systems for Constellium’s R&T hub automakers in the Southeast in the U.S. 18 Value Creation Schiphol-Rijk, The Netherlands (head office) 10 25 14 13 Paris 12 17 18 20 19 15 22 21 Zurich 9 24 Seoul, South Korea 23 16 11 Tokyo, Japan Shanghai, China Singapore EUROPE 10 Burg, Germany 15 Gottmadingen, Germany 20 Neuf-Brisach, 23 Ussel, France Part of Soft Alloys Europe; Design, development, and France Casts complex parts for extrusion solutions for production of customized One of our largest sites, the aerospace industry automotive, transportation, automotive structures and an integrated aluminium and industry recycling, rolling, and finishing 24 Valais, Switzerland Crash Management Systems facility with a new state-ofTwo casthouses plus plate for automakers 11 C-TEC, Voreppe, the-art automotive finishing and extrusion shops, serving France 16 Issoire, France line; coil and sheet products for aerospace, transportation, World-renowned R&D center Leading aerospace mill with canstock, foodstock, Auto Body defense, and industry markets with full-scale facilities capabilities for wingskins Sheet, heat exchangers, and 25 University Technology and aluminium-lithium industry applications; world12 Crailsheim, Germany Center, Brunel University production at industrial class can recycling center Part of Soft Alloys Europe; London, Uxbridge, UK scale for aerospace, defense, specific profiles for automotive, 21 Nuits-Saint-Georges, Design, development, and transportation, and industry transportation, and industry France prototyping of aluminium markets Part of Soft Alloys Europe, alloys and automotive 13 Dahenfeld, Neckarsulm, 17 Landau, Germany structural components Germany serving automotive, Part of Soft Alloys Europe, transportation, and industry Customized automotive specific profiles for industry structural components and 22 Singen, Germany assemblies for European 18 Levice, Slovakia One of our biggest plants, automakers Part of Soft Alloys Europe, featuring high-grade cold mills, ASIA profiles for industry and an integrated hot/cold rolling 14 Děčín, Czech Republic transportation Europe’s largest hard alloys line, and extrusion presses, 9 Changchun, China – JV extrusion plant, manufacturing 19 Montreuil-Juigné, serving ­the auto­motive market Constellium’s JV with customized aluminium France for structural components Changchun Engley extrusions in hard and soft alloys Supplies hard alloy extrusions and Auto Body Sheet, and other Automobile Parts JV; for the automotive, industrial, to aerospace, defense, industry, markets for special surface automotive structural and transportation sectors and transportation markets applications components Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 19 EHS We are now implementing a new Serious Injury and Fatality prevention program (SIF) as a supplement to Safety, our our current EHS programs. Beyond the right focus, tools, and processes, success in safety also depends on individual behavior and actions. #1 priority How are you encouraging better health among your employees? Our objective is to prevent work-related diseases and Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) is not promote employee health. We are advancing an EHS culture that ensures everyone’s health and safety, just a matter of mechanisms and processes, inside and outside of our premises. Constellium but also of behavior and engagement – an sites use Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment, overall culture of commitment to one another. and Risk Control (HIRARC) to analyze each task for physical, chemical, biological, and ergonomic hazards and establish health promotion programs. What were Constellium’s greatest Improvements in 2017 included noise reduction successes regarding EHS progress in Crailsheim and Ravenswood, ergonomics at and performance in 2017? Dahenfeld, Issoire, Muscle Shoals, Neuf-Brisach, and In 2017 we focused on achieving EHS excellence Nuits-Saint-Georges, and air quality improvement at through leadership, undertaking initiatives such as Gottmadingen, Ussel, White, Issoire, and C-TEC. a workshop involving our CEO, CTO, Presidents of business units, and plant managers, who shared their What are the EHS priorities for 2018? successful leadership practices with one another. The first priority is to implement our Serious Injury All agreed we needed greater shop floor presence and Fatality prevention program. Each APU is and interaction with operators. EHS professionals actively working on the following high risk items on also discussed leadership at the European and U.S. a continuous basis: the implementation of “golden” EHS network meetings in Montreuil-Juigné and Van (critical) rules, the education of leaders on Serious Buren. They concluded that we must focus more on Injury and Fatality prevention, a further increase in mindsets, and that managers should demonstrate line of fire/hand safety/hazard awareness, and an more visible leadership, making EHS a daily priority electrical arc flash standard (see page 44 for more on the shop floor. Following these discussions, information about safety). we are requiring leadership to spend additional time on the shop floor, conducting shift supervisor coaching once a month in all APUs (Autonomous “We are now implementing Production Units), and we also used the examples of a new Serious Injury and successful leadership practices to develop an overall Fatality prevention program Group directive. as a supplement to our current What points remain to be addressed EHS programs.” most urgently? Volker Brockhagen, Group EHS Director Though we can be proud of our many success stories in safety, too many of our colleagues still get seriously injured. We must remain fully focused on managing critical risks, and continue to identify the precursors of such events. As a first step we conducted a thorough analysis of our serious injury cases, and extensively networked both internally and externally to define a new approach for recognizing and mitigating critical risks. 20 Value Creation MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE and we plan to remain at the same level in 2018. As we rigorously manage our capital spending, Driving Manufacturing Excellence helps us to protect our assets in the most efficient way. continuous “In all our plants, we are striving to become the very best improvement manufacturer in our business by being safe, providing quality products to our customers, Manufacturing Excellence means and manufacturing our products producing our goods in the safest and efficiently.” most efficient way, and to the most Jack Clark, Senior Vice President, Manufacturing stringent quality standards. This program, Excellence and Chief Technical Officer which evolved out of our former “Lean” program, demands commitment from all our people and has had an extremely positive effect on our performance. SHARING BEST PRACTICES Our internal technology networks bring Safety is the first priority for Constellium, and the together R&D and plant engineers. They primary objective of Manufacturing Excellence (see drive operational excellence by sharing page 44). aluminium processing expertise and discussing best practices at the plant Quality is at the core of our business. Our Quality level. The areas they cover include product experts ensure that every component we supply to industrialization, recycling, casting, rolling, our customers undergoes a thorough inspection finishing, extrusion, and reliability. process, complies with international standards, and meets clients’ specifications. Our Manufacturing Excellence processes have brought significant SUCCESSFUL RAMP-UP improvement to our performance, and the number OF NEUF-BRISACH of customer claims has reduced dramatically for the NEW AUTOMOTIVE Constellium Group (see page 43). FINISHING LINE Optimizing asset performance is another area Responding to the growing European of focus. Through the use of various reliability tools and automotive market, our plant in Neuf-Brisach, productivity measures, our plants strive to continuously France, built a new finishing line with a improve the recovery and output of our assets. production capacity of 100 kt. The plant put together a war room with an integrated core team, and the finishing line has been Cash preservation is also key, and Manufacturing ramping up ahead of schedule – in little Excellence plays an important role in Project 2019. more than half the time that was originally Our process and product experts lead initiatives planned. Today, the plant is producing Auto to optimize recovery of our products, reduce our Body Sheet for many of our customers, input costs and inventory, and improve energy including the new Peugeot SUV, BMW 5 conservation (see page 48). This approach enabled Series, and Mercedes-Benz CLS model. us to manage our capital budget on target in 2017, Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 21 INNOVATION development times by 50%. The UTC is expanding in 2018 to include equipment for forming and joining At the cutting automotive components and testing prototypes. Highlights of the year edge of Automotive: Constellium HSA6™, our new generation of high-strength 6000-series aluminium alloy, ideal for automotive structural parts such as aluminium Crash Management Systems, Body-in-White or battery enclosures, was named Runner Up at the 2017 Altair Enlighten Awards, in the Enabling Technology category. One of the vehicles featuring We believe in constantly innovating to take HSA6 is BMW’s MINI Countryman, which uses it for advantage of aluminium’s unique qualities Crash Management Systems. and role in building a lighter, faster, and more Securalex® HS and Securalex® UHS are our latest sustainable economy. Partnering with and most innovative products for the Auto Body our customers at the initial design phase, Sheet market. This new solution is designed to we offer fast, flexible, comprehensive provide both energy absorption and strength and is service from design to delivery. ideal for sensitive areas such as the seating, the fuel tank, and the front. Our R&D centers Aerospace: Our partnership with STELIA Aerospace, The world-renowned Constellium Technology Center, Centrale Nantes, and CT Ingénierie culminated in a or C-TEC, lies at the heart of our innovation. Western global breakthrough for additive manufacturing: in Europe’s largest R&D center dedicated to aluminium, February 2018,we unveiled a demonstrator for metallic C-TEC has its main location in Voreppe, France, and a self-reinforced fuselage panels manufactured by 3D hub in Plymouth, Michigan. The two sites employ an printing. international, multidisciplinary team of more than 200 experts. As we continue to develop our “wing of the future,” we are now working on a demonstrator. Aluminium The University Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel wings of the future are expected to achieve University London is a dedicated center of excellence practically the same performance as composite for the design, development, and prototyping wings, but at a cost closer to current aluminium of aluminium alloys and automotive structural wings. components. Featuring industrial size aluminium casting and extrusion equipment, Constellium UTC Packaging: In partnership with Sandvik-Hyperion, a provides rapid prototyping capability that reduces producer of tools to manufacture beverage cans, we are developing a technique to improve can making lines’ performance and yield. 190 CONSTELLIUM COUNTS Looking forward As our Company moves into the future, we embrace advanced production techniques such as 3D printing, and smart factories where AI, Big Data, and 190 ACTIVE PATENT sensor technology will optimize processes efficiency, FAMILIES, AND IN 2017 WE FILED OVER 20 PATENTS anticipate maintenance issues, and guarantee SELECTED FROM MORE world-class quality. THAN 50 NEW REGISTERED INNOVATIONS. 22 Value Creation BU SINESS VALU E We mean business Constellium has 24 production facilities, ~12,000 skilled employees, and state-of-the-art technology centers worldwide. Customers in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, and other end markets choose us for our product leadership and superior performance. The aluminium industry contributes substantially to the global economy, and we aim to be its most exciting, value-adding company. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 23 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR Adding value across the business Hitting the Road with Aluminium 1 We have long provided aluminium structural components for Ford’s iconic F-150 and Super Duty trucks, and in July 2017 we delivered our # BUILDING UPON OUR 10 millionth part to the company. LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP Soon afterwards, we started WITH AUDI, CONSTELLIUM supplying the new Ford Expedition. BECAME, IN DECEMBER 2017, THE PRIMARY SUPPLIER OF In September 2017, we enhanced ALUMINIUM AUTO BODY SHEET our partnership with Fiat Chrysler FOR THE STYLISH NEW A7 Automotive by becoming the SPORTBACK. WE PROVIDE BOTH STRUCTURAL AND Employees in Singen (Germany) discussing EHS with primary supplier of aluminium ROLLED SOLUTIONS FOR THIS Constellium’s CEO Jean-Marc Germain (second from right) Auto Body Sheet for the new LUXURIOUS NEW MODEL. Alfa Romeo Stelvio, the first SUV ever produced by the brand. Staying Safe Seven of our plants worked through 2017 without a single recordable accident or injury. And five of our plants reached 1 million working hours without a recordable case – including Gottmadingen in Germany, which reached 3 million work hours without incident. LAUNCHING THE FIRST ALUMINIUM SUSTAINABILITY STANDARD CERTIFICATION As a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), we were proud to help it launch a new certification program for the aluminium value chain, focused on responsible production, sourcing, and stewardship. ASI’s Chain of Custody Standard links responsible production with responsible sourcing, increasing the emphasis on sustainability issues in procurement. 24 Business Value Adding Capacity to Automotive Structures In May 2017 we officially opened our new automotive structures facility in White, Georgia, U.S. We expanded our manufacturing footprint in Germany to prepare for our first high volume program to supply battery enclosures for Flag-raising ceremony at San Luis Potosí (Mexico) during the grand opening ceremony held on March 1, 2018 electric vehicles in Gottmadingen (Germany). We also doubled our capacity for advanced body structure components in Dahenfeld (Germany). And on March 1, 2018, we opened our first plant in Mexico, centrally located in San Luis Potosí, and dedicated to the production of Crash Management Systems and CELEBRATING structural components for automakers. OUR HERITAGE Constellium held a series of events in October to mark the 50 th anniversary of our Neuf-Brisach site in France, including a celebratory tour for close to 3,500 guests and employees. Meanwhile, Constellium Valais in Switzerland celebrated 100 Flying Higher years of apprenticeships and a total in the Aerospace of 1,650 trainees since the hiring of its Market first apprentice in 1917. Constellium reinforced its At Ravenswood in the U.S., we longstanding relationship celebrated the plant’s 60 th anniversary. with Bombardier with a And in Voreppe in France, Constellium multi-year agreement to marked the 50 th anniversary of our supply flat rolled products world-class research and technology for aircraft programs center, C-TEC. including the C Series, CRJ Series, Q Series, Global, and Challenger. The contract made us one of the world’s leading providers of flat rolled products to Bombardier. We also extended our long-term contract with aircraft manufacturer Pilatus to support its new executive Ludovic Piquier, Plant Director, Neuf-Brisach jets program. (France) Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 25 Automotive We’re a unique supplier for automakers because we can offer everything from material science to product development to The Road Ahead simulation and testing to Several factors are expected to continue and Body-in-White increasing from 37 lbs component prototyping driving an increased use of aluminium to 87 lbs (17 kg to 39 kg) per vehicle, and in automobiles. Aluminium’s favorable extruded products from 41 lbs to 49 lbs and production. strength-to-weight ratio over steel allows (19 kg to 23 kg) per vehicle. Greater demand automakers to lightweight vehicles, leading for electric vehicles will push those Our Solutions to increased fuel efficiency, reduced CO2 numbers even higher; plug-in hybrid and We cover the spectrum of aluminium emissions, and extended electric vehicle full battery electric vehicles use 25-27% solutions for automakers worldwide, range. Aluminium has greater energy more aluminium than the typical internal partnering with our customers to absorption leading to improved safety combustion engine car.1 tailor products to their specific needs. performance, and its thermal conductivity Automakers turn to Constellium for a is an advantage for battery enclosures. In Europe, aluminium Auto Body Sheet wide range of applications, including (ABS) penetration is expected to rise in car body closures, Crash Management In North America, aluminium is forecast to several applications including doors, Systems, Body-in-White structural grow at an 11% CAGR (Compound Annual hoods, fenders, and roofs. While European components, battery enclosures, chassis Growth Rate) from 2017 to 2022. The auto production is set to grow at a 2% and mechanical parts, heat exchangers, products we make should also experience CAGR from 2017 to 2022, ABS demand is and functional surfaces for interior and growth in that time: sheet for closures expected to expand at a 12% CAGR.2 exterior design. Securalex® Constellium HSA6TM Battery enclosures New generation of advanced alloys for rolled High strength alloy for automotive We design, prototype, and produce battery structural parts. components. enclosure assemblies from superior aluminium alloys using extrusion and sheet technologies. Our solutions are thermally conductive, crash and intrusion resistant, and use innovative joining technologies. 1. Aluminium content in North American Light Vehicles 2016 to 2028, Ducker Worldwide, July 2017 2. Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products Market Outlook February 2018 26 Business Value  GLOBAL A AUTO BODY SHEET DEMAND (IN KT) PRESENCE NORTH AMERICA EUROPE We have 15 plants for the automotive market worldwide and three R&D 1,200 1,200 centers, and we are still growing: 1,000 1,000 CAGR CAGR 800 +11% 800 +12% Constellium inaugurated a plant in White, Georgia, supplying the 600 600 Southeast U.S. with advanced 400 400 automotive structures and Crash Management Systems. We also 200 200 expanded our German plants in Gottmadingen and Dahenfeld. 2017 2022 2017 2022 Constellium opened a facility in San CAGR = Compound Annual Growth Rate Luis Potosí, Mexico to manufacture Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd structural components and Crash Management Systems. Our new CALP lines in Neuf-Brisach, ROBUST GROWTH OF CONSTELLIUM AUTOMOTIVE SHIPMENTS France and Bowling Green, Kentucky in the U.S. will increase our production (IN KT) capacity by up to 200 kt. 250 We have been revamping the hot and 232 cold rolling capabilities at our U.S. 200 CAGR +23% plant in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, 185 which started supplying automotive 150 165 cold coils to our Bowling Green joint venture with UACJ in late 2017. 126 100 Our new joint venture, Astrex, in 50 Ontario, Canada, produces our proprietary alloys for components made by Constellium’s automotive structures plants in North America. 2013 2014 2015 2016 KEY FACTS SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS Global leader in aluminium The new BMW 5 Series is 62 kg Constellium provides coils for the Crash Management System (137 lbs) lighter, thanks in part to outer trunk lid panels and fenders. and body structures Constellium’s aluminium solutions.  Constellium’s Děčín plant in the Leading position in Europe in Constellium has supplied more Czech Republic signed a multi-year Auto Body Sheet than 10 million aluminium structural contract with Robert Bosch to components for the Ford F-150 and supply Anti-lock Braking System Global leader in aluminium Super Duty trucks. (ABS) profiles. decorative surfaces for automotive interior and We supply Auto Body Sheet and Our customers include Audi, BMW exterior decoration structural components for the Group, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Audi A7. Automobiles, Ford, General Motors, Jaguar Land Rover, Porsche, PSA We are the primary supplier of Auto Peugeot Citroën, Volkswagen, etc. Body Sheet for the new four-door coupe Mercedes-Benz CLS model. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 27 Aerospace As a major provider of pre-machining and custom-designed aerospace components, and the producer of many Reaching for the Sky reduced environmental impact, and low advanced proprietary Thanks to a steady increase in air traffic operating costs. The right material choices alloys and technologies, and a demand for fuel-efficient aircraft, play a key role. Constellium’s advanced we are seeing sustained build rates for alloy portfolio, including low-density alloys, we offer sustainable Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) Airware®, high strength conventional alloys, growth solutions to our build rates, while their backlogs remain and complete sheet offering, covers all customers. near record highs. We focused this year on key structural aerospace applications. broadening our base and expanding our We supply commercial aircraft as well as partnerships with business and regional defense and space programs, from the Flying Lighter with Airware® jet manufacturers, with extended contracts state-of-the-art F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Airware® is the most advanced aluminium with Bombardier and Pilatus. to the SpaceX Falcon launchers. solution for aircraft structure. Seven different Airware® alloys are flying today for Our goal is to provide a solution for any Constellium is committed to supply chain applications such as bare exterior fuselage aluminium requirement a customer may integration allowing for optimization of skin, stringers, floor structure and seat have. We are working hard on our proposal material performance and reducing costs tracks, window frames, and large internal for a wing of the future that will deliver all along the value chain. For example, wing and fuselage components. a similar performance to composites in we offer pre-machining services which terms of weight, time between inspections, significantly reduce metal scrap and the fatigue, and damage resistance – but at a buy-to-fly ratio of aluminium products. cost closer to that of current metal wings. We are also offering advanced assembly technologies such as Friction Stir Welding. Our Solutions This solution improves the resistance of a In order to be competitive in today’s market, joint to fatigue, damage, and corrosion – aircraft must feature high performance, with no loss of strength. 1 1 Upper wing skin panels 7 Wing stringers 12 2 Lower wing skin panels 8 Wing ribs 11 10 2 3 Fuselage skin panels 9 Center wing box 4 Fuselage stiffeners 10 Floor beams 3 9 5 Landing gear 11 Seat tracks 4 6 Wing spars 12 Fuselage frames 5 8 6 7 28 Business Value  N INTEGRATED A MARKET TREND CHART INDUSTRIAL A STEADY GROWTH IN THE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT MARKET (IN FLEET UNITS) PLATFORM Freighters 47 k Constellium’s aerospace production Small Widebody CAGR sites all meet the highest standards. +3.6% Medium/Large Widebody Single Aisle I ssoire (France), Ravenswood 23.5 k Regional (West Virginia, U.S.) and Montreuil-Juigné (France) form a high-quality industrial platform with unique capabilities. 2016 2036 U  ssel (France) is one of the sole providers of sand casting aerospace components, while our plants in Valais (Switzerland) manufactures high value-added aluminium plates. FLEET DEVELOPMENT T  wo casting units produce Airware®, at DRIVEN BY PASSENGER DEMAND AND AGING AIRCRAFT the Issoire plant and our Technology (IN FLEET UNITS) Center in Voreppe, France. 50,000 47,000 40,000 30,000 23,500 Growth 57% 41,000 20,000 Replacement 43% 10,000 Retained fleet 2016 2036 CAGR = Compound Annual Growth Rate Source: Boeing 2017 current market outlook KEY FACTS SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS 300+ aerospace # 1 Global leader in  Since 2010, we have supplied Airbus with advanced aluminium products and solutions, starting with our Constellium will now be one of Bombardier’s leading suppliers of flat rolled products. Our Airware® platform patents aerospace plates, Airware® technology for the A350 XWB. supplies C Series aircraft aluminiumfuselage sheet, and We work together with our customers lithium fuselage sheet and extrusions. aluminium-lithium to improve supply chain and recycling 7 flat rolled and solutions and reduce inventory,  We extended our long-term contract extruded products supporting the ramp-up of programs with aircraft manufacturer Pilatus such as the A320neo and the A350 XWB. to support its new executive jet different aircraft program, supplying aerospace aluminium-lithium,  In 2017, Constellium signed a multiplates for more than 80 PC-24 Super Airware® alloys year agreement with long-term Versatile Jets. flying today partner Bombardier to supply flat rolled products in a mix of alloys,  Our clients include Airbus, ATR, shapes, and applications for programs Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault Aviation, such as the C Series, CRJ Series, Embraer, Gulfstream, Lockheed Q Series, Global, and Challenger. Martin, Pilatus, SpaceX, etc. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 29 Packaging Our customers rely on our extensive capabilities at each and every stage of the life cycle from Beverage can product design In that time, the canstock market is expected and optimization to remain stable at 1.9 Mt in North America, where increasing consumption of beer and to production and energy drinks makes up for a decrease in recycling. carbonated soft drinks, and segments such as water and tea also use cans. In Europe, we see that aluminium is replacing Screw caps steel as the standard for beverage cans; from 2002 to 2016, aluminium’s market penetration increased from 58% to 85%. We Can: Our Solutions and Capacity Constellium is a world-leading integrated supplier for the aluminium packaging We are also the world leader in aluminium What’s Brewing: market, a bedrock of our portfolio. We closure sheets. Our production facility Packaging Trends address every facet of the market from in Singen, Germany provides aluminium Packaging is a stable market and resilient recycling to finished coils and sheets. Our sheets for closures in the wine and spirits, across economic cycles. Aluminium aluminium solutions are tailored to a broad mineral waters, and olive oil markets, has become a preferred material for range of products: beverage cans, food among other applications. beverage packaging, and is replacing cans, wine and spirits closures, flexible glass in certain markets such as beer. packaging, hair and body care aerosols, Aluminium allows drinks to chill faster, color cosmetics, and luxury packaging for Aerosol can be densely stacked for transportation the perfume industry. and storage, is highly formable for differentiated branding, and offers the We supply the North American and European environmental advantage of easy, costbeverage can markets from our plants in effective, and energy-efficient recycling. Muscle Shoals, Alabama and Neuf-Brisach, In 2017, aluminium beverage cans France. Each has an annual production represented approximately 15% of flat capacity of more than 400,000 Mt of rolled demand by volume in Europe, and aluminium. Both plants have significant 34% in the United States and Canada. recycling capacities: the equivalent of more than 3 billion cans a year at Neuf-Brisach, Analysts at CRU estimate that global 20 billion cans a year at Muscle Shoals. This demand for aluminium for the canstock gives us a competitive advantage when it market will grow 3.4% per year until 2022. comes to having access to primary metal. 30 Business Value E  XCEPTIONAL NORTH AMERICAN BEVERAGE CAN STOCK CONSUMPTION CAPACITY IN (IN KT) EUROPE AND CAGR NORTH AMERICA 1,000 +0.5% U.S. + Canada Mexico 800 W  ith the widest strip mill in the U.S., a 450 kt rolling mill, and a state-of600 the-art recycling center, our plant in 400 Muscle Shoals, Alabama, represents one of our largest sites. It has the 200 capacity to recycle 20 billions cans – almost one-fifth of the beverage cans sold in the U.S. 2012 2017 2021 Our plant in Neuf-Brisach, France holds key positions in bodystock, endstock, tabstock, and foodstock EUROPE BEVERAGE CAN STOCK CONSUMPTION in Europe. Its production finishing (IN KT) capabilities include slitting lines for bodystock and a dedicated production unit for degreased and coated CAGR 600 +2.9% beverage and food products. The site Eastern Europe recycles the equivalent of more than 500 Western Europe 3 billion cans a year. 400 Our plant in Singen, Germany, uses 300 the latest technology and equipment to supply closure stock to a global 200 customer base. It also has unique 100 technological expertise in functional surfaces, particularly appreciated by the luxury cosmetic packaging sector. 2012 2017 2021 CAGR = Compound Annual Growth Rate Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium rolled products market outlook February 2018 KEY FACTS S  OME OF OUR SOLUTIONS Global leader in closure stock AND CUSTOMERS Aeral™ is Constellium’s stateWe provide high-quality aluminium Leading positions in Europe and of-the-art aluminium solution to AB InBev, Amcor, Ardagh Group, North America for canstock, for aerosol containers using Ball, Can-Pack, Crown, Coca-Cola, food stock, and aerosols the Drawned and Ironed (D&I) etc. technology we employ for beverage cans. Aeral™ allows for 30% in weight savings as compared to traditional impact extruded containers, dramatically reducing the environmental footprint of aerosol containers. Aeral™ is now being produced for one of the world’s leading deodorant brands. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 31 Defense Constellium is working with the world’s leading military land vehicle manufacturers to propose the broadest global Aluminium’s Steady Advance the best choice for armored vehicles when offering of specialized Aluminium alloys are gaining ground survivability and mobility matter most. aluminium alloys for by enhancing the safety of personnel in The U.S. Army’s Tank Automotive Research, conflict zones. Aluminium provides military Development and Engineering Center armor applications. personnel with extra protection by making (TARDEC) selected Keikor® 2139 for its aircraft, marine vessels, and armored entire Combat Vehicle Prototype integrated clients such as BAE Systems in North vehicles lighter, faster, more durable, and hull capsule, and for the successful Concept America. We also equip leading designers easier to maneuver. for Advanced Military Explosion-Mitigating and manufacturers including General Land program (CAMEL). Dynamics in the U.S. and Nexter Systems, Our Solutions for Safety CMI Defence, and KMW in Europe. For decades, Constellium has worked with Across Continents Our clients around the world know that defense companies worldwide to develop Constellium’s customers include Constellium is a reliable source for new material solutions for air, sea, and the world’s leading armored vehicle aluminium products and solutions, thanks land vehicles, and to upgrade in-service manufacturers in North America, Europe, to our manufacturing facilities in the United equipment. Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. Under States, France, and Switzerland. While we Our lightweight alloys offer outstanding long-term partnership agreements, we are global, we are well equipped to serve our impact resistance. They can provide standprovide a full range of high-performance customers locally, wherever they are. alone armor protection or serve as part of a aluminium products and solutions to multi-material solution, giving customers the flexibility to optimize levels of protection. Constellium’s Keikor® is the most complete and advanced armor product suite. With unrivaled performance, it is a highly effective solution for the battlefield, and  SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS  AE Systems, Bell, CMI Defence, B Dassault, FNSS, General Dynamics, GKN, KMW, Lockheed Martin, MBDA, Nexter Systems, Northrop Grumman, Sikorsky, etc. 32 Business Value Transportation Traveling Lighter Our Solutions In today’s competitive environment, Aluminium alloys can be processed transportation companies are increasingly in numerous ways to achieve unique looking to optimize vehicle payload, meaning combinations of strength, stiffness, a vehicle’s carrying capacity in passengers formability, durability, and corrosion or freight. The lighter the vehicle, the higher resistance, and to integrate different the potential payload. Because aluminium functions. Constellium works with the is lightweight and robust, it is a favored metal’s intrinsic properties to develop a material in the transportation industry – range of extrusions, sheets, plates, castings, every kilo it saves contributes to a company’s and semi-finished components for vehicles profit margins. Weight reduction also leads such as tanker trucks, trailers, rail vehicles, to greater fuel efficiency, which is both cost and buses. In 2017 alone, we designed and effective and environmentally sound. produced upwards of 250 new extrusion dies  SOME OF OUR for tailored extrusions for use in more than CUSTOMERS a dozen new railway projects, from subways to high-speed trains. Beyond lightweighting, Constellium’s product offering provides a  enalu, CAF, Gillig, Hitachi Rail, B host of high performance transportation Kögel, Krone, Schmitz, Stadler, etc. solutions. For example, Constellium’s PAVIM structural extrusions are immediately beneficial for structures such as railcars, for which reducing life cycle cost and greenhouse gas emissions are of utmost concern. Our capacity to manufacture extraWHAT SETS US large dimensions allows for single-piece extrusions and sheets, reducing the need APART for welding and riveting for stronger, more efficient constructions. T  ailored extrusions up to 29.5” (750 mm) wide and 88.5’ On Land and Sea (27 m) long We leverage our Constellium has decades of experience W  idth – coils, either unique manufacturing serving customers in North America, bare or painted, up to 105” Europe, and Asia throughout the (2,667 mm) wide capabilities to serve our transportation industry: manufacturers of customers, with a focus commercial trucks and trailers, boats and W  ide tread plates for safe, durable trailer floor solutions on growing high valueships, trains and buses, leisure vehicles, and more. As a provider of sheets, plates,  roprietary high performance P added products for and extrusions, Constellium is a one-stop alloys specialty applications. shop for transportation solutions. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 33 Industry Our credo is simple: Engage with customers and stay close. This way we understand how they work, so we can offer Aluminium is Everywhere them the right solutions. Featuring superior machinability, weldability, formability, and thermal and electrical conductivity, aluminium is ideal for industrial applications. Aluminium sheets, plates, tubes, bars, extrusions, and profiles can be used for anything from light  EY FACTS K fittings to semiconductor equipment. AND FIGURES Our Solutions We provide premium semi-products for  00 years of experience in the 1 field of Industry building and architecture applications, including staircases, soundproofing, and E  uropean leader in large profiles cladding. We offer a full range of extruded with three large extrusion presses products along with complementary in Sierre, Switzerland and Singen, Germany – home to the biggest profile-based solutions, solving the most Aluminium mold press (100 MN) in Western Europe complex challenges for machinery and industrial robots. Constellium’s unique functional parts (vacuum process and  he largest integrated hard alloy T rolled precision plates are a best-intransfer chambers, load locks) as well as facility in Europe with our plant in Děčín, Czech Republic, and the class solution for eliminating part rework consumable parts such as showerheads fourth-largest supplier of tubes, while optimizing machining operations at or diffusers. Aluminium molds offer an bars, and profiles from aluminium customer premises. excellent, less expensive alternative to and its alloys We combine solid experience in processing steel. They have faster machining and  2 in the soft alloy extrusion # semiconductors and flat panels with polishing times, shorter cycle times, are sector in Europe, with five world-class manufacturing capabilities. quickly engraved and easily modified. plants bringing prototyping, Manufacturers use our products for Constellium’s metal is used to make serial extrusion, and component industrial molds for various sectors from production close together to improve time to market automotive to household appliances to for customers footwear. We can produce large, intricate profiles for  Unique offering of rolled precision all areas of mechanical engineering and plates with outstanding flatness  SOME OF OUR electrotechnics, from tailor-made solutions, and shape stability CUSTOMERS such as high dissipation heat sinks, to niche  anufacturing of very thick M products, such as nuclear applications. plates thanks to world-class We offer customers first-rate options for assets and capabilities A  ir Torque, Dräger, Festo, Metso, Ryerson, Siemens, Thyssen Krupp, this complex product range, helping them  ptimized processes for low O etc. to create perfect shapes for their individual residual stress plates requirements in terms of cost, dimension, tolerance, and more. 34 Business Value SUSTAINABLE VALU E We embrace sustainability Aluminium has inherent properties, including recyclability, that make it highly sustainable and we work to improve the footprint of its life cycle throughout the value chain. Our concern for the environment and our desire to positively impact our business and communities affect the decisions we make. We constantly strive to ensure a safe, healthy workplace for people to grow their skills and careers. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 35 Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview PRODUCTS PEOPLE OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE We will enhance We will ensure our people We will minimize the impact BUSINESS the environmental benefits are safe, skilled, motivated, of our operations We will manage our of our products and improve and engaged business in an ethical customer satisfaction and responsible way BOOST FURTHER IMPROVE REDUCE BUILD A STANDARD BEVERAGE OUR SAFETY PRODUCTION FOR ALUMINIUM CAN RECYCLING RECORD WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL l 80% beverage can recycling l Reduce our Recordable Case l Have at least one site rate in Europe Rate* every year by 10% l Reduce production waste Aluminium Stewardship  ON TRACK OFF TRACK going to landfill by 10%, Initiative (ASI) certified including Muscle Shoals  ON TRACK l Work with the industry and l A maximum of four serious (vs. 2015) with our stakeholders to injuries a year by 2020 OFF TRACK increase the beverage can OFF TRACK ENSURE recycling rate in the U.S. SUSTAINABLE IMPROVE ENERGY PURCHASING OFF TRACK l Be in the industry’s top quartile EFFICIENCY in terms of safety results l Evaluate the sustainability  ON TRACK performance of all key INCREASE CUSTOMER l 10% energy efficiency suppliers SATISFACTION improvement by 2020,  ON TRACK ENGAGE OUR including Muscle Shoals (vs. PEOPLE 2015) l Undertake on-site l Conduct a customer OFF TRACK sustainability audits of satisfaction survey every two years for all business units l Six point increase in overall suppliers working in locations  ON TRACK employee satisfaction from a and sectors with greater risk 2014 baseline of divergent practices  ON TRACK  ON TRACK l Ensure that all suppliers sign STRENGTHEN OUR off on our Code of Conduct COMMUNITIES  ON TRACK l At least one community l Convince all contracted metal activity per site every year GHG EMISSIONS producers and remelters to  ON TRACK TARGET 2025 become members of the ASI  ON TRACK  e aim to define our W greenhouse gas (GHG) *Recordable Case Rate measures emissions reduction target, the number of fatalities, serious taking a full life cycle injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments assessment perspective per one million hours worked. 36 Sustainable Value Sharing Sustainability Goals in Europe Our targets align with European Aluminium’s Sustainability Roadmap Towards 2025. About European Aluminium “We believe the European Constellium is proud to be a member of aluminium industry European Aluminium, an association founded in 1981 whose members represent can contribute to a more than 80 companies and organizations sustainable society from the entire aluminium value chain. in 2025 and beyond. Mapping out a sustainable future As an active member, Since the 1990s, European Aluminium has Constellium plays a longstanding track record of sharing a significant role in sustainability best practices across the membership, and of regular public reporting building and executing of a broad set of Sustainable Development the roadmap through Indicators (SDIs), based on data collected their participation in the from the members. The association’s Sustainability Advisory Board is an European aluminium With the Sustainability Roadmap Towards independent body that includes high-level members such as a former director general of the European Commission, programs and their own 2025, European Aluminium transcends leading climate experts, academics, and NGOs. sustainability agenda.” legal requirements, combining concrete commitments with a voluntary approach. committed to sourcing raw materials in the Gerd Götz, General Director, European Aluminium The Roadmap provides members with a tool most environmentally, economically, and to proactively engage with political, NGO, socially responsible manner,and to employing and community stakeholders. It is best traceability practices. Working with the comprehensive in scope, ranging from Aluminium Stewardship Initiative and the primary production to semi-fabrication, International Council of Mining and Metals, Social aspects end-use products, and recycling. we are developing criteria for sustainable Europe’s aluminium industry endeavors to sourcing. be progressive and inclusive, and we make The 2025 Roadmap covers: health and safety our number one priority. Energy and GHG emissions Recycling We are working to eliminate industrial Over the past 30 years, the European Our industry is helping to phase out accidents with safety, prevention, and aluminium industry has reduced its CO2 landfilling of recyclable waste, in line with training programs. The biannual Safety emissions by more than 50% and the European Commission’s Circular Solutions Competition encourages member perfluorocarbon (PFC) emissions by 90%. Economy strategy. The association is companies to present innovative and The 2025 Roadmap sets out to reduce developing market-specific recycling action replicable safety measures implemented in energy consumption by 10% per metric ton plans, starting with packaging, automotive, their plants. of aluminium produced or transformed. and building. It supports initiatives such as Every Can Counts, encouraging people to Looking further down the road, European Responsible materials and sourcing recycle used drink cans even when they are Aluminium is now defining sustainability Europe’s aluminium producers have away from home. goals for 2050. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 37 Constellium’s Materiality Assessment By reaching out to our stakeholders, we can coordinate our actions with their concerns. Conducting the Assessment energy efficiency – yet also placed great Expectations by stakeholder group A Materiality Assessment allows us to value on reducing GHG emissions. • Civil society members prioritized climate know what topics matter most to our change and energy, followed by stakeholders, so that we can align our Stakeholders’ vision of Constellium responsible sourcing and sustainability efforts with their priorities. Overall, external stakeholders hold a communications. Constellium conducted a first Materiality p o s i t i ve i m a ge of C o n ste l l i u m’s • Customers ranked product sustainability Assessment in 2014, surveying top performance – half recognized our first, followed by communications and managers and external stakeholders. In sustainability engagement, while others recycling. 2017-2018, we broadened the scope. An mentioned our respect for the environment, • Industry members focused on clear independent third-party company recycling efforts, responsible purchasing communications. surveyed around 100 internal stakeholders practices, safety, and community • Investors asked us to take our (top managers and other employees) along involvement. A limited share (15%) sustainability commitment further. with 100 external stakeholders (investors, suggested improvements in leadership, • Suppliers were concerned about suppliers, and customers). Roughly half business relationships, or social responsible sourcing, recycling, came from France and Germany, 14% from engagement. Internal stakeholders were and communications. North America, and 34% from the rest of also mostly positive, though they asked for • Union members emphasized internal the world. further engagement more often (30%). communications and energy. • Employees focused on stronger Key priorities Key stakeholders’ expectations engagement and internal communications As displayed on the next page, we were Stakeholders most often cited the around sustainability, followed by recycling pleased to see that external and internal environment (energy, climate change, and energy efficiency. stakeholders’ views were well aligned. It recycling) as an area where they expect was interesting to note the importance of Constellium’s strong commitment, Follow-up social aspects to our stakeholders, mentioning it 37% of the time. Internal Constellium already addresses most of our especially human and labor rights (which and external communications were stakeholders' high-priority issues in confirmed our 2013 decision to join the second in importance (23%), followed by several ways. These include our 2020 UNGC), followed by safety at work. governance (22%), and sustainable sustainability targets, our employee and Respondents approved of our emphasis on products (18%). s u pp l i e r C o d e s of C o n d u ct , o u r environmental management system, and our joining the UN Global Compact. We are “From my experience with Constellium, reinforcing our commitment in other areas, the Company demonstrates superior corporate aiming to finalize our GHG emissions target citizenship. Our Bartow County economic in 2018, publishing our human rights and labor practices policy, and updating our development team often uses them as a model Code of Conduct to reflect our social for best practice sharing, and we are proud to engagement. We realize we must improve have them in our community.” our communications around sustainability, especially internally. Cindy Williams, CEO, Cartersville-Bartow Chamber of Commerce 38 Sustainable Value COMPARING THE PRIORITIES OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Note: This graph shows only the scores that received a minimum of 8 out of 10 in terms of importance to stakeholders. “Constellium is 18 increasing its focus VERY IMPORTANT on sustainability. Its 5 performance is already 13 above average, and 14 has strong momentum. Reports show that the External stakeholders 1 6 Company is taking it 15 seriously and making 16 2 real progress in 17 8 reducing its impact.” 9 10 3 Emmanuel Blot, Business Manager, 7 Bpifrance PRODUCTS 19 11 IMPORTANT PEOPLE 4 OPERATIONS 20 12 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS IMPORTANT Internal stakeholders VERY IMPORTANT 1. l Recycling 8.  l Reducing use of harmful substances 15.  l Business ethics 2.  l Being innovative 9.  l Reducing GHG emissions 16.  l Complying with public policies 3. lImproving customer satisfaction 10. l Energy efficiency 17.  l Enforcing freedom of association 4.  l Developing products with 11. l Increasing economic performance 18.  l Preventing child labor environmental benefits 12. l Reducing landfilled waste 19.  l Responsible purchasing 5.  l Ensuring gender equity* 13. l Preventing forced/compulsory labor 20.  l Transparency and respect of 6. lImproving safety at work 14. l Enforcing the respect of human rights confidentiality 7. l Preventing pollution *We included this topic in the matrix because of its high rating despite the small number of external stakeholders who rated it (10). Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 39 ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Constellium has been monitoring and 2017 RESULTS: ­disclosing its greenhouse gas emissions NEXT STEPS: for years. Our analysis goes beyond our • Globally, our GHG emissions remained own emissions to encompass the entire stable. We consider this a fair performance,  ontinue to work on our C emissions through energy life cycle of our products. To help us define given certain factors that affected our efficiency a GHG emissions reduction target, we have production (an increase in recycling capacity,  onduct a parameter sensitivity C developed a full Life Cycle Assessment more energy-demanding products in several analysis to define the potential (LCA) model of our activities and products. major sites). evolution of our GHG emissions • Energy efficiency management allowed us I nvestigate the possibility of adopting a science-based target Other actions we have undertaken into keep our emissions under control. clude supporting the Aluminium Stew• We completed our LCA model to include all D  efine a GHG emissions reduction target (scope, ardship I­nitiative, which encourages our sites and product lines. Some fine tuning reduction target, agenda) the entire industry to reduce the GHG remains to be done for ancillary data. emissions. We facilitate end-of-life • We launched a critical review process for product recycling. And we design our global LCA model. innovative,­­durable, high performance • We used our LCA model to draft an SCOPE DEFINITIONS: ­a luminium solutions that lower the assessment for 12 sites undergoing emissions of products during their use, ISO 14001:2015 certification in 2017 and SCOPE 1: Direct emissions from ­notably in transportation. 2018, to answer to the standard’s new sources we own or control requirements. SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions from the production of the energy we purchase (electricity) SCOPE 3: Other indirect emissions, notably including emissions from raw material production, product use, distribution, and end-of-life GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (kT CO2e) TOTAL SCOPE 1 TOTAL SCOPE 2 TOTAL SCOPE 1+2 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,215 1,213 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,186 1,000 1,000 1,000 800 752 759 751 800 800 600 600 434 456 462 600 400 400 400 200 200 200 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 40 Sustainable Value RESULTS FROM OUR LCA GLOBAL MODEL: CONSTELLIUM LCA MODEL The illustration below shows that our requires 5-10% of the energy needed to Scope 3 impact is largely dominated produce primary metal. Our model calculates the e­ nvironmental impact that by metal sourcing. Energy comes comes from different life cycle next, with a much smaller footprint. Creating high performance products phases of a given product or activity. Transportation displays even more also contributes to emission reduction. It includes the impact of our own limited impact. Finally, though waste and In the automotive sector, our aluminium activity (energy use, waste production, air and water emissions, water management are environmentally solutions help to reduce fuel consumption water consumption) and from other important, they play an insignificant role when compared to steel. And our Airware© phases of our products’ life cycle: in our impact on the climate. The model products allow for even lighter aircraft indicates ways to reduce emissions, such components than standard aluminium U  pstream (from bauxite mining as aluminium product recycling, which solutions. to metal production) T  ransportation of raw materials and products to and from Constellium sites METAL D  ownstream (product end-of-life) PRODUCTS 8.6 MT CO2e P  otential benefits from product END OF LIFE use phase (e.g. savings in -3.7 MT CO2e automotive applications) compared to reference material The tool allows us to collect and process data from product lines, sites, business units, and ­Constellium as a whole. It gives us a better understanding of our global footprint, considering that most of our identified ­environmental­ impact occurs TOTAL:* outside of Constellium’s activity – 6.5 our internal activity generates less than 20% of the impact of our MT CO2e products throughout their lives. Establishing a full life cycle assessment of products is key to determine if they are worth manufacturing, and if downstream benefits offset production impact. TRANSPORTATION ENERGY 0.2 MT CO2e 1.5 MT CO2e For instance, increasing our recycling activity boosts our internal emissions while decreasing our need for primary metal and upstream emissions. Similarly, developing stronger and lighter WATER & WASTE alloys may bring higher mass -0.05 MT CO2e savings during product use at the cost of higher emissions during product manufacturing. This model is able to calculate environmental AVOIDED EMISSIONS impact over a wide range of FROM PRODUCT USE categories, such as climate change, -5.6 MT CO2e water eutrophication, soil *Total without accounting for product use acidification, and human toxicity. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 41 PRODUCTS Boosting Beverage Can Recycling When properly handled, aluminium packaging can be recycled indefinitely. Constellium works with European Aluminium to: 2020 TARGETS • Focus on out-of-home consumption to reach an 80% beverage can recycling rate by 2020.  80% beverage can recycling rate • Raise awareness about can recycling among consumers, particularly when in Europe cans are consumed away from home (at  ON TRACK places of work, universities, concerts, sports and cultural events, hiking, etc.)  Work with the industry and through a unique, proactive can recycling with our stakeholders to increase the beverage can program, “Every Can Counts.” recycling rate in the U.S. • Develop guidelines for post-consumer OFF TRACK recycling of aluminium packaging waste. • In cooperation with canmakers and aluminium foil producers, promote the 2014 STATUS advantages of aluminium packaging Innovation in scrap processing items for customers, consumers, Beyond can recycling, we also work to improve our recycling processes. In February 2018, our Děčín plant and future generations. completed a state-of-the-art sow casting system  The aluminium beverage can recycling • Provide learning tools for the next connected to the existing twin chamber furnace, designed rate in Europe reached 72.9% to process scrap that contains organic material. generation of design engineers and guide This allows us to increase the amount of processed scrap by 37%, while better use of the twin chamber leads to customers to use aluminium products a 30% decrease in specific energy consumption. Our industry works with our customers for optimized performance. and recycling systems to increase the • Share knowledge for European Environment recycling of aluminium packaging, legislation, standards, and testing specifically beverage cans. harmonization processes. Following its consolidation in November The U.S. recycling rate hit a dramatically 2017, we know that in 2014 the overall low level at 44% in 2017. We recognize that recycling rate for aluminium beverage our activity has been limited and propose cans in Europe (EU 28 + EFTA) increased to improve as follows: by 1.6% to a record level of 72.9%. • Engage in the U.S. recycling dialogue and NEXT STEPS: Already, the level of aluminium packaging highlight the beverage can’s value and recycling is above the 2025 and 2030 role in the circular economy.  ontinue supporting C European Aluminium and targets in the European Union circular • Evaluate expansion of deposits, and the Every Can Counts program economy package. However, considering oppose repeal. W  ork with the Aluminium the disparity of recycling levels throughout • Support actions to improve curbside recovery. Association and Can Europe, we believe the aluminium beverage • Lobby for landfill bans. Manufacturers Institute for U.S. recycling can recycling rate should and will continue to increase. 42 Sustainable Value PRODUCTS Increasing Customer Satisfaction We do our best to keep customers happy, conduct surveys to improve our performance, and use partnerships to go the extra mile. 2020 TARGET  Conduct a customer satisfaction survey every two years for all business units  ON TRACK 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENT  We implemented numerous actions following the 2016 customer survey and conducted an additional survey in 2017 for Aerospace and Transportation. Kentucky. For canstock, it focused on We supply the new Stelvio from Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Our next survey is scheduled for 2018. improving reliability and customer service at Muscle Shoals, Alabama. After addressing Automotive Structures plant in White, GA, Constellium actively looks for ways to the most critical issues, Aerospace and supplying aluminium Crash Management anticipate our customers’ needs. After Transportation conducted an additional Systems and body structure components to studying the results of our 2016 customer survey in 2017, which demonstrated automakers in the southeastern United survey, we undertook a range of actions improvements in supply chain reliability, States. The plant began deliveries to BMW in our business units (BUs). Even though purchasing order process, and claim Group in 2017 and will provide additional they sometimes share customers, each management. components for new models in 2018. BU has its own priorities regarding • Fiat Chrysler Automobiles: We are customer satisfaction, and has Strong partnerships supplying products for the new Stelvio, responded to the findings in its own way. Our longstanding partnerships with the first SUV ever produced by Alfa Romeo. customers translated into many successes The primary supplier of Auto Body Sheets In 2017, Automotive Structures and Industry in 2017, including new contracts and for the closures and inner parts, we also focused on rapid prototyping to reduce launches. provide Surfalex® for the hood outer and time-to-market for automakers and new • Bombardier: Our relationship with the tailgate outer and lower, and our lightweighting solutions for traditional and Bombardier Aerospace, a leading business high-performing 5182 alloy for the hood, electric vehicles. Automotive Structures and and regional jet manufacturer, goes back tailgate, and door inners. Industry leveraged its engineering skills at many decades. We were recently awarded a our new University Technology Center at long term contract for sheet and plate Brunel University London. Packaging and products based on the unique capabilities NEXT STEP: Automotive Rolled Products put heavy of our plants and Research & Technology emphasis on the ramp-up of our automotive centers. We are now present in all major  e will conduct a new survey W in 2018 finishing lines in Neuf-Brisach, France, as Bombardier programs. well as at our joint venture in Bowling Green, • BMW Group: Constellium launched its new Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 43 PEOPLE Improving our Safety Record We put safety at the heart of everything we do, developing new programs and training our people to look out for themselves and one another. programs while further improving pedestrian safety and man-machine 2020 TARGETS interface. Each site developed a program around behavior and employee engagement, and  10% Reduce our Recordable Case we held more than 4,500 shift supervisor coaching sessions to improve frontline Rate* every year by 10% leadership. We focused our EHS day on line-of-fire incidents, with videos showing OFF TRACK how to manage at-risk situations. Our CEO delivered key messages at two EHS A maximum of four serious injuries network meetings, demonstrating his a year by 2020 commitment to safety. Whenever he visits OFF TRACK a plant, there is a systematic safety tour Be in the industry’s top quartile and interaction with plant managers and in terms of safety results operators on safety issues.  ON TRACK The Ravenswood team celebrates *Recordable Case Rate measures the number of its GOLD THANK YOU AWARD for its quarterly focused fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted EHS improvement program. work injuries, or medical treatments per one million 2017 STATUS hours worked. We know that zero accidents is A drop in our recordable case rate to 3.22, Labor Rights achievable. Six of our plants did not incur a 2.7% improvement compared to 2016 any recordable cases in 2017, including  Unfortunately, we incurred 14 Gottmadingen, which reached 3 million serious injuries in 2017, which is not ­ an acceptable number work hours without incident. In 2017, we continued our main safety programs and initiated new ones, such as a Serious Injury and Fatality prevention program and an EHS leadership directive NEXT STEPS: (see page 20). We used our Constellium Safety is more than a policy for risk analysis tool, HIRARC, to examine  arget to outperform a recordable T Constellium; it’s one of the six values 97% of our activities. We employed 8D case rate of 2.86 Fully roll out the Serious Injury and that are a condition of our success. methodology to analyze 238 near-misses Fatality prevention program Everything we do starts and ends with and hazards with the potential for  ully roll out leadership training for F Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS), serious injury, and developed 2,400 site management teams Develop line-of-fire/hand safety and and people’s safety is everyone's Standard Operating Procedures engaging hazard awareness responsibility. It is vital that our people numerous shop floor employees. We Improve existing actions through communication and training understand all possible risks and continued the rollout of our hands-free approach them correctly. casting and hands-off suspended loads 44 Sustainable Value PEOPLE Engaging our People A new communications program transmits our mission and values to our employees, leading to greater performance and satisfaction. Our values at work: collaborating for customer 2020 TARGET Cristina Santiago, satisfaction Our sites at Gottmadingen, Quality Engineer at San Luis Potosí. Germany, and San Luis Potosí, Mexico produce automotive structural parts for a common customer, so they decided to +6 share knowledge and best practices on how to best serve  this customer. “It was so helpful point increase in employee to see firsthand the tools and systems our German colleagues satisfaction from a 2014 are using,” said Cristina Santiago, baseline Quality Engineer at San Luis  ON TRACK Potosí. “Automakers manage global platforms and they rely on their suppliers to do the same,” said Ralph Gligorich, Engineering and Quality Manager at San Luis Potosí. “By 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENT working together, Constellium can exceed our customers’ expectations and position the Company for new business  MOMENTUM, a company-wide program opportunities on a global scale.” to communicate our mission, strategy, and values to all our employees. An engaged and satisfied workforce is and with our customers, suppliers, and the foundation of a strong and partners. With MOMENTUM we have “With the launch productive business. Every two years, defined these values: safety, respect, we carry out a comprehensive survey to trust, transparency, collaboration, and of MOMENTUM, measure the well-being of our empowerment. Constellium is employees and track our progress equipping our people towards our 2020 target. with the necessary In early 2018 we launched MOMENTUM, a Labor Rights focus to become the management program to help our people best in our industry.” understand our mission, vision, and strategy so they can make the best Jen Fife, Purchasing Director, decisions in line with our objectives. We Ravenswood conducted a special training session led by our CEO, Jean-Marc Germain, for all our plant managers and/or heads of HR NEXT STEPS: and communications worldwide. Now we are implementing MOMENTUM at every Full  rollout of MOMENTUM Follow up on all activities at office and plant, where local each site management teams conduct briefing Carry out the next survey in 2018 sessions for employees. Our values guide how we work together Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 45 PEOPLE Strengthening Communities Our sites find different ways to engage with local communities through programs and actions that improve people’s lives. 2020 TARGET  At least one community activity per site every year  ON TRACK 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENTS  Nearly all our plants conducted a community program or event  We increased the number of activities at large sites More than 50 Neuf-Brisach employees We support communities neighboring in Issoire now sorts 15 metric tons of food participated in the Colmar marathon. our operations, aiming to contribute to waste per year, to be transformed into their successes. At each of our sites, we compost. In Zurich, we turned used live with a disability. At Issoire, where set out to make a difference with at least Nespresso capsules into a small work of Constellium employs more than one community action per year. art, a Constellium sign for the office 100 people with disabilities, we provide entrance. We also plan to combine hearing aids, ergonomic chairs, a large We engage our employees in many ways. community programs with sustainability screen, and customized security shoes. At several of Constellium’s sites, we objectives for a recycling campaign in the U.S. And for several years, our Issoire site has celebrated 2017 as a milestone: C-TEC ordered temperature sensors from the and Neuf-Brisach marked 50 years, In Ravenswood, our Constellium Cares ESAT (Etablissement et Service d’Aide par Ravenswood turned 60, and the Valais donations helped improve the daily le Travail), where workers with disabilities apprentice center turned 100. experience of autistic children. Every year have transformed more than Děčín gives an award to the best students 200,000 meters of alloy wire. In Gottmadingen, our employees from local technical schools, and this year participated in a football tournament. At one winner was hired for our construction Issoire, they took part in three different design team. We welcomed apprentices to runs – two against cancer and one to help Valais, and hired college interns at Burg sick or underprivileged children. and Crailsheim. NEXT STEP: For two days in the spring, 20 apprentices As part of our efforts to better integrate at Constellium Valais helped pick up trash employees with disabilities, a Constellium C  ontinue to develop community programs at all sites along the Rhône riverbanks. team participated in a trek in the As for recycling, our company restaurant Auvergne, to understand what it is like to 46 Sustainable Value OPERATIONS Reducing Landfilled Waste With data collection, better waste segregation, technology, and teamwork, we endeavor to significantly reduce what we send to landfill. Today 86% of our total waste is recycled. with a plant-wide team effort, notably in The remaining 14% is essentially regards to municipal waste at our U.S. 2020 TARGET landfilled, with very little incineration. operations. For instance, installing sorting bins is not enough; we must ensure that all Our goal is to reduce our landfilled our employees use them properly.  10% Reduce production waste going production waste by 10%. Since this waste is the result of various streams depending to landfill by 10%, including on the activity, size, and location of Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) our plants, we have different targets “Focus and teamwork OFF TRACK and organizations at our sites. We are not only inside focusing mostly on six plants that generate 96% of production waste sent to landfill: the plant but with Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, Issoire, our suppliers and 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENT Neuf-Brisach, Ussel, and Van Buren. customers enabled us One of our initiatives is to improve waste data collection, including for recycled to reduce drastically  Our landfilled production waste decreased 7% from waste. At our Muscle Shoals site we the amount of waste 2016 to 2017, but is still above 2015 levels precisely mapped our waste generation going to landfill.” in order to optimize its treatment. In Ravenswood, the quantity of municipal Eric Krepps, Managing Director, Van Buren waste decreased with a better waste segregation program. Each plant production unit is responsible for sorting and managing its own waste. Ussel, by improving its internal recycling Environment of sand casting process waste, increased its energy use, yet balanced this with a significant reduction in future landfilled waste once the waste stock is reabsorbed. Two key challenges remain before we can drastically reduce the quantity of landfilled waste. One is production waste, for which there is no technical recycling solution. NEXT STEPS: The second is our ability to completely  ontinue to sort municipal C recycle municipal waste, which relies on scrap Van Buren: The site started using returnable containers local recycling facilities. We are working with its extruded profiles supplier and with its customers. F  ind technical solutions for Van Buren also invested in a compactor for wood and with partners and networks to find specific production waste such cardboard, and improved its waste material segregation. This resulted in more recycling, more efficient transport solutions for both these challenges. as flue-gas dust and refractory to the recycling unit, and an impressive reduction of the bricks site’s landfilled waste to half of 2016 levels. In any case, significantly reducing the level of landfilled waste can only be achieved Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 47 OPERATIONS Improving our Energy Efficiency We aim to reduce energy use through monitoring, action plans, and best practice sharing. We are working to make Constellium more energy efficient, thereby reducing costs 2020 TARGET and CO2 emissions, with a target of 10% improvement from 2015 to 2020. To achieve this, we rely on investments,  10% energy efficiency improvement consistent action plans, and best practice sharing throughout our energy network. Monitoring at Automotive Structures & Industry Singen by 2020, including Muscle Monitoring is helping Singen to systematically reduce Shoals (vs. 2015) In 2017 our performance improved slightly, energy consumption. The maintenance team is actively OFF TRACK engaged in energy management. Employees were at 1.2% versus 2015, though still not in line trained to identify opportunities to save energy, with our 2020 target. Nonetheless, this from compressed air leaks to unnecessary lighting or minimizing scrap from production. Every time we represented savings of about 50 GWh per replace equipment we use more energy efficient parts. 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENTS year for Constellium as a whole. There were many reasons for our lowerand optimized process routes and recovery than-expected performance: increase at Neuf-Brisach and Steg.  We performed slightly better at 1.2% vs. 2015, • We underestimated the work and time though still not in line with our 2020 target A combination of numerous smaller actions needed to implement certain key actions,  Start and ramp-up of key equipment in will also make a difference. The example Issoire, Ravenswood, & Muscle Shoals notably at the Muscle Shoals site. of our Automotive Structures and Industry  Automotive Structures and Industry • Some projects were delayed due to division globally on track business unit illustrates the potential of technical or economic issues.  Remarkable progress at Neuf-Brisach • Major equipment was in ramp-up phase rigorous energy management. recycling unit or upgraded at several locations (Issoire, Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, Neuf-Brisach, Steg) and thus less energy efficient. Environment “Consistently improving • We made certain decisions that required more energy in order to improve other energy efficiency environmental aspects, such as internal requires constant recycling of sand in Ussel. management. Our At the same time, we saw remarkable improvement at many sites. This was monthly business unit especially true in the Automotive Structures review of our most and Industry division, which made good use NEXT STEPS: energy-intensive of its energy management practices, including a monthly energy review and a equipment helps us constant focus on energy efficiency. Other  chieve energy savings with A new equipment to maintain focus.” actions paved the way for future progress, C  loser monitoring such as better energy monitoring at Muscle of underperforming units Paul Warton, President Automotive Shoals. Looking ahead, we expect significant F  urther develop energy action Structures and Industry business unit plans for future savings progress thanks to new equipment at Muscle Shoals, Issoire, and Ravenswood, 48 Sustainable Value RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Developing an Aluminium Standard As a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), we embrace its advances and look forward to gaining certification. 2020 TARGET  Have at least one site Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certified  ON TRACK 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENTS  We performed a self assessment for our Singen site  The ASI certification program was launched in December 2017; several auditors were accredited The Annual General Meeting of the Aluminium The year 2017 was a productive one for We found a few gaps that we will correct in Stewardship Initiative was held in April 2017 in Montreal, gathering members, stakeholders, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 2018 so that the plants can be audited for and experts in aluminium and sustainability. (ASI), with approval of the Performance certification in 2019. These gaps dealt Standard and the Chain of Custody mainly with our ability to provide evidence Standard, along with a guidance of Human and Labor Rights enforcement Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Labor Rights, and Environment document and assurance manual. and associated due diligence processes. As The first auditors are now accredited, a result we developed a Human Rights and and a system is in place for companies Labor Practices charter, whose principles to become ASI certified. will be embedded into a new Employee Code of Conduct. We also formalized our The standard has continued to expand in responsible purchasing policy. 2017. More than 20 new members joined the ASI, bringing the membership to 50 We put other topics on our agenda, too, NEXT STEPS: and proving that there is increasing such as improving gender equality and interest in this initiative. better integration of biodiversity into our C  ertification of a plant for the environmental management system. Our Performance Standard We participated in standards committee ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications  ertification for the Chain of C discussions in 2017 and started a self were helpful in providing evidence for Custody Standard assessment exercise which will be useful environmental and social criteria. B  eing in a position to sell ASI metal in preparing our Neuf-Brisach and Singen plants for certification. Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Ensuring Sustainable Purchasing A new policy, expanded audits, and a strict Code of Conduct help ensure sustainability at every stage of our supply chain. Constellium aims to work only with suppliers who comply with applicable laws “Regulations and 2020 TARGETS customer requests and commit to sustainable practices in   Evaluate the sustainability performance of all key governance, environment, and society. Legal requirements around the world affect have made Sustainable Purchasing an integral suppliers our supply chain, including the Loi Sapin 2 part of our team's daily   ON TRACK in France, the UK Bribery Act, and the work. It's now a strategic  Undertake on-site sustainability audits of California Transparency in Supply Chains suppliers working in locations and sectors Act. We do our utmost to ensure compliance item, transforming work with greater risk of divergent practices methods and supplier   ON TRACK with these laws while integrating them into  Ensure that all contracted suppliers sign our responsible supply chain policy. relations.” off on our Code of Conduct In 2017 we finalized a responsible supply Nicolas Vieu, Director Purchasing & Supply   ON TRACK chain management policy, based on three Chain, Constellium Neuf-Brisach  Convince all metal producers and remelters years of supplier evaluations and new to become members of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) supply chain laws. It explains our approach,  ON TRACK sets out rules for Constellium and our suppliers, and includes specific objectives for top purchasing executives. Going Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Labor Rights, and Environment 2017 ACCOMPLISHMENTS forward, we will adapt this policy to ensure compliance and progress. Performed 28 new EcoVadis evaluations In addition to our centrally managed suppliers, we started carrying out All but a few signatures pending for supplier Code of Conduct evaluations of those managed locally by our sites, starting with the largest plants. NEXT STEPS: “By performing the We understand that suppliers must invest time and energy to conduct the EcoVadis assessment, assessments we require, so we organize  xpand assessments to all traders, E major scrap suppliers, and key local we developed a training sessions and webinars to explain suppliers. greater awareness of the process. Many of our suppliers have Take action pursuant to on-site audits already undertaken assessments upon the I mplement a tracking system for what sustainability request of another customer; this growing supplier Code of Conduct signatures comprises and where experience and awareness should make R  eview supplier Codes of Conduct for compliance with relevant laws we stand.” the situation easier for all.  inalize integration of complaint F mechanisms Gaëlle Martinaud, Director, Logistics and General Services, RVA 50 Sustainable Value PER FOR MANCE R EPORT Table of contents Financial statements Sustainability performance GRI content index Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 51 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2017 Financial statements Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Revenue 5,237 4,743 5,153 Cost of sales (4,698) (4,227) (4,703) Gross profit 539 516 450 Selling and administrative expenses (248) (254) (245) Research and development expenses (36) (32) (35) Restructuring costs (4) (5) (8) Impairment — — (457) Other gains/(losses) – net 70 21 (131) Income/(loss) from operations 321 246 (426) Finance costs – net (243) (167) (155) Share of loss of joint-ventures (29) (14) (3) Income/(loss) before income tax 49 65 (584) Income tax (expense)/benefit (80) (69) 32 Net loss (31) (4) (552) Net (loss)/income attributable to: Equity holders of Constellium (31) (4) (554) Non-controlling interests — — 2 Net loss (31) (4) (552) Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium Year ended Year ended Year ended (in euros per share) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Basic (0.28) (0.04) (5.27) Diluted (0.28) (0.04) (5.27) Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium-12620563.pdf 52 Performance Consolidated statement of financial position At December 31, At December 31, (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 269 347 Trade receivables and other 419 355 Inventories 643 591 Other financial assets 69 117 1,400 1,410 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,517 1,477 Goodwill 403 457 Intangible assets 68 79 Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 16 Deferred income tax assets 164 252 Trade receivables and other 48 47 Other financial assets 110 49 2,311 2,377 Total Assets 3,711 3,787 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade payables and other 930 839 Borrowings 106 107 Other financial liabilities 23 34 Income tax payable 11 13 Provisions 40 42 1,110 1,035 Non-current liabilities Trade payables and other 54 59 Borrowings 2,021 2,361 Other financial liabilities 43 30 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 664 735 Provisions 113 107 Deferred income tax liabilities 25 30 2,920 3,322 Total Liabilities 4,030 4,357 Equity Share capital 3 2 Share premium 420 162 Retained deficit and other reserves (750) (743) Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (327) (579) Non-controlling interests 8 9 Total Equity (319) (570) Total Equity and Liabilities 3,711 3,787 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 53 Consolidated statement of cash flows Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Net loss (31) (4) (552) Adjustments Depreciation and amortization 171 155 140 Finance costs – net 243 167 155 Income tax expense/(benefit) 80 69 (32) Share of loss of joint-ventures 29 14 3 Unrealized (gains)/losses on derivatives – net and from remeasurement (54) (74) 23 of monetary assets and liabilities – net Losses on disposal 3 10 5 Impairment — — 457 Other – net 7 (14) 5 Interest paid (185) (174) (143) Income tax paid (18) (14) (9) Change in trade working capital Inventories (99) (42) 149 Trade receivables (91) 28 343 Margin calls — — 1 Trade payables 124 (18) (161) Change in provisions and pension obligations (7) (5) (20) Other working capital (12) (10) 4 Net cash flows from operating activities 160 88 368 Purchases of property, plant, and equipment (276) (355) (350) Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired — 21 (348) Proceeds from disposals net of cash 2 (5) 4 Equity contribution and loan to joint-ventures (41) (37) (34) Other investing activities 23 11 6 Net cash flows used in investing activities (292) (365) (722) Net proceeds received from issuance of shares 259 — — Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes 1,440 375 — Repayment of Senior Notes (1,559) (148) — Proceeds/(Repayments) from revolving credit facilities and other loans 29 (69) (211) Payment of deferred financing costs and exit fees (118) (19) (2) Transactions with non-controlling interests — (2) 3 Other financing activities 10 8 45 Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 61 145 (165) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (71) (132) (519) Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 347 472 991 Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale – beginning of period — 4 — Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7) 3 4 Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 269 347 476 Less: cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale — — (4) Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the Consolidated Statement 269 347 472 of Financial Position 54 Performance SHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN US$ (FROM APRIL 2017) 15 12 9 6 3 APR 2017 MAY 2017 JUNE 2017 JULY 2017 AUG 2017 SEPT 2017 OCT 2017 NOV 2017 DEC 2017 JAN 2018 FEB 2018 MAR 2018 APR 2018 SHAREHOLDING AVERAGE NUMBER STRUCTURE OF DAILY SHARES (as of December 31, 2017) TRADED IN 2017 1 2 1.3 MILLION 1. Bpifrance 12.2% 2. Free float 87.8% Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 55 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2017 Sustainability performance In this section (pages 56-60), we provide our performance across the four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy. PRODUCTS PEOPLE OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE Page 56 Pages 57-58 Pages 59-60 BUSINESS Page 60 PRODUCTS Pages 42-43 for more information on Products ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES 80 75% target for 2015 72.9%* 71.3% 69.5% 68.3% 70 66.7% 63.1% 64.0% 61.8% 58.0% 60 54.5% 54.5% 52.0% 49.2% 48.4% 56.7% 49.4% 48.0% 48.0% 50 54.1% 54.2% 54.9% 43.0% 50.9% 44.0% 49.7% 48.5% 48.2% 46.0% 45% 45.3% 40 45.0% 44.3% 45.1% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Europe U.S. *This is the most recent data for Europe. Figures for this data-point take a long time to process and 2014 data was made available only by 2017. Since 2000, the beverage can recycling rate has seen tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 72.9% (in 2014). 56 Performance PEOPLE Pages 44-46 for more information on People GRI G4–10: Total workforce Apprentice Inactive Permanent Fixed-term Temporary (agency, excluding contractors) ALL CONSTELLIUM Number of employees Male 227 33 — — with specific employment type Female 38 13 — — Number of employees Male — — 9,321 528 883 per employment contract Female — — 1,160 119 Number of employees Full-time 265 46 10,261 642 883 working full/part-time Part-time 0 0 220 5 Total 12,322 Total permanent and fixed terms 11,439 EUROPE Number of employees Male 227 7 — — with specific employment type Female 38 9 — — Number of employees Male — — 6,828 296 827 per employment contract Female — — 810 66 Number of employees Full-time 265 16 7,418 357 827 working full/part-time Part-time 0 0 220 5 Total 9,108 Total permanent and fixed terms 8,281 ASIA Number of employees Male — 1 — — with specific employment type Female — — — — Number of employees Male — — 11 237 1 per employment contract Female — — 12 35 Number of employees Full-time — 1 23 272 1 working full/part-time Part-time — — — — Total 297 Total permanent and fixed terms 296 NORTH AMERICA (UNITED STATES, CANADA & MEXICO) Number of employees Male — 25 — — with specific employment type Female — 4 — — Number of employees Male — 2,483 2 55 per employment contract Female — 337 1 Number of employees Full-time — 29 2,820 3 55 working full/part-time Part-time — — — — Total 2,907 Total permanent and fixed terms 2,852 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 57 GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover Apprentices and temporary fixed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation. Number of Number of Number of new employees hired in employees who left the employees on Employee category 2017 Company in 2017 December 31, 2017 Turnover rate EUROPE Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 56 0 4 16 178 117 1,091 13.68% 16.32% Between 46 and 55 5 49 5 46 239 2,341 2.09% 1.96% Between 26 and 45 50 226 33 132 422 3,057 7.82% 4.32% Under 26 10 92 3 23 32 339 9.38% 6.78% Total 65 371 57 379 810 6,828 7.04% 5.55% NORTH AMERICA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 56 3 19 14 67 58 493 24.14% 13.59% Between 46 and 55 17 45 11 47 101 824 10.89% 5.70% Between 26 and 45 41 158 41 119 158 1,053 25.95% 11.30% Under 26 11 53 8 29 20 113 40.00% 25.66% Total 72 275 74 262 337 2,483 21.96% 10.55% ASIA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Above 56 0 1 0 0 0 3 0.00% 0.00% Between 46 and 55 2 2 0 3 9 7 0.00% 42.86% Between 26 and 45 7 98 8 93 35 193 22.86% 48.19% Under 26 1 28 2 26 2 47 100.00% 55.32% Total 10 129 10 122 46 250 21.74% 48.80% RECORDABLE CASE RATE* Pages 36 and 44 for more information about serious injuries 26.0 25 19.0 18.5 18.5 20 17.5 16 15 14 14 15 13.5 11.5 10.7 10 9.2 9 10 8.4 7.8 7.8 10.8 7.2 6.9 6.2 6.3 8.6 7.2 3.7 7.3 5 2.9 7.1 5.1 3.8 3.5 3.2 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.7 3.3 3.2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Legacy Constellium Constellium European Aluminium U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminum *Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included. 58 Performance OPERATIONS Pages 47-48 for more information on Operations WATER CONSUMPTION 106 m3 30 29.6 29.7 28.9 20 22.5 22.2 21.4 10 7.9 7.1 5.7 0.3 0.4 0.7 Water from public net Surface water Groundwater Total water 2015 2016 2017 PRODUCTION WASTE Metric tons 200,000 191,480 150,000 183,546 152,165 161,886 139,974 100,000 127,109 23,699 29,182 50,000 27,112 6,850 9,349 7,942 4,229 5,041 4,261 Recycling Incineration Landfill: production Landfill: construction Total tons/year 2015 2016 2017 Compared to previous reports, recycled and total waste data for 2015 and 2016 show a strong increase due to the recycled drosses at Muscle Shoals that were not reported previously. AIR EMISSIONS Metric tons 1,400 1,200 1,000 1,225 1,111 1084 1,059 800 900 904 617 625 600 548 400 284 262 244 200 NOx Particulate materials SO2 VOC 2015 2016 2017 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS See pages 40-41 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 59 2015 2016 2017 Indirect energy consumption (TJ)* Electricity TJ 5,482 5,847 5,908 Direct energy sources* Anthracite 500 522 389 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 15 15 15 Natural gas 13,243 13,224 13,292 Diesel 119 119 116 Heavy fuel 159 152 152 Total 14,036 14,032 13,964 Total Direct + Indirect 19,222 19,569 19,831 *As we locally produce part of our energy, total energy consumption does not exactly match the sum of direct and indirect energy consumption. From energy consumption to energy efficiency Raw energy consumption per ton is not affect the overall energy per ton, our operations, regardless of any changes necessarily the most relevant indicator independently of any other change. in our product mix. of energy efficiency, because we need For this reason, we correct our energy At the same time, we also rely on life to take into account the effect of efficiency indicator to avoid any bias. cycle assessments to make sure that different product mixes. For instance, the We have identified the relative energy we manufacture environmentally sound manufacture of automotive sheet requires consumption per ton of different product products. We are particularly keen to significantly more energy during rolling lines and use this to transpose raw energy ensure that products requiring greater and finishing operations than beverage per ton data into an energy efficiency energy during manufacture deliver greater can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the index. This index therefore reflects the energy savings during their lifetime. share of one product over another will intrinsic manufacturing performance of Page 48 for more information on energy efficiency RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Pages 49-50 for more information on Responsible Business CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING 96.0% 99.8% 99.3% 99.8% 100% 1,600 Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved 1,200 1,301 1,298 1,362 1,362 1,118 1,116 1,144 1,136 800 974 935 400 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of people targeted Number of people achieved 60 Performance PERFORMANCE REPORT 2017 GRI content index GRI G4 disclosure We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard disclosures and specific standard disclosures listed below, and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines (which are marked with an *). General standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Pages STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior Chief Executive Officer interview 8-9 decision-maker of the organization ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Innovation, Business units perspective Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6™, Constellium HCA6™, Modalex™, Butlerfinish®, Staybright™, Keikor®, ­Aeral™, Dokima®, Kool X™, @bright™ and Gripster G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Schiphol-Rijk, The Netherlands G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Our network worldwide 18-19 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the ­highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our ­shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2017 – free float: 87.8%; Bpifrance: 12.2% G4-8 Markets served Organization 15 We mean business 24-30 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Unlocking value 11 Our network worldwide 18-19 For capitalization data, see our Annual Report 2016, section F-5 https://www.constellium.com/download/filings/pdf/12620563.pdf For quantity of product: see our Annual Report 2016 on page 08 G4-10 Workforce characteristic Sustainability performance 57-58 G4-11 Employees covered by collective A vast majority of non-U.S. employees and approximately 50% of bargaining agreements U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 16-17 Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 61 DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Pages ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED) G4-13 Changes in organization’s size, Start of our new facility in White, GA, U.S. and in Lakeshore, Ontario, 18-19 structure, ownership or its supply chain CA (Astrex) Joint Venture. Another facility in San Luis Potosí (Mexico) with a production start in 2018. G4-14 Precautionary principle Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview 36 See Constellium Code of Conduct on page 09 https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/ business_and_sustainability_performance_report_2016.pdf G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 initiatives to which the organization subscribes Member of the United Nations Global Compact 9 Constellium Sustainability charter: https://www.constellium.com/sites/ default/files/Sustainability/constellium_sustainability_charter.pdf G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Memberships 67 G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports All entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2017. This includes all sites mentioned on pages 18-19 except Lakeshore. Our network worldwide 18-19 G4-18 Reporting principles for defining report content About this report Flap IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-19 Process for defining content Constellium’s Materiality Assessment 38-39 and aspect boundaries In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision. See pages 36-39 of our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report for more, available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/ files/businessandsustainabilityperformancereport2015.pdf G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview 36 Sustainable targets on pages 44-45, 47-48 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview 36 Sharing Sustainability Goals in Europe 37 Sustainable targets on pages 42-43, 46-52 G4-22 Restatements of information provided Our recycled production data was underestimated 59 in earlier reports See Sustainable performance page 59 G4-23 Significant changes from previous No significant changes Flap reporting periods in scope and About this report aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 by the organization Ensuring Sustainable Purchasing 50 Strengthening Communities 46 Memberships 67 Increasing Customer Satisfaction 43 G4-25 Identification and selection Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 of stakeholders to engage Constellium’s Materiality Assessment 38-39 G4-26 Organization’s approach to Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 stakeholder engagement Strengthening Communities 46 Constellium’s Materiality Assessment 38-39 Increasing Customer Satisfaction 43 62 Performance G4-27 Key topics collected through Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview 36 stakeholder engagement Our targets were defined to address key topics emerging from our previous materiality assessment. See pages 36-39 of our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report for more, available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/businessandsustainabilityperformancereport2015.pdf Constellium’s Materiality Assessment 38-39 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period About this report Flap G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2017. Available on our website’s sustainability section at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/ business_and_sustainability_performance_report_2016.pdf G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report Flap G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report Flap G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 61-66 G4-33 External assurance About this report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Governance 12-14 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, Governance 12-14 standards, and norms of behavior Ensuring Sustainable Purchasing 50 Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 UNGC membership 9 Engaging our People (MOMENTUM) 45 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Pages CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Increase economic performance Material aspect: economic performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Chief Executive Officer’s insights 8-9 Chief Financial Officer’s insights 10 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Unlocking value 11 Chief Financial Officer’s insights 10 Increase economic performance CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Increase recycling activities Material aspect: materials* G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 16-17 Boosting Beverage Can Recycling 42 See also our life cycle and recycling brochure: https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/ constellium_-_life_cycle_of_aluminium.pdf G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that We do not consider recycled content as a relevant metrics are recycled input materials for ­environmental performance. For more detail, see our life cycle and r­ ecycling brochure, available online at the following address: https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/ constellium_-_life_cycle_of_aluminium.pdf Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 63 DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Pages Improve energy efficiency of operations Material aspect: energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving Energy Efficiency 48 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 60 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED) G4-30 Energy consumption outside of the Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40-41 organization The use of our products often saves energy through mass saving, especially in transportation, and recycling. See this report on pages 24-26, 28, 34 & 42 for illustration G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improving Energy Efficiency 48 From energy consumption to energy efficiency 60 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improving Energy Efficiency 48 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements The use of our products often saves energy through mass saving, of products and services especially in transportation, and recycling. See this report on pages 24-26, 28, 34 & 42 for illustration Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Material aspect: emissions G4-30 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40-41 Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium (4. Product use) 16-17 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40-41 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40-41 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions 40-41 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year G4-EN21 NOX, SO2, and other significant air emissions Sustainability performance 59 REDUCE WASTE FROM OPERATIONS Prevent pollution from operations Material aspect: effluents and waste G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing Landfilled Waste 47 G4-EN22 Water discharge Sustainability performance 59 G4-EN23 Waste disposal Reducing Landfilled Waste 47 Sustainability performance 59 G4-EN24 Significant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year Develop products with environmental benefits Material aspect: products and services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 16-17 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products See ‘Defining a Target for Greenhouse Gas Emissions’ for more 40-41 and services information on how we manage the life cycle assessment of our products See also our website: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/ life-cycle-assessments G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Developing an Aluminium Standard 49 Ensure Sustainable Purchasing 50 64 Performance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total None recorded in the reporting year number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Engage suppliers in sustainability performance Material aspect: supplier sustainability G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ensure Sustainable Purchasing 50 G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria Ensure Sustainable Purchasing 50 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Improve employee satisfaction Material aspect: employment G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging our People 45 G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and Sustainability performance 58 employee turnover G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Part-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; that are not provided to temporary or ­temporary workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected part-time employees benefits related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority Material aspect: labor/management relations G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Sustainability performance 58 Engaging our People 45 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period changes depending on the country operational changes of ­operation and is based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding None recorded in the reporting year one week’s duration Ensure safety at work Reduce psycho-social risks Reduce use of harmful substances Material aspect: safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach EHS – Safety, our #1 priority 20 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and safety 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees committees G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, EHS – Safety, our #1 priority 20 absenteeism, and total number of work-related Improving our Safety Record 44 fatalities G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal EHS – Safety, our #1 priority 20 agreements with trade unions Improving our Safety Record Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions but also in our procedures and directives Develop training and empowerment Material aspect: training and education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Explanations from pages 46-48 of our 2015 report remain valid. https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/ businessandsustainabilityperformancereport2015.pdf G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and Our professional grade employees receive annual performance and career development reviews ­career development through the new global HR platform, Success ­Factors. This has been ex-tended to some supervisory levels in France All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 65 DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Pages SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTE AND ENFORCE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our sustainability targets: responsible business 50 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No discrimination incidents or non-compliances in this respect have actions taken been reported to the Group level through the formal compliance process in the course of the year. At our facilities, incidents or allegations of discrimination on grounds of race, age, color, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction, or social origin are reviewed and dealt with in line with the applicable legal and management review p ­ rocesses. Where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions are defined and implemented by the local management in charge MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging our People 45 G4-EN3 Risks to the right to exercise freedom None identified of association and collective bargaining SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation 22 Highlights of the year 24-25 Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 16-17 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Increasing Customer Satisfaction 43 66 Performance Memberships Participates in projects Membership Has positions in governance and committees Aluminium Association (AA) Member Member Yes Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standards Committee, Catherine Athènes Yes ARPAL, Spain Member No Aluminium France Member Yes Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) Member No Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No Cercle de l’Industrie Member No European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes European Aluminium Member of the Executive Committee, Peter Basten Yes France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President, Raphaël Thevenin Yes Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll Yes Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques Member No et Spatiales (GIFAS) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No International Aluminium Institute (IAI) No Yes La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, Member Yes emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll Yes Forward-looking statements This report contains statements that relate projections about the future other than heading ‘Risk Factors’ in our Annual Report to future events and expectations and as statements of historical fact are forwardon Form 20-F, and described from time to such constitute forward-looking statements looking statements. time in subsequent reports, filed with the within the meaning of the Private Securities U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are subject to a number of Constellium disclaims any obligation to Forward-looking statements include those known and unknown risks, uncertainties update publicly any forward-looking statements containing such words as and other factors and are not guarantees statements, whether in response to new ‘expects’,‘intends’,‘plans’,‘scheduled’,‘should’, of future performance. information, future events or otherwise, ‘could’,‘will’, or other words of similar except as required by applicable law. meaning. All statements that reflect These risks and uncertainties include, but Constellium’s expectations, assumptions or are not limited to, those set forth under the Constellium Business and sustainability performance report 2017 67 A BOUT T H IS R E P ORT Reporting period Financial year 2017 (January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017) Date of publication May 2018 Report scope The data or financials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2017. Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialog with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings. Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines – Core Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured. Contact communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council. Design and production: Angie Credits: ©Hubert Raguet, ©Dominique ­Sarraute, ©Candace Williams, ©Polygraphic, ©iStock photo, ©Bang & Olufsen BeoLab11, ©Audi. Print: Printed on paper from sustainably managed forests. www.constellium.com
