Egyliere Travel Corporate Responsible Business Report www.egylieretravel.com +2 0(0)2 3749 9092 info@egylieretravel.com Table of Contents 01 About Egyliere Travel 02 About the report 03 Reinforcing Statement 04 Human Resource& Development 05 Environment 06 Anti-corruption SOLUTIONS About us Who we are Egylière Travel is a privately owned luxury travel agency based in Cairo, Egypt. We provide a complete, tailor-made, travel experience to suit every need, want, and whim from leisure vacations and business trips to family holidays, romantic getaways and even pilgrimages, while raising cultural and environmental awareness along the way. Recognizing that each individual is different, hence each individual‘s travel style would be different, Egylière works toward creating bespoke packages with the finest services in the industry for costumers. We recognize that traveling is a way to kick back and rejuvenate. Whether you‘re a business traveller or a vacationer, you need someone that takes care of all the minute details. In this aspect, Egylière strives to give every customer a fuss-free experience. • Find more in egylieretravel.com Egylière Travel is the newest addition to the growing portfolio of Egylière; a dynamic diverse Our aim is to create a flexible company bringing the priceless and responsive enterprise that experience and integrity of a contributes to and helps long-standing family business. define the forces and major Our Heritage themes of the growing luxury travel industry and the • We aim to partner sustainability goals of UNGC, with environmentally both within and beyond minded companies, Egypt’s borders. based on honesty, integrity and social With our network of young consciousness. Our Vision Our Value • We embrace travel experts at each destination, we endeavor to community outreach provide authentic local and volunteering as a experience. way to leave our footprint and help sustain the wellbeing of local people and Our vision is based on a fundamental but essential principle: the environment. *The respect of the interests of all stakeholders *A stance that reflects our global outlook and reach in our management. Organization Structure *To be noticed, we have many interns of diversified nationalities with different duration in every Jane doe department. About the Report From Egypt to the world! Find us in: Suez Canal Tower,4 Ibn Katheer Street,Giza, 12311 Egypt Scope and Data In this edition of COP report, we take a It can‘t be ignored that since we are a comprehensive review on our performance entrepreneur, policies and solutions are on from the start of 2015. To evaluate and keep their way to be put into practice and some track of our environment approaches, we part of statistics are lacked because they are collected water/electricity/paper use.etc data unmeasurable and some of them can‘t be since early 2015. In the scope of human collected at present. rights, we concentrate on our progress made in the past months of 2016. But we have tried our best efforts to make this report a comprehensive and objective All of the information that we provide here representation of what we have done and are extracted from our bills, financial what we have planned for business report ,inner-operation policies and official development in the future to make us an guide and resources from UN websites. active participant of UNGC. Level Requirement This year, we are striving for an advanced level report, which requires a thorough and detailed collection of all the required information and a clear and lasting accordance with UNGC principles. All the contents presented in the report are related to at least one aspect of the four main categories: human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. The summary of this annual report is included at the end in the form of a self-assessment based on guidance provided by UN. Reinforce Statement As the CEO of the Egyliere Travel, I am pleased to confirm that we support the 10 principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We believe that in this fast changing age, engagement in the UNGC principles is a way to convey important messages to our consumers and clients and shouldering social responsibility is a crucial part of the core value of our company. As a company, we‘ve experienced many significant changes since inception: We‘ve greatly increased our workforce, and have embraced international diversity and gender balance. We have become one of the leading providers of leisure and corporate travel solutions in the MENA region. We continue being committed to serving our clients with utmost dedication, along with promoting responsible travel. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture Mohamed Kaoud and day-to-day operations of our company,and to engaging in collaborative projects Founder and CEO which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly SDGs. We are dedicated to taking a more engaged role in issues such as multipolarity, climate change, water conservation, energy security and public-private partnerships. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact. Human Resources & Development Freedom of association enables workers and employers to join together to protect their own economic interests and their civil freedoms better, such as the right to life, to security, to integrity, and to personal and collective freedom. As an employer, Egyliere Travel takes great pride in our employees and have a strong belief in their expertise. We believe in you. We respect each other. We build our future together. We aspire to diversity. We care. Team Motto • Egyliere Travel believes that respecting ever member is necessary for our business development People are always at the center of the Company‘s corporate culture. We spare no efforts to realize the SDGs in a constructed manner. • We understand that we ought to provide an equal and free working environment to our staff. By establishing a scientific and integrated performance management system and a bunch of training packages, we aim to make interns and staff fit into our company quickly and have a clear understanding of their responsibilities. • What‘s more importantly is, we are trying our best to communicate these policies and steps with our staff progressively and are holding internal trainings to raise awareness among staff to put these actions into effect. Hiring Training Performance Management Customer Team Relationship Building Hiring Egyliere Travel is composed of talented employees from various countries in the world and we carefully evaluate every applicator‘s quality for the occupation they are searching for. Through a transparent and reasonable set of standards, we guarantee the whole hiring process is subjective and just. How we select Our People employee? Our People Through our innovative and flexible recruitment system, Egyliere Travel attracts global talents in the past year. More than 10 EPs are hired and worked for Egyliere Travel via AIESEC and over 5 interns are absorbed by traditional means in our talent pool. As a participant of UNGC and Women Empowerment Principles, Egyliere Travel pays attention to improve gender quality by raising proportion of female employee. We enjoys an equal share of Man and Women on the whole. We dedicate to treating all women and men fairly at work and respect non-discrimination. Our Staff Our Intern + 16( 66％) 72% 28% 8(33％) Another aspect of our employees‘ composition is nationality. Qualified and enthusiastic employees from different culture background enrich the wayswe approach our goals and it has a significant meaning in this globalized age. Though dominated by Egyptian at first sight, Egyliere Travel has a nationality diversity covers employees from over 4 countries. In the past, we had employees from a wider range of countries and we will keep this tradition in mind. Brazilian Jordanian Chinese Indian Ukraine Egyptian Nationalities of employees How we select employee? Egyliere travel has established official account in LinkedIn, Facebook and other widely used social websites and job hunting platforms, which all make our company approachable for competitive applicators as much as possible. Through a partnership with AIESEC, one of the largest youth development organizations in the world, we have created a new channel to import global talents. In the summer of 2016, there are approximate 9 interns from 4 different countries who joined our team and share their wisdom with us. Not only they inject new elements into our company but also advance our business development in various perspectives. For Egyliere Travel, we appreciate job hunters that are innovative, communicative, highlyengaged,capable for specific occupation , particularly, has recognition of 10 principles of UNGC. These make them qualified for achieving sustainability goals through teamwork and individual deveopement. A case Attachment 1 Here goes for a sample for our job description of Business Development Manager: General Summary: Achieves maximum sales profitability, growth and account penetration within an assigned market segment by effectively selling the company‘s services. When it comes to ―Qualifications‖ part, besides of education requirement, we listed following items: •Analytical person and excellent with numbers •Team player attitude and efforts •Proven ability to effectively sell to manager and “ C-level” decision makers These all represent our value and our client-centered corporate culture and we are aligned with them in the whole hiring process. “The illicit use of child labour and forced labour are never tolerated in Egyliere Travel and we believe human rights is not simply meaningful for individuals.‖ Working hours and wages Staff Story Egyliere Travel believes that it‘s not the ——Nancy Cai amount of time that really matters but working efficiency that brings the ideal outputs and Nancy is an intelligent intern from maximum profits. AIESEC. This Chinese girl was at lost at Every day, our employee will decide when to the beginning of her internship. Social work by themselves and the working time is media, just as everybody can imagine, is a complicated work and not clear enough. flexible. In case of emergencies and special She decided to have a deep talk with her circumstances, what staff need to do is sending manager(also mentor) to express all her message to the leader of their team. feelings and questions. And doubts have been cleared after communication. Liberty stands for trust and in this way, all of our employees feel they are respected instead of She is surprised about the freedom of choosing working time by herself. ―There being restricted by strict terms and policies. We was a day that I really felt bad because of do this according to one category of labour fever. My boss let me have a rest in my principles of UNGC——The elimination of all dormitory and sent me messages,caring forms of forced or compulsory labour. about my health. I even don‘t need to ask for permitting my absence.‖ As a start-up, Egyliere Travel strictly commit to Salary and Labour regulations , laws and the adoption of a minimum wage policy under the supervision of government authorities and the framework of UNGC. A decent wage is necessary to protect staff from living a dis-privileged life and to support their self-development . With respect to pay, we mainly set the salary standard based on the average level of travel Culture of Collective Bargaining industry and the economic condition of Egypt by HR management team. And final decisions are made through collective bargaining. Given that Egypt doesn‘t apply a strict minimum wage, Egyliere went on to adopt a minimum wage of Travel EGP and offered employees bonuses according to their performance. Turn over Number The direct influence of our management system is a 2 fairly stable number of staff and a very low turnover rate in Egyliere Travel. Since October 2015, only 4 1.5 members left. 1 It proves Egyliere Travel is a community, which is attractive and ideal for people to realize their dreams 0.5 and value. 0 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr Training Employee Intern After the hiring process, Egyliere Travel gives every new member with careful, high-quality, personally-designed training packages. This has been frequently mentioned as one of the most impressive experience in job careers according to feedbacks from our staff. The first thing they receive is a special welcoming checklist, which contains two categories ——Employee and Intern.(Attachment 2) A.Glossary 21 terms This part is meant for introducing a general picture of products and services provided by Egyliere Travel with brief explanations of some important + terms. They effectively guide them into being familiar with travel industry. Here are some samples among them: 5 aspects = Training Packages Amadeus Global distribution system based in Europe. Its principal + partners are Air France, Continental Airlines, Iberia Airlines and Lufthansa German Airlines. Agent 3 goals A business that is mainly focused on reselling tours and activities in exchange for commission fees. B. Checklist This part is illustrated in form of charts and every employee is asked to check it one by one in the first weekof their inauguration. The intern‘s version is the same with that of employee. From business value to practical tools, after employees and interns get the answer for every instruction, they naturally establish a fair understanding of Egyliere Travel and how they are going to devote their talents and enthusiasm into our company. Business Related Company history, vision, mission,Who does what,Our marketing strategy…… Logistics&HR Phone list, Meeting room,Contracts,Mentor…… Tech Tools Google Drive, Google mail, Shared Calendar…… C. Internship Goals(Interns only) The internship is an opportunity for the student to be part of an SME and experience the work and business environment from both micro and macro levels as well. The goals of the CSR internship include: 1Get a 360 view of the Travel industry and SME work environment 2Get exposed to corporate strategy, general management, company’s departments, products, services, etc. 3The intern should be an integral part of the company’s CSR from both the strategy and implementation sides. D.Internship Projects UNGC Compliance Officer Developing a framework for the UNGC annual report; tasks include: Social Media Guru a. Attend the UNGC reporting online workshop b. Attend ―Introduction to UNGC Egypt‘s Local Network‖ webinar c. Researching the international reporting guidelines resources shared on Google DriveDigital marketing d. Drafting a preliminary and simple reporting Periodical postsimplementation and tasks to be framework with emphasis on consistent reporting (The assigned by the marketing executive report should be filled throughout the year and not in based on the marketing needs and one setting) the e. Meeting with the UNGC local network intern's‘ interests. representatives and getting their feedback on the Periodical Newsletter posts to reflect progress our CSR activities and other marketing …… activities to our customers as long as our target market. Performance Management Egyliere Travel treats every member with equal attitude regardless of their nationalities, ethnicities, gender, religious belief. .etc 1 4 2 All of the following documents open We have set up a system to to every staff in Google Driveare as a manage performance of convenient reminder. staff on the basis of functions of every different departments. 3 We carefully present the result of the evaluation to all the members in Egyliere Travel. The system is the main foundation of promotion and one of the most effective approaches for anti-corruption. Assessment Docs consists of four categories based on apartment: Accounting, Aviation, General Manager, Travel(Attachment 3&5) In every branch, we differentiate ―member‖ and ―manager‖ in order to specify their responsibilities. The overall performance of employee is measured in 5 dimensions: Communication Job knowledge and skill Customer Relations Productivity and efficiency Punctuality General feedback will be collected together after all the questions are finished by other staff. In different branches, dimensions are the same but the proportion and share of each part is varied for occupations. To offer necessary instructions about filling these charts, an overall brochure of the grading system is delivered to .staff and trainings of how to use this system are also conducted by the project manager Before we landing on this project, Egyliere Travel held several presentations and sessions to discuss it with different participation levels to make it an ideal model. First of all, leader of the designing team introduced the system to members from marketing team. Then we discussed it with General Manager and Business Develop Manager. Lots of valuable advices have been raised and collected. A session covered more staff has been set on our agenda. It‘s still under implementation and the final version is expected to come at September 2016. Customer Relationship Two Steps Travel Consultant Customer Survey Egyliere Travel was established to meet 4Attachment the constantly growing demands of the The intention of customer survey travel industry in Egypt. The way we :can be summarized in two aspects achieve our goal is customizing trip Improve transparency in (1 packages according to specific demands of consumers. Thus, an Customer business operation by asking for ;direct feedback from customers efficient and scientific channel to communicate with travelers is significant Collect useful suggestions from (2 for us. customers and improve our service quality according to these Once we reach a consumer, a travel complaints and advices. Egyliere consultant will shoulder the Travel believes Great brands responsibility of designing routes, depend on reputation and this booking hotels and flight tickets and .takes efforts to build provided information,arranging tour guides. customers can according to theiron In fact, this is an affiliated part of make Afteraweighing choice totally pros and cons based Egyliere Travel‘s employee appraisal preferences. system because by hearing from customers,we can find the root of .problems in an efficient way Rate your experience with Egyliere Travel.(Quantitive) Rate your experience with the Egyliere Travel Sample Questions in employee.(Quantitive) What did we do really well? Customer Survey What needs to be improved? Any suggestions,feedback or complaints? Would you recommend Egyliere Travel to your family/ friends/acquittances?If no, why? For different kinds of services, we will provide our customer with a specialized survey form.Main services include: Ticket ` Booking, Transportation, Visa, Hotel, Local Guide and General. By communicating with consumers via email and telephone, we build mutual trust between clients and us. But we know that there are a lot of space for improvements and we are dedicated to doing so. (Find more in “plan for future”) T E A M Building A diversifed staff nationality means it‘s comparatively difficult for the old and new,the local and the foreign members to get familiar with each other. To tackle these problems, some conventional activities are held to enhance mutual understanding and relationships between staff in Egyliere Travel. This also grants staff freedom of associating and relaxing. Sahara Desert Trip After a drudgery week tied with work, if time permitted, staff of Egyliere Travel will drive to a located in the suburban area of Cairo. This is normally a trip with activities like .singing ,dancing, camp firing. etc Ideas are shared and ices are melting, which all helps in shaping a more efficient team. English Workshop This is a 15-minute series sessions that moderated by international interns every other day.The session theme include Chinese Food , “Stereotypes and many other rich and fun topics. The purposes of this exercise are to enhance the use of English and for all of participants to know more about different cultures in the world. Birthday Party The one who should be blessed will receive sincere wishes from all the staff in Egyliere Travel. A party with a delicious cake, beverages, snacks and birthday song is what makes employees feel that they are cared by others . These really make a difference in the whole company and every individual and these are key elements of people management to inspire and motivate staff to be dedicated for working in Egyliere Travel. Eman Abu Sharkh Staff Story Business Development Executive We regard Eman‘s story as a good example of how culture diversity gives impetus to individual development and influences their career choices. As an alumni of UCLA, one of the most prestigious university of the world, Eman once participated a summer course there. But she is now realizing her value in business world. When back to Egypt , just everybody can imagine, there were many problems to face. At first, she felt confused about her work because of its little relation with her major. But ―when our general manager Tamer and business developer Nahed came, I found that I was really a team member, who could seek for instructions and assistance at any time and everything began to be clearer for me. Whenever I have questions, everybody would help you out. Communication is very smooth.‖ Step by step, Eman got accustomed to the working environment and she finds her goals realized. The most striking improvement is communication skill. As a coordinator of different departments, she needs to communicate with partners of Egyliere Travel. Also, acquaintances with clients, media and staff push her forward and benefit her a lot. Though understands that Egyliere Travel is not mature enough, Eman is destined to “devote herself to the development go Egyliere Travel When asked using 3 words to describe Egyliere Travel, Eman said ―happiness, comfort with all of her colleagues.” and learning place‖. She has just turned 24 and the birthday party that secretly prepared by colleagues gave her great surprise and she said ―it‘s one of the most unforgettable experience in my life.‖ Eman is straightforward and she always comes up with new ideas. ―Egyliere Travel is so good as it accepts all kinds of opinions. This really leads to a transparent and honest environment.‖ Plan for Future A.Idea management B.Employee Satisfaction Management C.Health & Safety Idea Management To inspire more creative and instructive ideas Shake the meeting! from our intelligent To improve communication with different apartments,we plan to hold a meeting in every Sunday which calls on full participation of staff. A basic outline of the meeting is every department is to employees, Egyliere their weekly goals and things to be done with others. As long as goals are announced , different share Travel is to fulfill our departments can work collectively in certain issues. idea management system. Magic Box A paper box will be put in the front desk of office. Every staff can write down their ideas, This complaints, suggestions even jokes and deliver them on the box. Writing down name is optional is meaningful depends on their willingness. At andthetotally end of every month, a check of the box will be presented to our because it lays staff. If an idea is adopted, a special award will be given to the initiator. foundation for sustainable development of Egyliere Brainstorming staff question-centered might come acrosssession a toughaims problem. Then, it‘s time with for then to send an invitation to certain Travel and completely This to tackle questions proper incentives. A department or a gather wisdom from members in Egyliere Travel and brainstorm together. Solutions will be provided in the session and the every member. most ideal answer rated by the sponsor will be awarded. Employee Net Promoter Score Listening to our staff is equally important to gathering feedback from customers. This is a simple tool for measuring employee satisfaction and loyalty and we regard it as an instant channel to bridge employers and employees. It is delivered as a survey and consists of 2 kinds of questions: -quantitative -qualitative Surveys are conducted quarterly every 3 months anonymously. So we can track employee satisfaction changing in time and understand reasons for current mark or change. After results are processed, feedback on survey will be given to employees. ?How are we going to send the survey .This survey is send via email, inserting shortened link from Google-form We don‘t collect data on identity of respondents, so we leave checkbox in settings Q1 “Automatically collect respondents Egyliere Travel’s username” empty. ?How we measure 10(not at all likely) to 0 Respondents answer with a score ranging from :(extremely likely), and fall into three categories based on their ratings 29-10Q– Promoters 7-8 – Neutral 0-6 – Detractors eNPS eNPS = % Promoters – % Detractors ?How will we work with data Process quantitative data and store it for long-term tracking,collect qualitative 3 Q data, prepare suggestions for change and action,discuss suggestions with …… participants ?How will we give feedback Q4 Egyliere Travel believes that feedback on the results of the survey is the most critical step of the entire process because it illustrates to the entire employee base that management has listened .to what they had to say and what they are going to do about the final results Health and Safety •Health Insurance •Risk Management Health Insurance In the contracts with every staff and interns, Egyliere Travel equips the m with health insurance covers the whole working process. This simple while significant guarantee will be a strong shield, protecting staff from diseases and accidents. What‘s more, there are water, milk,tea(green & red), coffee in supply in the break room of our office. Employees are free to fetch items they need or inquired the office boy. And lunch is often jointly ordered by means of the whole company. Additionally, we plan to promote some small practices like aerobic exercise and eye exercise to help our staff on relieving body pressure in working hours. Sitting still in front of computer is harmful and these will be really advantageous for leading a healthy lifestyle. Risk Management ✓ Cumbersome investment procedures, Since 2015, Egypt are faced with many internal and hindering external challenges and they are closely related to more business cooperation with Egyliere Travel‘s products and services. These risks not international companies settled. only concerned with safety problem of our staff but also ✓ cause a declined attractiveness of taking a trip in Egypt An unstable political situation, especially and surrounding areas. Challenges include but not limit in: ✓ the penetration of terrorist force. …… Lack of educated workforce. Egyliere Travel is actively engaged with other stakeholders to take a leadership role in advancing, advocating for, and contributing to resolving tough issues with business operations. We believes that private sectors can make a meaningful contribution to stability and security in conflict-affected and high-risk areas by cooperating with government, NGOs and counterparts. Three Parts of RM For Business Cooperation For staff Egyliere Travel carefully examines and monitors For every female staff, Egyliere For Tourists existing and newly Travel gives them traffic established business allowance on occasions when relations and transactions to they aren‘t work until 6 pm to guarantee off their verify that they do not supply safety. funding or other resources to armed groups and public Lectures with a bunch of topics .relations of our partnerships including first-aid knowledge, AIDS health education，fire control This is confined to the social knowledge are going to put on trend of Peace and out training agenda. Egyliere Development and how we Travel are advancing for a will invite professionals and staff sustainable development of of our company to be the speaker .our company of these lectures and present them in an interactive and informative way. Before the departure of tourists, Egyliere Travel will provide them with a brochure with important information: important and provisions customs of their destinations, security hedging measures, tip standards, foreign exchange regulations , emergency contact information (including embassies and consulates abroad and emergency contacts). Egyliere Travel promises to buy Travel Liability Insurance and Personal safety Insurance for every tourist and the detailed terms will all be included with business contracts with suppliers ,agencies and platforms. Environment Egyliere Travel supports International declaration on Cleaner Production of UNGC and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development ,which outline a precautionary approach to environmental issues and corporate environmental responsibility. To maintain the highest quality of adventure travel, and to ensure a sustainable future for the people of Egypt and its natural resources, Egyliere Travel is dedicated to environmentally responsible travel. We start from tracking and reporting on our resources consumption and search for ways to optimize it. You can find more details in our Environmental policy.We carefully measure major environmental impacts brought by our business expansion and operation. At the same time, Egyliere Travel confirms our positive collaborative relationships with the proactive companies based on mutual consultation for environmental preservation. Green Policy&Action General Environment As a young start-up ,Egyliere Travel in mind that environmental 01 bears protection Policy Statement requires instant though fundamental right from the start. steps To put it more specifically, we set 13 specific paper use The reason why we chose principles. Paper Use Policy 02 paper-use more practical to conduct the insert andasthen starting point is that environmental it‘s protectional awareness into every staff‘s recognition. What we have done in details of work and life and Small actions VS huge outcomes 03 a general measurement of our actions. General Environment Policy A statement ●Conducting training sessions for its staff to ●Measuring the company‘s impact raise awareness of environmental issues on the environment and setting and engage employees in improving the targets for ongoing improvement. Company-Environment relation. ●Encourage our customers and suppliers through awareness to ●Minimizing natural resources adopt similar environmentally consumption and introducing responsible practices and responsible consumption policies. practices. This year, CEO of Egyliere Travel officially signed an Environmental Policy Statement and it is now a powerful general guidance for Egyliere Travel daily operation, ●Promoting recycling within the business development and establishment of our supply chain. company‘s premises. Training Goal: training covers general information step 1 Timeline on environmental initiative in context of After training, Compliance Officer sends attendants UNGC 10 principles; describes policy a survey with questions on training to reinforce statements within procedures and material and also to get their feedback on training detailed recommendations for practical step 2 conduction. Form is prepared by Compliance Officer implementation. and reconciled with Innovation Officer. Survey Internal awareness Statements from policies customized by designer in creative and attractive way are located on pillars, walls of office and stairwell in form of plexus stands, hard posters, banners, scrabble letters, Cycle other POS materials catching attention. step 3 Feedback Gathering Information on events and achievements concerning environmental initiative is delivered to employees via email or during meetings by the UNGC Compliance Officer. External awareness To make external stakeholders actively engaged in the enactment of the policy, information is included into Egyliere Travel‘s company profile and official website. What‘s more, email includes information upon participation in UNGC, SDGs, ‗Callstep 4 To-Action‘s (like ‗Don‘t print this email save a tree‘) in signatures. Signature content plan that contains environment issues is also updated annually. Paper Use Policy Every department is asked to set a quota of A4 paper quantity at the first weekday of every month and they should keep track of their goal. Cut out used paper as scratch paper or note Use paper clips, paper, use the blank staples, reduce the use side to photocopy or of solvent benzene bring them back to products such as glue, home to do laundries. correction fluid, etc. Purchase recyclable Bring your own cups or paper with low energy use glasses in pantry, consumption and reducing the use of those consist of paper cups. recyclable materials. Choose “duplex” when Reuse your packaging printing documents materials.cardboard Narrow the gap boxes can be used to between ship things; plastic words ,paragraphs and bags, plastic foam can pages. be used to store and protect valuables. Use email to connect with colleagues, Reduce the use of fax eliminating the use of cover sheet documents. Small Actions VS Big Outcomes In 2016, Egyliere Travel changed the lighting system, replacing the former highelectricity-consumed light bulbs with LED lamps that are very environmentalfriendly. For an Egyptian company, electricity fee generated by air-conditioner takes up a large proportion in carbon emission, resulting from the weather. What we do is micro-change: promote ―close the air-conditioner for 1 hour‖ campaign and chose products with a low energy comparative consumption. In the choice of transportation for commuting, over 65% of staff in Egyliere Travel choose public transportation like metro, mini-bus and only several managers drive private cars. More and more staff are trying to go their destinations on foot especially when the distance is under 3km. Accordingto international standard of calculating carbon footprint, staff of Egyliere Travel effectively save 817.02kg CO2 emission every month. Carbon Footprint of Egyliere Travel of staff choose of staff choose public to walk when 65% transportation 90% distances are for commuting under 2km of business travel is taken almost 0% by flight Two staff are doing Car-Pooling When you leave, Two staff are doing Car-Poolin action turn off lights & emissio2 kg CO51.6reducing reducing 51.6 CO2 emission pull out the plug every month This helps us Eating makes difference. save a fair amount of Staff are adding more electricity! vegetables into their meals. ETR Supervision Under the supervision of UNGC Compliance Officer Paper&Energy consumption in the 1st quarter of 2016 and a well-established accounting system, Financial 878.2 Manager is required to fill all the data by 5th day of month. Egyliere Travel keeps track of electricity/water/ paper usage every month. In the past year, we have Amount seen a clear reduction in energy use and waste 505.15 generation by our office. 330 All the updated statistics are available for every staff 135 and they are taking the roles of indicator and 83.7 reminder of the environment foot of Egyliere Travel. 0 0 0 In Consumption block , we fill data on consumption of Categories water/electricity/paper in 2 measurements: *Yellow bar stands for Energy ●Money expenditures Green bar stands for Paper ●Units External Relationship Egyliere Travel is always working diligently to come up with long-lasting programs that 1 Government benefit local and regional communities and ensure that our social investment is strategically aligned with core business activities. Besides of a recognized and powerful inner 2 Activities control system, we have made huge .progress on external relationships We divide our public relationship into 3 main parts and Egyliere Travel have specific plans 3 Supplier Choices for each part to insert our agreements on environmental protection. Government Egyliere Travel keeps a close relationship with Egypt of Tourism and some of other GovernmentMinistry We strictly obey all the environmentdepartments. regulations and laws published by central and municipal governments. And in negotiation of officers on special occasions, Egyliere Travel frankly present and raise our advice on how can government more in protecting environment and establishing an ideal do for integration between business and political issues. model As a pay-back, Egyliere Travel finds practices engaged environment are also withsupport helping us in gaining political local communities for business among Activities Social activities and campaigns are not merely beneficial for building public images. Egyliere Travel thinks we can really make a difference through these practices. Egyliere Travel is connecting with more local NGOs, which concentrated on public awareness and environmental protection and we plan to donate a share of our flight tickets revenue to support their development . More activities will be launched in social media pages and off-line by means of protecting environment. For example, Egyliere Travel are going to hold a video competition with the theme of “How will you create a greener Egypt” .We would like to combine innovative ideas with green campaign in our reachable areas. Supplier Choices Egyliere Travel is always seeking partnerships with suppliers to develop and utilize .environmentally friendly products and services In the paper recycling circle, we are approaching a prestigious paper-recycle company to establish cooperation just as mentioned in Egyliere Travel Paper Use Principle. This can also give impetus to our enactment of green policies. When considering suppliers of travel industry, there are much things Egyliere Travel can do, from hotels to transportation. To put it more specific, we will add the measurement of supplier’s environmental effects into consideration, based on the dimensions of value, products and inner consumptions. When offer the same conditions, we will chose a company that are more responsible in protecting environment and those devote more on sustainable development. It’s important for Egyliere Travel to take this kind of approach that builds on shared common goals and involves the active participation and commitment of environment protection through business contracts and negotiations. Tour Packages As a travel agency, Egyliere Travel finds it necessary and indeed promising to combine environment protection into our products and tour packages. Marketing team has raise many innovative ideas of our business development and we are pushing forward to make come to them realize. Nile, Your Egyliere Travel plans to launch a tour route named previous ―Our future‖. What packages is thattells it is this product totally from competitors Tourists are ―environment-oriented‖. and our more like volunteers, who will engage in monitor the water quality of Nile while at same time can enjoy the sceneries along the river bank. Activities can also include lecturing environment knowledge to local students, designing recyclable souvenir with local craftsmen. We will try our best to monitor every tourist‘s behavior in their journey and ensure they are also aligned with environment protection principles. This kind of supervision is thought to be effective and will exert profound influence. Anti-corruption Honesty and transparency is the supreme principle of Egyliere Travel‘s operation. In modern business world, Customers and stakeholders are increasingly expecting transparency and it gradually becomes the new operating standard. Egyliere Travel commit to UN Convention Against Corruption and related principles in UNGC and we hold zerotolerance towards dishonesty, bribery and unethical behaviors done by employees, including property of company, business negotiation and job promotion. Egyliere Travel keeps in mind that we should create detailed policies on specific bribery issues and put in place robust management procedures such as risk assessment, training and whistle-blowing to prevent corruption. Such policies and procedures are applied to any third-party (i.e. governments, suppliers, partners, agents or mass media platforms) contracting with Egyliere Travel. In the first part of our report, we introduce Egyliere Travel‘s Human Resource and Development system and it vividly show how Egyliere Travel is achieved it‘s goal on improving transparency in hiring process , employee appraisal and gathering information from our customers and partners. It has deciding effect on encouraging our staff to strive for excellence through down-to-earth efforts and eliminating the possibility trainings of playing cultivatetricks and , we bribing managers. identification By introducing of anti-corruption among staffpolicies these through persistent presentations and in deifferent levels. Contents a. KPIs evaluation system b. Accounting What c. Welcome——UNGC Compliance we did Officer! a.Audit rules & Supervision Plan for future b.From Participant to Leader What we did KPIs evaluation system Attachment 6 The evaluation system divides main Key Performance Indexes into two categories: Qualitative and .Quantitative This kind of segregation matters because qualitative KPIs draw a basic grand picture of responsibility and what makes each employee a qualified employee.But it‘s general and not specific enough. The quantitative branch sets specific standard of every criteria and gives each staff a chance to do selfassessment. All these sheets are per employee and will be filled by only the respective employee. With a open system in Google Drive, every staff is access to these files. Sample:For all managers The manager could log also, free text, their motivational acts and to be verified through Qualitative random interviews of their respective department so that the CEO would be able to determine and decide about this attribute. Create logs to record contracts and negotiates with all suppliers to achieve best services at least possible costs Producing the most innovative, creative, attractive and price-worthy proposals for all client requests including banks, hotels. Able to independently make work related decisions. KPI: a log in which either CEO keeps track of the assistance the manager needed or manager keeps track of what he needed assistance in and take notes for future decisions. Innovation and Initiative skills KPI: create a log for managers and employees to record any initiatives or new ideas they introduced to the company. Quantitative Sample:Aviation Apartment 6.Negotiated Savings: Record original prices by using booking.com as a reference/ source and 1.Ticket count money saved through negotiations/ contracts/ 2.Sales/turnover promotions per month. 3.Requests response time **Customer Retention: Create their own 4. HINT: There are two separate customer sheet and count the number of columns:one for direct and the for returning customers/ employee. other **Customer Complaints (based on surveys) 5. ADM financial connection flights. penalty: Record **Net promoter score monthly/quarterly any financial penalties 7.** For the 3 above: Create a google form to act received for each employee to measure as whether they are aware of refund and ―post-service survey‖. ratio 8.Time it takes to prepare quotation files for rules. the accountant department (communication) 9.Thanks Mails: Record of received thanks mails. 10.Punctuality : Record absences and late appearance. Accounting For every company, accounting is the most vital step of making their business more transparent and it’s always believed as the most difficult part. Egyliere Travel never stops adopting stringent anti-corruption measures and regulations against financial misconduct. Our common practice is holding periodic workshops and opening discussions with staff to check out whether there are space for implementation. Job Description For Egyliere Travel, we established an accounting team with 7 members and propose more strict requirements for accounting staff with detailed job descriptions: SEPTEMBER 2016 1.Employees pay attention to details while reviewing MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT SUN quotation files of the travel and aviation departments including the accuracy of customer receipts. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 KPI: create a login which employees keep track 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 of the adjustments they made to customer receipts files after issuing the receipts. 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 2. Develops external relationship with appropriate contacts e.g auditors, bankers to manage budgets. 29 30 Logs for accountants to record external relationships with contacts. Quantitative Evaluation When it comes to Quantitative measurements, we not only pay attention to punctuality but also stress on accuracy of every Attachment 7 4 main indicators of accounting is playing the role of data.and guiding supervising the whole process. D Meeting Deadlines of financial statements C Time it takes to process and review quotation files from the aviation and travel department B The number of days to close the books and sign off the year/ end of financial period A The number of corrections after completing and closing the financial statements Welcome UNGC Compliance Officer This year, Egyliere Travel adds a new occupation to fully take on all the UNGC issues . The occupation is a relatively independent role like an ―outsider‖ to monitor attributes and KPIs such :as • Financial performance (GOP, LOB Revenue Vs. Target, LOB Expenses Vs. Budget) • Employee Turnover Rate (ETR) • Employees satisfaction • Electricity bills/ water bills/ paper bills/ Air tickets emissions contribution Other attributes and KPIs The officer, strictly speaking, belongs to no department and this is important to guarantee an external auditing and reduce interventions from stakeholders. Job description Find more in Attachment 8 After delivering the framework/tool, UNGC Compliance Officer will gather data and feed their tool with data and intelligence. In terms of external relationship, the officer will attend many UNGC workshops and to meetings as the delegate of Egyliere Travel to get insights, set priorities, and contribute local business community. The officer will receive instant feedback from these conferences and output knowledge to other staff afterwards. We treat the Global Compact Local Networks, convening business roundtables or multistakeholder conferences as our significant approaches to third parties. This year, Egyliere Travel attended an Anti-corruption conference in May, in which we spoke out and shared our opinions with other UNGC community members. Whats‘ more,we have already met with EJB to find common ground for cooperation. Plan for future Egyliere Travel is working on a comprehensive audit rule that covers all terms of our company, including daily expenses, business operations and on-time financial report. With the assistance of data base and information technologies, Egyliere Travel can amend our occasionallyhappened information loss. The supervision system is based on a wider Audit rules spectacle and what Egyliere Travel is going to do & is making use of the social media. As long as our 1 clients can get access to information they need conveniently under the premise of not violating Supervision business confidentiality , they are actually assisting in advancing anti-corruption System campaigns. More scientific and systematic evaluation tools will be imported into Egyliere Travel. Many prestigious international consulting groups have developed tools and models and Egyliere Travel is willing to embrace them and apply them into our supervision system. Egyliere Travel are to engage in efforts that support governance capacity and support international best practice in resource governance in an more From .active way Participant 2 Based on our business network to Leader in travel industry, we plan to sponsor more sessions to make the Anti-corruption mission more specific and business-oriented. Self-Assessment The table below summarizes Egyliere Travel’s Materiality position in relation to each of the GRI 3.1 indicators and guidelines. Level of reporting: A: Fully reported(Egyliere Travel has comprehensively reported our strategies, policies and steps to deal with the problem ,carefully measured results and effectsof these approaches and represented them in the report.) B: Partially reported(Egyliere Travel has reported our willingness to take rational actions towards the issue and has drawn a general picture of how-todo.) C: Not reported(Egyliere Travel has not stepped into these items already based on our situation or lack basic information to support our reporting.) 1. Strategy and Analysis For partially reported Profile disclosures, Reason Disclos Level of Location of indicate the part for ure Disclosure reporting disclosure not reported omission Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1.1 of the organization. A P9 Opportunities haven‘t been 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. B P51-52,P43 covered 2. Organizational Profile For partially reported Profile disclosures, Disclosur Level of Location of indicate the part not Reason for e Disclosure reporting disclosure reported omission 2.1 Name of the organization. A Not closely relate to 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. B report Operational structure of the organization, including main 2.3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. A 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. A Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Not closely specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the relate to 2.5 report. B P4 report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Not closely Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors relate to 2.7 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). B P4,P43 report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 structure, or ownership. C Hasn‘t 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. C received 3. Report Parameters For partially reported Profile disclosures, Disclosur Level of indicate the part Reason for e Disclosure reporting Location of not reported omission Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for disclosure 3.1 information provided. A P7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). C Find in 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). C UNGC web 3.4 .Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents B 3.5 Process for defining report content. B Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 3.6 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, B P7,P18 suppliers). State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 3.7 the report (see completeness principle for explanation of A P7,P33 scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period 3.8 .and/or between organizations C Profile For partially Disclosur Level of reported Reason for e Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to 3.9 substantially diverge. B P50-52,P66 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature 3.10 of business, measurement methods). C Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the C .report in Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 3.12 the report. A Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 external assurance for the report. C Governance, Commitments, and .4 Engagement For partially Profile Level of reported Reason for Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 4.1 such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. B P5 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 4.2 an executive officer. B P5 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body We are a 4.3 that are independent and/or non-executive members. C start-up Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Not related 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance C to the report body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's Not related 4.5 performance (including social and environmental C to the report performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. B P69,67,39,30 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 4.7 committees, including any consideration of gender and other A P16-17 indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, 4.8 and social performance and the status of their implementation. A P4 For partially Profile Level of reported Reason for Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 4.9 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. B P19,20,44,45 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 environmental, and social performance. C Not material Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 4.11 or principle is addressed by the organization. A P40,P39,P48,P59,P62 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 4.12 subscribes or endorses. A P53-57,P73 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond 4.13 routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. B P54,P70,P18,P59 Profile For partially Disclosur Level of reported Reason for e Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. C Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 4.15 to engage. C Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 4.16 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. B P56,P70,P62 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its C .reporting STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Performance Indicators Economic For partially Level of reported Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission Economic performance the part not reported Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and EC1 payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Implications not EC2 the organization's activities due to climate change. B P45 included EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. C EC4 .Significant financial assistance received from government C None data Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. B P21 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyEC6 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. B P56,P33 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management EC7 hired from the local community at significant locations of A P14-19 operation. Environmental Level of For partially reportin reported Reason for Indicator Disclosure g Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. C Lack data EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. C Hasn‘t start Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. B P50,P51 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. C Lack data EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. B P50,P51 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as EN6 a result of these initiatives. B P49,P56 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 7EN reductions achieved. A P47,48,49 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. B P52 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. C Don‘t have EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. B P52 recycling water For partially Level of reported Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products EN11 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. A P45,53,54,55,56 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN12 are reclaimed by category. C Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental EN13 laws and regulations. C Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's EN14 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. B P50,P51 Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and investments EN15 by type. C Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work For partially reported Level of disclosures, Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicate the part not omission reported Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 and region, broken down by gender. A P16 Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender, and B P16,17 region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 3LA to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. A P20,21,35,42,44 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, LA15 by gender. C Labor/management Percentage of employees covered by collectiverelations LA4 bargaining agreements. B P21 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 collective agreements. C For partially reported Level of disclosures, Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicate the part not omission reported Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, LA10 and by employee category. B P11-12 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist LA11 them in managing career endings. A p23-26 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 12LA and career development reviews, by gender. B P29,30,P23-26 Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of B P16,17 diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men LA14 by employee category, by significant locations of B P21 operation. Social: Society For partially Level of reported Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development C Operations with significant potential or actual negativeprograms. impacts SO9 on local communities. C Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO10 communities. B P55-57 Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO2 risks related to corruption. A P59,62 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures. A P62 SO4 .Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption B P59 Social: Product Responsibility For partially reported Level of Location of disclosures, Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting disclosure indicate the part not omission reported Customer health and Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts ofsafety products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories PR1 subject to such procedures. B P44 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of PR2 products and services during their life cycle, by type of C outcomes. Product and service Type of product and service information required bylabelling procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 services subject to such information requirements. B P43,44 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information PR4 and labeling, by type of outcomes. C Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results PR5 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. A P31-33 For partially Level of Location of reported Reason for Indicator Disclosure reporting disclosure disclosures, indicate omission the part not reported Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including 6PR advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. B P54,P56-57 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, PR7 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of C outcomes. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. C Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Under PR9 and services. B revision Attachments 1. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YBkz23dWWckyDR_hgvNBMjCvVRVBh2I1PFbQKgGzW8/edit 2. Nvanc1vR5Qtbk0Bd4tp0UU3B-bs0/folders/ Business Development Executive JD 1https://drive.google.com/drive/u/ Employee&Intern Orientation Guideline 3. epXOjPzeCKB-7LC1https://docs.google.com/document/d/ xhI/edit4uiQUEY4MpNLF_cXHEUPdrrJ1 4. Appraisal Guide /https://docs.google.com/a/egylieretravel.com/forms/d 1vtL84QvBhEXM8sxoiF9sQxyx6_iUd7uAVyarOqAsg8/edit 5. Egyliere Customer Survey https://drive.google.com/drive/u/ 1/folders/0B-bs3UU0tp4BY3htckJxMHB2Rm8 Assessment Documents for 4 branches 6. https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/0Bbs3UU0tp4BY0JtLUYyUUNKNUk 7. Qualitative and Quantitative documents of KPIs system https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kjy2hswd9eFH9Pw3PbzGcwhK8Ocj2zNIP67-K4cPS8. A/edit Evaluation standards for Accounting https://drive.google.com/drive/u/ 1/folders/0BybBhWpmy8QzdmdES1diMk1lMGc UNGC Training documents by UNGC Compliance Officer References 1.https://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/publications/ UN_Global_Compact_Guide_to_Corporate_Sustainability.pdf Guide to corporate sustainability 2.http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html The UN Global Compact Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, the environment and antilabour, corruption 3. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/issues/Labour/Tools_Guidance_Materials.html The Labour Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: A Guide for Business 4. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ docs/issues_doc/Peace_and_Business/ Small and Medium Sustaining_Business_and_Peace.pdf Sustainable Business and Peace: A Resource Pack on Corporate Responsibility for Enterprises 5. After the Signature A Guide to Engagement in the Global Compact 6. A Guide for Implementing Human Rights into Business Management
