COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) ACS audiovisual solutions Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 3 Feb 2017. To: 31 Jan 2018 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 2. Human Rights Principles 3. Labour Principles 4. Environmental Principles 5. Anti-Corruption Principles 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 31 January 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ACS audiovisual solutions reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Drs. Jessica Ylstra Managing Director ACS audiovisual solutions 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals ACS audiovisual solutions respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; ACS is committed to respecting human rights as stated in the human declaration of human rights. We endeavour to ensure that we do not infringe on human rights and comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Both internally and externally. Implementation ACS audiovisual solutions has drawn up internal rules and guidelines (personnel guide book) which describe rights and obligations of employees and management. These guidelines are provided internally and to be consulted any moment. These are documented at our local drivers Every new employee receives this document with guidelines at his/her career start at ACS. Our business partners need to confirm our policy to adhere to the principles on Human Rights, these are implemented within our general terms, which are always submitted when it comes to business. Measurements of outcome • ACS works in full compliance with the directives of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. But we also go beyond these directives: ACS has been fully VCA-certified since 2006. This means that ACS works responsibly with respect to safety, health and the environment. This provides our customers with added security concerning the quality we promise. VCA is a programme which assesses and certifies service providers with respect to safety, health and the environment (www.vca.nl). Yearly we have an unannounced VCA audit, the last audit took place on 23 November 2017. We have succeeded for this audit and will receive an official report. • ACS protects workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats via our working council and complaint committee. This committee exists of our HRM consultant/ internal counsellor and our external labour specialist. (who is also responsible for reintegration etc. during long term sick leave). In 2017 we have zero cases of registered complaints. • ACS takes measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. These ingredients are implemented within the directives of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and our VCA certification. We have employees trained for in-house or external emergency training in general we keep a avg. on 1 per 3 team members, currently we have 24 employees who are trained. They are officially certified and have to take yearly training to stay updated and certified. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals ACS audiovisual solutions respects the labor rights stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. ACS expects its business partners, customers and suppliers, to do the same. ACS does not tolerate any form of forced (labour) and stands for equal and fair rights within her HR policy. Implementation ACS audiovisual solutions implemented labour rights within her Human Resource policy and contracts with employees, which describe required rights and employer obligations (e.g. safety and health, non-discrimination/equal chances, working hours, wages etc.). This according to Dutch Law. ACS also implemented these rights within her personnel guide book, which every new employee receives, when starting at ACS. These documents are available at all times and accessible via our local drive’s. In order to maintain a high-quality service and give all our employees the opportunity to develop and gain knowledge we organise several trainings, for example sales training, technical training, safety training etc. Measurements of outcome • In 2017 ACS has eleven female employees (with a total of 75 employees): one female is managing director, besides the MD 2 females managers are part of the management. • In 2017 ACS has four different ethnical backgrounds within her employees • In 2017 we were able to help one logistic employee who was working to reintegration after a burn out In 2017, back to his normal position • Sixteen employees were hired, and twelve employees left the company • ACS scored 4,7% on her absence rate in 2017. This is higher than average within ACS, additional research. Well-being of employees, will be handled as a priority within the HRM plan for 2018 • ACS registered one accidents in 2017 on the job Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals As ACS audiovisual solutions her main activity involves the provision of services, its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Even so, to strengthen its approach to environment protection ACS is working on defining good-practices related to resource consumption, waste management and global environment friendly behaviour. When operating on a client’s premises ACS complies with that client’s environmental standards. ACS works with a range of objectives with respect to sustainability. • Energy Measurement criterion We assess energy consumption with facilities annually to determine where we can apply energy-saving changes. • Waste Measurement criterion We only work with companies that assess waste separation structurally and review whether current suppliers meet our requirements. • Mobility Measurement criterion Assessment of the lease trucks/buses used at the end of each lease period. Implementation ACS operates in accordance with an Environmental Management System. The general aim of the EMS within ACS is; • Compliance with legislation and regulations and the management of environmental risks. • To pursue permanent improvement in your organisation's environmental performance. ACS uses the following savings programmes within the EMS; Waste processing All ACS offices work with waste collection services that separate waste and collect and process it separately. For example the ACS Rotterdam office works with Van Gansewinkel. They provide various containers so that waste can be separated. Van Gansewinkel also uses green energy and invests in clean EVV vehicles. In 2009 they even had a first with an electric refuse collection vehicle for use in inner cities and at business parks. Cleaning ACS's cleaning company, Teico, operates a CSR policy which is assessed throughout the entire year. Sustainability is high on the agenda at Teico and plays an important role in mobility, purchasing, service provision, energy and HR policy, among others. Teico publishes its annual spend on cleaning materials. Last year, Teico's expenditure on cleaning products for all ACS locations was € 446,82. Teico makes an inventory of the annual volume of cleaning products and assesses them. Electricity At all locations, the lights stay off in rooms that are not in use. We use natural light as much as possible. Energy-saving lighting in the main warehouse. Heating A time switch in all the offices turns down the thermostat one hour before the end of the working day. The radiators in rooms that are not in use are kept on low to ensure equal distribution across the site, which prevents the thermostat from coming back on the whole day. All rooms are insulated. The door between the front warehouse and the rest of the site remains closed. When the roller blinds are opened, the heat does not escape from the site. Paper use Paper is collected separately from other waste. Black/white printing is recommended and this is the standard printer setting. The sales process in particular makes use of digital brochures and price lists instead of printed copies. Membership of STIBAT (batteries foundation) Stibat collects batteries from the collection points and ensures that they are sorted and recycled. Stibat takes the batteries it has collected to the national depot/sorting centre. After sorting, Stibat ensures that the batteries are recycled by recognised recycling companies in Western Europe. Membership of foundation AAP AAP gives primates and other exotic mammals a better future. AAP rescues animals and makes the case for better animal legislation in Europe. AAP collects old cell phones, for every cell phone that can be refurbished AAP receives a reimbursement of 3 euro’s. Every reimbursement will be donated to the animals adopted by AAP. In addition recycling your cell phone also helps saving the environment. Measurements of outcome • In 2017 we introduced newly designed and developed LED fixtures for our temporary structures, these fixtures will cut back energy use up to 85% of the previous fixtures used. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals ACS audiovisual solutions supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Our CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct (personnel guide book) include our policies on anti-corruption and respond to incidents. We have a system in place for any CSR guideline violation, this is managed via our counsellor and complaint committee. ACS also implemented ethical behaviour within her general terms towards suppliers. Measurements of outcome • No incidents of violation have been reported in 2017
