PROGRESS ON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2018 MaChers’ Bring Your Own Initiative CONTENTS A Message from our President MaCher At a Glance Who is MaCher? Certified B Corps: Using Business as a Force for Good Sustainable Development Goals Our Strategies and Priorities People SDG #3 Good Health and Well-Being SDG #5 Gender Equality Core Values and our CRAFT Culture Developing our Culture Team Member Benefits Planet SDG #12 Responsible Consumption and Production SDG #13 Climate Action Our Sustainability Objectives Prosperity Client Impact Life Cycle Assessment Calculator Partnerships SDG #17 Partnerships for the Goals Strategic Partners Communication Channels Stakeholders Peace Bamboo Reusable Lunch Kit *This report is based on our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018 Tourism Cares for Toronto A message from Our President Time flies! 10 years ago we took a few baby steps, learning to measure and fully offset the environmental impact of our US business operations. Our commitment to creating meaningful impact in the world continues. In 2016, we published our first annual Progress on Sustainability Report and in 2017, MaCher was honored as a Best for the World Changemaker by B Lab. MaCher’s purpose is to positively influence others, using our business as a force for good to improve lives and help our environment. In 2017, we upped our commitment to the UN Global Compact, moving from a Signatory to a Participant, helping us accelerate and scale our impact around the globe. Today, less than 6% of our products produced are single use, and we have committed to replace, by 2023, all plastic polybags with sustainable materials in our shipments. We have learned these larger steps start from smaller steps at home and in the office. We find kindness goes a long way. And then treating others with respect. And then we enlarge our focus to be kind to our environment and soften our impact on our earth as much as we can within the practical parameters of business. The process evolves and grows as we influence others and take on bigger challenges. At MaCher, we have found that encouraging these small changes leads to more confidence, improved business performance and far greater impact. Inspired by #FashionRevolution, we will also bring to life our incredible factory workers who produce the most beautiful products, while also providing for their families. We are proud of our fair and responsible working standards, and we are excited to share their stories via a simple “I made your bag” program. In March 2017, we introduced MaCher’s Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Calculator, a powerful tool that helps clients measure, reduce and offset the environmental footprint of their products. People often ask how to start their sustainability journey. Our advice is simple: Make a small change. Make it personal. Be curious. Change one daily habit, e.g. use a water bottle, recycle and/or compost. Take the free B Corp Impact Assessment to benchmark your business today. As you engage your teams in valuable, albeit sometimes uncomfortable, conversations the business case and the path ahead will reveal itself. I hope you will be inspired and informed by our Progress on Sustainability Report, and encourage you to read sustainability reports from other businesses. Any of our team are happy to help you on your own journey toward a more sustainable future. 3 Honored by B Lab as a Launched Best For the WorlD switch off, take off MaCher Changemaker 2017 initiative At a glance 100% company paid All suppliers meet medical coverage ISO SA8000 standards 80% of macher's team 644 hrs volunteered is female by MaCher team 1/3 of board of director's 49,865 is female products donated 26% of employees participating in 41 Green Commute program Charities supported 94.7% of our products 1.1% were reusable RevEnue donated 1.7% 100% carbon offset for our in house of paid work hours used for custom marketing products volunteering 4 Who is MaCher? At MaCher we are continually reinventing and improving our impact giving on behalf of industry powerhouses in Travel, Health & Beauty, Retail, Direct Selling, Wine & Spirits, e-Commerce, and many more. We are a global team of over 60 professionals with 30+ years of custom design and manufacturing experience for bespoke products, gifts with purchase, corporate gifting, premium packaging, private label, and promotional items. We help our clients give better and get more. By partnering with our clients we uncover previously unseen opportunities and develop strategies that minimize costs, increase sales, and reduce waste. Our surprisingly clever and always delightful products & packaging influence consumer purchasing behavior, generate word of mouth marketing, and foster loyalty. This is why we’re known as The Brand Behind The Brands. As a Certified B Corporation, our purpose is to use business as a powerful force for good, benefiting all our stakeholders…not just our shareholders. We use our business to positively influence others to make change in the world by addressing social and environmental issues, while advancing progress on the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Annual CRAFT Offsite, Marina Del Rey Goals (SDGs). 5 Certified B Corps: Using Business as a force for good B Corps are for-profit companies certified by the nonprofit B Lab to meet rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. We look to “B the Change” in the world we live in and openly communicate and share sustainability best practices. We use the B Corp certification process to annually benchmark our progress against goals, while playing an active role to help grow the B Corp movement. MaCher was first certified in 2014 and we have since had our biannual recertification as well as an independent audit by B Lab. This past year, MaCher was Honored as a Best for the World Changemaker 2017 by B Lab. This was recognition of our positive input across the four impact areas of the B Corp Impact Assessment: Environment, Workers, Community, and Governance. All MaCher team members contributed to our progress and together we look forward to the future, where all businesses are a force for good. 2500+ B Corporations 130 Industries 1 Unifying 160 Partner Organizations Goal 50+ Countries 6 Sustainable development Goals Our objectives and progress reporting are aligned to the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development under 5 categories: People Planet Prosperity Partnerships Peace The “5 Ps” are the pillars that support the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals which were launched in 2015 and aim Building Mobility Ramps | Tourism Cares for Toronto to mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities, and tackle climate change. 77 After attending the United Nations Leaders Summit in 2017 and the UN Global Compact Symposium in 2018, we reassessed our prior commitments to the SDGs. We feel we can improve our contribution by focusing on 5 SDGs where we can make a significant difference, instead of the 12 we originally targeted. 8 Our Strategies and Priorities Driven by the desire to grow our business while maintaining a purpose beyond profit, we plan to prioritize the following: + Remain fully committed to the B Corp standards measurements and focus on improving our score in a sustainable nature. + Positively influence our clients by proposing sustainable solutions including waste reduction and increased reusability of their products. + Educate our team and clients on the latest sustainability focused innovations. + Create a healthier working environment and reduce our environmental impact on the Earth. We intend to accomplish these goals through five key strategies: 1. Facilitate team member education and professional development. 2. Focus on sustainable design. 3. Host or facilitate peer learning round tables. 4. Develop and expand partnerships with industry associations and not-for-profits. 5. Adopt and establish sustainable better practices. 9 People In this fast changing world, we believe that by working together with the best of our abilities, talents, understanding of each other's differences, and good intentions, that we can continue to contribute to company progress and live our vision. MaCher strives to provide the best workplace, do right by the Earth, and positively impact others; this includes any person, party, or stakeholder influenced by our business. Halloween Parade, Venice CA 10 SDG Target MaCher's Current Contribution People SDG GOAL # 3.4 In addition to providing volunteer opportunities for By 2030, reduce by one third team members to work with not-for-profit organizations premature mortality from nonthat promote health and well-being we have: communicable diseases through Provided 5 standing desks for team members to SDG Goal: prevention and treatment and promote mental health and encourage mobility throughout the workday Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 well-being for all at all ages By 2020, all team members to have access to standing desks workspace. Meet a minimum of 50% of team members using all 20 hours of paid volunteer time by June 30, 2019. SDG Target MaCher's Current Contribution MaCher's Current Contribution SDG GOAL # 3.8 SDG GOAL # 3.9 100% of all products produced by MaCher meet Achieve universal health Providing 100% company paid medical coverage and SDG Target or exceed California Prop 65 material coverage, including financial comprehensive Employee Assistance Program for MaCher By 2030, substantially reduce the compliance standards. risk protection, access to quality employees, including part-time team members. Our medical number of deaths and illnesses essential health-care services coverage is inclusive of all gender preferences. from hazardous chemicals and Part of our rigorous manufacturing audit process and access to safe, effective, air, water and soil pollution and confirms every factory practices safe storage and quality and affordable essential contamination. handling of chemicals to ensure a safe working medicines and vaccines for all. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 environment. Continue to provide 100% company paid medical coverage for MaCher employees, including part-time team members. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 Produce MaCher transparency video(s) to educate clients and promote compliance with laws against harmful chemicals in products, such as Prop 65. 11 MaCher's Current Contribution SDG GOAL # 5.1 People SDG Target End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls 80% of MaCher’s team is female, represented across all departments and leadership positions. Managing Unconscious Bias is now a required training SDG Goal: everywhere. for all new/existing employees. MaCher provides equal pay for equal job status. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 We will increase our team member training on inclusive and diverse practices. We will also encourage and promote diversity and inclusion training with our clients. SDG Target MaCher's Current Contribution MaCher's Current Contribution SDG GOAL # 5.5 In 2017, one female staff member joined the MaCher Recognize and value unpaid We provide generous maternity and paternity paid leave SDG Target SDG GOAL # 5.4 care and domestic work benefits. Board of Directors. Today our board is 2/3 male, 1/3 through the provision of Ensure women’s full and female. effective participation and equal public services, infrastructure Flexible schedules for parents. opportunities for leadership at and social protection policies and the promotion of shared all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 responsibility within the Continue to provide equal opportunity for leadership household and the family as nationally appropriate. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 and continued education for both women and men in the workplace. Continue to provide maternity and paternity leave benefits as well as flexible schedules for parents. Increase to 25% of all team members to receive external educational/developmental opportunities annually. 12 C OL L ABOR ATION Teach & learn through shared insights Core Values R E SPECT and OUR CRAFT Culture Each other, our environment & our communities How we CRAFT our culture has a direct impact on the happiness of our team and is a key ingredient in sustaining our success. A UTHE NTICITY Be yourself We define “the best workplace” as a community built on a foundation of trust, respect, and integrity, where everyone is free to be themselves and learn from each other as we celebrate our shared successes, as well as lessons learned. F AMILY PR IDE Our team members actively participated in Embrace & build MaCher’s family culture company goal setting this year and many voices were heard. As a result, the company increased the team member happiness target to 85%. Through quarterly employee surveys and an open door policy, we gather on-going feedback to promote a working T RUST environment where diverse talents can Maintain clear, honest & open communication flourish. 13 Developing our culture MaCher fosters an environment that values individual and group differences within the workplace. Below are some highlights of our year: + “Thanks for the Feedback” training was provided in April 2018, offering tools to enhance the giving and receiving of feedback in a way that nurtures relationships, builds self-awareness, and encourages healthy conflict. + We introduced the Korn Ferry 360 feedback system, allowing team members feedback from multiple stakeholders both internally and externally. + Our Self Management model was further developed in 2017 and we will continue to encourage all team members to use the Advice Process. + In 2017, team members participated in a company softball team. + Team member birthdays and other milestones are celebrated monthly with a catered lunch or breakfast. + We provide opportunities throughout the year for team members to volunteer with our non-profit partners, building community, and strengthening partnerships. + We encourage external volunteering for all our team members to help promote further education beyond MaCher Softball Team our daily routine. 14 TEAM MEMBER MaCher provides numerous benefits Benefits to its employees beyond salary. We are All full-time MaCher team members receive constantly striving to provide our team the following company paid benefits: with the highest quality benefits. + Company profit share for all team members + Long and short term disability coverage + Access to long term financial planning + Benefits package available for part time team members + Charity matching donations + Dental and vision care reimbursement + Generous paid vacation + Health Employee Assistance Program (EAP) + Remote work when applicable + 6 weeks paid parental leave (mothers and fathers) plus 6 weeks paid pregnancy leave (mothers) + Performance bonus + Car purchase contribution for all vehicles over 40mpg + Emergency travel assistance + Sponsorship of employee team sports + Green Commute financial incentives + Office hydroponic vegetable garden + Choice of a religious holiday or other public holiday MaCher Moms, Venice CA + MaCher provides quality reusable stainless steel straws and travel coffee cups to reduce waste 15 Planet MaCher is committed to ensuring that sustainability is embedded into our daily lives. Through our procurement processes, we aim to lessen our short and long term impact on the Earth. We encourage and challenge our fellow employees, clients and vendors to reduce, reuse, and recycle. Our goal is to influence positive change with our stakeholders through initiatives that include the reusable cup program, Earth day pledges, green commute, carbon offsetting, and partnering on plastic reduction programs. A cleaner, healthier, and safer world for future generations depends on these daily actions and life decisions. 16 Planet SDG Goal: SDG Goal: ensure sustainable consumption ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns and production patterns MaCher's Current Contribution MaCher's Current Contribution In 2018 we updated our waste policy, the following are SDG Target MaCher has partnered with The Conservation Fund sdg GOAL # 12.5 sdg GOAL # 13.3 SDG Target examples of our current waste reduction initiatives: Improve education, for 10 years to offset 100% of our US operations resource usage. By 2030, substantially reduce recycling paper, compost, purchasing non toxic awareness-raising and human chemical cleaning product and disposing print toner, waste generation through and institutional capacity on Our Green Commute program encourages employees ink and e-waste responsibly. prevention, reduction, climate change mitigation, to reduce commuting impact through riding, walking, recycling and reuse. MaCher has a responsible procurement policy, adaptation, impact reduction public transport, or car pooling. where we source from other B-Corps for all internal and early warning. purchasing, when possible. In 2018 we introduced a stainless steel straw and reusable cup program to eliminate unnecessary Since 2016 MaCher went paperless for record keeping. waste within our internal operations. For further contributions please refer to Table 1A For further contributions please refer to Table 1A MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 Refer to Table 1B Refer to Table 1B 17 Our Sustainability TABLE 1A Objectives How did we do this year? SDG GOAL # 2017 Goals TOOLs and Methods 2018 Progress Provide tools for sustainability initiatives to be used Increase our B Corp score to 101 by recertification, B Corp recertification has been rescheduled for September 2019. Based on our current N/A for increasing client, employee, and partnership September 2018. progress we believe a realistic, revised goal of 99.6 will be achievable. engagement. 94% of our products were reusable from the 17/18 fiscal year. Offer our customers a recycled/recyclable or As of March 2018 we are able to offer a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) calculation and 95% of our products being reusable and/or carbon offset for any MaCher product. 12.5 sustainable solution with every presentation of a recyclable by June 2018. We did not offer sufficient training to our sales team on how to present an alternative single use item. option to a single use item to our clients. We are committed to continuing our progress in this area. 94% of Macher marketing items were sustainably sourced or had a high level of 100% of MaCher marketing items to be sustainably Define standards and create an implementation and reusability. We will continue to be committed to improving this score as we progress. 12.5 sourced and/or a high level of reusability by June measurement plan. For the first time we have completed an LCA and paid for a carbon offset for all custom 2018. marketing products ordered during the year. Provide 2 FYI educational sessions to the team on MaCher’s new product development team worked on product lines for four sustainable New product development team to present quarterly sustainable new products. material designs to offer to our clients. These material categories were RPET, stone 13.3 product ranges for our clients that have a focus on paper, paper pulp packaging, bamboo/husk fiber plastics. utilizing sustainable materials and design for 2018. Define plans for a circular economy by 2018. We started LCA training for team members in May 2018. We have not been able define a workable system to audit, measure and reduce polybag packaging on bulk production. We will continue to invest in developing a system to Reduce the number of polybags used for samples Create a system to audit, measure, and reduce poly 13.3 track and then reduce our usage in this area. and bulk production by June 2018. packing on bulk production. While our process needs improvement, we have multiple projects where we have reduced wasteful packaging or introduced recycled packaging. By June 2018, have a workable Life Cycle We partnered with CLEAN Agency to complete our Lifecycle Assessment Continue partnership with Clean Agency and build calculator in February 2018. 13.3 Assessment that we can offer an environmental an internal/external education program around it. offset to our clients on all orders. Offering LCA calculations and offset to our clients began in March 2018. Define our standards and create an Core supply partners have done an environmental self assessment. Though it is not implementation plan. required at this point, we encourage factories to have ISO 14001 certification for Define and document core supply partners’ Transparent communication with supply partners environmental management system to mitigate adverse environmental impacts. In 13.3 to understand processes and conduct interactive environmental impacts by June 2020. trainings. the future we hope to have all our factory partners committed to a minimum of ISO Environmental impact evaluation during supplier on 14001 standards. By the end of 2018, we are aiming to have built our first environmental boarding. assessment guide for our factory partners. 18 Our Sustainability TABLE 1B Objectives SDG GOAL # 2018 Goals TOOLs and Methods Increase our B Corp score to 101 by our February Provide tools for sustainability initiatives to be used for increasing client, N/A 2020 recertification. employee, and partnership engagement. Replace all single use plastics by 2023, with either Measure single use plastic current usage and research alternative materials. a biodegradable or reusable option (ie. polybag Provide sales tools and training to increase client awareness of PVC impact. 12.5 packaging). Create an alternative list of materials to replace PVC for clients. Measure and eliminate PVC usage by 2023. Encourage clients to participate in reducing PVC usage in their business. 100% of MaCher marketing items to be sustainably Introduce KPIs for marketing department to ensure we are meeting our 12.5 sourced and/or a high level of reusability by June commitment. 2019. Eliminate single use plastics by 2023. Research alternative methods for packing. 12.5 Measure and eliminate PVC usage by 2023. Develop a tracking system for measuring polybag usage. Increase understanding of current practices and baseline for our key suppliers’ resource usage. Have a minimum of 5 significant suppliers reporting Define a framework to track and report resource usage of significant 13.3 on resource usage by 2020 for either energy or water suppliers with the aim to conserve resources in the future. consumption. Improve adoption of ISO 14001 certification with significant suppliers. Currently 1 significant supplier is certified. Continue to monitor, record, and set specific reduction targets for company energy and water usage. 13.3 Improve company natural resource use. Switch our energy use to 100% renewable energy starting July 1st, 2018. Continue with goal to achieve building LEED certification by the end of 2020 which includes installation of solar power on the LA office building. Educate clients around sustainable product development and the benefits of LCA calculations to offset product impact. Increase adoption of our LCA offset to 20% of all Provide internal team training on using the LCA and how to educate clients 13.3 orders by 2020. on the benefits of offsetting. Implement sustainable materials sales tool to increase adoption of more sustainable product options. By the end of 2018, all team members to have 13.3 Encourage all team members to adopt sustainability KPIs. sustainability KPI’s (both social and environmental). 19 19 Prosperity TEAM DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL SUCCESS INTERNAL NOT-FOR-PROFIT AND PROFIT SHARE SUSTAINABILITY TEAM SUPPORT Team members are encouraged to invest in their All MaCher team members Volunteer team meets monthly MaCher supports and serves on own professional development participate in a company profit to establish and implement our boards and advisory committees with a minimum commitment sharing program. Sustainable Development Goals. of non-profits. Our combined of 20 paid professional economic contribution was over development hours per $600k in 2017/18. MaCher actively employee per annum. participates in B Local Los Angeles, a quarterly peer learning group attended by 20 local B Corps. CHARITY MATCHING INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP COMPLIANCE DONATIONS This year we launched Switch MaCher is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) organization, which MaCher team member organized Off, Take Off; an industry thought is dedicated to driving ethical improvements in global supply chains specifically in the fundraising, including: leadership group founded areas of labor standards, health/safety, the environment, and business practices. by MaCher that aims to educate the $720 donation to Helping Rhinos, working travel industry about the profound In addition, our own Supplier Code of Conduct is based on SA8000, which is the United to save the rhino from extinction through benefits of travel on the mental Nations universally accepted doctrine on human rights. We routinely maintain updated strategic partnerships and vital work health of guests. See more at audit records, schedule regular factory visits, and share the vision with our suppliers to in the field www.switchofftakeoff.com make an impact and continually improve business by adopting better practices. $1288 to the Concern Foundation in support of their mission to conquer cancer Birthday Fundraiser to National Center for Missing and Exploited Children $500 20 Client impact MaCher is proud of our sustainability journey and how it continues to evolve and grow. We are especially grateful to a number of our clients who have helped us progress in measuring sustainability practices in business and inspired us to further improve our own best practices. We continue to build a significant body of experience around impact measurement and the business case to creating meaningful change in the world. We are happy to support and help all our clients use their business as a powerful force for good. Over the past year, we have been working hard to develop our first Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Calculator, which allows us to calculate the environmental impact of every product MaCher creates. We are happy to announce that the LCA Calculator is now live and being offered to our clients to offset the environmental impact of their products via our partnership with The Conservation Fund. 21 MaCher's Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Calculator 01. MEASURE We measure the CO2 footprint of raw material production, manufacturing, packaging, and transportation to landfill. 06 01 06. reporT 0 2 . C A L C U L AT E The Conservation Fund provides an impact We calculate total product impact report that helps contribute towards in Metric Tons of CO2 equivalent. your corporate sustainability goals. Life Cycle 02 05 Assessment 05. CONSERVE 03. CONVERT The Conservation Fund invests in protecting and restoring native 04 03 Using market value of carbon we calculate the financial contribution forestlands and wildlife habitats. These required to offset emissions. forests absorb CO2 and eliminate it from the atmosphere. 04. offset We provide The Conservation Fund with this contribution on your behalf. 22 Partnerships We have committed to Goal 17 of the SDGs, “Partnerships for the Goals” as a continued main focus moving forward. We believe that as a B Corp, MaCher is in a strong position to contribute greatly towards this goal. We strive to partner with other organizations strategically to support them in affecting positive change to solve social or environmental issues facing the world today. We have always believed our purpose is to positively influence others and focus on building meaningful partnerships with associations, non-profits, and government organizations to encourage change and care for our environment. We believe we’re better together and are proud to partner with such a USTOA, Miami diverse and talented group. 23 Partnerships SDG Goal: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable MaCher's Current Contribution sdg GOAL # 17.16 MaCher has meaningful partnerships with non-profit development SDG Target organizations which aim to help solve many of the By 2030, substantially reduce challenges faced in meeting the UNSDG’s by 2030. waste generation through Ensure all Suppliers meet SA8000. MaCher's Current Contribution prevention, reduction, For the past 2 years, MaCher has been an active SDG Target sdg GOAL # 17.17 MaCher helps all of our strategic partners. In the recycling, and reuse. member of the B Local community partnering with Encourage and promote past year, we have actively engaged in the following Conscious Capitalism to host B Corp Hackathons effective public, public-private which aims to foster the B Corp community and issues: Freedom to Travel, Overtourism, Mental and civil society partnerships, encourage more sustainable business practices. Health and Wellness, National Parks funding, Cancer building on the experience related Education and Support, Impact Measurement, and resourcing strategies of Environmental Education, Life Cycle Assessments, MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 partnerships. Continue our contributions to our non-profit Diversity & Inclusion, Sustainable Travel, Leadership & partnerships. Culture Development in non-profits. Continue our advocacy for mental health reform though building Switch Off, Take Off initiative. MaCher’s Commitment for 2019/20 Build a transparent system to monitor and track We will continue all these multi-year partnerships resource usage in our supply chain. as well as forge new partnerships in the field of Continue our active participation in the B Local sustainable packaging eg joining SPICE (Sustainable community to foster and mentor more businesses to Packaging Initiative for Cosmetics). become B Corps or B Corp like. 24 Strategic Partners The Conservation Fund makes conservation Tourism Cares mission is to advance the work for America. By creating solutions travel industry’s social impact to help that make environmental and economic people and places thrive. Tourism Cares sense, they are redefining conservation creates shared learning and meaningful to demonstrate its essential role in future impact programs via delegations, prosperity. Top-ranked for efficiency and workshops and online. effectiveness, they work in all 50 states to protect more than 7.8 million acres of land since 1985. B Lab is a nonprofit Cancer and Careers organization that serves a Beauty Bus Foundation empowers and educates global movement of people provides dignity through people with cancer to using business as a force for beauty services and thrive in their workplace, good, its vision is that one compassionate support to by providing expert advice, day all companies compete chronically or terminally ill interactive tools, and not only to be the best in patients and their caregivers. educational events. the world, but the Best for the World® and as a result society will enjoy a more shared and durable prosperity. Beauty Bus Foundation 2018 Beauty Drive, Los Angeles 25 Conscious Capitalism believes that free United States Tour Operators Association Heal the Bay is an environmental nonprofit Cosmetic Executive Women (CEW) is a global enterprise capitalism is the most powerful (USTOA) is a professional, voluntary trade dedicated to making the coastal waters and community 9,000 members strong defining economic system for social cooperation and association created with the primary watersheds of Greater Los Angeles safe, the future of beauty. By creating a forum of human progress ever conceived – when purpose of promoting integrity within the healthy and clean. To fulfill their mission, they collaboration, idea exchange and growth, practiced consciously. Conscious Capitalism tour operator industry. use science, education, community action, CEW helps its members and the industry as produces businesses that are good, ethical, and advocacy. a whole take empowered next steps towards noble and heroic. The organization helps a more beautiful future. In everything they companies become more conscious with do, the CEW community is propelling the transformational experiences that inspire, beauty industry forward. educate and empower them to elevate humanity through business. Do Good Bus promises altruistic Dig Deep is a human Environmental Charter Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism In the last 2 years, MaCher has led the adventurism by bringing people rights non-profit High School (ECHS) is (CTPAT) is but one layer in U.S. Customs development of the B Local community together to help local causes in a fun working to ensure an award winning, free, and Border Protection’s (CBP) multi-layered in LA. We have 2 active members on the and social environment. During each that every American public high school in cargo enforcement strategy. Through board of the B Local LA chapter. B Local mystery event, Do Good Bus strives has clean, running South Los Angeles that this program, CBP works with the trade LA has the mission to “Improve the vitality, to create awareness for local causes, water forever. prepares students for community to strengthen international happiness and growth of the Los Angeles create community amongst volunteers 4-year colleges using the supply chains and improve United States B Corp community by sharing knowledge and prove the power of working environment as a lens for border security. and collaborating on best practices that together to make a difference. real-life learning. inspire change.” 26 Communication channels This year we created a new privacy policy and implemented some marketing best practices that adhere to the new GDPR regulations, which went into effect on May 25, 2018. Our sustainability story and KPIs are communicated through a variety of internal and external channels, including (but not limited to): + Team Member Sustainability Training + Annual Progress on Sustainability Report + Website + New Hire Orientation + Company, Department and Team Member Meetings + Annual Sustainability Goals + Public Speaking and Facilitation + Association and Not-For-Profit Involvement + Industry Roundtables + Supply Partner Visits + Logistics Supply Chain Collaboration + Social Media + FYI Sessions 27 Stakeholders MaCher defines our stakeholders as those who directly influence and/or are influenced by our day-to-day operations. We are committed to encouraging and responding to the advice and input from our stakeholders who contribute greatly to the success of MaCher. Our stakeholders include: + Team Members + Clients + Supply Partners + Our Local Community + Travel, Beauty, and Retail Industry Associations + The B Corp Community + Charities and Not-For-Profit + Owners Sample Room | Shenzhen, China 28 PEACe MaCher operates within the guidelines of the UN Global Compact, having the confidence that our business and stakeholders are a powerful force for good. As a C-TPAT member, we understand that conflicts, terrorism, and other forms of difficulties can threaten peace around the world. With our extensive international networks and through a system of checks and balances, we must come together to promote and protect peace around the world. We also encourage and facilitate diversity and inclusion practices within our workplace to foster an environment of acceptance and celebration of each other's differences. Our products often start with raw materials that must be harvested, processed, weaved, sewn, and manufactured. We promote and encourage transparency, accountability and inclusiveness throughout our supply chain and comply with strict supplier operating agreements that we are happy to provide on request. In the B Corp community we have been recognized as a best practice in this area. We believe in creating peace of mind for all our stakeholders. 29 Earth Day Volunteering, California Native Plant Society THANK YOU 1518 Abbot Kinney Blvd Venice, CA 90291 +1 310 581 5222 info@macher.com Tourism Cares with Jordan
