DISCUSSING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2018 REPORT As a leader in our field we are rightly held We believe that active dialogue with our people, to high standards in all we do. We believe our clients, our peers, with regulators, NGOs, that our licence to operate, the sustainability local communities and beyond enriches our of our business and the achievement of understanding of our responsibilities. And we our vision are dependent on our ability to believe that continually questioning what we inspire trust and earn the confidence of all are doing and how we are doing it enables us our stakeholders. To do this we must act to advance our practice. This report tries to responsibly, creating long-term value and capture some small part of that dialogue and supporting their future success. self-interrogation. We welcome your feedback. We use our commitment to the UN Global Compact, and associated global frameworks, to help shape our approach. Our activity is aligned with and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on those areas where we can make the greatest contribution. Contents Our vision Introduction Doing Business People Community Environment Monitoring Our Progress is to be the global law firm of choice for Our Responsible A Question Data Drives Make An Rethink Thank Business Strategy Of Ethics Change Impact And Renew You 3 9 15 21 27 31 Question Leadership the world’s leading A Focus On… My View On… A Focus On… A Focus On… Challenge Modern Slavery Addressing International Sport Single-Use Plastics & Governance Act 10 Unconscious Bias & Human Rights 28 33 5 16 22 My View On… My View On… Monitoring businesses of today A New Style Of A Focus On… My View On… Taking Action Our Progress Ethics Training The Mansfield Rule Building A 30 35 12 18 Groundbreaking Partnership Our and tomorrow. 23 Highlights 36 How We Performed Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, 37 this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. 1 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 2 OUR RESPONSIBLE MAPPING OUR OBJECTIVES BUSINESS STRATEGY TO THE SDGs Our Responsible Business strategy We believe that as a firm we have a strong DOING BUSINESS concentrates on our most material issues: record in making a contribution to progress those that are most important to our towards a number of the Sustainable stakeholders and those with the greatest Development Goals (SDGs), in particular potential to affect the sustainability and goals 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16 and 17, success of our firm. Our approach is and we intend to continue to do so through COMMUNITY informed by regular dialogue, most to 2030. importantly with our people, our clients OUR and our communities. The strategy aims to PEOPLE The contributions that we seek to make in take a holistic view that integrates different OUR the communities around the world where perspectives and near-, midand longerCLIENTS we do business are particularly aligned term horizons, and that is progressed CIVIL with SDGs 4, 8, 16 and 17 and we will SOCIETY through clear objectives and KPIs, careful be reporting in detail on our contributions PEOPLE scrutiny at senior leadership level and high towards these goals. levels of engagement throughout our firm – across offices, roles, and seniority. ENVIRONMENT DOING BUSINESS PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Strategic focus: Strategic focus: Strategic focus: Strategic focus: We establish and promote market-shaping We realise the potential of our people by creating We partner to support our community by widening We manage our footprint and contribute practices in relation to ethics, professional a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace, and by access to justice, finance, and education. to developing a more sustainable world. standards and risk management. broadening our skills and experience. Benefits to society: Benefits to society: Benefits to society: Benefits to society: Supporting a wide range of organisations from Minimises our own impact. Contributes to Promotes ethical business practices which build Our people are equipped to make a positive small community charities to international NGOs wider adoption of environmentally sustainable sustainable economies and uphold the rule of law. contribution across their networks and to achieve their mission. business activities. wider communities. Benefits to clients: Benefits to clients: Benefits to clients: Service informed and defined by the highest Benefits to clients: Project collaboration strengthens relationships. Meets expectations of environmental sustainability. standards of professionalism, ethics and Better understanding and better advice. risk management. Benefits to the firm: Benefits to the firm: Benefits to the firm: Broadens experience and develops skills. Demonstrates commitment to environmental Benefits to the firm: Attracts, retains and develops high-quality people. issues. Aligns with our people’s expectations Builds trust and confidence in all stakeholders. and reduces cost. 3 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 4 QUESTION the firm about that. These are powerful Our strategic alignment with the UN I find it enormously encouraging to see CHALLENGE questions. Each of us has to frame that Sustainable Business Goals is a big part these conversations develop across our question – and the answer – in a way that of our efforts to facilitate change, and our network. We are cultivating a ‘speak-up’ feels relevant to our own lives. But if we don’t work has supported the SDGs for a long culture among our people, and we are ask these questions at all, then I believe we time. But it’s only more recently that we engaging in active dialogue among some are short-changing ourselves and everyone have begun to think about what that means of the most influential decision makers around us – whether that’s on a professional, for the core of our business, and how we on a global scale. This report highlights ACT personal or societal level.” can organise ourselves to really support some fantastic examples of the power of the achievement of the SDGs. We have an constructive discussion, and we actively Malcolm Sweeting: important role to play, but our impact will be encourage those conversations to continue far greater if we have honest conversations to help all of us feel confident in our ability “As a global firm, we’re right at the centre within the firm, and with others about to make a difference.” of the leading discussions and debates that where we can and should be doing more. are happening in the world, and we’re in a That means measurement, monitoring unique and privileged position to address and reporting. And being prepared to share major challenges in areas like sustainability, that information, as we do in this report. inclusivity and access to justice. By bringing together businesses, policy advisors, NGOs The issues we’re addressing are not and clients, we widen our understanding of straightforward. We do not always have the these important issues, how they impact all answers, but we will only work towards finding of us, and how – by working together – we those answers through open discussion with can bring about real change. all of our stakeholders and a shared appetite for progress. Global Managing Partner, Matthew Layton and Senior Partner, Malcolm Sweeting Matthew Layton: a phenomenal force for change – that is incredibly exciting. We know that’s why a “ A crucial part of being reflect on why open discussion and the interplay of ideas and perspectives drives “We live in a complex world. When we consider what it means to ‘do the right lot of our clients choose to work with us. But we can also have that same effect in a responsible business our progress as a responsible business. thing’, it is not always immediately easy to our communities and wider society. Over the is holding ourselves accountable, individually identify the right path to take. A starting past few years, we have helped to establish point is to put ourselves in the shoes of all fantastic new microfinance organisations that our stakeholders. How will our decisions and actions impact them? How will they transform people’s lives, to create education platforms that give children completely new and as a firm.” feel and respond? We have to ask ourselves opportunities, to support the rule of law these questions again and again. Whether through fighting corruption and human rights it is working with our clients to understand abuses. This work is an essential part of and promote the longer term, strategic what makes us who we are as a firm and I’m objectives of decisions they may be hugely ambitious for what more we can do. considering; or whether it is ensuring that we are aware of the impact of our daily A crucial part of being a responsible business interactions on colleagues. is holding ourselves accountable, individually and as a firm. I try to ask myself every day, I have always felt that the greatest and best ‘Did I add value?’, ‘Did I do what I could to version of Clifford Chance is when we all make a positive difference and uphold our stand together. When we do that, we are values and culture?’. And I talk to people in 5 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 6 Doing business responsibly through market-shaping practices in relation to ethics, professional standards and risk management is a top priority. 7 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 8 A QUESTION A FOCUS ON… MODERN SLAVERY Integral to our ethical business principles We are, however, highly alert to hidden OF is our commitment to uphold human rights, risks. In addition to our internal policies, wherever we are in the world. our Supplier Code sets out the standard of conduct we expect from all our suppliers Our latest Transparency Statement, issued in and contractors. We have also implemented October 2017, reaffirms publicly that Clifford mandatory training globally, to help ensure Chance “opposes all forms of slavery and that everyone in the firm can be alert to ETHICS human trafficking, and we are committed labour abuses wherever they might arise, to taking steps to ensure that these do and so that we can all play our part in not occur in our business or in our supply highlighting such abuses, and ultimately chains.” This is aligned with the UK Modern eradicating them. Slavery Act, part of a worldwide focus to eliminate modern slavery, one of the UN’s SDGs to be achieved by 2030. As a firm strictly regulated by professional regulatory bodies in each jurisdiction we operate in, with global ethical policies and practices, we have assessed that we are at low risk of slavery or human trafficking existing within our own business. Debate and understanding of legal Why is our focus on ethics so important? norms and can be highly influenced by ethical issues is an increasingly important contrasts of opinion as well as geopolitical and challenging subject, especially Chris: As a leading law firm, we are very events. The challenge for us is to create a when the pressure to say ‘yes’ is high conscious of our responsibilities, both as global standard which transcends all of this. and consequences of poor judgement guardians of the rule of law, and in terms We are a product of what our people think calls are severe. Executive Partner and of our ability to make a difference in society is right, and we need to have a thorough General Counsel, Chris Perrin and Chief more broadly. We are, quite rightly, expected understanding of what we face, beyond Risk and Compliance Officer, Bahare to act with integrity and are held to the the letter of the law, in all countries in which Heywood discuss. highest standards in everything we do, so we operate. the ability of every person in the firm to uphold robust ethical standards is a crucial part of What is driving our activity around ethics? doing business responsibly. And, of course, it matters to our clients. It’s something they Chris: Our ambitions to ‘do the right thing’ too are focusing on more and more, and and build a sustainable business which they expect their closest advisers to do looks beyond quick wins. Safeguarding the same. our reputation is another key driver for us. Any global organisation should consider its Bahare: We also need to understand that reputational risk very carefully, and help its ethics – in the legal context – are not always people understand the damage that can black and white. This is an area that will occur if it finds itself under fire, despite always be relative to cultural and geographical acting lawfully. 9 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 10 Bahare: Another driver is being sensitive to on some of the ethical dilemmas our people To what extent do these considerations Business Statement, which covers the client’s the right decisions if we’re asking the right what our own people, especially the younger face and, through group discussions and govern the work we take on? commitment to zero tolerance for corruption questions, so the more we give our people generation, feel is right and acceptable. workshops, enables them to feel confident and any form of human rights abuse. a voice and help everyone to consider the Questioning why we do or don’t take on about making ethical judgement calls where Bahare: We have recently consolidated the consequences of their decisions and actions, a certain type of work is an important it is appropriate to do so. process around the legal and moral criteria What has been the effect of this the stronger we’ll be. part of ensuring that we continue in the we apply in determining whether we should sharpened focus? right direction, and we want to create an Chris: This is on the agenda at every level reject new work, which potentially impacts on environment of openness and encourage our people to challenge the status quo. Working and of interest across the partnership too. At our annual partners’ meeting, we run human rights and humanitarian law. We also consider very carefully whether there would Chris: I think, as a firm, we have become more reflective and sensitised to ethical issues. “ We want to create an for a firm that has high ethical standards is also a key factor in recruiting and retaining a session for office managing partners where, collectively, we explore some of their be disapproval publicly or within the firm as a result. And of course, public opinion changes Increasingly, I see people are putting up their hands to ask, “Is this a problem?”, “Is this environment of openness the best talent, and this goes to the heart challenges across the many jurisdictions over time, so we must always be cognisant of okay?”. The energy of some of our younger and encourage our people to challenge the status quo…” of who we are. in which we operate. For example, is it how our actions can be construed over time. lawyers sparks a lot of discussion among our acceptable to attend events which are open partners, and we can see how much these How are we doing more to motivate only to one gender? When you dig down, Chris: One of the main difficulties we see conversations matter to our people. and engage our internal audience in this becomes a complex topic and cultural when deciding whether to accept a new these conversations? norms and customs must be taken into client is how to interpret allegations that Bahare: I believe the genuine support from account. It shows that a one-size-fits-all have not led to any conviction, or a historic the top is what’s driving this shift in attitude. Bahare: One of our priorities this year attitude cannot always work, but having open conviction where it might be expected that Ethical issues are often not easy to resolve has been equipping our people to make and frank discussions is the important thing. the prospective client has since reformed. but as we encourage more activity and challenging and complex judgement calls In either of these cases, we may decide conversation, what we’re seeing is a stronger often under immense pressure. We developed only to agree to accept the client if it has ethical backbone running right through the a new style of training, which shines a light signed a Clifford Chance Responsible different levels of the firm. We can only make MY VIEW ON... A NEW STYLE OF ETHICS TRAINING Amsterdam Managing Partner For me, the key was that the course wasn’t Jeroen Ouwehand telling us what to do. Rather, it let us explore the consequences of our actions or decision “The firm’s new workshop, created in through an ethical lens. partnership with Financial Times | IE Business School Corporate Learning Alliance, was very The question of whether we, as a firm, decide effective in helping us consider the role that not to act on a certain matter is complex ethics and values should play in the work and not easy to answer, but I believe we we choose to take on. It really brought home should continually have this dialogue within this message by using mock newspaper our practice areas. We should allow all of our headlines showing the potential public impact lawyers the space to question the work they of the choices made by the participants. do, if it conflicts with strongly held personal The difficulty there is that there can be values or convictions, without it being held significant differences in personal values. against them.” For example, if I’m very worried about climate change, to what extent does that affect my willingness to assist a polluting business that has little concern for the environment? 11 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 12 People are central to everything we do. We realise our potential by creating a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace, and by broadening our skills and experience. 13 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 14 DATA MY VIEW ON... ADDRESSING UNCONSCIOUS BIAS Regional Managing Partner What it can’t tell us is how to eliminate that DRIVES Charles Adams bias, so I think another important step is to amplify the role our individual actions “The unconscious bias training we offer greatly play here. Am I alive enough to these increased my understanding of the mental issues? Do I call out unfair treatment if I and structural barriers that may stand in the see it? We all need to keep our eyes and way of us being as diverse as we want to be. minds open. CHANGE But for me, this is only the start. Just as we embed other parts of our It made me realise that, beyond waking commercial strategy to drive business, a consciousness and setting targets, so must we embed a heightened awareness we have to look closer at the intermediate of these issues to drive progress, every day.” steps required – one of which needs to be holding ourselves more accountable. Data plays a huge part in this by telling us the status quo is unacceptable. It helps us to stay diligent about tracking progress and to identify sections of our community that may have a bias against it. The UK’s Gender Pay Gap legislation What did you find valuable about the gender parity, but across all areas of diversity. Laura: We agreed that the most useful way came into force this year, which aims Gender Pay Gap reporting? In the wake of the #MeToo campaign, to present our data was in the simplest way to show the distribution of men and I think the social environment is more open possible: to compare full-time equivalent women across different roles within an Laura: I think, for all of us, it was an to change now. We want to capture that pay for all employees and partners over the organisation, highlighting where there may opportunity to open up new conversations. zeitgeist and use this experience as a vehicle course of a year and to conduct the pay gap be concentrations of a particular gender We created a group that brought together for change as much as we can. analysis on that basis. This did, however, at lower or higher pay levels with a view to many different perspectives – gender, working mean that our hourly pay gap of 20.3% driving greater equality in the workplace. group, function – which helped our decisionClifford Chance reported its Gender Pay worsened to an overall pay gap of 66.3%. Partner and Global Head of HR and Talent, making enormously. With the help of that Gap data differently to many other firms. Laura King and UK Managing Partner, group, we’ve been able to discuss the best Why is that? What else drove this decision to Michael Bates discuss. approach to the reporting and, perhaps report differently? more importantly, to discuss what changes Michael: The statutory requirement is for the firm could make to improve our culture organisations to publish figures for their Michael: We took a step back and asked and our inclusion. We intend to make these employees but not partners, as they are ourselves, what is this report trying to tell us? “ Transparency of data is a efforts global and to engage in a similar level of analysis around gender pay gap in all of considered owners of the business rather than employees. However, as we explored It’s trying to highlight an issue and drive change, so let’s do that. It seemed obvious very good catalyst for change. our offices. our figures, we took the decision that a broader analysis was needed – one that that the only way we could do that was to measure and report in a way that took the It encourages candid discussion Michael: It also made us realise that progress included our most highly compensated whole organisation into account. For us, that internally, and also externally with clients and legislators.” isn’t happening as quickly as we’d like and individuals too. meant identifying a fully transparent, total made us eager for progress – not just for compensation figure across everyone. 15 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 16 Laura: We also considered our clients, the majority of whom do not operate dynamism and giving women the same encouragement as we give men on the route do so. Without data, it is difficult to see what can make a credible difference over time. Michael: We also have to mitigate concerns about positive discrimination, and focus our “ We’ve been able to discuss the partnership structures and would have to report data which represented the whole to partnership? If not, why not? Perhaps the opportunities are more readily available to For this reason, we encourage people to self-report: the firm recognises that this can attention on skills and abilities to ensure everyone has the best platform to develop. best approach to the reporting of their UK organisations. By comparison, men, and we need to change the way we be sensitive, but it is so helpful to inclusion. The questions we’re asking of ourselves are and what changes the firm could make to improve our culture and it would seem unusual that we would not operate to fix that. The data also reinforced not easy ones, and won’t be answered or do the same. The point of the exercise was that the majority of people in our lower How is the data reporting process driving solved overnight, but I believe approaching to encourage transparency and to help us talk openly and constructively about what compensation quartile are women, which is something else we need to address. action now? these issues with transparency and openness says a lot about the sort of firm we are. our inclusion.” the data signifies. Laura: We have made some strides toward I’m enormously proud of Clifford Chance, Laura: Transparency of data is a very good balance and inclusion and we should be and have a huge loyalty to it, and I want all What did we learn from this process? catalyst for change. It encourages candid proud of that. However, initiatives like Gender of our people to feel the same. discussion internally, and also externally with Pay Gap reporting remind us that we must Michael: It highlighted how valuable this clients and legislators. It helps to sharpen the increase and maintain momentum. There is data reporting is. Without it, it’s hard to know focus for interventions: depending upon both no doubt that organisations which are best if we’re expending our energy in the right the gap and the working group, very different able to cater for a global and diverse client places. Gender was a good example, as we actions may be required. For example, there base and workforce will be those that survive discovered promotions were an issue rather may be issues which stem from recruitment, and thrive. Discussion is helpful, but it is than population or attrition. The data forced or we may need to look at why certain not enough. We must follow through on us to re-examine why we still have fewer activities attract greater bonus consideration. the targeted, recommended actions of the women in the position of being a partner, We may need to look harder at culture and Gender Pay Gap working group, and test the despite the focus we have had on this make sure that we call out inappropriate results through our data as well as through issue for years. Are we promoting enough behaviours, providing the right avenues to listening to our colleagues and clients. A FOCUS ON... THE MANSFIELD RULE Clifford Chance US achieved Mansfield Today, one-third of our US practice Certification this year after agreeing to be areas are led by a minority or woman a pioneering US firm for the Mansfield Rule. partner. Nearly 40% of our US associates To be certified, a law firm must consider are ethnic minorities and 46% are a minimum of 30% women, LBGTQ+ women. Additionally, 60% of our US and minority lawyers for significant Business Services departments are led leadership roles. by women. We are pleased to have achieved Mansfield Certification this year The Rule is named after Arabella Mansfield, and will look to use insights from this who in 1869 became the first American model to inspire more progress both woman to pass the bar exam and challenge in the US and across our network. a statute excluding her from practising law. The Mansfield Rule was one of the winning ideas from the 2016 Women in Law Hackathon hosted by Diversity Lab in collaboration with Bloomberg Law and Stanford Law School. There are now 65 law firms participating in the 2.0 version that runs from July 2018 to July 2019. 17 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 18 Community sits at the heart of our firm. We partner to support our community by widening access to justice, finance and education. 19 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 20 MAKE AN IMPACT Last year, we made a commitment to How has our commitment to the SDGs at identifying opportunities to partner with A FOCUS ON... INTERNATIONAL align our pro bono and community work shaped our activity over the past year? other organisations. SPORT & HUMAN RIGHTS with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in recognition of their potential Tom: It prompted us to fully think through Why is partnership important? Some of our recent pro bono work has been We advised on the Centre’s corporate and to lift people out of poverty. Global Pro the efficacy of the support we offer our NGO instrumental in forging a new global standard strategic structure, as well as developed Bono Partner and Chair of the firm’s clients to enhance their capacity to contribute Tom: It’s partly the obvious point that other for the protection of human rights and labour its governance to bring it to fruition. Many Responsible Business Committee, to the SDGs, and to test the assumptions organisations often have expertise that rights in the world of international sport. high-profile organisations are now standing Roger Leese discusses progress with we make in this area. It was helpful to we don’t possess. If we can harness that, behind the initiative to raise awareness of Pro Bono Director, Tom Dunn. partner with Role UK on this, and to borrow together we have more impact. Also, in Working closely with the Institute for Human human rights violations through sport. from the thinking that has been done in advocacy, the impact achieved when different Rights and Business, one of our global the development sector on monitoring and stakeholders work together is often greater strategic pro bono and community outreach This work demonstrates our expertise evaluation. As a result, we’ve developed a than the sum of the individual parts. A good clients, we helped to establish the Centre and growing profile in the field of Business ‘theory of change’ to guide us in how we can example this year came when we joined for Sport and Human Rights, which brings and Human Rights. We are now advising best deploy our resources to contribute to the forces with our client Deutsche Bank and our together an alliance of governments, on the next phase of the Centre’s achievement of the SDGs. NGO client Hope & Homes for Children to sports bodies, sponsors, broadcasters, development, as it seeks to achieve its aim work with the UK government to secure its trade unions and human rights institutions of becoming an independent organisation Roger: This work has already sharpened the support for Hope & Homes’ global strategy to encourage transparency and integrity that will increase accountability, share effectiveness of what we do, and will, over to bring an end to the practice of caring for during the construction and management knowledge and build capacity in human time, make us increasingly efficient. In orphaned children in large institutions. of large sporting events. rights through collective action. particular, we have been more detailed in our monitoring, and, in pursuit of SDG 17, better Roger: Through partnership, we also build 21 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 22 19 the capacity of the local and global NGOs skills. Similarly, this year we worked with a pro bono and we work with. We have increased the number of our global strategic pro bono start-up social enterprise using blockchain technology to make the distribution of community partnerships to 19, and we’re continuing development aid cheaper and more outreach to broaden resources available to those transparent, at a time when blockchain clients NGOs by creating more opportunities to started to feature heavily in our fee-paying collaborate on their behalf with our feework. This inter-connectedness of feeearning clients. This also tightens business paying and pro bono work is emerging relationships, and as a result we’re starting as a cornerstone of the long-term to see some interesting interaction between sustainability of our pro bono commitment. our fee-paying and pro bono work. Tom: We’ve also seen this in the field of How are we seeing our pro bono and business and human rights. We supported fee-earning work blend together? the development of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights on a pro Roger: NGOs are often highly entrepreneurial bono basis over 10 years ago and were and innovative, for example, in developing one of the first global law firms to commit microfinance to help grow the economies to uphold them. This was the incubator of of communities in poverty. Over the our expertise in this area, which has now years, our finance practice has worked grown to the point where we have a thriving closely with NGOs in this area, helping to business and human rights practice. achieve significant social impacts while also developing the practice’s technical Roger: This virtuous circle took another MY VIEW ON… BUILDING A turn this year, when we participated in a pro pro bono work strengthens our fee-paying me is the number of trainees who arrive GROUNDBREAKING PARTNERSHIP bono project in partnership with our Africa capability. It also contributes in other ways to at the firm with strong commitments to Group, working with clients and the Law the sustainability of the business – the way particular NGOs, sometimes to the point of Lawyer and Office Manager in Barcelona To see the Fundación break new ground Society of Kenya to help raise awareness that a strong pro bono practice helps recruit having already founded one. In these cases, Susana Añoveros in this way made me immensely proud. I of business and human rights amongst and develop the best lawyers is a further we try to enable them to develop these am hopeful that, by making it easier for a local lawyers and other key stakeholders, example. So is the growing interest many interests. This not only significantly adds “This year, under the guidance of partner generation of lawyers to access pro bono including the government. This helped us of our major clients are showing in looking to the strength of our pro bono practice, Pablo Serrano and Eduardo García, I was opportunities, far more people in Spain will learn more about local business and their through the SDG lens to frame how their it’s one of the most direct ways that our part of bringing together what was, for me, be able to get the legal support they need. concerns and challenges as we continue businesses contribute to society. I am sure own people – arguably our most important a beautiful project – the establishment of But we still have work to do. Looking ahead, to build our profile in different geographies. they have ideas in this area that we could stakeholders – are able to shape what we do. Spain’s first ever pro bono brokerage – the I want to continue building and taking care of learn from, and I’d hope we could offer them Fundación Pro Bono España. this initiative, to make sure it has an impactful How does this fit into our overall firm something on this too. Tom: Day in, day out, our people give their and long-lasting life, and so that all our people strategy? time and expertise to make a difference to While normally competitors, we and 27 feel that pride too.” How does this play out at the level of the people’s lives – often a significant difference. other firms created an amazing partnership Tom: Pro bono, our wider community individual in the firm? We’ve exceeded our target of helping to substantially widen access to justice across outreach work and our grant-making are 100,000 people around the world every Spain. We all bring expertise in various aspects central to our efforts to do good wherever Roger: People are, of course, most strongly year since it was set in 2012, which is quite of law, so together we’re much stronger we do business in the world. As a firm, we motivated to support causes they’re something. I think we can do more. I hope in our offering to the NGOs we work with. see this as a moral duty, and this is central interested in. Our work needs to align with that all our achievements this year make Being part of a broader network also gives us to how we operate. our strategy, but we also want to enable people feel both challenged and inspired to an opportunity to focus our legal capabilities people with particular interests to pursue get involved and explore the many ways they more strategically, where our support can Roger: We’ve already talked about how our them. One of the things that most impresses can make a difference. have the most impact. 23 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 24 Environment and contributing to a more sustainable world is important to how we advise our clients and manage our business. 25 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 26 RETHINK “ We want to encourage AND all of our offices to find opportunities to innovate and in turn RENEW inspire others…” A FOCUS ON... During the year, there has been a lot of What was the motivation behind ever of these matters, and we know that how SINGLE-USE PLASTICS thinking around the firm’s environmental this new global environmental policy? we operate as a firm will influence our ability strategy and commitments ahead of a to attract and retain the best talent. What This year our Hong Kong office launched an Now: Hong Kong’s Plastic Story, which new policy launch, encouraging the whole Caroline: Being conscious of our we’re prioritising now is creating a platform ongoing campaign called ‘Refuse, Reduce, documents Hong Kong’s battle with singlefirm to take a more active approach to environmental impact has long been a priority through which we can hold ourselves more Reuse, Rethink’ to encourage the reduction use plastic. This film was also shown in reducing our environmental impact. Chief for us, and we’ve made some great progress accountable. We want to see clearly the of plastic pollution in the city. the office’s collaboration zones throughout Operating Officer, Caroline Firstbrook and over the last five years. We’ve reduced our progress we are making, and how we can the month. Facilities Manager, Sam Clark discuss. Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by over best move forward. Partnering with local volunteer group a third, and we’ve decreased our paper EcoDrive, we hosted events, both internally The office has since taken steps to further consumption by almost 20%. However, What is the new policy hoping to change? and externally for clients, to raise awareness reduce single-use plastics, from replacing following a recent review, we sensed a shift in of the issue. More than 100 clients attended, bottled water with water filters across our attitude in many of the conversations we were Sam: We’re delivering a new environmental many of whom praised the top-level support office, eliminating 34,000 water bottles per having with our clients, as well as internally. performance standard for all offices to at Clifford Chance for setting an example for year, to removing plastic straws and utensils Climate change and environmental pollution monitor achievements as a way of ensuring others in the industry. in pantries, and providing reusable coffee are higher on the agenda than ever before, continuous improvement. We’re encouraging cups and tumblers. and we felt a collective responsibility to everyone to set, measure and monitor local In addition to a lively panel discussion respond to that. targets and initiatives. These will vary from involving key public and private sector figures helping to raise awareness by getting involved in the city’s environmental community, the Sam: We want to help all our people feel in global and local initiatives, to more specific client event featured a world premiere of a engaged and excited to be part of a culture minimum requirements, such as reducing short film by filmmakers Matthew Williamswhere we’re not afraid to challenge ourselves. Scope 1 and 2 emissions by a further 5%, Ellis and John Alexander, Start Small, Start Younger generations are more conscious than and managing their carbon footprint. 27 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 28 MY VIEW ON... TAKING ACTION As a law firm, we still consume a significant all of our offices and implementing a means of Addressing the impact of their business Tokyo Co-Managing Partner With our office area reduced by almost a amount of paper, so reducing paper assessing water consumption. We also want on the environment is part of this, not only Reiko Sakimura third, our energy consumption is also lower. procurement by 10% per employee is to do more to promote our environmental in terms of compliance with environmental We’ve reduced the amount of individual another key target. activities to our employees, as well as those legislation in their own operations, but beyond “We recently moved to an open plan office, storage available by 71%, so I’m now firmly involving clients and other external groups to the relationships they have with their which presented a fantastic opportunity in the habit of clearing my desk and archiving Caroline: We’re hoping to inspire more and organisations. customers, suppliers, investors and other to think and act differently. I’m particularly more regularly. commitment from all of our employees, and stakeholders. impressed with the bold changes we made help them evaluate our progress. Part of Caroline: Yes, we really want to emphasise to influence our environmental awareness, We can always do more, but we’re moving this is to encourage everyone to conserve our communication around this. We want Sam: We also recognise that our clients and and how I’ve seen my own behaviour change in the right direction. A survey told us that job our natural resources through responsible to proactively and openly talk about our other stakeholders have a genuine interest as a result. satisfaction increased by 13% following this and efficient use. We want to ensure that all environmental activity, practices and in the impact that our offices and ways of move, so it’s very clear that these conscious environmental risks and opportunities are commitments, and ensure that more of our working might have on the environment. As a law firm, paper consumption has long changes matter, not just to me, but to many properly identified, prioritised and managed offices regularly report on performance to Our policy gives a straightforward way of been an issue, so we reduced the number of our people, too.” in a way that is sensitive to local cultures encourage more participation in different responding to that interest by providing a of printers by 93%, which helps me question and circumstances. local initiatives as time goes on. framework for setting and reviewing our if I really need to print something, and with objectives and targets. the introduction of follow-me printing, we How are we encouraging more To what extent do we consider our never have forgotten documents lying around. individual responsibility? clients in this environmental approach? How can our commitment to the We also introduced hybrid laptop/tablets, environment strengthen our influence meaning I can mark-up documents directly Sam: We’re doing this in a few different ways. Caroline: As a leading firm, clients look in wider society? on the tablet screen and email them, saving We want to help people become more aware to us for advice and guidance on how time, energy and resources. I’m delighted of individual habits that need to change, for to conduct business responsibly and we Sam: For the first time, our new policy that our overall printing is now down by example by improving waste management in actively encourage and value this dialogue. enables the Clifford Chance Foundation around 20%. to make financial grants to environmental How will we drive these actions forward? behaviour, and that’s a good thing. With organisations. This is a huge step forward this new global policy, we’re building more in our dedication to protecting the Caroline: Our Executive Leadership Group transparency around our actions, and that’s environment as it broadens our scope for has offered its full support for the policy, an important step, but there’s a lot more we creating a positive impact. On a separate and will oversee the firm’s compliance can, and will, do too. point, we’re committed to establishing and progress regarding achievement of its strategic relationships with a core group objectives. However, we’re very keen that of environmental pro bono clients, and the main accountability for this new strategy developing key performance indicators lies with our people. We want to empower against our contribution, both in terms of everyone to speak up about what more our pro bono and fee-earning work. we can do. How can we challenge our processes? How can we help our people Caroline: Part of this will involve tracking the make the changes in behaviour that matter? progress that our pro bono and fee-earning We want to encourage all of our offices to work makes towards SDGs 12 and 13, and find opportunities to innovate and in turn the development of our own skills as we build inspire others. these new client relationships. More than ever before, the firm is advising on matters relating Sam: Yes, I really believe that we have a good to renewables and other environmental platform for internal engagement; this is what industry sectors, such as green finance, really underpins our strategy. We’re all starting and this will continue to be a priority. to feel more conscious of our individual 29 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 30 THANK YOU Every day, in every office, our people are doing more for local causes that make a difference in their community. From marathons to quiz nights and bake sales, we celebrate the efforts of those who give their time, and extend our warmest gratitude, right across the network. 31 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 32 LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE Ethics, risk management & compliance Leadership in this area lies with the seeks to ensure that appropriate mitigation is in place. Our risk approach is reviewed Partner remuneration is transparent to the partnership. Equity partners are paid a General Counsel, whose remit includes annually by our Audit and Risk Committee, proportion of the firm’s global profits. As our conflict management, client acceptance, which is led by the firm’s Chief Risk and equity partners are the owners of the firm as To support our goal of being a successful, sustainable and Decision-making risk management, compliance, insurance, Compliance Officer and includes partners well as executives, their compensation reflects responsible business, we have clear governance and risk Policy setting and decision-making in relation to the firm’s regulatory and legal issues facing the firm. and external members. their shareholder dividend as well as pay. management structures in place. Responsible Business strategy sits with the firm’s Responsible The General Counsel’s team coordinates Equity partners do not receive options or Business Committee, a global group of partners, lawyers and closely with the managing partners of our Financial management & partner incentives of any sort and no equity partner Ownership business services colleagues from across the firm. offices globally, and others with compliance remuneration has any guaranteed earnings. Partner Ownership for the development and implementation of all aspects responsibility around the firm. Clifford Chance is a UK Limited Liability performance is managed through an annual of the firm’s strategy – including our Responsible Business Strategy Insight Partnership, with a single, global profit pool. appraisal process, where each partner has – lies with our Executive Leadership Group, chaired by our Their decisions are informed by a wide range of groups that bring The professional codes of conduct which an opportunity to review their contribution in Managing Partner. specialist insight and understanding to the decision-making process, govern us as a law firm and as lawyers require We publish summary financial information the context of the strategy of their practice including our Risk, HR, Community, Environment and Communications us to act with integrity, and we are also based on the audited statutory consolidated and their team, and their wider roles within The Executive Leadership Group and its work is monitored by teams, and colleagues working closely advising our fee-paying and bound to comply with laws regulating our financial statements of Clifford Chance LLP, the firm. Their contribution is assessed against the firm’s Partnership Council, an elected body, which is led pro bono clients. business around the world. Where those laws prepared in accordance with International a range of criteria relevant to the firm’s midby our Senior Partner and which includes an external member vary, our approach is to apply the highest Financial Reporting Standards. Partners to long-term ambitions and the culture and to provide an independent perspective. possible standards to every part of our receive monthly updates on the firm’s expectations that underpin our current and business, to every office and every member finances, complemented by regular meetings future success. Strategic alignment of the firm, whether or not required locally. where budgets and financial performance A committee of the Executive Leadership Group, which also includes are discussed in detail. More information on our Leadership & the Senior Partner, is delegated to ensure full alignment of the firm’s We seek to manage risk proactively: a full Governance is available on our website. Responsible Business strategy with our vision, strategy and culture. annual review of the key risks facing the firm OWNERSHIP STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT DECISION-MAKING INSIGHT RISK FUNCTION HR LEADERSHIP GROUP NGO RELATIONSHIP TEAMS EXECUTIVE FACILITIES MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE WORKING GROUP LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP BUSINESS GROUP ENVIRONMENT GROUP COMMITTEE SUB-COMMITTEE BENCHMARKING GROUPS CLIFFORD CHANCE FOUNDATION REGIONAL/LOCAL RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMMITTEES 33 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 34 MONITORING HIGHLIGHTS OUR PROGRESS DOING BUSINESS COMMUNITY IN THE PAST THREE YEARS 39% 100K Embed a consistent, firm-wide culture of Continue to develop pro bono and community individual responsibility for Risk Management. outreach opportunities in the right markets. Create a process for managing risk firm-wide, Increase pro bono mandates in the Americas and Africa. including a refresh of our Risk Management Framework. Secure external validation of our pro bono work including awards, Hold conference for Compliance colleagues from media coverage and client feedback. around the network providing guidance and training. Increase the number of people who are serving on the boards of not-for-profit organisations. Profit has increased by 39%, We have consistently exceeded our Equip our people with the training and support to do the right thing, in the right way. and revenue by 20%. annual target of helping 100,000 Roll out innovative and market-leading approach Continue to develop long-term strategic pro bono and community outreach relationships with the world’s best people, helping 138,576 in 2017/18. to ethical training. NGOs, and work with each of our strategic fee-earning clients on projects for these NGOs. Protecting our clients’ confidentiality. Increase the number of GSC 125, other clients and significant Continue to mature our cyber controls, including civil actors with whom we collaborate. evaluating new technologies and solutions. 27% 1/3 Deliver our pro bono and community outreach services through Run annual cyber awareness campaign for all staff globally. partner-led, client-focussed and properly resourced teams. Review all aspects of firm’s data management, specifically our Increase mandates where skills enhancement is recognised as processes for handling personal data to ensure we comply with a return and the number of people involved in those mandates. the General Data Protection Regulation and other applicable privacy laws. Continue to develop and refine our capability, and that Support external initiatives that promote of our clients, to support the widest range of civil society Of newly promoted partners Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions organisations. responsible and ethical business practices. Increase the in-kind (hours) and direct financial investment were women*. across all locations have been cut by Join and actively engage with the Institute of Business Ethics. Increase our understanding of business and human rights by in our pro bono and community outreach work. approximately a third. Increase the number of people who are helped by the NGOs working with A4ID and other civil society organisations on *Our firm-wide target is for women to comprise 30% we work with as a result of our support for them. programmes in East Africa and India, with a focus on the of the partnership by 2020. extractives industry. Increase our pro bono and community outreach mandates, and Clifford Chance Foundation grants, that contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). CLIENT HIGHLIGHTS PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT • Mondelez International in connection with the merger of Keurig •G  oldman Sachs and a group of Colombian lenders on the Improve gender balance in our partnership so Reduce our CO2 emissions. Green Mountain and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc; Mondelez approximately USD 708 million multisource financing for the women make up at least 30% of our partnership. Decrease our Scope 1 & 2 (electricity & fuel) CO2 emissions per International will hold an approximately 13-14% stake in the construction of the 4G Antioquia-Bolívar highway in Colombia, Continue to advance towards the 30% gender balance target and FTE by at least 5% from the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18. combined USD 11 billion revenue company. also known as Ruta al Mar. publicly report progress. Increase number of gender parity networks within the firm and Reduce the impact of our paper consumption. • The sponsors and underwriters on China Literature’s USD 1.1 billion •U  nilever on its USD 2.7 billion acquisition of Seoul-based improve communication between them. Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE from the 2012/13 IPO, one of the most oversubscribed deals ever in Hong Kong. cosmetics maker Carver Korea. baseline by end 2017/18. Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm. Every office to ensure at least 15% of paper has at least • Prevailing on all main arguments, the German IP team settled a Report on the impact of partner promotions on ethnic diversity in 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from Forest multi-million USD claim for Pfizer. the partnership. Stewardship Council (FSC) or other internationally recognised sources with a low carbon footprint by end 2017/18. Improve the alignment our learning and development programmes with our vision and strategy. Increase levels of recycling within the firm. Revise the business and technical skills framework and re-align Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 30% of general the appraisal system against this. waste by 2017/18. Refresh the Career Development Partner mentoring scheme. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 50% of office paper waste by end 2017/18. Support our people in increasing their resilience. Report on the use of the Employee Assistance Programme globally. Key Continue to embed a global approach to wellness and resilience awareness-raising programmes. Good progress / Complete In progress Please visit our website Not progressed / Held over for our 2018/2019 KPIs. 35 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 36 HOW WE PERFORMED FINANCIAL INFORMATION The summary financial information below is based upon the audited statutory consolidated financial statements of Clifford Chance LLP, which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Further information regarding the financial performance of the firm can be found in the related press release. REVENUE BY REGION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED The profit on the basis of IFRS is attributable to those partners 2018 2017 2018 2017 CASH FLOW STATEMENT of the firm who are members of Clifford Chance LLP. However, £m £m As at 30 April £m £m certain members of Clifford Chance LLP are not equity partners 2018 2017 Americas 215 202 in the firm and certain equity partners of Clifford Chance LLP Assets Year ended 30 April £m £m are not members of it. Asia Pacific 281 276 Property plant and equipment 85 84 Net cash generated from Continental Europe 538 506 Deferred tax asset 48 9 operating activities 534 496 In addition, the profit on the basis of IFRS is determined in Middle East 54 49 Total non-current assets 133 93 Cash flows from investing activities accordance with accounting policies which differ from those United Kingdom 535 507 Accrued income 300 281 Purchase of tangible fixed assets (20) (23) applicable under the partnership agreement. The principal 1,623 1,540 Receivables 550 515 Proceeds from sale of plant and equipment – 5 differences relate to the accounting treatment of annuities, Amounts due from members 23 8 Net cash used in investing activities (20) (18) pension schemes and property leases. Cash at bank and in hand 214 249 Cash flows from financing activities CONSOLIDATED Total current assets 1,087 1,053 Drawings, distributions and remuneration Accordingly, in order to arrive at the amounts payable to equity partners and annuitants before tax, adjustments are made to INCOME STATEMENT Total assets 1,220 1,146 of members (544) (423) the IFRS profit to reflect the equity partnership structure instead 2018 2017 Liabilities excluding members’ interests Capital net repayments (to)/from members (3) 2 of the membership structure and to reflect the differences between Year ended 30 April £m £m classified as liabilities Net cash used in financing activities (547) (421) the accounting policies applicable under the partnership agreement Revenue 1,623 1,540 Trade and other payables 399 353 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (33) 57 and IFRS. Other operating income 23 22 Provisions 28 41 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 249 183 Operating costs Current liabilities 427 394 Effects of foreign exchange rate changes (2) 9 The average number of equity partners during the year was 393 Long term payables 46 50 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 214 249 (2017: 403). The average profit per equity partner based on the Staff and related costs (707) (693) Deferred tax liability 1 1 profit before tax for the financial year attributable to equity partners Other operating costs (313) (327) excluding annuities amounts to £1.60 million (2017: £1.375 million). (1,020) (1,020) Long term provisions 500 581 Operating profit 626 542 Non-current liabilities 547 632 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE Financing costs (11) (10) Total liabilities excluding members’ TO EQUITY PARTNERS STATUTORY ACCOUNTS Profit before tax before members’ interests classified as liabilities 974 1,026 2018 2017 The financial information included in this statement does not remuneration and profit shares 615 532 Net assets attributable to members 246 120 Year ended 30 April £m £m constitute the statutory accounts of Clifford Chance LLP within Members’ remuneration charged as an expense (16) (38) Represented by: Profit before tax for the financial year the meaning of the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for Profit before tax available for profit Provisions for annuities due to current members 101 115 before members’ remuneration and the financial year ended 30 April 2016 have been delivered to the share among members 599 494 Members’ capital 159 162 profit shares on the basis of IFRS 615 532 Registrar of Companies. Statutory accounts for the financial year ended 30 April 2017 have not yet been delivered to the Registrar of Taxation (17) (17) Members’ interests classified as liabilities 260 277 Adjustments for partnership structure and Companies. The auditors have reported on the accounts for both Profit for the financial year available for Reserves (14) (157) accounting policies 13 21 such financial years; their reports were unqualified, did not draw profit share among members 582 477 246 120 Amounts payable to equity partners and attention to any matters by way of emphasis without qualifying their annuitants before tax 626 553 reports and did not contain statements under Section 498 (2) or (3) Companies Act 2006, as applicable to limited liability partnerships. 37 | CLIFFORD CHANCE CLIFFORD CHANCE | 37 CLIFFORD CHANCE | 38 © Clifford Chance, September 2018 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. Tel: +44 20 7006 1000 We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. Designed by branding agency Superunion
