2017 Annual Report on Biodiversity Protection Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co., Ltd. About the Report Contents Reporting period Reporting Cycle About the Report The report covers from January 1 to December 31, 2017, and also includes This is the first annual report on biodiversity protection of Yili and will be additional information beyond the stated reporting period. released regularly in future. Message from the Chairman 2 Reporting Scope Reporting data About Us 4 The report covers not only the biodiversity management and biodiversity The data in the report is from the final statistics of Yili in 2017. Biodiversity protection management 6 protection measures in Yili’s business, but also external biodiversity Language protection projects. The report is available in Chinese and English and in print and electronic Reference formats. Welcome to visit our official website to download the electronic Our philosophy 6 version at http://www.yili.com/. For the printed version, please call at 7 In this report, Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co., Ltd. is referred to as 010-58640039. Our management “Yili”. Further reading 14 Compilation Conformance The report is prepared in accordance with Please visit our official website at http://www.yili.com/ to get more Biodiversity protection actions 16 information. For relevant information on environmental protection, please The Convention on Biological Diversity Habitat conservation refer to The 17 goals of The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Environmental Protection Law of People’s Republic of China (Revised in Biodiversity Briefing of Yili Group Addressing climate change 20 22 April 24, 2014) Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Yili Group 2017 Guidelines for Drafting on Corporate Environmental Report (HJ 617Species diversity protection 22 2011) (the national environmental protection standards of People’s Sustainable utilization of resources Republic of China) Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties Environmental governance 25 (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016) signed by Yili Advocating ecological protection 26 Biodiversity protection performance 28 Plan for future work 30 Commitment Index 32 2017 Annual Report 2 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Message from the Chairman 3 Message from the Chairman “Protecting Biodiversity and Creating Shared Values” Every one hour, one species goes extinct. Nowadays, species are dying out at a rhythm 1,000 times faster than the natural rate. The colorful world is facing severe challenges. We, human beings, can and have to take action right now. It is our mission to hand over the entire world to the next generation. At the end of 2016, Yili became the first Chinese enterprise to sign the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Considering the unique features of Yili’s industry chain, we extended the CBD requirements to upstream and downstream partners of our industry chain so as to make the whole industry chain resource-saving and eco-friendly. Looking back over the past ten years, we started relevant actions for biodiversity conservation as early as 2007. At the Summer Davos Forum in 2007, Yili proposed the groundbreaking idea of “green leadership”, to pursue the trinity of “green production, green consumption and green development”. In 2010, the idea was upgraded to the strategy of “green industry chain”, extending green concepts to the whole industry. In addition, we worked with WWF China to carry out the wetland conservation project in northeast China; We actively participate in the transformation of desert grasslands and the innovation in the eco-cycle mode of agriculture and animal husbandry; We are dedicated to the protection of wild salmon in the Waitaki River Basin. Protecting biodiversity is a new journey for the global sustainable development and a new journey that concerns the salvation of mankind and the well-being of future generations. Only by protecting biodiversity can we have the sustainable development of the world and the long-term health of enterprises. In this process, our strategy of “green industry chain” has always emphasized co-building and win-win results. That is to say, we should promote green development in all links of the industry chain through sustainable modes and promote the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals through “shared values” created by enterprises and the society. In the future, we will connect our biodiversity conservation efforts to the global sustainable development and win-win results in the industry chain and hope more partners will participate in the cause of biodiversity conservation and help Chinese enterprises make due contribution to the global ecological progress. Pan Gang, Chairman and President of Yili About Us Founded in 1956, Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co., Ltd (also referred to “Yili”), is headquartered in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. In March 1996, Yili was listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange as the first A-share dairy company (Stock Code: 600887) in China. Yili consists four business divisions(liquid milk, powdered milk, cold drinks, and yoghurt) with about 100 subsidiaries and several popular product under the household brand names Yili, Satine, ShuHua Milik, QQ Star, PRO-KIDO, Xinhuo, ChangQing, MeiYiTian, Chocliz, Ambrosial, etc. Yili is the only Chinese designated supplier of dairy products for the 2008 Summer Olympics Beijing and the World Expo 2010 Shanghai. In 2017, Yili ranked among the world top 8 dairy companies as the only company in Asia, which is also China's largest dairy producer with the most complete product lines. Throughout the development, Yili has been sticking to the two “wheels” of “international operation” and “innovation” and the two “foundations” of “quality” and “responsibility”, and wins great trust of customers with diversified products featuring high quality, high technology and high added value. Yili is committed to producing 100% safe and healthy dairy products. Each day, over 100 million Yili products are provided to customers. In the list of world’s most valuable dairy brands 2017 released by Brand Finance, the brand strength index of Yili ranks the first in the world; in the list of BrandZ Top 100 Most Valuable Chinese Brands 2017, Yili also ranks first and continues to top the food industry. While providing safe and healthy dairy products, Yili upholds the a business philosophy of prioritizing corporate culture over growth rate, industrial prosperity over our individual corporation’s success, and social value over business wealth, and integrates sustainable development in the corporate strategy, striving to be the most reliable provider of safety food in the world to let the people in the world share health and good life. Yili Group is the first Chinese enterprise to sign the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016) 2017 Annual Report 6 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection management 7 Biodiversity Protection Management Our philosophy Our Management Pan Gang, the Chairman and President of Yili, proposed the idea of “Green Leadership” at the Summer Davos Forum in 2007 and upgraded the idea to the Organization Structure strategy of “green industrial chain” , extending the idea of green development to the whole industry. Accordingly, Yili bases on the trinity of “green production, green consumption and green development” to pursue sustainable development of dairy industry, follows the development direction of the “green industrial The Yili Sustainable Development Committee is in charge of biodiversity protection issues, and relevant chain” and advocates sustainable green development in every link of the industrial chain driven by leading enterprises, thus promoting partners in the whole departments are responsible for specific biodiversity protection tasks according to their functions. Now industrial chain to protect biodiversity together. Yili has formed the management mode of “management and control by the Sustainable Development Committee with separate management from departments and focused management from the major biodiversity projects”. Chairman Green consumption The Sustainable Development Committee Secretariat and management platform of Coordinated development the Sustainable Development Committee Green Biodiversity protection by partners industry chain in the whole industrial chain Win-win industrial chain Quality and innovation social welfare Nutrition and health working group working group working group working group Green Green production development Organizational structure of the Sustainable Development Committee Building of the biodiversity protection management system After the long-term practice of biodiversity protection, Yili collects and analyzes the authoritative Background opinions of organizations at home and abroad, systematically summarizes and identifies the factors China’s Fifth National Report on the influencing biodiversity: habitat degradation, climate change, invasive species, overexploitation and Implementation of the Convention on pollution. Biological Diversity summarizes six threats to biodiversity in China including Thus Yili integrates the results with its own characteristics to sort out all links of production and the degradation or loss of habitats for wild operation, analyze their impact on biodiversity and has identified six management areas that have species, overexploitation of natural resources, more impacts on biodiversity, including site selection and equipment, supply chain/commodity/raw environmental pollution, large-scale planting of single species, invasive alien species and materials, products, production and manufacturing processes, transportation and logistics, and daily life climate change. China National Biodiversity of the staff. Yili also has built the biodiversity protection management system and carried out the fullConservation Strategy and Action Plan lifecycle biodiversity management based on this. (2011-2030) lists five pressures and challenges facing biodiversity including the threat to habitats of species and ecosystems, The biodiversity protection overexploitation and disorderly development management of biological resources, environmental system pollution, invasive alien species and genetically modified organisms, as well as the production of biological fuels. Site selection Supply chain/ Production and Management Transportation Daily life of and commodity/ Products manufacturing fields and logistics the staff equipment raw materials processes Protection Habitat Addressing Conservation of Sustainable Environmental Advocating actions conservation climate change species diversity utilization of governance ecological resources conservation Yili’s biodiversity protection management system 2017 Annual Report 8 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection management 9 Green pasture of Yili Site selection and equipment The green pasture management system Considering ecological impacts in construction projects Yili adopts the green pasture management system, strengthens the development of green pasture to develop environmentally friendly pasture, and provides Well equipped with ecological facilities Supply chain/commodity/raw materials targeted solutions according to the specific natural and ecological situation in local areas, aiming to lead the upstream and downstream industrial chain to Applying environmental and energy saving Environmental requirements for conduct green pasture management together and protect biodiversity. Daily life of the staﬀ building materials supply chain access Green office Environmental auditing of suppliers The eco-cycle mode of resource recycling of pasture manure. By promoting water resource recycling with the technology, Yili separates rain and waste Improving employees’ environmental Procurement of environmental raw water, as well as the solid and liquid manure and uses the separated solid manure as the bedding for cows to reduce the use of river sand, while the liquid protection awareness and auxiliary materials full-lifecycle Selecting degradable packaging materials manure can be used as fertilizer in the field for ecological protection to reduce the use of chemical fertilizer. By doing this, Yili achieves pasture manure Voluntary activities biodiversity recycling. protection Production and manufacturing processes management Products Cascaded utilization and recycling of energy The green development of breeding husbandry. Yili guides the pasture to use environmentally-friendly hot water supply facilities and reuse the heat Clean production technology generated through refrigeration process of milk to replace the traditional coal fired boiler so as to reduce air pollution caused by burning coal. Reducing waste production Comprehensive inspection of carbon emissions Advocating waste sorting and recycling Pollutant discharge meets with corresponding The management mode of integrated pasture planting and breeding integration. Guided by the national policy of “reducing corn acreage and promoting Spreading the concept of green Transportation and logistics standards consumption Green warehousing control the growing of forage grass”, Yili encourages the pastures to “planting independently with supervision on land leasing” according to their production operation, Continued improvement of management and Improving vehicle full-load ratio and grow silage, thus promoting the resource recycling of pasture manure. production technology Direct product delivery from factory to customer Special-line transportation Optimizing logistics routes 2017 Annual Report 10 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection management 11 Capability building Exchanges and cooperation 2 Yili applies the biodiversity protection technology in all parts of the industrial chain and provides Yili actively participates in international exchanges and cooperation on biodiversity. In December 2016, Yili attended the UN Convention on Biological Diversity trainings on biodiversity protection to employees, the pasture owners and staff working in the pasture to Conference as the only representative of Chinese enterprises, which marks the breakthrough for Chinese enterprises to participate in the international enhance the biodiversity protection capability in the whole industrial chain. In 2017, to further build their Number of large-scale environmental biodiversity platform. Yili earnestly fulfills the commitments of the Convention, and leads upstream and downstream partners in the industrial chain to promote trainings biodiversity protection capability，Yili organized various employees trainings on environment, opened resource saving and environmentally –friendly development and contributes to the “Chinese Sample” of biodiversity protection. the Yili Dairy Cow School for pasture owners and provided the series training programs to train secondgeneration dairy farmers in the pasture, thus promoting their skills. 170 Partners Cooperation Number of participants In July 2016, Satine cooperated with WWF to carry out the Sustainable Corn Planting Demonstration—Wetland 600 Conservation Project. over WWF In 2017, Satine became the public welfare partner of WWF in China, and organized publicity activities to call on Case: Satine cooperates with WWF to promote green planting technology more customers pay attention to public welfare and ecological protection. Number of various trainings on Satine applied FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) packaging for 2.4 billion packages of milk accumulatively. In July, 2016, Satine cooperated with WWF to carry out the Sustainable Corn Planting environmental protection organized by the Demonstration—Wetland Conservation Project, through which Yili promoted advanced business divisions and subsidiaries of Yili In December 2016, Yili was invited to the13th Meeting of the Conference of Parties (COP 13) to the Convention on planting technology to local farmers, provided trainings about soil testing for formulated Biological Diversity held in Cancun, Mexico, and signed the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 fertilization, drip irrigation under mulch , high photosynthetic efficiency agriculture, Organizations of UN Convention Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016). and straw recycling, and fostered the use of sustainable planting technologies, on Biological diversity In May 2017, Yili was invited to attend the International Day for Biological Diversity Conference 2017. which have effectively reduced consumption of underground water, slowed down grassland degradation and protected surrounding grassland wetland system. Satine over 733 In September 2017, Cristiana Pașca Palmer, the new executive secretary of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity visited China, and praised the biodiversity protection practices of Yili. also gave priority to purchasing corns from the areas covered in the Sustainable Corn Accumulative number of trainings provided in Yili Dairy Cow School Yili promoted the wetland conservation project through the platform of TMall by providing limited packaging of Satine Planting Demonstration—Wetland Conservation Project to produce fodder for animal organic milk for wetland conservation. Yili added artistic design of wetland on the inner packaging and gift boxes and husbandry of Satine, which can help improve the income of local farmers, establish an introduced the wetland conservation project of Satine and WWF to the customers through copies, selling the environmentally friendly industrial chain and achieve sustainable development. In 2017, the project has 1,000 mu of demonstration field in Qian’an county, Tongyu county and over 8153 person-times Alibaba Group products on TMall with time limit. Before the International Day of Charity(September 5th), Yili put countdown notice of charity communication activities Ningjiang district in Songyuan, Jilin Province and compiled 10 series training materials covering on various online media and social media platforms to reach more customers and attract their attention to wetland of Environmentally-Friendly Sustainable Corn Production Technology with 702 farmers conservation and biodiversity. applying sustainable production technology to 33,000 mu of corn field. Cooperating with Ximalaya FM, Yili organized the activity of “listening to the sounds of nature”, to invite users to join Ximalaya FM interaction through the dynamic web page, get close to the wetland, and make contributions to environmental protection together with Yili. Case: Management and training on green pasture Working with “Singer 2017” , Yili promoted Satine products and attracted more attention of customers to Yili’s “Singer 2017” Show biodiversity prtection practices. Some pastures and the owners still adopt Yili released Yili New Economy Consumption Index and Sustainable Consumption Index to calls on consumers to traditional cow breeding methods with pay attention to sustainable consumption. low efficiency and lower profitability, Yili creatively built the “4.6 m2 of elevator wetland” campaign to attract customers’ attention to wetland conservation and they are often faced with weak after the second spreading through videos. Customers production capacity and poor waste Yili made the HTML5 page of Wetland Restoration, giving direct audio-visual experience to customers. treatment ability, etc. Yili sets up the “Yili Yili carried out the activity of “buying one and donating one for free” on TMall. When customers buy a box of limited Dairy Cow School ” platform and invites packaging of Satine organic milk, Satine will donate money equivalent to protecting 4.6 m2 of wetland protection, experts to introduce advanced pasture customers have the opportunity to participate in the donation for wetland conservation. management knowledge to pasture owners such as pasture production In the Sustainable Corn Planting Demonstration—Wetland Conservation Project, Yili promoted advanced planting Farmers technologies to local farmers, provided trainings about soil testing for formulated fertilization, drip irrigation under technology, disease prevention of dairy mulch, high photosynthetic efficiency agriculture, and straw recycling. cows, animal waste treatment, and virtuous cycle of pasture management, so Yili set up Wetland Nature Education School in Xianghai and Momoge where the wetland of northeast China is as to improve the theoretical knowledge Schools located, to popularize related biodiversity knowledge to primary and secondary school students and the public. of farming, skills and operation and management experience for the owners and help them and the pastures to build the green pasture management system. 2017 Annual Report 12 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection management 13 Further readings Case: Yili China Consumption Upgrading Index and Sustainable Consumption Index released The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) is an international agreement on protecting biological resources on earth. It was adopted at the Earth In June 2017, Yili, together with Caixin Media and BBD, jointly released the trial version of Yili China Consumption Upgrading Index. Taking Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in June 1992 and came into effect on December 29, 1993. The agreement is legally bonded and provides legal basis the consumption in March 2017 as the base period data standard, Yili regularly released data of the last month on the 15th of each month. By and policy guidance for international protection of endangered animals, plants and microorganisms, as well as international cooperation, promoting calculating all the consumption indexes, the Index comprehensively and truly reflects the consumption trend of residents and helps accurately global biodiversity conservation and sustainable development. Up to October 2010, there were 193 parties to the Convention. China signed the follow the progress in consumption upgrading. Convention on Biological Diversity on June 11, 1992 and approved it domestically on November 11, 1992, becoming one of the first batch of parties that signed and approved the agreement. In January 2018, Yili released the Yili China Sustainable Consumption Index on the Good Life and China Opportunities—Pujiang · New Era Development Forum, which was the second report of Yili since 2016. The report aims to get a comprehensive understanding of the public’s awareness, attitudes and behavior patterns to sustainable development, so as to provide critical enlightenment for enterprises, organizations and individuals that intends to promote sustainable consumption to improve cognitive performance on sustainable development brand and attract customers to actively conduct sustainable consumption. 120 Case: Yili invited to attend the International Day for Biological Diversity Conference 2017 117.9 117.2 115 114.1 It was the 24th International Day for Biological Diversity on May 22, 2017. Yili was invited to attend the International Day for Biological 110 113.4 Diversity Conference 2017 and shared its experience in biodiversity protection. Since Yili signed the Cancun Business and Biodiversity 106.8 Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016) at the end of 2016, Yili 107.3 108.3 105 categorized the nine commitments into key CSR topics such as “environmental protection” and “green production” , and conducted 102 100 102.1 various biodiversity practices. While making contributions to domestic ecological progress, Yili becomes a precious sample of enterprise’s 100 participation in biodiversity protection for China and even the world. 95 March April, May June July August September October November December Yili China Consumption Upgrading Index (from March 2017 to December 2017) Case: Biodiversity Briefing of Yili Group presented on the meeting of Global Partnership for Business and Biodiversity in Paris From November 23 to 24 in 2017, the seventh meeting of Global Partnership for Business and Biodiversity was held in in Paris with the attendance of over 100 representatives from enterprises, governments and NGOs around the world. On the meeting, Biodiversity Briefing of Yili Group was presented and attracted people’s attention. Lots of the representatives wanted to read the Briefing to learn more about Yili’s practice in green industrial chain and wetland conservation in northeast China. the meeting of Global Partnership for Business and Biodiversity in Paris Yili China Sustainable Consumption Index 2017 released Biodiversity Protection Actions As the first Chinese enterprise to sign the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016), Yili pursues the trinity of “green production, green consumption and green development”, continuously promotes species protection, green packaging, green production and sustainable agriculture and animal husbandry, constantly carries out biodiversity protection in the “green industry chain” and advocates the idea of biodiversity protection to the public by fulfilling the commitments, thus supporting biodiversity protection with the strong green power. 2017 Annual Report 16 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 17 Habitat conservation Background Fully aware of the important role of habitat protection, Yili continuously carries out activities to conserve According to the definition in the Convention of Biological Diversity, the habitat means the place or type of site where an organism or population wetland and combat desertification, so as to make the whole industry chain ecologically-friendly and naturally occurs, and sometimes the place where animals and plants live and breed. China National Biodiversity Protection Strategy and Action Plan contribute to the protection of living environment for animals and plants. (2011-2030) points out that “the accelerated urbanization and industrialization brings threats to and increases pressures on the habitats of species and ecosystems” and “environment pollution has great impacts on aquatic and river coastal biodiversity and habitats”. The loss of habitats and decrease of biodiversity will cause reduction of living space for creatures and pose great threat to biodiversity. Case: Sustainable Corn Planting Demonstration—Wetland Protection Project Through planting sustainable corn, Yili helps maintain the water table and prevent the wetland from further degradation, thus protecting the ecological system of the Songnen Plain. The Songnen Plain is a major area of marsh wetland in China, which is an important habitat for numerous rare birds, fishes and plants. The largescale agricultural water conservancy projects and farming activity, such as corn planting, have a devastating impact on the natural wetland. The habitat area for waterfowls has decreased and causes great changes of waterfowl population and shows a trend of decline. Satine and WWF logo Cultivating demonstration Promoting sustainable Conducting regular Cooperating with partners Green procurement fields corn planting monitoring on bird Yili cooperated with WWF to Yili has 1,000 mu of Yili has collected relevant Yili prioritized purchasing Through regular monitoring on carry out projects with demonstration field in Qian’an technological achievements, quality corn from the project wetland and major waterfowl technological support from county, Tongyu county and complied training materials, area and used them as fodder populations in the breeding Jilin Academy of Agricultural Ningjiang district of Songyuan and organized agricultural for animal husbandry of season (from May to August) Sciences (Northeast city, Jilin province. The trainings by combing indoor Satine, encouraging farmers and the migration period (from Agricultural Research Center demonstration technologies theory teaching and on-site to carry out sustainable September to November) of of China) and Northeast include: water and fertilizer practice in the demonstration planting. birds, Yili masters the status of Normal University. coupling technology, straw field, so as to promote wetlands, and has recorded recycling technology, drip sustainable planting birds of 8 orders, 14 families irrigation under mulch and technology to local famers. and 57 species, among which integration of water and 2 are under the first-class fertilizer, as well as state-level protection (Oriental mechanization throughout the White Stork and Grus production process. japonensis). In July 2016, Satine started to cooperate with WWF to carry out the wetland conservation project in northeast China and explore an environmentally-friendly sustainable development mode in the Songnen Plain to reduce the impact of current agricultural production on wetland ecological system by reducing water consumption and the use of pesticides and chemical fertilizer. Precision Fertilizer by Drip Irrigation under Mulch 2017 Annual Report 18 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 19 Case: Growing alfalfa to combat desertification 1,000 mu Area of demonstration field To carry out the policy of “combating desertification” and support the “alfalfa revitalization project”, Yili has bought 37,200 mu desertification grassland to grow alfalfa in Shaogen Background town of Ar Horqin Banner of Inner Mongolia since 2014, making contributions to combating Ar Horqin Banner of Inner Mongolia 10 Number of series training materials of Environmentally-Friendly Sustainable desertification. is lack of rainfall and faced with severe desertification of grassland, Corn Production Technology complied by Yili with only 5%~40% of vegetation in Yili provides quality forages to farms in its upstream industry Ensuring the fodder supply the desertified grassland area. With the 702 chain to ensure the safety of raw milk. strong root system, alfalfa can improve soil quality, control water loss and soil Number of farmers using sustainable production technology Yili helps to neutralize 38,600 tons of CO2 per year by growing erosion and combat desertification. Achieving carbon neutrality 33,000 mu Area of corn field applying sustainable production technology alfalfa. As well-known for its high output and good quality, alfalfa is called “the king Yili promotes recycling in cow breeding, animal waste and of fodder plants”, and can replace part Promoting recycling RMB 44.15 Total corn value million forages planting to reduce environmental pollution to the farms. of concentrates as a kind of fodder of high quality. Yili effectively improves desertified soil with the strong root Combating desertification 54,000 mu system of alfalfa to promote a good ecological environment. Area of wetland that can be conserved with the saved water (Statistics from WWF) 39 Number of waterfowl monitoring sites Left: Corn produced in sustainable agriculture planting area; Right: Corn produced in traditional way; the corn shown in the left is much bigger than that in the right Songnen Plain environmental-friendly sustainable agriculture Staff of Satine and WWF have conducted field study of sustainable technology training course corn planting Harvesting alfalfa in the farm of Yili 2017 Annual Report 20 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 21 Addressing climate change Blending the green low-carbon idea into the production, management and operation, Yili adopts Case: Yili conducted carbon emissions inspection for eight consecutive years advanced international technologies and combines “source control” and “end treatment” to control Background carbon emissions and achieve energy saving and emission reduction. Nowadays, it has been a global Since 2010, Yili has cooperated with SGS-CSTC Standards environmental problem and international Technical Services Co. Ltd., an authoritative third-party carbon concern to address climate change and verification agency，to conduct carbon emissions inspection. Yili formulated the Energy Management System Operating effectively protect biodiversity. As early as With the ISO 14064-1:2006 standards, Yili has carried out this Manual of Yili Group and Guidelines for Energy Management in 2007, “Biodiversity and Climate Change” inspection for eight consecutive years to comprehensively measure Energy management system and Sustainable Development of Yili Group and established an was the theme of International Day for greenhouse gas emission in production. The data analysis enables energy management system certified by ISO 50001, RBT 120 Biological Diversity. “To improve capacities Yili to identify the carbon emission points in each plant and decide and GBT 23331. to cope with climate change” was also listed the major control areas for carbon emission reduction. Yili is the as one of the ten priority areas in the China first enterprise in the industry to conduct comprehensive carbon Yili strictly regulated the design, operation and management of National Biodiversity Protection Strategy and emissions inspection on all its subsidiaries. energy equipment, the equipment of energy measuring Energy equipment management Action Plan (2011-2030). instruments and the elimination of electromechanical equipment with high energy consumption. With the green and low-carbon development mode, Yili won the Responsibility Golden Bull Award issued by the CSR Research Energy-saving technology Yili has developed methodologies and models such as the energy management balance test and energy-saving 101 Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and also received the Golden Prize of the 7th International Carbon-Value Award, production model to optimize the energy supply system and Number of energy saving and emission development which is known as the “medal for best player in promoting lowconsumption system, and actively expand the use of energy reduction projects carbon transformation and environmental protection in the world” recycling modes such as biogas power generation. for the fifth consecutive year. Yili was recognized by the UN Yili has conducted carbon emissions inspection for eight consecutive years to comprehensively measure greenhouse RMB 45.42 million and specialized international organizations as “the best player in providing social value with the low carbon concept”. Control of carbon emissions Investments gas emission in production, and actively seek every chance to Yili won the Golden Prize of the 7th International Carbon-Value Award reduce carbon emissions. 8.22 % Reduction of energy consumption per ton Yili won the Responsibility Golden Bull Award issued by the CSR Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Links Carbon emissions inspection, namely greenhouse gas emissions inspection, refers to the practice to calculate direct or indirect greenhouse gas emissions throughout the whole process of social and production activities from the government or enterprises. The ultimate purpose is to save energy and reduce emissions. Promote the use of solar energy in Yili factories 2017 Annual Report 22 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 23 Species diversity protection Seeing species protection as the key task of biodiversity protection, Yili comprehensively evaluates the Case: New agricultural eco-cycle mode of “resource recycling of animal waste” impact of its operation and production on biodiversity, carries out species protection through the whole Background process, and conducts long-term monitoring, protection and scientific research to constantly improve Biodiversity includes genetic diversity, Achievements species diversity and ecosystem diversity Background the species protection level. with the species diversity at the core. Species Following achievements have been made with resource recycling With the rapid development of large-scale pasture, large quantity provides the primary sources to the food use of animal waste as bedding for cows and organic fertilizer: of cow waste resulting from intensive farming has increasingly and medicine of human beings as well as caused environmental pollution, and become a bottleneck for the raw materials for industrial and agricultural 1）Bedding for cows Case: Yili carries out wild salmon protection activities in New Zealand sustainable development of the dairy industry. production, and also plays an important role Reducing the consumption of woodchip bedding: Using animal in preserving the soil fertility, ensuring water waste bedding can save the cost of RMB 2.07 million than the Philosophy Since 2016, Oceania Dairy Limited, the South Canterbury-based dairy company of quality and regulating climate. woodchip bedding for each farm. Yili, cooperated with Waitaki Riparian Enhancement Society to carry out the wild To pursue a proper waste treatment mode and achieve Saving the cost of earthwork in the farm: The gradient of the salmon protection project. Oceania Dairy Limited has promised to provide three years Objective animal waste transfer ditch can be decreased to 0.8% from 1.5%, resource recycling of animal waste of investment (2016-2019) to Waitaki Riparian Enhancement Society and use it for the saving around RMB 6 million for each farm. operation of salmon hatchery, purchasing fish feed, and improving the living environment To establish a balanced system of planting and Preventing pollution caused by river sand: Replacing river of wild salmon in the Waitaki River Basin. Solution breeding with a good structure so as to achieve the sand with solid animal waste as the bedding can prevent the recycling of materials and energy secondary pollution to the environment and the damage to animal waste treatment equipment caused by river sand. Principle Reduction, harmlessness, and recycling Making it easier to treat animal waste in follow-up process: Compared to woodchip bedding, it is easier to clean animal Actions waste with the animal waste bedding. 2）As organic fertilizer Based on domestic and international experience as well as the features of its farms in China, Yili has Reducing the cost for pasture wastewater treatment: The liquid installed rainwater and sewage diversion systems, animal waste can be used as fertilizer in the field after the highly polluted water and less polluted water diversion fermentation. systems, as well as the solid and liquid animal waste Reducing the use of chemical fertilizer in the farmland: The Technological separation facilities in all farms based to their own organic fertilizer contains comprehensive nutrients, which are innovations features. After the fermentation in the tank and drying in slowly released with a longer effect. the sun, the separated solid animal waste can be used Reducing the diffusion of odor: Piping the organic fertilizer can as the bedding for cows, while the liquid animal waste effectively prevent its leakage and venting. can be used as fertilizer in the field after the Improving the soil: Organic fertilizer can fundamentally fermentation. By doing this, Yili achieves resource improve the microbial flora in the soil. Wild salmon hatchery in Waitaki River Basin recycling and zero discharge. With the model of eco-friendly farms, Yili actively promotes the green pasture concept by establishing Sustainable utilization of resources Experience the “Yili Milk Cow School” and the “Training Program for Second-Generation Farmers”, so as to promote the sharing idea of green farms, foster the eco-friendly By mapping international standards, Yili adopts clean and recycling production technologies to promote sustainable use of resources, integrates quality technology, talent and platform resources, and extends 2,800 tons transformation of partner farms, and extend the eco-cycle mode to more farms across China. In 2017, Yili has reduced the use of its philosophy, technologies and methods to the whole industry chain so as to foster the sustainable packaging paper for about development of the whole industry chain. Resource Recycling Device for Animal Waste Background “Sustainable use of components of biological diversity” is one of the three goals of Convention on Biological Diversity. One of the eight strategic tasks of China National Biodiversity Protection Strategy and Action Plan (2011-2030) is to “promote sustainable development and use of biological resources”. It is a practical way to coordinate biodiversity protection and use through sustainable use. 2017 Annual Report 24 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 25 environmental governance Case: Continuing to use green FSC packaging 180 Yili attaches much importance to environmental pollution in production and transportation activities and RMB million promotes green development. In 2017, Yili invested in projects of online monitoring, establishment and Yili keeps pursuing the “4R+1D” in the development of dairy product packaging, namely “Reduce”, “Reuse”, “Recover”, “Recycle”, and Investment in environmental protection transformation of the sewage system, boiler improvement and procurement of environmentally friendly “Degradable”, to ensure green packaging for dairy products. Yili is committed to achieving energy saving, material saving, efficiency and equipment. To deal with emergencies, Yili and all its subsidiaries have developed emergency plans for harmlessness in each link of the whole process from raw material processing to recycling. environment protection and organized emergency response teams with emergency resources, sparing Since 2011, Yili has been the first enterprise in the industry to cooperate with Tetrapak / SIG Combibloc, top suppliers of packaging materials, no efforts to minimize the impact on environment. to comprehensively apply FSC packaging in the product line. Starting from “Satine organic milk”, Yili has further applied FSC packaging to other product lines such as the “Satine pure milk” and “Satine low fat milk”, and plans to apply it all of dairy product lines. With careful packaging design and the recycling use of waste packaging materials, Yili improves the utilization of packaging materials, and reduces waste Background Yili has gradually upgraded the coal boilers through dust removal and desulfurization packaging materials, thus easing the environmental burden. measures in its factories and over 20 subsidiaries, and replaced coal boilers with gas Environmental pollution is an important cause Waste gas boilers in almost 10 subsidiaries and shut down coal-fired boilers of 3 subsidiaries to of biodiversity loss. The pollutants directly provide central gas supply. do harm on creatures and cause deterioration 2.4 billion packages of the living environment, which will impact the survival and reproduction of living things By the end of 2017, the wastewater treatment capacity of wastewater treatment plant Satine applied FSC packaging Waste water (station) was about 150,000 tons per day with annual degradation of chemical materials By the end of 2017 at the bottom of the food chain. There is a oxygen demand (COD) substances of about 55,000 tons, all meeting the wastewater strong link between a mass extinction of discharge standards. speciesand global environmental pollution. 80,000 One of the Sustainable Development Goals is Yili has implemented safe management of solid waste by sorting general and mu “Responsible Consumption and Production”, Solid waste hazardous solid waste to be disposed respectively by qualified third parties, whose and one of the 30 priority actions of China legitimacy and competence will be strictly verified, therefore ensuring 100% Amounts to sustainable management professional waste management throughout the disposal process. of forests of (statistics from WWF) National Biodiversity Protection Strategy and Action Plan (2011-2030) is to “reduce impacts of environmental pollution on Management of the “three wastes” 100 % biodiversity”. To reverse the trend of biodiversity loss, it is urgent to reduce Suppliers of packaging materials environmental pollution. certified by FSC Case: Promoting green logistics Yili pays attention to the discharge and control of pollution produced in logistics, and actively Measures takes measures to promote green and environmentally friendly logistics in the transportation Using low polluting trucks FSC Packaging of Satine Organic Milk of products, such as providing advanced facilities and equipment, installing transportation Short distance delivery monitoring software and comprehensively applying the automation system. With these Transportation at night efforts, Yili aims to ease traffic congestion, and reduce fuel consumption and emissions, thus Improving vehicle full-load ratio Links lessening the impact of logistics on the environment. Also, Yili focuses on exploring more Improving the proportion of direct FSC refers to Forest Stewardship Council. FSC certification system was jointly initiated by NGOs and environmental protection organizations environmentally-friendly modes of transport, including railway and maritime transport, and product delivery from factory to and aims to promote responsible forest management globally. Products with the FSC label have passed independent certification to guarantee has partnered with China Railway Corporation to better tap into and use railway resources. customer that their packaging materials are from forests that can satisfy the social, economic and ecological demand of present and future generations. Special-line transportation 2017 Annual Report 26 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection actions 27 Advocating ecological protection Committed to advocating the idea of biodiversity protection in the society, Yili organizes publicity activities and carries out education and training programs with the support of all walks of life, thus leading the public to participate in biodiversity protection and raise people’s awareness of biodiversity. Case: Inviting the “Travel Talent” to participate in wetland protection Case: Cooperating with the “Singer 2017” Show to give voice for “wetland protection” In September, 2017, Satine invited travel On April 22, 2017, at the “The Night of Satine · Satine Singers 2017 Top Concert”, Satine cooperated with the “Singer 2017” Show and talents to participate in the wetland invited famous singers such as Hanhong, Liwen and Lin Yilian to give voice for the wetland protection project of Satine and WWF, which experience journey in northeast China, attracted over 12.77 million visits to the show. The concert started with the campaign video of Satine “Wetland Protection”, on which the enabling them to experience the real singers, serving as “public welfare ambassadors” , to call on the public and other singers to pay attention to wetland protection, and spread the “gift of nature” and look for the rhythm environmental concept of Satine. of life. While enjoying the beauty of wetlands, travelers also can recognize the ongoing destruction of the wetland environment. This activity aims to call on consumers to participate in the wetland protection in northeast China together with Satine. “Travel Talent” activity Live broadcasting scene of “Singer 2017” Show Case: Launching the 4.6-m2 wetland protection Case: Launching the activity of “Listening to the project in northeast China entitled “Natural Sounds of Nature” Gifts, Repaying Nature” Case: Wetland Nature Education School In August 2017, On September 5, 2017, Satine cooperated Satine decorated a mall In September 2017, Satine, together with Ximalaya FM elevator in a shopping with WWF and Jilin Wetland Protection to launch the activity mall of Beijing with Association established “Wetland Nature of “Listening to the the wetland landscape Education Schools” in Xianghai and Sounds of Nature”, in northeast China, and Momoge, offering wetland protection and make creative posted the video of courses to almost 350 students of dynamic web pages “4.6m2 in the city” to seven classes and popularizing related with the original promote the activity -biodiversity knowledge to primary soundtracks of the “The purchase of each and secondary school students and the wetland. Users are box of Satine organic public. able to see the beauty milk by customers of wetlands and equals a public welfare listen to the sounds donation by Satine through the beautiful used for protecting 4.6dynamic pages. m2 wetlands”, raising customers’ concern on The campaign page of “Listening to wetland protection. The activity page of “the 4.6m2 wetland Class of Wetland Nature Education School Sounds of Nature” protection project in northeast China” 2017 Annual Report 28 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Biodiversity protection performance 29 Biodiversity Protection Performance Our governance performance Our Honors Unit:RMB million Unit:Tons of standard coal/ton 200 Honor 1: Yili Biodiversity Practice was praised by the new executive secretary of the UN 180 200 0.08 160 Convention on Biological Diversity 0.0599 150 0.06 0.0572 0.0525 In September 2017, as the first Chinese enterprise to sign the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties (COP) to the 100 0.04 Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016), Yili was invited to take part in the symposium with the new executive secretary of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity visited China. Wang Wei, Vice President of Yili introduced the actions and achievements of Yili in biodiversity protection: not only 50 0.02 actively fulfilling the commitments of biodiversity protection, Yili also mapped the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and included nine of them related to biodiversity into the sustainable development strategy, so as to achieve sustainable development in all links of the industry chain. Yili has received great 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 recognition from the executive secretary of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity for its biodiversity practice, and was expected to have more cooperation Total investment for environmental protection Energy intensity between the Convention and Yili on biodiversity protection. “Yili is the largest dairy company in Asia. It’s remarkable to include biodiversity into its development strategy. The “Green Industry Chain” strategy of Yili has Unit:Tons of standard coal Unit:kg/t produced great positive effect on biodiversity protection.” 40000 300 Cristiana Pașca Palmer, Executive Secretary of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity 35700 267.72 259.92 244.52 30000 22737.04 200 Honor 2: Yili Biodiversity Practice Cases introduced into global sustainability case collection 20008.13 20000 by UNESCO 100 10000 On December 19, 2017, at the 2017 China Business Summit On Achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Yili was awarded by the United Nations Global Compact with the title of “2017 Chinese 0 0 Enterprise Best Practice on Achieving Sustainable Development Goals”. At the same time, Yili’s 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 sustainable development practice cases, including biodiversity protection practices, due to the foresight Energy consumption cut Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of products of the actions and the leading effect on the whole industry chain, have been introduced into global successful sustainability experience and case collection by UNESCO as a “sample”. Units:kg/t Unit:Times “I’ve heard of Yili for a long time, and it does have done much for sustainable development. I hope to 0.20 0.08 visit Yili one day.” Zhang Jianqiu, Executive President of Yili (Left One) and Marielza Oliveira, director of the 0.15 0.15 0.06 Ms. Marielza Oliveira, Director and Representative of UNESCO Beijing Office UNESCO office in Beijing (Right One) communicate 0.10 with each other about sustainable development 0.08 0.10 0.04 0.05 0.02 Honor 3: Yili included in “Chinese Business and Biodiversity Partnership” Annual Report 2017 0 0 0 Chinese Business and Biodiversity Partnership (CBBP) is the Chinese partnership established by the 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Foreign Economic Cooperation Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to respond to “Global COD degraded per ton of products Severe leakage Partnership for Business and Biodiversity” and uses to recognize, evaluate and promote Chinese enterprises with good biodiversity performance. The CBBP Annual Report 2017 includes unique actions of Yili such as the carbon emissions inspection, comprehensive application of FSC packaging, and wetland protection in northeast China. Yili is the Scan the QR code to read the “Chinese enterprise with the most actions in the report, which demonstrates Yili’s contribution in the participation Business and Biodiversity Partnership” Annual of Chinese enterprises in biodiversity protection. Report 2017 Plan for Future Work China will hold the 15th Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in 2020, which represents the recognition of biodiversity protection in China, and more importantly shows China’s determination to make contributions to biodiversity protection in the world. In this context, Yili will continue to focus on biodiversity in future. While pursuing the goal of “serving 2 billion customers globally by 2020”, Yili will adhere to the development principle of biodiversity protection, fulfill the commitments of biodiversity protection and strive to be a Chinese sample of biodiversity protection for global business. Practice. Yili will continue its efforts to forge ahead with the achievements in the past. Under the guidance the “green industry chain” strategy and based on the current actions, Yili will continuously promote protection projects, expand new fields, and keep playing its part in protecting biodiversity on the earth. Yili will also extend the CBD requirements to upstream and downstream partners of the industry chain so as to make the whole industry chain more resource-saving and eco-friendly. Information Disclosure. Yili, with an open mind and transparent principle, will share the achievements of protection with the whole society. By regular releasing reports, Yili will spread its biodiversity practice, project progress and biodiversity knowledge to stakeholders and enhance the biodiversity protection management. Yili is committed to establishing the systems and standards for internal information disclosure of biodiversity, so as to promote a unified and standardized information disclosure mechanism for enterprises in China and even in the world. Communications and Exchanges. With the advantage of its influence and strengths in the biodiversity field, Yili will lead more social forces to participate in biodiversity protection, expand partnership, and promote communication and interaction with stakeholders to gain their attention and recognition. It’s a mission for all human beings and also the responsibility of Chinese enterprises to curb global warming and save our planet. Yili will undertake its responsibility as a leading enterprise to make due contributions of Chinese enterprises to global ecological progress. 2017 Annual Report 32 on Biodiversity Protection of Yili Group Commitment Index Index of the nine commitments of Yili in the Cancun Business and Biodiversity Pledge of 2016 Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (the CBD COP 2016) Commitment Page If applicable, understanding, measuring and valuing the impacts and dependencies of the decisions and operation of Yili on biodiversity and ecosystem services P7/P20-P21 Taking action to minimize negative impacts and optimize positive impacts on biodiversity P8/P19/P22-P25 Developing biodiversity management plans, including relevant actions taken to the whole supply chain P6P9/P16-P18 Regularly reporting on Yili’s impacts and dependencies on biodiversity and ecosystem services About the Report/P12 Promoting awareness about the values of biodiversity among our employees, managers, shareholders, partners, P10-P11/P13/P26-P27 suppliers, consumers, and across the business and finance departments Acting as a promoter of relevant standards with awareness of biodiversity responsibility, focusing on the economic opportunities and solutions, and helping to strengthen and disseminate business case that better integrates the value P16P18 of biodiversity into decision-making Engaging in different occasions and opportunities to share our companies’ experiences and progress, encouraging other P4-P5/P12-P13/P18/P29 companies to act in similar way Taking measures to mobilize resources to support concrete actions on biodiversity, and explain and monitor the use of P10/P26-P27 these resources if appropriate Providing relevant information on actions and disclosing progress of the work related to issues above P17/P28 Compiled by Yili Group
