CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT SCOTIABANK Scotiabank is Canada’s international bank, and a leading financial services provider in OUR STRATEGIC AGENDA North America, Latin America, the Caribbean Scotiabank’s Strategic Agenda includes five highly and Central America and Asia-Pacific. integrated components: We are dedicated to helping our 24 million • Customer Focus: the core of our Strategic Agenda is our 24 million customers, ensuring customers become better off through a that the voice of the customer is directly broad range of advice, products and services; embedded into everything we do, on a including personal and commercial banking, continuous basis. This is a reflection of our purpose, “We believe every customer has the wealth management and private banking, right to become better off”. corporate and investment banking and capital • Leadership: strengthening the Bank’s leadership markets. With a team of more than 88,000 capabilities with an infusion of new leaders from employees and assets of over CAD$915 billion other businesses and industries, as well as developing existing leaders through investments (as at October 31, 2017), Scotiabank trades in learning and leadership development, has on the Toronto (TSX: BNS) and New York brought depth and a diversity of thought that Exchanges (NYSE: BNS). continues to improve our strength and efficiency. • Structural Cost Transformation: becoming more efficient while continuing to improve our customers’ experience and embracing change Structural Cost Transformation Digital as a strategic advantage for the Bank. Leadership Transformation & Employee Engagement • Digital Transformation: to better serve our customers and become more efficient, including the Digital Factory network which is a driver of Business Mix Customer Focus Alignment internal innovation. • Business Mix Alignment: enhancing profitability, ensuring that financial resources Strong Risk Culture Why We believe every customer has the right are well-deployed and well-aligned with our We Bank: to become better off Strategic Agenda. Shift to become more CUSTOMER-FOCUSED Culture: and PERFORMANCE-ORIENTED INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ABOUT THIS REPORT Scotiabank’s 2017 annual Corporate Social Responsibility Companion Documents Report (CSR) shares our performance and achievements The following documents are companion pieces to the related to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) CSR Report, including: factors and outlines how Scotiabank engages with its stakeholders. We continue to evolve our approach in line with our stakeholders’ expectations. This year’s CSR Report focuses on core themes that Scotiabank and its stakeholders consider to be most important to the Bank, providing highlights of our progress in 2017 on our CSR priorities. Scotiabank has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework for CSR reporting since 2005. We have prepared 2017 Global Reporting Initiative our 2017 CSR Report in accordance with GRI’s Standards (GRI) Index and UNGC Communication framework, fulfilling the requirements of a Core report. on Progress (in this report) Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This report also constitutes our UNGC Communication on Progress and describes the actions we are taking to integrate the Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. Fundamental to this commitment is our global Human Rights Statement and approach. Scope of Reporting Public Accountability Website Statement (Canada) The scope of our reporting for this CSR Report and associated GRI Index includes information from November 1, 2016, through October 31, 2017, for Scotiabank and its fully owned or major operating subsidiaries. The report provides an overview of our framework, priorities and selected initiatives for our fiscal year 2017. www.scotiabank.com/csr Annual Report Management Proxy Circular CONTENTS Introduction 1 Employees: CSR at Scotiabank 4 Diversity and Inclusion 23 Community: Governance: 12 Investing in Young People 27 Maintaining Trust 13 Environment: Customers: Responsible Finance 31 Access to Finance 17 Climate Change 34 Financial Knowledge 20 Appendix: 37 GRI Standards Index 2017 37 Awards 65 1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX PRESIDENT AND CEO’S LETTER • In continuing to support a healthy environment, we were proud to announce our Greenhouse Gas emissions reduction target was met one year early in 2016. This year we expanded that target globally, to cover our entire footprint, and have committed to a 10% GHG reduction by 2021. We set an internal price on carbon at CAD$15/tonne of CO2 to help advance us towards this goal. In addition, as part of this environmental commitment, in February this year Scotiabank pledged its support for the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). • At the Bank, we are committed to becoming a digital leader in the financial services industry. Consistent with our aspirations, our annual technology spend – which includes digital – grew 14% over the last year, and now sits at more than CAD$3 billion. Digital innovation plays a critical role in how we serve our 24 million customers. For example, we are using digital to increase Brian Porter access to financial services. Within Canada, we digitized the President and process to apply for small business loans, which made access Chief Executive Officer to capital quicker and more efficient. Outside of Canada, we introduced self-serve kiosks with biometric authentication, which helped our customers in countries such as Uruguay access I am pleased to introduce Scotiabank’s 2017 Corporate Social microfinance loans. We also believe that by investing in digital Responsibility Report, which tracks the progress we are making technology, we are helping to strengthen the innovation against our CSR Strategy, titled: Better Future, Better Off. ecosystem in Canada and across our geographic footprint. The priorities set out in this report were developed to reflect Our investments are helping to create jobs and strengthen our commitment to making a real and lasting difference in the economies of our key markets over the longer-term. communities across our footprint. • The world is changing, and, as a significant employer, we are Scotiabankers are a critical part of the economic and social fabric investing in training and leadership development opportunities that of the countries in which we operate – this is a responsibility that are relevant for our employees. Modernized learning experiences we take seriously. That is why, in 2017, Scotiabank employees are better equipping our employees with the skills they need to contributed more than 403,500 hours of volunteering and succeed in our increasingly digital world. Further, by ensuring that fundraising time, and the Bank contributed more than CAD$80 our training programs are effective, we are improving performance million globally in donations, sponsorships and other forms through learning. These efforts are helping to position the Bank of assistance. for a strong future and create a stronger society. The Bank’s role in the community is about more than philanthropy. I want to take this opportunity to thank all of the Scotiabankers for Let me give you four examples of some of our exciting CSR coming together to help our customers – and each other – during achievements in 2017: the past year. Your contributions are making a tremendous impact and you should be very proud. • As part of our commitment to Young People in the Community, last year, we built soccer fields for children in Peru and Mexico, This report highlights the role that Scotiabank continues to play and through our sponsorship of soccer leagues, across Latin in supporting strong communities, a healthy environment and America, thousands of young people had the opportunity to play, economic growth. We will continue to do what we can to deliver make new friends and gain confidence. Here in Canada, we for all of our stakeholders – customers, shareholders, employees support hockey at all levels. In 2017, the Bank reached the and communities – today and in the years to come. important milestone of supporting more than 8,000 hockey Brian J. Porter teams and one million kids and counting. Our historic, 20-year partnership with Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment (MLSE) will provide us with even more opportunities to give back to our communities and help young people reach their full potential. 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Dear Stakeholders, To maintain the trust of our many stakeholders, including our shareholders, customers and employees, we are committed to enhancing customer protection, lending fairly, balancing stakeholder interests and operating our Bank with integrity. Acting with integrity to maintain and uphold our strong reputation requires solid, strategic governance practices. The Annual Report along with this CSR Report includes many examples of this in practice. We have made great progress in 2017 and continue to evolve our governance standards to reflect best-in-class practices. This includes embracing diversity of leadership, of thought and of gender. This year, we have reaffirmed this belief by pledging our support to the Canadian Chapter of the 30% Club, encouraging Canadian businesses to increase the representation of women on boards. Tom O’Neill I am proud to report over 33% of our Board members are women. Chairman of Scotiabank’s While the responsibility for CSR resides with the Board’s Corporate Board of Directors Governance Committee, oversight of the Bank’s economic, environmental and social impacts and risks is a shared board responsibility and is overseen by each board committee. As risk management is complex, our approach must be multi-disciplinary. As a leading financial services provider and Canada’s international bank, we strive to build the economy of everyone and make a positive difference around the world that also drives value for the Bank. Building the economy of everyone will require long-term investment for future generations. As we have done for the past 185 years, Scotiabank will continue to build value for our customers and the real economy. These pages convey our pride of this in action and we look forward to continue to sharing our progress. Tom O’Neill 3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX BETTER FUTURE, BETTER OFF: OUR CSR STRATEGY Creating Value for Society and Scotiabank Scotiabank. Additionally, by leveraging our resources, reach Every customer has the right to become better off. Through and expertise to support economic growth and social impact our CSR commitments, stakeholder dialogue and strong among our stakeholders and communities, we are also governance, we aim to empower customers to fulfill their strengthening the resilience of our business. potential, creating a better future for both society and Our CSR Priorities: PORATE GOVERNANCE COR ng strong holdi corpora nd up te go • Maintaining Trust nteg rity a Maintaining Trust vern anc h i ep i t rac • Financial Knowledge ting w tic es Ac • Access to Finance • Investing in Young People CUSTOMERS USTOMERS • Diversity & Inclusion Helping every customer to become better off • Climate Change Financial Knowledge Access to Finance • Responsible Financing WE BA HY NK W Better Future, Better Off COMMUNITY OMMUNIT EMPLOYEES MPLOYEE v ter off We b e li e Our commitment to Supporting the Creating an creating value for communities in bet inclusive i workplace both society and which we operate in which employees are ee Scotiabank me ve y co empowered and engaged emp Investing in cu be r sto Diversity Div & Inclusion Young People e m er t to h a s t h e ri g h Climate Change Responsible Financing Reducing our impact on the environment ENVIRONMENT Our Commitment to Responsible Business Initiatives As part of our commitment to responsible business initiatives, we are members or signatories of the following organizations. 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX GLOBAL MEGA-TRENDS Our belief that every customer has the right to become remain trapped in a cycle of poverty. Scotiabank supports the better off has never been more important. With more than United Nations’ vision for a fairer, more sustainable world. 9 billion people projected to be on the planet by 2050, Our CSR priorities and strategy will contribute to a number the pressure on our climate and natural resources will only of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and we will intensify. Inequality continues to divide our societies, with take action on the issues where we stand to make the the middle classes expanding, while many young people greatest positive impact. MEGA-TREND: MEGA-TREND: Inequality of Changing opportunity climate OUR OUR PRIORITY: PRIORITY: Responsible Climate financing change OUR UN Sustainable OUR PRIORITY: Investing Development PRIORITY: Financial in young Goals that link to knowledge MEGA-TREND: people MEGA-TREND: Trust in our priorities Change in institutions SDG SDG SDG wealth 1 3 4 SDG SDG SDG 5 8 13 OUR OUR PRIORITY: PRIORITY: Access to Diversity & finance inclusion OUR PRIORITY: Maintaining trust MEGA-TREND: MEGA-TREND: Global Demographic connectivity shifts SDG 1: NO POVERTY SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION SDG 8: DECENT WORK SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION 1.2 Reduce at least by half all people 4.1 F ree primary and secondary education AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 13.1 Strengthen resilience and living in poverty for all girls and boys 8.2 Increase economic productivity through adaptive capacity 1.3 Social protection systems for the 4.3 E nsure equal access for all to technical diversification and innovation 13.2 Integrate climate change measures poor and vulnerable and tertiary education 8.3 P romote job creation and 13.3 Improve climate change education 1.4 Equal rights to economic resources 4.4 Increase youth and adult vocational skills entrepreneurship for employment 8.5 F ull and productive employment for Source: 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education all people with equal pay SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH PWC: https://www.pwc.co.uk/issues/ 8.6 R educe youth unemployment through megatrends.html AND WELL-BEING education or training SDG 5: GENDER EQUALITY UNDP: http://www.undp.org/content/undp/ 3.2 End preventable child mortality 8.8 P rotect labor rights and safe en/home/librarypage/sustainable-developmentby supporting primary healthcare 5.1 End all forms of female discrimination working environments goals/global-trends--challenges-and3.4 Promote mental health and well-being 5.2 E nsure equal opportunities for 8.10 Expand access to banking for all opportunities-in-the-implementatio.html 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage leadership at all levels 5 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX VALUE CHAIN AND IMPACTS Through CSR, Scotiabank creates economic, social and environmental Better Future, Better Off value for its stakeholders and the Our commitments world around it. to creating value for both society As a leading financial services provider with more than and Scotiabank 88,000 employees and 24 million customers worldwide, Community value: we stand to create significant economic, social and • CAD$80 million in donations globally environmental value through our CSR activities – for • 60% of our philanthropic funding supported both our core stakeholders and the world around us. young people in the community, while 40% Here are some of the ways in which we created value went to foundational giving in 2017: • 403,500 employee volunteer hours • CAD$2.3 million in scholarships for students globally Customer value: Shareholder value: • CAD$4.7 billion financing in renewable energy FY2017 revenue • 7% Increase in access to banking for CAD$27 billion Aboriginal communities • More than 9% growth in loans for Canadian small businesses • 8.9% growth of microlending loans in LatAm 24 MILLION CUSTOMERS Environmental value: IN NEARLY 50 7.74% reduction in GHG COUNTRIES emissions globally in 2017 15,000 Supplier value: Employee value: Supplier relationships range CAD$69.9 million invested SUPPLIERS from local providers of office in training and development GLOBALLY cleaning services to large multinational organizations. 33 average annual learning hours per employee 88,000+ EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX OUR PROGRESS We have identified multiple Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to help track our progress towards meeting our major CSR priorities and measure our impacts. COMMITMENT KPI 2017 2017 2018 and Priority Target Performance Target CUSTOMERS Number of people reached >500,000 >600,000 >700,000 Financial through financial education/ Knowledge literacy tools and programs (global) CUSTOMERS Total microlending loans +7% +8.9% +8% Access to Finance Increase in access to banking +7% +7% +10% for Aboriginal communities (by customers, Canada) Total small business loans +8.9% +9.2% +12.1% (Canada) GOVERNANCE Be a leader in 100% implementation of Achieved ≥ Financial Maintaining Trust customer experience The Pulse (NPS) in Canada, services norm Mexico, Peru, Chile and Colombia by May 2017 Percentage of employees that 100% 100% 100% attest to the Scotiabank Code of Conduct Board of Directors Aspiration of each gender to 33% women Aspiration of each gender diversity be at least 30% of members gender to be at least 30% of members EMPLOYEES Employee engagement ≥ Financial Services norm 5% > than Financial ≥ Financial Services Diversity & score (global) Services norm norm Inclusion Percentage of women in senior ≥ 30% (VP+) globally +39% (VP+ Canada) ≥ 34% (VP+) globally leadership roles +20% (VP+ International) COMMUNITY Percentage of total 60% towards young people 60% towards young 70% towards Investing in philanthropic funding in the community people in the community young people in Young People to support young people the community 40% towards 40% towards in the community foundational giving foundational giving 30% towards foundational giving ENVIRONMENT Decrease in GHG emissions 15% Scope 1 and 2 GHG 28.68% reduction in Scope 10% global reduction Climate Change emissions reduction in 1 and 2 GHG emissions of Scope 1 and 2 Canada by 2017 in Canada was achieved GHG emissions by (based on 2012 levels) a year early (by 2016). In 2021 (based on 2017, a further 7.74% 2016 levels) reduction was seen across global Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Implement internal carbon price Set Internal carbon price Set Internal carbon price Implement internal at CAD$15/tonne carbon price 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX OUR PROGRESS 2017 Performance In addition to the above targets, we have a number of Key Performance Indicators that are used to measure and manage our progress. COMMITMENT KPI 2017 and Priority Performance EMPLOYEES Turnover rate (either global or Canada) Canada 15%, International 12% Diversity & Inclusion Overall % of employees with disabilities (Canada) 3.8%* Overall % of visible minority employees (Canada) 28.4%* Overall % of Aboriginal people employees (Canada) 1.2%* Total invested in employee training and career development CAD$69.9 million Average number of training hours per employee annually 33 hours COMMUNITY Total amount of Community donations globally CAD$80 million Investing in Young People Total amount of hours volunteered by employees 403,500 hours Amount donated through formal employee giving CAD$11.5 million programs globally ENVIRONMENT Total of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, globally Scope 1: 13,950 tonnes/CO2 Climate Change Scope 2: 108,181 tonnes/CO2 Scope 3: 18,060 tonnes/CO2 Total CO2e footprint: 140,191 ENVIRONMENT Commitment to a low-energy future by investing in renewable CAD$4.7 billion Responsible Financing energy financing * 2016 data from latest Employment Equity report 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY Listening to our stakeholders and understanding their needs expectations in the diverse countries where we operate, is essential to growing our business and delivering on our and seek feedback on our strategy and priorities. We engage CSR strategy. In particular, conducting ongoing dialogue with with stakeholders through a variety of methods and channels, our key stakeholder groups helps us to identifyenvironmental, both formal and informal, across the various business social and governance trends, understand people’s activities of the Bank, as summarized in the table below. HOW WE INTERACT WITH STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Group Relevant Topics in 2017 How we Interacted Customers • Sales practices • Public engagement • Pipelines • Government and Regulator engagement • Sponsorships • The Pulse (NPS), ongoing customer feedback • Commitment to the community • Office of the Ombudsman, complaint • Access to Banking resolution process • Problem Resolution • Social media listening • Customer Experience improvement opportunities Employees • Human Rights in the workplace • Launched an updated Global Harassment Policy • Customer focus in 2017 • Digital transformation • Company intranet(s), email • Town halls and team meetings Rating Agencies/ • Digital transformation • First ever Digital Investor Day ran in February 2017 Investors/Analysts • Taskforce for Climate-related Financial • Shareholder calls and meetings Disclosures (TCFD) • Shareholder proposals and enquiries • Human Rights and Aboriginal relations • Annual meeting and quarterly earnings update calls • Canadian housing and consumer indebtedness • Geopolitical and macroeconomic issues, including NAFTA renegotiations Government • Internal carbon price • Dialogue with policy makers and • Cybersecurity government officials • NAFTA and International Trade • Public submissions to government consultations • Sales practices • Meeting regulatory obligations • Small Business Support • Digital transformation of financial sector • Diversity and Inclusion Suppliers • Supplier Code of Conduct • New supplier RFP through Human Rights project • Centralized source to pay process and policy • Standardized Market Ready contracts with • Third Party Risk and Regulatory requirement environmental and CSR terms • UK Modern Slavery Act and Human Rights • Supplier Relationship Management Program • Environmental and social risk 9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY Stakeholder Group Relevant Topics in 2017 How we Interacted NGOs and community • The state of education and health, • Launched Young People in the Community Index development and the well-being of youth in the • Community partnerships organizations countries in which we operate • Conferences, events, webinars • Built soccer fields and hockey rinks in high need communities Global sustainability • TCFD recommendations • Public support of the Financial Stability Board’s organizations • Carbon pricing (FSB) Taskforce for Climate-related Financial • Diversity & Inclusion Disclosures (TCFD) • Set an internal carbon price to fulfill our CPLC membership, in consultation with CDP • Participated in research paper with Delphi Group on carbon pricing in Canada • Sponsored event and speaking engagements on Diversity & Inclusion Our Material Issues Overall, both our external stakeholders and employees We strive to ensure we are addressing the social and strongly agreed on our most material issues. They highlighted environmental issues that matter most to our business our governance of operations, transparency, customer service and to our stakeholders, and on which we stand to make and notably data privacy and security (which gained in the greatest positive impact (our “material issues”). To gain importance since our last materiality review in 2015) as key a deeper understanding of our stakeholders’ views and priorities. Many of the high priority material issues related expectations, we strengthened our stakeholder engagement directly or indirectly to customer experience. In general, most review process in 2017. We used a dedicated digital platform of the priorities we identified in 2015 are still relevant today. to gather information from internal and external stakeholders worldwide, including employees, customers, investors, government officials, NGOs, charity partners, industry associations and universities. In total, we captured 214 completed surveys, both from external stakeholders and employees. We asked all our stakeholders to rank the importance of material issues. In addition, we asked employees to estimate the extent to which Scotiabank could influence these topics. 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX OUR PRIORITIES Our CSR priorities reflect our commitment to creating value for both society and Scotiabank. The table below summarizes how our priorities address our material issues. Priority Description Material Topics Maintaining To ensure we maintain the trust of our stakeholders, • Governance of operations Trust we strive to operate with integrity, enhance customer • Customer service protection, lend fairly and balance stakeholder interests. • Data privacy and security • Transparency of operations and services • Human Rights • Commitment to external sustainability/CSR initiatives • Corporate structure Financial When our customers know how to make better financial • Fair design and sale of responsible Knowledge decisions, they can become better off. We educate our products and services customers by providing them with an understanding • Financial education/literacy of how they can plan for a better future and by offering fairly designed products and services. Access Enabling customers to become better off means • Innovation/digitization to Finance equipping them with the tools to succeed. We work • Financial inclusion/access to increase the ability of individuals and enterprises • Creation of products with social benefits to access essential financial services. Diversity A diverse, inclusive environment allows customers and • Talent attraction, engagement & Inclusion employees to reach their fullest potential. We strive to and development respect and appreciate all individuals and to embrace • Fair labor practices both our differences and similarities across dimensions, • Employee health and well-being including age, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. • Diversity and equal opportunity Investing in Investing in young people allows us to invest in the • Community investment and philanthropy Young People long-term security, stability and growth of our future. • Health and well-being and education We proudly work with community partners that enhance of youth the health and education of young people in the community. Climate A better future needs a healthy planet. By setting • Environmental footprint Change emission reduction targets and taking action to meet • Sustainable/responsible procurement them, we seek to reduce our impact on climate change. supply chain Responsible Businesses have an opportunity and a responsibility • Environmental/social risk management Financing to help create a better future. As a bank, we make in lending investments in sustainable solutions and lend in • Creation of products with a way that mitigates social and environmental risk. environmental benefits 11 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CSR GOVERNANCE Our Corporate Governance Committee and Risk Committee The Risk Committee reviews the Bank’s risk appetite (the level both play key roles in guiding our CSR efforts by overseeing of risk we are willing to accept). It continuously identifies and policies, statements or strategies related to the Bank’s monitors key risks, evaluates our risk policies and oversees economic, environmental and social impacts. our Risk Management function. Additionally, the committee may advise the Board on key risks and potential policies The Corporate Governance Committee reviews the Bank’s (such as our Environmental Policy and Credit Risk Appetite) CSR strategy and reporting, evaluates our environmental and as appropriate. social performance and benchmarks our performance against our industry peers. It also discusses global trends and best practices in corporate disclosure of non-financial performance with our CSR management team. In 2017, the Corporate Governance Committee reviewed the evolution of our CSR priorities, as well as our integrated human rights strategy. The Corporate Governance Committee is composed entirely of independent directors. CSR at Scotiabank 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE: MAINTAINING TRUST Our Bank relies on our stakeholders. To ensure we maintain their trust, we RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS strive to operate with integrity, enhance • Governance of Operations customer protection, lend fairly and • Transparency of Operations and Services • Data Privacy and Security balance stakeholder interests. • Human Rights • Responsible Procurement • Customer Service • Participation in Major Sustainability Initiatives PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • The Pulse (NPS) was fully implemented in Canada, Mexico, • Expanding The Pulse (NPS) to our commercial customers across Peru, Chile and Colombia Canada, Peru, Mexico, Chile and Colombia • Scotiabank pledged our support to the Canadian Chapter • Expanding our biometric authentication to include face, eye of the 30% Club, encouraging businesses to increase the and voice recognition to further safeguard customers’ assets representation of women on boards and in executive roles. and enhance their banking experience We also support the Catalyst Accord, and in 2017 are proud • Continue to review human rights approaches to issues to report 33% of our Board of Directors are female affecting our employees, such as equal pay, discrimination and • We progressed our Human Rights strategy and published hours of work, and for our customers, issues such as privacy a Human Rights Statement Corporate Governance and compliance. As part of our commitment to strengthening Scotiabank has the highest respect for our stakeholders’ our business through diversity and inclusion, 33% of our confidence and trust in our business. We strive to ensure that Board of Directors are female, in line with the Catalyst our actions reflect their trust, by fostering strong leadership Accord’s 2022 goal, which we support.1 and promoting a culture of integrity and compliance. We are proud of our legacy of good corporate governance and place a focus on encouraging our employees to live our core values Board of Directors (Respect, Integrity, Passion, Accountability). We believe it 67% is the responsibility of everyone in our company to maintain our high standards of ethical behaviour. This starts with championing strong leadership. Male Scotiabank’s Board of Directors plays a fundamental role in the overall governance of our organization. The Board, which 33% Female is elected annually by our shareholders, seeks to create long-term shareholder value by overseeing management’s Data correct to October 31, 2017. performance and setting the tone for a culture of integrity 1 Source: http://www.catalyst.org/catalyst-accord-2022 13 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE: MAINTAINING TRUST Our Chairman and CEO have both pledged our support To supplement the Code, we have supporting policies and to the Canadian Chapter of the 30% Club, an initiative procedures in place, including on: whistle-blowing, personal encouraging corporate businesses in Canada to increase their information privacy protection, employee privacy, reputational representation of women on boards and in executive roles. risk, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. We also have a global Human Rights Statement published in 2016. Our Chairman is an independent director who leads the Board in conducting its duties effectively. He also advises We deliver training to all relevant employees on key ethical the President and CEO on major strategic and business issues, policies and issues. For example, in 2017, we enhanced our and represents the Board in meetings with our primary Advanced Anti-Corruption course to become the Anti-Bribery regulator, shareholders and other key stakeholders. and Anti-Corruption course, incorporating content on both bribery and corruption. Additionally, we stepped up our The Board is supported by four committees: Audit, Corporate employee training on Privacy issues and best practices within Governance, Human Resources and Risk. Our Chairman is International Banking with our Enterprise Privacy Office (EPO) a member of all four committees, and all of our Directors offering informative videos on our company-wide intranet. (excluding the President and CEO) serve on at least one board We also implemented new sales practices training across committee. Our board mandate and committee charters can Canadian and International Banking. be found on the Scotiabank website. Data Privacy and Security Scotiabank Code of Conduct Our customers’ data privacy and security is crucial, particularly Upholding high standards of ethics and integrity is integral with cyber security risks evolving rapidly and becoming ever to managing risk. At the heart of this is the Scotiabank Code more sophisticated. We maintain a strong focus on protecting of Conduct, which sets out exactly how we expect our customers’ assets and personal data, and require all our employees to behave in relation to our company, our employees to treat confidential information with the utmost customers, communities, shareholders and to each other. sensitivity. We continuously raise awareness of the importance We require all employees, officers and directors to of privacy and information security within our company, acknowledge compliance with our Code on an annual basis. including via our mandatory e-learning program. Any breach This process is also reviewed annually by both internal and of confidentiality is addressed via our disciplinary procedure, independent auditors. and can result in termination. We adapt our strategy in line with evolving security risks, We require all employees, officers and directors particularly cyber risks, and invest significantly in leadingedge digital technology to keep our customers’ data safe. to acknowledge compliance with the Code on In 2017 we formed a partnership with Team8, world an annual basis. renowned cyber security experts from Israel, to work with us on enhancing our capabilities in cyber security. The six guiding principles of the Code are: • Follow the law wherever Scotiabank does business • Avoid putting yourself or Scotiabank in a conflict of interest • Conduct yourself honestly and with integrity • Respect confidentiality, and protect the integrity and security of assets, communications, information and transactions • Treat everyone fairly, equitably and professionally • Honour our commitments to the communities in which we operate 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE: MAINTAINING TRUST Privacy We have also developed business practices and procedures Our Enterprise Privacy Office (EPO) is active in ensuring to integrate international and universal labor standards, compliance with privacy legislation and policies globally. such as the International Labor Organization’s Declaration In 2017, the EPO updated the Scotiabank Privacy Incident on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We are and Breach Management Procedures, which defines how committed to ensuring that our businesses and global supply the Bank responds to Privacy incidents and breaches. chain partners adhere to the appropriate international labor We also developed our enhanced Privacy Impact Assessment standards, including Conventions No. 87 and No. 98 on (PIA) process, which helps our teams identify and mitigate freedom of association and collective bargaining. privacy risks related to new initiatives. There is an ongoing Our global Human Rights Statement and three-year human focus on delivering such training globally. In addition, rights strategy are based on the findings of a comprehensive the recruitment of more local privacy officers will occur human rights risk and impact assessment. The strategy in 2018, in order to help our employees implement the defines the human rights issues that are most salient to our PIA process effectively. bank and our stakeholders. We aim to fully integrate human Cyber Security rights considerations into our lending activities and We continuously strive to remain a step ahead of evolving operations. Our cross-functional, internal human rights cyber security risks. In 2017, we made multiple improvements steering committee oversees our efforts and evaluates to enhance customer protection, including strengthening the our on-going progress. way we verify the identity of employees interacting with our systems and databases. We stepped up our incident response processes and training, helping our employees to develop a consistent, rigorous response to cyber incidents worldwide. THREE-YEAR Importantly, we invited an independent third party to assess HUMAN RIGHTS STRATEGY the effectiveness of our incident response processes and took action to further optimize and streamline our approach. In 2017, we finalized an enhanced Global Harassment Policy to ensure that we had consistent global standards and To further safeguard our customers’ assets and enhance their processes. In 2018, we will reinforce this to all employees, banking experience, we improved our customer authentication bank-wide, through structured and mandatory training. process. In particular, we enhanced our security questions and introduced fingerprint authentication. We plan to expand We began to plan to implement a human rights screening biometric authentication to include face, eye and voice program, to identify human rights gaps in high-risk countries recognition in the future. and in specific industry sectors when exploring investment in financial products. We also began planning to conduct an Human Rights extensive gap analysis in high-risk markets to identify human Respect for human rights sits at the heart of our core values rights filters to be integrated into the due diligence process and guides the way we do business. We are committed to through the customer engagement experience in the retail upholding the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human banking environment. Rights, which provide a clear framework for businesses to apply human rights targets. These human rights statements In addition, we have worked on a pilot project to review the are outlined in the Sustainable Development Goals, including Employee Workplace Accommodation policies and processes. SDG 8 on promoting decent work and economic growth. We will use our learnings from this pilot project to identify This goal includes a focus on economic growth and and resolve gaps in the Workplace Accommodation policies productivity through diversification, innovation and processes in each country where we operate. and technological upgrading, as well as the protection In FY2018, we will also continue to further human rights of the rights of employees and promoting safe and secure principles to human resources approaches affecting our work environments for all workers. employees, such as equal pay, discrimination and hours of work, and to concerns relating to our valued customers, such as privacy. 15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE: MAINTAINING TRUST Responsible Procurement Digital Transformation and The Pulse As a financial institution, Scotiabank’s supply chain focuses As we continue our digital transformation journey, we have on indirect goods and services by nature. We have more stepped up our efforts to simplify and digitalize customer than 15,000 suppliers worldwide, including both small and experience, by creating a custom Net Promoter System (NPS). medium enterprises and large corporations, and prioritize Now referred to as “The Pulse”, this is our global customer working with suppliers who share our values and culture. experience system, designed to enable a systematic approach to effectively listen to customers, leverage their feedback and Our approach to raising our suppliers’ ethical performance respond in real time. This precise view of how customers reflects our support of SDG 8. In particular, we require all experience our services will help us to build longstanding our suppliers to uphold our Vendor Code of Conduct, and customer relationships, enabling us to invest in the products, we consider social and environmental criteria as part of our services and tools that our customers require to succeed. assessment of new suppliers. Our CSR and business teams use a dedicated supplier management platform to manage Through 2017, we implemented The Pulse across all our suppliers on an ongoing basis and monitor their performance. branches, contact centres and digital channels in Canada, Mexico, Peru, Chile and Colombia. We also initiated a pilot We continuously seek to optimize the way we identify and program for Commercial Banking customers in Canada act on human rights risks in our supply chain. In 2017, we and Peru. Since its launch, we have sent nearly 10,000,000 completed an in-depth review of human rights risks in our customer surveys globally, and received feedback from supply chain, identifying high risk categories and markets. over two million customers. As we engage all levels of the We drew on the findings to strengthen our policies and organization to connect with customers further on the procedures surrounding tenders, on-boarding new suppliers feedback, we have made over 200,000 call backs to customers. and purchasing. For example, we improved our risk assessment process for new and existing suppliers, updated our Vendor Code of Conduct and introduced a new Vendor We received feedback from over 2 million Relations Policy. We also developed an enhanced Purchasing customers through The Pulse. Policy, together with a practical manual to help our buyers integrate ethical considerations into their purchasing decisions. With the prioritization of feedback, we are now making Customer Experience improvements for customers and their experience. For In the same way that we seek to uphold high standards in example, customers in Chile were unhappy with our digital our supply chain, so we have a longstanding, strategic focus password expiry rules, leading to high call volumes in our on optimizing our customers’ experience. We enable our Contact Centre to unlock their accounts. To address this issue, employees to support customers effectively, assess their we improved and simplified the password process and needs and develop effective financial strategies. We seek updated it to ensure sound security. Customers have regular feedback from customers and employees and monitor responded positively to the change and our Contact Centre sales teams to ensure compliance with our practices. We are now receives fewer password-related calls. confident that our practices are sound and if we do not meet customer expectations, we take action to make things right. In 2018, we will focus on expanding The Pulse for commercial customers across Canada, Peru and into Mexico, Chile and In the event of a complaint, customers in Canada can first Colombia. For our retail customers we will continue our contact their local branch or contact centre. If the issue is not expansion into the Caribbean market, primarily focusing resolved to their satisfaction, including by the Management on Jamaica, Trinidad & Tobago and the Dominican Republic. Officer, they can escalate it to the Office of the President. We will also roll it out across our additional Contact Centre If the complaint remains unresolved, it can be escalated to teams in our six markets and explore new, technology-driven the Scotiabank Ombudsman. Internationally, the Bank follows ways to gather customer feedback. a similar process, although specifics may vary according to country regulatory requirements or local needs. We also developed a proprietary system to gather feedback from employees. The tool enables and empowers employees to initiate change and improve the employee and customer experience across the organization. 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: ACCESS TO FINANCE Enabling customers to become better off means equipping them with the tools to RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS succeed. We work to increase the ability of • Promoting Financial Inclusion individuals and enterprises to access essential • Innovation and Digitization • Creation of Products with Social Benefits financial services. PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We increased our microlending loans across the International • We plan to make small business accounts available to more Bank by 8.9% businesses, by engaging with all eligible customers • We were awarded the “Gold standing” from the Canadian • We plan to grow small business loans by 12.1% Council for Aboriginal Business for providing access to finance • We will increase access to finance for Aboriginal communities for Aboriginal communities by 10% • Peru’s Billetera Movil now has 87,190 customers There are some two billion people of working age globally Promoting Financial Inclusion who lack access to formal financial services, according to Aboriginal Banking the World Bank.2 By 2030, the UN aims to eradicate poverty Scotiabank is taking steps to positively impact Aboriginal (SDG 1), including by ensuring that everyone has equal access people, communities and businesses, by offering more to basic financial services. By removing barriers and increasing effective banking services, creating employment opportunities access to finance, we are actively helping to bridge this gap and supporting sustainable development. and build a more inclusive global economy. Importantly, we believe every customer has the right to become better off. We have 27 Aboriginal Banking Centres across Canada, We create opportunities for everyone to succeed – from including four on-reserve branches, offering all our banking families to individuals to businesses. Digital innovation plays services. Commercial Banking also provides customized a fundamental role in this. We are transforming our products on-reserve lending services – which support communities and services to meet the diverse needs of the customers we in boosting their local economies – to Aboriginal economic serve, harnessing mobile technology to help customers access development organizations and band councils. All our centres essential financial services like never before. and branches are aligned to the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB)’s Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) review process. We were also awarded the prestigious “Gold Standing” from the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business for the third time. 2 Source: World Bank http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/overview 17 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: ACCESS TO FINANCE The Gold standing awarded to Scotiabank recognizes Multi-Cultural Banking leadership in Aboriginal Relations, and commitment to Moving to a new country can be challenging. Our StartRight working with Aboriginal businesses and communities through Program helps newcomers transition smoothly to Canada by helpful banking services. Scotiabank was one of only six providing simplified fundamental financial services catering companies in Canada to have been awarded with the to their needs. We help newcomers gain access to bank distinction in 2017. accounts efficiently and offer a free chequing account for students, as well as other reduced-cost services. We also Small Business partner with non-profit organizations such as Colleges and Small businesses are the backbone of Canada’s economy, Institute Canada, CanPrep and the Toronto Region Immigrant contributing, on average, 30% of GDP and employing some Employment Council to improve immigrants’ study and career 11.6 million people,3 while Mexico’s 4.7 million small prospects in Canada. Our employees support this effort by businesses contribute USD$1.6 million to the country’s GDP.4 acting as mentors to people interested in moving to Canada, We are committed to enabling small businesses to succeed both in person and through interactive webinars. with faster, smarter financial services. For example, Scotiabank’s new digital lending platform is helping more small business In 2017, we enhanced our StartRight program by helping customers in Canada to save time and better manage their newcomers gain credit more rapidly. Permanent residents finances by gaining access to financial services more rapidly. can now obtain a $3,000 minimum credit limit with no credit history or income (up from $2,000). Foreign workers can also By digitizing the way we open accounts and approve loans, apply for a credit card with a 10-month work permit (down we have become Canada’s first major bank to enable small from 12 months). businesses to open an account in as few as 15 minutes. Many of our customers have taken advantage of our new digital Our Scotiabank Student GIC Program (SSGP) is now available lending and account opening capabilities for small businesses, in India, China, Vietnam and the Philippines assisting students gaining real-time access to the products and services they in these countries with their study visa application process. need to run their day-to-day business. We plan to make small businesses’ accounts available to more businesses in 2018 by engaging with all eligible customers. CASE STUDY: WORKING GLOBALLY In 2017, we further expanded our support of independent professionals, agricultural enterprises and franchises by We recognize the important role that access to financial growing our network of specialists offering practical advice services plays in helping people become better off, and and guidance. We also stepped up our support of start-ups we work to provide innovative solutions to unbanked, by collaborating with organizations including the under-banked and disadvantaged populations globally. Canadian Federation of Independent Business (CFIB) and In 2016 our subsidiary Banco Colpatria in Colombia Start Up Canada. eliminated fees related to its chequing and savings accounts. This “$0 fees strategy” and accompanying For example, in Trinidad & Tobago, 32 small business owners marketing campaign attracted a new customer graduated from our entrepreneur-focused Scotiabank Vision base and established a renewed trust in financial Achiever Program in 2017, with the top graduate winning institutions from the unbanked, who previously saw $25,000 to invest in their business. Meanwhile, our new the fees associated with keeping money at a bank TT$50million SME Capital Equipment Fund provides low-cost as a disincentive to opening an account. In 2017 this loans to eligible businesses from diverse industries. program continued to grow, with a further increase in account openings. 3 S ource: Government of Canada, Key Small Business Statistics – June 2016 https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/061.nsf/eng/h_03018.html 4 Source: OECD Entrepreneurship at a Glance http://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/ 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: ACCESS TO FINANCE Microlending CASE STUDY: We seek to help people with little or no access to financial CREDISCOTIA NEW SERVICE services to fulfill their potential and improve their livelihoods, OFFERING IN PERU by providing relevant, affordable solutions. In 2017, total microlending (including consumer and microfinance for In Peru, CrediScotia has launched a new financial businesses) saw a 8.9% growth rate year-over-year, assistance services offering, Beneficia, for its Visa exceeding our goal. Unica credit card customers, designed to help families with financial planning in areas such as medical insurance, funeral services and legal assistance. 50.4% of microlending goes to Additionally, 45,500 CrediScotia customers began women-owned businesses. using Peru’s Billetera Movil (Mobile Wallet) mobile banking service in October 2016, following a national campaign to help underprivileged communities gain We achieved this by undertaking an in-depth study of our access to mobile banking. A year later, Billetera Movil microfinance customers’ needs and improving our services is processing an average of 2,000 transactions per in line with our overall commitment to catalyze digital month, and has grown to 87,190 customers. transformation in everything we do. For example, CrediScotia Peru has digitized its background checks, enabling microfinance entrepreneurs to obtain loans within just 30 minutes, compared to up to 48 hours previously. Total microlending (including consumer and microfinance Similarly, Progresar, a new product from our microfinance for businesses) saw an 8.9% growth rate year-over-year, division in Uruguay, Pronto!, allows customers to have their exceeding our goal of 7% increase. loan approved in less than one minute. In the absence of We also believe in supporting women-owned businesses, traditional credit bureaus, Progresar uses a scoring tool and in FY2017 this represented 50.4% of our microlending to rate customers’ suitability for a loan, with all approval total loans. decisions made automatically. To further expand access to finance in Uruguay, we have launched self-service banking kiosks equipped with biometric recognition. 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: FINANCIAL KNOWLEDGE When our customers know how to make better financial decisions, they can become RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS better off. We educate our customers by • Financial Education and Literacy providing them with an understanding of • Fair Design and Sale of Responsible Products and Services how they can plan for a better future and by offering fairly designed products and services. PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We updated our TFSA and RSP calculators to help customers • Continued webinars and education sessions to support our determine the level of savings they need to reach their customers to reach their financial goals, including online financial goals events through Scotia iTrade • Scotiabank Chile and Colpatria in Colombia ran a social • Our partnership with Junior Achievement America’s media campaign to highlight ways customers could better “Road to Success” program will be in its third year, aiming manage their finances to reach 50,000 students in total • We sponsored Talk With Our Kids About Money Day • Talk With Our Kids About Money Day sponsorship to reach in Canada, reaching 660,000 students even more youth in our communities Financial Education and Literacy place alongside a Financial Fair where employees could learn Inclusive, high quality education and lifelong learning, more about educational resources, tools and solutions from as represented by SDG 4, are integral to the UN’s global various Scotiabank departments. vision for sustainable development, in which everyone has To further support financial literacy, we enhanced our GIC equal opportunities to thrive and progress in life. Helping selector tool, which helps customers to identify the savings people to manage their finances more effectively is an product that best fits their needs. In particular, we lowered essential component of this, as financial knowledge plays a the minimum GIC investment from CAD$500 to CAD$100, key role in informing people’s decisions and helping them allowing customers to gain access to a wider range of GIC become better off. products. We also improved our TFSA and RSP calculators, We strive to promote and enhance financial literacy through which help customers to determine the level of savings a range of education resources and initiatives for customers. they need to reach their financial goals. We simplified the In November 2016 during Financial Literacy Month in Canada, calculators, enhanced their usability and optimized them for we ran a campaign on Twitter and Facebook. “The best mobile use. More than 455,000 people are now using these advice ever received” campaign highlighted the importance tools, up from 329,000 in 2016. of developing a financial plan and sharing practical tips and strategies to help customers achieve their savings goals. TFSA and RSP Calculator use: The Twitter chat as part of this campaign reached 36.7 million impressions. 455,000 2017 We also supported our own employees by kick-starting a series of financial education sessions. These informative workshops on financial planning and retirement savings took 329,000 2016 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: FINANCIAL KNOWLEDGE Building Knowledge Through Education Promoting Financial Knowledge Globally In Canada, we have developed a variety of offerings that Among the initiatives we undertook to promote financial provide information on important financial topics. For knowledge, we extended the financial literacy portal we example, our Mapping TomorrowTM program is a financial offer to small businesses in Mexico, to Chile, Peru, Costa Rica planning tool used by Scotiabank advisors to create and Colombia. “Impulsa tu PyME” (Boost your Business) customized financial plans for customers, based on various is designed to help small business owners with everything key life stages. from starting and growing a new business, to selling or winding down a company. Entrepreneurs can access In 2017, a new branch customer experience has started informative articles, tools, videos and interactive guides rolling out across International Banking. These new branches from their mobile phone. offer an environment that informs, educates and provides hospitality level service through customer focused tips We also ran a social media campaign in Chile and Colombia, and advice, educational videos as well as seminars offered highlighting ways in which customers could better manage to our customers teaching them about various financial their finances. In Chile our total campaign impressions on literacy subjects. LinkedIn were more than 265,000. In Colombia on Facebook we reached more than 456,000 users. Scotia iTrade and Sustainable Investing Our Canadian direct investing platform, Scotia iTrade, offers Responsible Sale of Products and Services regular educational events and online training to support Ensuring we are selling products and services responsibly Canadian customers with their investment goals. In 2017, is a critical part of being a customer focused organization. we delivered 109 webinars to more than 3,000 current In 2017, our Executive Vice-President of Canadian Banking, and prospective customers. Participants responded favorably James McPhedran, explained our policies and procedures to to the webinars, with an average of 91% rating them very the Canadian government’s Standing Committee on Finance. good or good. Through Scotia iTrade, we also offer In particular, he highlighted that our Branch Advisors provide interactive learning modules on topics including investing customers with balanced advice based on their needs, and tools and techniques and wealth management. Increasingly, we measure them using a balanced scorecard that aligns to we are focusing on sustainable investing, recognizing that our customer focused strategy. He added that our digital our customers are interested in how their savings can create transformation is benefiting customers by simplifying their positive environmental and social impacts. banking experience, offering improved convenience. Digital technology also allows us to be more customer focused and Increasingly we are focusing on sustainable to spend more time giving advice. investing, recognizing that our customers Feedback from 700,000 customers in Canada up to June are interested in how their savings can create 12, 2017 showed consistently high satisfaction levels, particularly in relation to our front-line teams. Finally, he also positive environmental and social impacts. spoke about our culture and the importance of trust, referring to our core purpose of supporting customers with achieving their financial goals, and the values of integrity and respect that guide our behaviour. 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX CUSTOMERS: FINANCIAL KNOWLEDGE Promoting Financial Knowledge for Young People Talk With Our Kids About Money Junior Achievement Partnership We reached 660,000 children and 6,000 teachers in Canada Young people must have equal access to education in order by sponsoring the “Talk With Our Kids About Money” to succeed in work and in life. We support programs that (TWOKAM) initiative. Developed by the Canadian Foundation invest in financial, physical and digital access to education. for Economic Education (CFEE), the program seeks to help Through our global partnership with Junior Achievement (JA), children become more knowledgeable about money so they a renowned youth education organization, more than 700 can make better, more informed financial decisions. Scotiabank volunteers introduced JA’s “Road to Success” In addition to supporting ongoing educational programs for financial literacy program in their communities in Latin children and parents, we sponsored the 2017 “Talk With Our America. The program reached more than 11,860 students Kids About Money” Day, which saw money fairs, talks and across 210 schools in 16 countries in 2017, with education, special events taking place in communities across the country. innovation camps and regional competitions and aims For example, the province of Manitoba, the first to partner to reach 50,000 students over three years. with the TWOKAM program, held a major money fair with Through our partnership with JA in Canada, more than interactive discussions for young people on money and 100 Scotiabankers delivered the “Dollars with Sense” managing their finances. program, which helps Grade 7-9 students gain access to the tools they need to make effective financial decisions We reached 660,000 children and 6,000 and become debt-free, savvy investors, to more than 1,940 students in 2017. teachers in Canada by sponsoring the In 2017, we were awarded the Transforming Education Award “Talk With Our Kids About Money” initiative. from JA Americas, for our role in helping them transform the way they are educating their students. Our investment in digital resources helped to ensure the students connected the theory on what they learn in the classroom with real life. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX EMPLOYEES: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION A diverse, inclusive environment allows customers and employees to reach their RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS fullest potential. We respect and appreciate • Diversity and Equal Opportunity all individuals and strive to embrace both our • Talent Attraction, Engagement and Development • Employee Health and Well-being differences and similarities – regardless of age, • Fair Labor Practices ethnicity, gender, ability or sexual orientation. PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We increased the number of women in senior management • We have a renewed Inclusion Council comprised of senior positions (VP+), to 39% in Canada and to 20% outside leaders across all areas of the organization and chaired by of Canada the President and CEO • Increased year-on-year employee engagement score and • Scotiabank in Chile is launching a campaign to encourage we were 5% higher than the industry average a more diverse and inclusive workforce, in particular for • We spent CAD$69.9 million on training and development the disabled of employees. The average number of training hours per • We are creating an Employee Pulse (NPS) system to empower employee is 33 hours annually frontline employees to transform the customer experience • We enhanced our Global Harassment Policy to ensure that by sharing their feedback on what is working and what we we had consistent global standards and processes can improve for our customers • Continue to raise awareness about workplace safety through mandatory employee training that addresses important issues of harassment, violence, gender identity, accessibility and accommodation Diversity and Equal Opportunity encourages policies and legislation that promote gender Diversity drives innovation and business success. Companies equality and women’s empowerment. We also prioritize with a good balance of men and women are 15% more likely LGBT+ inclusion, as part of our push to encourage everyone to outperform their competitors, and firms with employees in our organization to be their authentic selves and reach from a mix of ethnic backgrounds are 35% more likely.5 their full potential. At Scotiabank, we know that our ability to build an inclusive Employee Resource Groups environment with diverse skills and expertise is critical to There are 11 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) globally. meeting our customers’ needs, and attracting, developing These are employee-led initiatives that support underand retaining talent. We strive to create a workplace in represented groups in contributing to our business goals, which our 88,000 employees are empowered and engaged, while promoting greater affinity and understanding. providing them with multiple opportunities to grow. In 2017, our ERGs continued to grow globally, particularly In particular, through our Diversity & Inclusion strategy, we within Latin America. For example, Scotiabank Pride, one support the UN’s sustainable development vision for gender of our largest LGBT+ ERGs, expanded to include Colombia, equality, as represented by SDG 5, which seeks to end all Peru, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Asia and the USA. forms of discrimination against women and girls. It aims to empower women to participate fully in leadership roles and 5 S ource: McKinsey & Co, Why Diversity Matters, 2015 https://www.mckinsey.com/ business-functions/organization/our-insights/why-diversity-matters 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX EMPLOYEES: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Scotiabank Pride Mexico launched a campaign to promote We also identify strong performers at the Senior Manager the importance of working together as allies. This included and Director levels and support them in advancing their a series of “reverse mentoring” sessions with senior leaders, careers through dedicated leadership programs. through which LGBT+ employees highlighted the importance of inclusion. Mexico’s second annual Pride Connection We saw the highest level of women in Summit, brought together more than 700 attendees to hear LGBT+ experts. leadership (VP level or above) in Canada. For the second year in a row, the Scotiabank Aboriginal Network celebrated Canadian National Indigenous Day in The proportion of women in our organization at VP level Toronto. This included drum and dance performances by or above reached a record high of 33% globally in October First Nations youth, to recognize and celebrate the unique 2017, an 8% increase since November 2013 when Brian heritage, diverse cultures and outstanding contributions Porter became our President and CEO. We saw the highest of our First Nations, Inuit, and Métis peoples. level of women at VP level or above in Canada (39%). In Latin America, the proportion reached 19% (up from 14% Elsewhere, our employees run approximately 30 women’s in 2016). We recognize that we need to do more to empower ERG chapters and the number is set to grow in 2018, with women in the Latin American countries where we work. more groups forming in Canada. Approximately 2,500 Including all countries we operate in outside of Canada, women and men are currently members of these groups. the proportion of women at VP+ level was 20%. In 2017, Scotiabank refreshed the focus of our Inclusion We celebrated International Women’s Day in 2017 by raising Council. It is now chaired by our President and CEO, and awareness of unconscious bias, which arises when people includes members of senior management that can affect make quick judgments about others based on their own change within their respective business lines. perceptions and cultural references. Scotiabank Mexico LGBT+ Inclusion hosted two “Engaging Men Executive Roundtables” with In June 2017, we celebrated Pride month, one of our annual Catalyst in Mexico to help empower senior male leaders Global Inclusion Months, raising awareness for LGBT+ inclusion to become gender equality champions. among our employees and customers globally. We raised Many of our Latin American countries supported our pride flags at various country headquarters, promoted unconscious bias campaign by hosting events of their own. inclusion messages through advertisements at branches and Scotiabank Mexico launched a broader employee on ABM screens, and led social media and digital campaigns. engagement campaign on gender inclusion. In Colombia, In addition, more than 600 Scotiabankers marched in 10 pride senior leaders conducted a workshop with labor organization parades globally, including in Mexico, Costa Rica and across Aequales, to identify opportunities to promote gender Canada. We also support a number of external organizations equality. Chile also ran an internal campaign on unconscious globally, including the Costa Rican Chamber of Commerce bias to dispel common myths. Association, and in Canada, Start Proud and Pride at Work. In 2017, we held a one-day “Commit to Action” event to Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment support the UN’s International Day of the Girl, inviting In 2017, we developed a new global strategy for gender Scotiabankers to commit to taking one action to promote equality and women’s empowerment, focusing on four areas: gender equality. In Colombia, Colpatria partnered with encouraging commitment and accountability among our non-profit organization PLAN International to organize a leaders; advancing women’s inclusion; attracting, developing “CEO Takeover”, whereby Colpatria’s CEO gave up his seat and retaining strong female talent; and promoting our to a young woman for the day. The initiative was a way to approach to women’s empowerment among external empower girls to believe their dreams are attainable. stakeholders. In 2017, Scotiabank became the Founding Supporting To help more women become senior leaders, we run Canadian Sponsor of the Boardlist, a talent marketplace for multiple, complementary initiatives to attract promising the tech community. Boardlist discovers, recommends and candidates and help them succeed in leadership roles. connects highly qualified female leaders with opportunities to serve on private and public company boards. 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX EMPLOYEES: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Talent Attraction, Engagement and Development In 2017 amongst our participating employees, globally 90% Developing, promoting and recruiting the highest performing of employees agree that there is a strong customer focus. candidates is critical to the future of the Bank. By strengthening Additionally, 88% of employees shared that they believe our talent pipeline and ensuring all employees have equal Scotiabank is socially and environmentally responsible. access to advancement opportunities, we aim to build a high performing team and be recognized as a leader 88% of participating employees shared in business performance. that they believe Scotiabank is socially Employer of Choice and environmentally responsible. Scotiabank remains a top choice for people seeking financial services roles. We continue to attract and retain employees Employee Development with the right combination of skills to deliver our business Our people are our greatest asset. We continuously invest in goals. In 2017, we filled approximately 50% of our vacancies providing our employees with the learning and development with existing employees, providing nearly 12,000 employees opportunities they need to grow and fulfill their potential, with an opportunity for promotion. preparing them to exceed our customers’ expectations. Externally, we engaged regularly with professional and In 2017 we invested CAD$69.9 million in employee training community organizations in order to attract talented and development globally. The average amount of hours professionals to our company. In particular, to build our digital spent on training annually per employee is 33. As we make expertise, we sought people with specialist skills in areas such efforts to digitize and make training more relevant and as data analytics, statistics, robotics, programming, engineering efficient, the average of learning hours and total spend on and mathematics. We also hire more than 1,500 interns a learning and development is expected to decrease over time. year in Canada through partnerships with top Canadian universities, and made seven retail and operations hires Promoting Lifelong Learning and Growth through HireUp, a non-profit organization that links homeless Employees are supported in creating a Development Plan young people in Canada with businesses. We look forward shortly after they are hired, identifying the skills, knowledge to continuing these partnerships in 2018. and competencies they need to succeed in their current and future roles. The Development Plan is ongoing, and not Employee Engagement associated with any specific year. In 2017, we built on the In 2017, we achieved an employee engagement score of 79% new digital learning, performance and development platform through our annual employee survey, ViewPoint. The score we launched in 2016, and by strengthening our employee measures our employees’ depth of commitment, sense of performance review process integrating it with the pride and level of satisfaction, and exceeds the global Development Plan process. In particular, managers work with financial services industry 74% average. their employees to set performance goals and review longterm development needs at the same time. This allows us Employee engagement score to meet both shortand long-term business goals, while 2017 2016 2015 supporting our employees’ development. In addition, in 2017 we put a strong emphasis on ongoing dialogue and regular Scotiabank 79% 77% 84% coaching to ensure that employees are supported in following Average EEI reported by IBM 74% 74% 73% their plans and achieving their performance and development for financial services globally goals. Coaching and regular feedback is an important part of our performance culture. This score reflects our focus on supporting our employees For the first time, we have automatically assigned four core with a positive, inclusive work environment and listening competencies (results-focus, customer focus, self-awareness to their perspectives. While our decline in 2016 was not and personal development, and developing and coaching unexpected given the degree of change happening in parts talent) for all employees to be assessed by themselves and of the organization, we are pleased to see an increase in 2017 their managers at year-end. These competencies are integral that still exceeds the global financial services average. to meeting our business goals, making progress on our digital transformation journey and fostering a high performing, customer-oriented and inclusive culture. Looking ahead, 25 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX EMPLOYEES: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION we have added Curiosity as a fifth competency for 2018. Planning (LRP) process, in order to ensure we have the right This underscores the focus on continuous learning people in place to take on key leadership roles. and development and the need for outside-in thinking, Employee Health and Well-being which were themes that emerged in 2017. We recognize that people perform better when they are in Empowering Future Leaders good health and benefiting from a positive work-life balance. Developing future leaders is critical to the ongoing success We invite every employee to take responsibility for creating of our business. Scotiabank offers employees the opportunity a healthy, safe work environment. In 2017, we made hazard to select from thousands of learning activities, including prevention tools and guides available to all employees, and classroom learning, e-learning, virtual instructor-led courses, made it easier for our teams to comply with health and safety social learning and community volunteer work. Through our requirements by streamlining our administrative processes. global management and leadership development program, iLEAD, we strive to develop tomorrow’s leaders, providing Our global online platform, Your Wellbeing, provides them with tailored support at every stage of their career multiple programs and resources that support our employees’ through multiple education resources. In 2017, more than well-being, and allows employees to share ideas and best 8,000 employees participated in iLEAD, attending more than practice with co-workers worldwide. 13,000 courses. Additionally, we actively identify and support Among the additional health and well-being resources we potential future leaders through our Leadership Resource offer are: Topic Scotiabank’s Offering Stress management Resources and tools on stress management to employees in Canada, and country-specific programs training that respect the culture and customs of each country Ergonomics in the We launched our global Ergonomics Portal in 2017 to share resources with employees on topics such workplace as setting up workstations correctly, stretching and good posture Fitness Health & Wellness Centres focusing on physical, nutritional and spiritual wellness in some new corporate locations Health and nutrition For any employees with complex medical conditions, Scotiabank offers a Health Assistance Program, and access to dedicated pharmacy programs Flexible working hours Our Flexible Work Options policy aims to help employees in Canada to achieve a good work-life balance. Internationally, we offer programs and policies that respect local cultures and customs Working from home Some corporate locations offer an activity-based program, which provides employees with the arrangements autonomy to select where they work, including from home Childcare facilities Scotiabank provides membership to a national child care provider in Canada, which offers childcare or contributions for newborns to children up to age 12 Paid maternity leave Employees on maternity leave in Canada are eligible to receive a supplementary top-up to their in excess of legally employment insurance benefits for a six-week period required minimum Looking ahead, we plan to increase our focus on employee continue to improve communication channels with employees health and well-being, by refocusing our employee services which includes in-person sessions for pension understanding, on two key pillars: mental and financial health. For mental and simple comprehensive fact sheets for topics such as and emotional health we align with partners that focus on the importance of insurance coverage including selecting preventative and early intervention solutions for employees disability coverage and understanding savings opportunities. when support is needed the most. For financial health, we 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX COMMUNITY: INVESTING IN YOUNG PEOPLE Investing in young people allows us to invest in the long-term security, stability, RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS and growth of our future. We proudly work • Community Investment and Philanthropy with community partners that enhance • Supporting Health, Well-being and Education Initiatives for Young People the health and education of young people in the community. PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We directed 60% of our total philanthropic funding to young • Direct 70% of total philanthropic funding to young people people in the community in the community • Employees volunteered more than 403,500 hours to support • Further promote the Young People in the Community Index local charities and causes and increase parameters to expand the number of indicators • Scotiabank launched the Young People in the Community the Index tracks globally Index, a framework to measure and track young people’s • Launch partnership with Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment quality of life in countries that we operate in (MLSE) and the MLSE Foundation Scotiabank in the Community services, while health financing can significantly boost the By 2030, the UN aims for people of all ages to enjoy healthy quality and availability of health services, particularly in lives and a sense of well-being (SDG 3), and for everyone developing countries. Similarly, supporting programs that to have access to quality education and lifelong learning promote free, equitable learning opportunities for girls and opportunities (SDG 4). Business and finance stand to play boys and empowering young people to develop employability a key role in helping to achieve these goals. For example, and entrepreneurial skills contribute directly to quality financial risk protection can help to safeguard people against education for all. the financial hardship associated with paying for health Young People in the Community Health and Well-being Education Knowledge and Live Healthy Stay Healthy Access to Education Skills Development Nutrition and Safety Access to Medical Care Financial, Physical and Digital Access Financial Empowerment Sports and Active Living Healthcare Support Educational Support Technology and Skills Development 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX COMMUNITY: INVESTING IN YOUNG PEOPLE At Scotiabank, we are committed to playing our part to Pinpointing where young people could benefit from health, support good health, well-being and education in our well-being or educational support enables us to identify communities. We strive to make a positive difference in where progressive policies and social investments are needed. the communities where we live and work, recognizing that It also allows us to compare the well-being and quality of when communities are healthy and have access to education, life of young people in the diverse countries where we work, they boost their chances of employment, which in turn highlighting examples of best practice across a series of strengthens both the community and the Bank. Young 19 indicators. people are our future leaders and it is critical to help them We are monitoring multiple health and education challenges, develop the skills and resources they need to succeed. such as youth pregnancy and school drop-out rates and Through our community investment strategy, we partner nutrition (which includes elements such as obesity and with organizations promoting young people’s health, under-nourishment), using data derived from credible, expert well-being and education. sources. Looking ahead, we will partner with like-minded In 2017, we contributed CAD$80 million to communities organizations and governments to direct our efforts toward globally in donations, sponsorships and other forms of the greatest challenges, as we strive to impact more young assistance, directing over 60% of our funding towards people, faster. We also intend to grow the Index and number young people in the community. Within our spending of indicators that we cover as more data becomes available. on youth, 65% was invested in Health and Well-being Health and Well-being and 35% in Education and Arts. Live Healthy Young People in the Community Index Nutrition and safety, combined with an active lifestyle, are In 2017, we launched the Scotiabank Young People in the the foundations of healthy living. We invest in programs Community (YPC) Index – a framework to measure and track that encourage young people to participate in sports and young people’s quality of life, accompanied by a new report become more active, including through our support of kids’ highlighting our findings. It focuses on health, well-being and community hockey across Canada and futbol (soccer) in education as the foundational elements of success. We are Latin America. using the YPC Index, created in partnership with research Through Scotiabank’s support of community hockey, we have consultancy GlobeScan and a committee of global youth reached an important milestone of helping one million kids experts, to gain a deeper understanding of the challenges and counting have the chance to play Canada’s favorite game. facing young people across 30 countries in the Americas and the Caribbean where we are active. We will amplify our efforts to help children benefit from the power of sport through our new 20-year partnership with Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment (MLSE). Part of this agreement includes an expanded partnership with the MLSE Foundation helping young people in the Greater Toronto Area, changing lives through the power of sport. 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX COMMUNITY: INVESTING IN YOUNG PEOPLE In Latin America, the Scotiabank Futbol Club offers more Stay Healthy than 165,000 children and youth, the chance to play in We want to help young people remain healthy all their lives, organized leagues and tournaments, make friends and learn and invest in organizations that provide access to medical care positive values. In 2017, we launched Futbol Championships and healthcare support. In 2017, we donated CAD$1 million in El Salvador and Costa Rica, reaching 1,160 children. We to the Children’s Health Foundation and London Health also reached more than 5,700 boys and girls through five Sciences Foundation, in support of the Scotiabank Family FutbolNet festivals in Mexico, Peru, Colombia, El Salvador Assistance Program, which helps fund medical treatment and Chile, held in partnership with the FC Barcelona for women, children and their families experiencing financial foundation. Over the next two and a half years, we aim hardship during treatment in London, Ontario, Canada. to reach over 18,000 boys and girls. In November 2016, Scotiabank donated CAD$1 million Additionally, we donated four soccer fields to underprivileged to Sinai Health System’s Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research children in Peru and Mexico through our new “Campos de Institute, one of the top biomedical research institutes in Futbol” program, and expanded our sponsorship of the North America, to support discovery of the determinants Mexican Futbol Federations Amateur Sector (FMFSA), of health for infants and children. The gift will support sponsoring the full season of the Amateur Women’s League the research to better understand both the genetic and (U13 to U20 age categories) for the first time. environmental factors that shape the health of infants and children from the time of conception. In addition to our large hockey and futbol programs, in the Caribbean we run a Kiddy Cricket Program through school Education activities, summer camps and cricket festivals. In 2017, Access to Education we reached 127,600 children. Young people reach their infinite potential if they have proper In the Dominican Republic we run a Baseball Community and equal access to education. We support programs that Program. Since its creation in 2014, this program has invest in financial, physical and digital access to education. benefited more than 3,000 children who have access to For example, in Canada our partnerships with yconic (previously training through baseball clinics, equipment and participate Student Awards Inc.) fund financial awards for students, in national and international tournaments. including bursaries, scholarships and contest prizes. In 2017, the Bank donated over CAD$2.3 million in scholarships globally. In 2017, the Bank awarded over WE REACHED: CAD$2.3 million in scholarships globally. 1 million kids and Knowledge and Skills Development counting milestone Continuous learning is a fundamental part of strengthening in community hockey in Canada young people’s knowledge of technology and skills development. In Peru, Scotiabank helped over 48,000 127,600 across the Caribbean in our primary and secondary school students build their financial Kiddy Cricket Program and entrepreneurial skills through its support of Plan International’s Formando emprendedores del mañaña 165,000+ children and youth (“Forming the entrepreneurs of tomorrow”). This will prove in Latin America through the Scotiabank particularly useful in Peru, where young people experience Futbol Club Program comparatively higher challenges in accessing the internet and bank accounts, according to our 2017 YPC Index report. 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX COMMUNITY: INVESTING IN YOUNG PEOPLE Similarly, in Chile, Scotiabank’s “123 Emprender” initiative Employee Volunteering achieved first place in the “Financial Education Contribution” Globally, Scotiabank employees dedicated more than 403,500 category of the country’s Financial Literacy and Inclusion hours of volunteering to worthy causes in their communities Contest. The award recognized the Bank’s contribution in 2017. We encourage our employees to engage with toward helping children develop financial and entrepreneurship the community in two ways. We offer individual employees skills. In particular, 123 Emprender seeks to help children to who have volunteered for at least 50 hours a year with become economically aware and plan effectively for the a qualifying community organization to apply for funding future. It also supports children in developing competencies of up to CAD$1,000 for that organization. Additionally, we required for entrepreneurship, such as leadership, creativity, encourage groups of employees to raise funds for charity, team work, risk-taking and the ability to innovate. matching up to CAD$5,000 in funds raised by teams of five Overall, we engaged more than 50 academic institutions and or more employees, and CAD$15,000 by teams of 30 or invested more than CAD$4 million in academic partnerships, more employees. of which we directed CAD$1.4 million to digitally focused partnerships across Canada. We also launched a technology E mployees donated 403,500 hours of partnership with the University of British Columbia, donating volunteering and fundraising time to worthy CAD$2 million toward research on cyber security and financial risks. The Scotiabank Cybersecurity and Risk causes in their communities in 2017. Analytics Initiative will focus on understanding the impacts of cyber attacks and strengthening the tools that companies Foundational Giving use to guard against them. In 2017, many of the communities where we work experienced devastating natural disasters. Scotiabank In Canada, we supported efforts to empower women in donated funds to help our customers, employees and technology by partnering with non-profit “Ladies Learning communities in multiple locations. Scotiabank donated Code” to help more women and young people to improve over USD$500,000 to charitable organizations assisting their digital and computing skills. In particular, we donated with rescue and relief efforts across the Caribbean, CAD$150,000 to the organization on International Women’s in the wake of the devastation brought by Day in support of its “Girl Learning Code” program, which Hurricane Irma in September 2017. engages girls on topics from HTML to CSS to 3D printing and hardware hacking. In Canada, we donated CAD$15,000 to the Canadian Red Cross in support of relief efforts in northeastern Additionally, we continued our sponsorship of Enactus, New Brunswick in February 2017, following heavy ice storms. a community of student, academic and business leaders We donated CAD$50,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to committed to empowering young entrepreneurs to transform support relief efforts in British Columbia, where wildfires lives and shape a better world. In particular, Enactus reaches prompted a state of emergency and thousands of residents budding entrepreneurs through an experiential learning were evacuated. platform. In 2017, we supported two Enactus challenges: the “Scotiabank Youth Empowerment Challenge” and the “Scotiabank EcoLiving Green Challenge”. These are national competitions encouraging post-secondary students to develop solutions to challenges facing young people and the environment, and have reached more than 11,500 students collectively since 2016. 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: RESPONSIBLE FINANCE Businesses have an opportunity to help create a better future. We make investments RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS in sustainable solutions and lend in a way that • Environmental and Social Risk Management in Lending mitigates social and environmental risk. • Creation of Products with Environmental Benefits PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We lent CAD$4.7 billion to renewable energy • In February 2018 we pledged our support of the Taskforce initiatives globally for Climate-related Financial Disclosures. An internal review • Scotia iTrade launched a Sustainable Investing tool for direct of how these will impact our business will follow investors, the first of its kind in Canada • CSR and Global Risk Management will work together to • Three projects met the Equator Principles update our Environmental Policy to align with emerging best transaction requirements practice and trends At Scotiabank, we recognize that business has a key role to Our five environmental principles, part of our Environmental play in creating a better, more prosperous future. As a bank, Policy updated in 2016, define our approach to managing we strive to make a positive difference by assessing social and our direct and indirect environmental impacts: environmental risk in our lending practices and investing in 1. Comply with applicable environmental laws and sustainable solutions. regulations and voluntary standards and initiatives Environmental Policy adopted by the Bank. Our global Environmental Policy sets out the core principles 2. Contribute to operational efficiency that is consistent that inform the way we manage environmental issues on with reducing environmental impacts and promoting a day-to-day basis. The Policy provides overall guidance responsible actions. for our operations, lending practices, supplier agreements, 3. Incorporate environmental risk assessment and mitigation management of real estate holdings and external reporting criteria into risk management procedures. practices. Our Global Risk Management and CSR teams share 4. Contribute to ongoing dialogue with relevant stakeholders, responsibility for the Policy and work closely with key partners such as customers, employees, government, nonacross the Bank to review internal processes, industry best governmental organizations and industry associations. practices, regulatory developments and emerging trends. 5. Measure and report publicly on the Bank’s environmental The Policy is overseen by senior management, reviewed by performance on at least an annual basis. the Risk Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. More information on our approach to environmental risk can be found in our 2017 Annual Report. 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: RESPONSIBLE FINANCE Environmental and Social Risk Management in Lending Sustainable Investing Tools We are committed to investing in sustainable solutions Creating sustainable investing tools is an important focus and continuously seek to prevent or reduce potential negative for Scotiabank, as our customers’ interest in social and social and environmental impacts arising from our lending environmental issues continues to rise. In March 2017, our and underwriting decisions. We have robust policies and online trading platform in Canada, Scotia iTrade, launched procedures in place designed to uphold this. North America’s first sustainable investing tool for direct investors, in partnership with ESG research firm Sustainalytics. Addressing Risks We assess environmental risks (including climate change) The tool provides customers with relevant, up-to-date and opportunities in the companies to which we lend by information about companies’ corporate social responsibility incorporating environmental risk factors into lending credentials and practices, helping to inform their investment decisions. We explore both the risks associated with decisions. Previously, customers in Canada with an interest borrowers’ business operations and the potential impact in socially responsible investing would typically purchase a of climate change on the client’s business. managed fund – such as a mutual fund or exchange traded fund (ETF). Now, they can use our investing tool to assess Our banking and credit teams follow our Credit how companies perform on the issues they care about Administration Handbook for a comprehensive approach the most. and best practice in identifying and assessing potential environmental and climate change risks. To help encourage uptake of the new tool, we offered online introductory videos and webinars on sustainable investing Importantly, Scotiabank requires banking and credit teams together with a practical “how to” guide for customers to assess transactions to determine if the deal triggers the wishing to use the tool. Since introducing the tool, we have application of the Equator Principles (EP), which we adopted seen an increase in account openings in the first quarter after in 2006. The EP provides companies with an environmental launch compared to the same period in 2016. and social risk management framework to help understand the potential impact of major projects on people, More broadly, we have added social and environmental communities and the environment. The EP can apply to criteria to Scotia iTrade as a whole, making it easy for our project finance loans and advisory assignments where total customers to consider sustainability in their everyday capital costs exceed USD$10 million, as well as to certain investing, including those who might not have considered project-related corporate loans. Three projects met the these issues previously. EP transactions requirements in 2017. Sustainable Living Beyond investing, the Scotiabank EcoLiving Auto Loan Three projects met the Equator Principles program in Canada provides discounted financing for transaction requirements in 2017. the purchase of hybrid, clean diesel or electric vehicles. We saw bookings increase by 160% in 2017 compared to Throughout the year, our Environmental and Social Risk team 2016, suggesting that consumers in Canada are becoming collaborated with credit and lending teams across our increasingly conscious of climate and environmental issues. business, including Corporate, Commercial, International, We have observed a similar trend in Mexico. In 2016, Small Business and Wealth Management, helping them to Mexican authorities put in place restrictions for vehicles assess environmental and social risks for transactions in to stay off the road on some days to address air-quality diverse sectors. In 2016 the Bank launched our enhanced concerns. To respond to this need, Scotiabank Mexico Environmental Risk e-learning course and in 2017 an launched CrediAuto®, offering customers a credit plan additional 1,700 non-retail banking and credit officer to purchase an electric or hybrid vehicle. Lending under employees took part, bringing the total to more than CrediAuto continues to increase year-on-year. 4,700 since it was launched. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: RESPONSIBLE FINANCE Renewable Energy Financing October 2017 In 2017, we continued to focus on financing the renewable energy sector. Joint Lead and Scotiabank’s Global Banking and Markets division provided bank financing, Bookrunner totaling CAD$4.7 billion to the renewable energy sector, as follows: 13-year USD$305 million Brookfield Power New York L.P. • CAD$1.7 billion in Canada6 bond financing, for Brookfield • CAD$1.5 billion in the United States6 Renewable Energy Partners LP’s • CAD$1.5 billion in authorized credits in Latam6 portfolio of 78 hydroelectric facilities located in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Our Global Banking and Markets division was also involved in CAD$2.1 billion West Virginia. of bond financings and provided financial advisory services for the following renewable energy transactions: June 2017 October 2017 Joint Lead and Exclusive Financial Advisor Bookrunner Divestiture of TransCanada 15-year USD$475 million Corporation’s Ontario solar Brookfield White Pines Hydro portfolio to Axium Infinity Solar LLC bond financing, for LP, a subsidiary of Axium Brookfield Renewable Energy Infrastructure Canada II LP, for Partners LP’s portfolio of 21 approximately CAD$540 million. hydroelectric facilities located in The portfolio comprises eight Maine and New Hampshire. facilities with a total generating capacity of 76 megawatts. 2016 2017 November 2016 October 2017 Joint Bookrunner Joint Lead Arranger Threeand five-year USD$900 and Joint Bookrunner million bond financing by Financing in support of Southern Power Company, Brookfield’s acquisition of a with use of proceeds for eligible 51% controlling interest in renewables projects, including TerraForm Power Inc. (“TERP”). solar and wind power TERP owns and operates a generation in the US. Southern highly contracted renewable Power is a subsidiary of The energy portfolio consisting of Southern Company and approximately 2,600 MW constructs, acquires, owns and of wind and solar power manages electricity generation generation assets located in assets, including renewable USA, Canada, Chile and the UK. energy projects, and sells electricity in the wholesale market. 6 C  alculated based on each client’s credit exposure, multiplied by the client’s renewable energy generation capacity as a percentage of its total power generation mix. Proportion of each client’s renewable energy generation was obtained from client produced publicly available sources and reporting documents. 33 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: CLIMATE CHANGE A better future needs a healthy planet. By setting emission reduction targets and RELATED MATERIAL TOPICS taking action to meet them, we seek to • Carbon Footprint reduce our impact on climate change. PERFORMANCE 2017 Highlights 2018 Looking Ahead • We set a new global GHG reduction target – 10% reduction • Implement Internal Carbon Price through capital expenditure, in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2021, based on 2016 levels funding projects including HVAC replacements and solar • A cross-functional team collaborated to set an Internal energy Carbon Price of CAD$15/tonne CO2 • Formalize our strategic approach to climate change with • Announced support for the Task Force on Climate-related an enhanced strategy, which considers the TCFD Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations Carbon Footprint Disclosing our Carbon Emissions to Investors Climate change poses a significant risk to the global economy In February 2018 we announced our support of the Financial and to society as a whole. As a major financial institution, Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial we have both the responsibility and the opportunity to take Disclosures (TCFD). action. In particular, we support the UN-led push to prevent We are a signatory to and participant in, the non-profit further climate change and address its impacts (SDG 13). This organization CDP, which provides detailed information to global movement seeks to strengthen communities’ resilience investors on the GHG emissions and climate change risks in the face of climate-related hazards and natural disasters, associated with major companies. In 2017, our CDP score integrate climate change measures into all countries’ national was C, in line with the financial services industry average. agendas. It also aims to improve climate education and enable people to better plan for and manage the effects of Certified Green Buildings climate change. We are taking action to reduce our carbon We strive to research and implement energy and footprint and prevent climate change by lowering our energy environmental best practice in all the countries where we use and improving energy efficiency in our operations. work, and follow all local building regulations. In Canada, we actively seek to achieve Green Building Initiative’s In 2018, we plan to develop a global climate change strategy Green Globes program certification for all new branches. to bring a harmonized, consistent approach to the way we Green Globes is a widely recognized sustainable building manage and act on climate risks and opportunities. certification tool that scores the efficiency of buildings Strengthening the way we address our environmental across multiple energy and environmental criteria. Our footprint will help accelerate our progress on mitigating global headquarters in Toronto, Scotia Plaza, is LEED climate change, respond to our stakeholders’ expectations, Platinum certified – the US Green Building Council’s highest save costs and generate new business opportunities for us environmental certification for office buildings. Our London, and our customers. United Kingdom, office building has achieved BRE’s BREEAM “very good” certification for its efforts to minimize environmental impacts, improve energy efficiency and conserve natural resources. 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: CLIMATE CHANGE “Assessing and managing climate-related risks Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Canada and International) and opportunities are critical to our long-term GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e)* operations and business success. We are proud Source 2015 2016 2017 to be part of a global movement moving Scope 1 15,314 12,409 13,950 towards a low-carbon economy and we Scope 2 128,684 119,972 108,181 support the voluntary recommendations Scope 3 9,803 15,445 18,060 on climate disclosure, as set out by the TCFD.” TOTAL 153,801 147,826 140,191 Brian Porter, President and CEO of Scotiabank *C  alculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, including emissions factors for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2015, we set a goal of reducing our Canadian Scope 1 After reaching our GHG emissions reduction target early in and Scope 2 emissions by 15% (in absolute terms) by 2016, we set a new, global GHG emissions reduction target 2017, compared to 2012. We exceeded this target a year in 2017, taking our global operations into account. Our new early in 2016, achieving a 28.68% reduction in our target is 10% absolute reduction of global Scope 1 and 2 Canadian emissions. In 2017 our emissions overall continued emissions by 2021, compared to 2016. We have developed to decrease. This year we saw a decrease of 7.74% across a number of current and upcoming initiatives to help us reach our global operations. this goal, from HVAC replacements for international premises and LED lighting in new branches, to solar panel installation Examples of how we have reduced our energy consumption in some Central America and Caribbean branches. and GHG emissions in 2017 include: Introducing an internal price on carbon has also helped to • Energy efficient lighting retrofits which decreased our create a pool of capital expenditure to fund these initiatives. GHG emissions by 1,385 tCO2e in Canadian branches and 412 tCO2e in Peru’s offices • We are building our new branches with a smaller footprint In 2017 we established a cross-functional team – 1.5M s.f. to 4M s.f. compared to 5M s.f. to 6.5M s.f. to to develop an internal carbon price and strategy. better serve customer needs and achieve efficiencies including reducing our environmental impact We will implement our internal carbon price of • We have begun replacing existing HVAC equipment with CAD$15/tonne in 2018. more efficient units in Canada and will continue this effort over the next four years • We perform annual energy reviews for 20% of our Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition Canadian branch portfolio to reduce our energy use by In July 2016, Scotiabank joined the Carbon Price Leadership identifying and repairing maintenance items to reduce Coalition (CPLC), a World Bank initiative focused on energy consumption promoting carbon pricing among corporate organizations and developing carbon pricing policies through public-private sector dialogue. To demonstrate our commitment, in 2017 we established a cross-functional team to develop an internal carbon price and strategy. We will implement our internal carbon price of CAD$15/tonne in 2018. In this way, we will advance our emissions reduction efforts by generating a pool of funding for the Bank’s carbon reduction and energy efficiency projects. 35 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT: CLIMATE CHANGE Reducing our Environmental Footprint Waste Reduction: Paper Increasingly, we are taking steps to protect the environment We are undertaking multiple paper reduction efforts across and improve the efficiency of our business, and engaging our global facilities. our employees and customers in this effort. For example, Scotiabank delivered more than 73 million documents to in 2017, Colpatria supported a “bike to work” initiative for customers electronically in 2017 through the Canadian our Colombia employees in response to growing traffic Banking Paperless Program, saving more than 223 million congestion and air pollution in Bogota, providing 160 secure pages of paper. We also incentivized customers in bike parking facilities and resulting in commute times being Latin America to choose online statements over physical halved for employees who switched to cycling to work. More credit card and deposit account statements. than 125 employees took advantage of this scheme in 2017. Paperless policies internally were also developed, resulting in In Canada, we installed electric vehicle charging stations in a significant decrease in paper consumption. For example, 30 branches across Ontario. To celebrate this, we ran an through targeted employee communications campaigns Earth Day event for Toronto employees to showcase electric promoting the use of digital technology over printing, our vehicles, in partnership with GM and Tesla. The event International Operations and Shared Services team cut paper encouraged employees to consider buying an electric vehicle consumption by 70%, compared to the previous year. by showcasing drive ranges, charging time and Government cost incentives, helping to dispel common myths around Additionally, as part of a strategy to improve workplaces, electric vehicles. the Real Estate team piloted a paper reduction strategy which cut its paper use by 53% year-on-year. This pilot is set to Water Consumption roll-out to other groups across the Bank. In Chile, Scotiabank We measure water consumption at selected branch locations cut paper use by 4% compared to 2016, largely though a through water metering. We also record water consumption Paperless pilot project. Opting for digital alternatives there at the major office buildings we own and are working with saved more than 9,200 sheets of paper in its first month. property managers to obtain accurate water consumption data for large buildings where we lease office space. 2017 Water Consumption (Canada) 2017 2016 2015 Utility Total Use M Intensity 3 Total Use M Intensity 3 Total Use M Intensity 3 per m2 per m2 per m2 Water (M3) 719,778 0.67 415,492 0.66 441,521 0.77 2017 Water Consumption (International) 2017 2016 2015 Utility Total Use M Intensity 3 Total Use M Intensity 3 Total Use M Intensity 3 per m2 per m2 per m2 Water (M3) 430,331 0.88 418,727 0.88 170,739 0.99 The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information directly captured from invoices processed for payment from various water vendors. We continue to expand the geographic scope of our reporting boundary with the objective of reporting total consumption. The above represents the full Canadian portfolio and a sample of the International portfolio. For more information on the data and methodology in our water reporting please refer to page 55. 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 This is Scotiabank’s first year reporting Labor against the GRI Standards. The GRI Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the are an internationally-recognized framework right to collective bargaining. for disclosing economic, environmental and Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination social performance. This 2017 report has of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. been prepared in accordance with the Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective GRI Standards: Core option. Page numbers abolition of child labor. referenced under the Location/Explanation Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination column refer to the 2017 CSR Report unless of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. otherwise indicated. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Scotiabank reaffirms its support of the UN Global Compact approach to environmental challenges. and the 10 Principles. The Index below references our description of practical actions against these principles. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Human Rights and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. complicit in human rights abuses. GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link 102-1 Name of the Inside cover organization 102-2 Activities, brands, Inside cover products, and services 102-3 Location of The Bank’s headquarters are in Toronto, headquarters Ontario, Canada. 102-4 Location of operations Scotiabank has operations in nearly 50 countries. 8.10 NORTH AMERICA: Canada, Mexico, United States; CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA: Belize, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guyana, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela; 37 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link CARIBBEAN: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, St. Eustatius, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Maarten, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and Caicos, U.S. Virgin Islands; ASIA/PACIFIC: Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR– People’s Republic of China, India, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand; EUROPE: France, Ireland, United Kingdom. 102-5 Ownership and Inside cover legal form 102-6 Markets served Inside cover 102-7 Scale of the Inside cover organization 102-8 Information on See Appendix 102-8 8.5 Principle 3 employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Page 16 12.7 Principle 1 Principle 2 102-10 Significant changes to There have been no significant changes to the the organization and organizational structure, size or ownership of its supply chain The Bank of Nova Scotia or its supply chain during the 2017 fiscal year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle Our Environmental Policy explains our precautionary 13.3 Principle 7 or approach principle approach. Please see page 31 in the CSR Report for more information on our Environmental Policy. 102-12 External initiatives Equator Principles, United Nations Global Compact Principle 1 (UNGC), United Nations Environmental Programme Principle 10 Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Conduct and Human Rights, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, Global Reporting Initiative, TCFD. 102-13 Membership of See Appendix 102-13 17.17 associations 102-14 Statement from senior Page 2 decision-maker 102-16 Values, principles, Page 13-16 16.7 Principle 1 standards, and norms Principle 10 of behaviour 38 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link 102-18 Governance structure Page 12-14 5.5 102-40 List of stakeholder Page 9-10 17.6 groups 102-41 Collective bargaining 11% of the total employee population was covered by 8.8 Principle 1 agreements a collective bargaining agreement. Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and Page 10 17.6 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to Page 10 17.6 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and Page 9-10 17.6 concerns raised 102-45 Entities included in the Inside cover consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content See Appendix 102-46 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Page 11 102-48 Restatements of There are no material effects from restatements information referenced in this report. 102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no changes in reporting to Scope and to Scope and Aspect Aspect boundaries. boundaries 102-50 Reporting period The 2017 Fiscal year. This runs November 1, 2016 to October 31, 2017. 102-51 Date of most The 2016 CSR Report was published on March 14, 2017 recent report in accordance with GRI G4 Core. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual, on fiscal year. 102-53 Contact point for csr@scotiabank.com questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting The 2017 CSR Report was prepared in accordance with in accordance with GRI Standards Core guidelines. the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index This table 102-56 External assurance This report was not externally assured. An independent service provider assured our greenhouse gas emissions data. The report content is approved by SVPs and reviewed by senior bank executives and by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board. 39 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 ECONOMIC Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic Page 6, 17-19, 25, 27-30, 33 5.1, 8.1, 8.2 value generated Annual Report and distributed Public Accountability Statement 201-3 Defined benefit plan See Appendix 201-3 8.5 Principle 1 obligations and other retirement plans Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure Page 33 13.3, 9.1 investments and services supported Anti-Corruption 205-2 Communication and See Appendix 205-2 16.7 Principle 1 training about antiPrinciple 10 corruption policies and procedures ENVIRONMENTAL Energy 302-1 Energy consumption Quantification of data is calculated in accordance with 8.4, 13.1, Principle 8 within the organization the following standards: 7.2 (1) GHG Protocol: A corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised), 2006. (2) GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: an Amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, 2015. See Appendix 302-1 302-3 Energy intensity The Bank uses FTE and square meters of real estate 8.4, 13.1 Principle 8 occupied as its denominators types of energy included in the intensity ratio are fuel, electricity, heating, steam The ratio uses energy consumption within the origanization. 40 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link 302-4 Reduction of energy Real Estate has implemented lighting retrofits that 8.4, 13.1 Principle 8 consumption will result in energy efficiency in Canadian branches. Principle 9 Project completion occurred in FY2017. FY2017 savings are 6,594 Mwh. • Real Estate is actively managing its portfolio size by looking for square footage reductions that will see efficiencies with no loss to customer base. FY2017 savings are 2,223 Mwh and 5,483 GJ. • Lighting retrofits have been completed for Peru office. FY2017 savings are 1,708 Mwh. • Peru branch retrofits will occur in either FY2018 or FY2019. • Going forward the Bank is working with a smaller branch footprint for new branches – 1.5M s.f. to 4M s.f. compared to 5M s.f. to 6.5M s.f. • The replacement of existing HVAC equipment with more efficient units has commenced for a sizeable portion of the Canadian portfolio. Commencement occurred in late FY2017 and will be rolled out over four years. • Plans for HVAC replacements for International premises to commence in FY2018. • New branches to be constructed principally using LED lights. • Business case has been approved for solar panel installation in some Central America and Caribbean branches. • Construction of new branches to a recognized certification (Green Globes). • Annual branch energy reviews are performed for 20% of Canadian portfolio to identity and repair maintenance items to reduce energy consumption. • Thermostat replacement to set-back devices to automatically adjust temperatures. • Bank roof top units (RTUs) meet regulations for high efficiency. • Pilot for phase change material commenced. Fuel, electricity, heating, steam are the types of energy included in the reductions. The base year for initiatives to reduce emissions would be the year prior to which the initiative was implemented. 41 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Utility consumption figures are collected directly from invoices entered by the Bank’s Central Accounting Units (CAUs). CAU entries are then subject to monthly audits by Real Estate and an energy consulting firm. These figures are then subject to a final audit by an independent third party for verification. The audited and verified consumption figures are then used by both third party suppliers and Real Estate in comparing technical specifications for facilities projects and weighted average consumption estimates based on actual portfolio consumption to determine energy savings associated with any given initiative. These figures are then converted into gigajoules and megawatt hours using known and accepted conversion ratios. Water 303-1 Water withdrawal See Appendix 303-1 13.1 Principle 8 by source Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) See Appendix 305-1 13.1 Principle 8 GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) See Appendix 305-2 13.1 Principle 8 GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) See Appendix 305-3 13.1 Principle 8 GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions The Bank uses Full-Time Employees and Square Meters 13.1 Principle 8 intensity of real estate occupied as its denominators. Direct (Scope 1), Energy Indirect (Scope 2) are included in the intensity ratio. CO2, CH4, N2O are gases included in the calculation. 305-5 Reduction of Page 35 13.1 Principle 8 GHG emissions Principle 9 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and This information is not currently available. disposal method Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that 100% of new suppliers. 12 Principle 7 were screened using environmental criteria 42 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 SOCIAL Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Employment 401-1 New employee hires See Appendix 401-1 5.1, 8.5, 8.6 Principle 3 and employee turnover Principle 6 401-2 Benefits provided to See Appendix 401-2 3.2, 5.3, 8.5 Principle 1 full-time employees Principle 3 that are not provided to Principle 6 temporary or part-time employees Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice In the Caribbean the following notice periods apply 8.6 Principle 1 periods regarding with respect to changes that affect employees in the Principle 3 operational changes form of lay-offs, severances and redundancies: Principle 6 Jamaica: A reasonable timeframe is required to provide unions with information about any proposed changes. This is done before any employee is engaged and a reasonable time is provided for the union to provide feedback to the notification given. Trinidad & Tobago: Not less than 60 days’ notice. Barbados: Should provide the union with notice of intent to make changes three months in advance; if union requests a meeting within 14 days of receipt of notification the Bank must have a meeting with the union to discuss the procedures to be followed. St. Vincent: Bank is required in a “reasonable timeframe” to give the union notice of its intention to make changes; if union requests a meeting within 14 days of receipt of notification the Bank must have a meeting with the union to discuss the procedures to be followed. Antigua: No specified timeframe required to provide notice (but the Bank is obliged to notify the union); The Bank must also have discussions with unions within 14 days of being advised that changes are contemplated if request made by the union. Grenada: Must notify within 90 days of proposed changes and meetings with union should occur with 30 days of the notice being provided. In the unionized locations in Latin America – Chile, Peru, Mexico, Uruguay and Colombia – neither the laws nor collective bargaining agreements stipulate time frames to provide notice to unions with respect to the changes outlined above. 43 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and See Appendix 403-2 3.3, 8.8 Principle 1 rates of injury, Principle 6 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of See Appendix 404-1 4.3, 4.4, Principle 6 training per year 4.5, 8.2, 8.5 Principle 10 per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading Page 25-26 8.2, 8.5 Principle 6 employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of 94.5% 8.5 Principle 6 employees receiving Employees participate in at least one performance and regular performance development conversation per year with their manager: and career one at the start of the fiscal year (or in the case of new development reviews hires, within 30 days of hire); and, then again at the end of the fiscal year. We don’t track performance by gender as the requirement applies to all employees. At the beginning of the fiscal year, each employee and their manager meet for a performance planning conversation. This conversation is an opportunity for employees and their managers to help each other understand: • What needs to be delivered and achieved (Goal Plan) • How results will be achieved and the behaviours to be demonstrated for success • What support is needed – skills, knowledge and competencies to be further developed so employees can achieve the planned results (Development Plan) • How and when further conversations will happen to review progress and, if necessary, to realign, reprioritize or adjust goals At the end of the fiscal year, employees and their managers have a year-end performance conversation, which considers what results were achieved as well as how the results were achieved. Development goals are also discussed/reviewed. 44 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance As at November 30, 2017 for the Board of Directors: 5.1, 5.5, 8.5 Principle 3 bodies and employees i. 33% female, 67% male Principle 6 ii. 0% under 30, 2012. 20% 30-50, 80% over 50 iii. Geographically diverse with 60% residing in Canada, 27% residing in the US and 13% residing internationally Have not requested other diversity information (ethnicity, etc.). Board is diverse in experience, expertise, geographic background, and personal characteristics as noted in our written diversity policy adopted in 2013. For our Employees: Male – 41% Female – 59% < 30 – 28% 30 to 50 – 53% 50+ – 19% We do not have other global diversity related data at this time. Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of No incidents of discrimination. 5.1, 8.6 Principle 1 discrimination and In the context of this disclosure, an “incident” of Principle 2 corrective actions taken discrimination refers to an official legal action filed Principle 6 with the governing authority of the jurisdiction or Principle 10 a complaint filed through Scotiabank’s internal complaints procedures where the claim of discrimination is found either through judicial proceedings or internal formal investigation and fact-finding procedures and processes that there is a breach or non-compliance with established corporate policies, governing statutes or regulatory regimes. 45 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have In 2015-6 Scotiabank commissioned a human rights 8 Principle 1 been subject to human assessment to understand how the Bank impacts the Principle 2 rights reviews or impact human rights of its employees, customers, contractors, Principle 6 assessments business partners, and community members in both positive and negative ways. Scotiabank engaged two external human rights experts to conduct the assessment and develop recommendations for the Bank, The Danish Institute for Human Rights and BSR (Business for Social Responsibility). The assessment was conducted in our key markets: Canada, Mexico, Peru, Caribbean, Chile, and Colombia. A three year Human Rights strategy was created as a result of this impact assessment, which was put in place in FY2017. For more information see page 15. Local Communities 413-1 Operations with 100% of the markets where we do business are 4.4 Principle 3 local community actively engaged in local community development engagement, impact programs. Year-end reports from our corporate assessments, and development partner organizations are provided development programs annually. Scotiabank is focusing on metrics in FY2018 to measure the meaningful impact of our community investment. Supplier Local Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that 100% of new suppliers. 5.2, 8.6 Principle 1 were screened using Principle 2 social criteria Principle 3 46 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions As one of Canada’s leading corporate citizens, Scotiabank is proud to participate in discussions on public policy issues that affect the financial sector and the Bank’s operating environment. The Bank participates in public policy discussions through direct engagement with all levels of government on both domestic and international issues. Scotiabank also participates as a member of the Institute of International Finance (IIF), the Canadian Bankers Association (CBA), the Toronto Financial Services Alliance (TFSA) and other industry associations. In Canada political contributions are not permitted federally, municipally and in many provinces. In an effort to be consistent across all our operations, Scotiabank made the decision in 2016 to end political contributions, effective 2017. Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated There are no substantiated complaints regarding complaints concerning breaches to report. breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with There have been no significant fines identified for Principle 10 laws and regulations non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social in the social and and economic area. economic area 205-3 Confirmed incidents There have been no known incidents of corruption. Principle 10 of corruption and actions taken 47 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Disclosure Reporting Location/Explanation SDGs UNGC Principles Requirement link FS13 Access points in Page 17-19 8.10, 1.4, Principle 2 low-populated 1.3 or economically disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to improve Page 17-19 8.10, 1.4, Principle 2 access to financial 1.3 services for disadvantaged people G4-FS10 Number of companies See Appendix G4-FS10 8 Principle 2 interacted with on Principle 7 social or environmental issues 48 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS A. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Gender Permanent Contract Total Female 41,504 5,290 46,794 Male 30,385 3,831 34,216 Total 71,889 9,121 81,010 B. Total Workforce by Employment Contract and Region Permanent Contract Total Asia/Pacific 664 14 678 Caribbean 8,306 494 8,800 Europe and Middle East 360 37 397 North America 48,499 1,652 50,151 South and Central America 14,060 6,924 20,984 Total 71,889 9,121 81,010 C. Total Workforce by Employment Type and Gender Full-time Part-time Total Female 40,343 6,451 46,794 Male 32,380 1,836 34,216 Total 72,723 8,287 81,010 Headcount as of October 31, 2017. Excludes casual staff, and affiliates and subsidiaries where breakdowns are not available due to different reporting systems. 49 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 102-13 MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Nora A. Aufreiter Ivey School of Business, Member of the Advisory Board Scott B. Bonham C100 Association, Director Denmark Bridge, Director Vector Institute, Director Charles H. Dallara Tufts University, The Fletcher School, Vice-Chair of Board of Advisors National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Inc. – Director at Large R. Tiff Macklem Global Risk Institute in Financial Services, Director and Chair Ontario’s Panel for Economic Growth and Prosperity, Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, Chair of the Panel Asian Business Leaders Advisory Council, Asian Pacific Foundation, Member Thomas C. O’Neill The Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business at Canada’s Queen’s University, Member of the Advisory Board Eduardo Pacheco Universidad de los Andes, Member – Superior Council Colfuturo – Fundacion para el future de Colombia, Director Endeavor Colombia, Director ProBogota, Director Brian J. Porter Institute of International Finance (IIF), Vice-Chairman and Treasurer Council of the Americas, Director Business Council of Canada, Director Aaron R. Regent C.D. Howe Institute, Director Plan International Canada, Director Mining4Life, Co-Founder Trails Youth Initiatives, Member of the Board of Governors Indira V. Samarasekera Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada, Director The Trilateral Commission, Member Susan L. Segal Americas Society, Director, Officer and President and CEO Council of the Americas, Director Officer and President and CEO Council on Foreign Relations, Member Tinker Foundation Note the organizations on the list that are viewed as strategic are the memberships of Brian J. Porter. 50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 102-46 DEFINING REPORT CONTENT AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES An explanation of the process for defining the report content and topic boundaries For an explanation of the process for defining the report For all material issues where possible we have calculated content and topic boundaries, please see the Stakeholder metrics across our entire operations. Where this is not the Engagement and Materiality section of the Report. Our case we have noted this in the specific indicator. material issues were defined through a rigorous process gaining feedback from stakeholders both in and outside the business. Material topics Boundary Management Evaluation 103-1 103-2 103-3 Access to Finance Financial inclusion/access Material inside and outside Increasing financial inclusion Benchmarking, customer service Scotiabank, for employees, within many segments of feedback, sales results, customer Innovation/digitization customers, investors, and the society, providing financing, retention, as well as our own wider community. basic banking services and KPIs, including: digital access options. • Increase in access to Creation of products with social benefits Aboriginal banking See Access to Finance • Increase in small business pages 17-19. banking loans • Increase in microlending activity. Financial Knowledge Fair design and sale of Material inside and outside Acknowledging the Bank’s Benchmarking, customer service responsible products Scotiabank, for employees, responsibility to protect current feedback as well as our own and services customers, investors, and the and potential customers from KPIs, including: wider community. irresponsible financial decisions • Number of people reached Financial education/literacy by providing awareness and with financial literacy education on the financial program. products and services available to them, and how the Bank’s products and services can improve their economic situation. To ensure we maintain the trust of our stakeholders, we strive to enhance customer protection, lend fairly, and balance stakeholder interests. See Financial Knowledge pages 20-22. 51 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Material topics Boundary Management Evaluation 103-1 103-2 103-3 Investing in Young People Community investment Material inside and outside Having a positive impact on Amount of funding to and philanthropy Scotiabank for employees, the communities where we live community organizations customers, community and work is key to driving globally, number of employee Health and well-being and stakeholders, future employees. community prosperity. Investing volunteer hours, Young People education of youth in young people allows us to in the Community Index. invest in the long-term security, As well as our KPI: stability, and growth of our • Increase targeted funding to future. youth initiatives in education and health/well-being. See Investing in Young People pages 27-30. Diversity & Inclusion Diversity and Equal opportunity Material inside and outside Providing economic Employee engagement survey, Scotiabank for employees, opportunities and meaningful benchmarking, and our own Employee health and well-being customers, community careers that are embedded in KPIs including: stakeholders, future employees. operating our bank with • Increase in women in senior integrity. A diverse, inclusive management positions (VP+) Fair labor practices environment allows customers • Maintain employee and employees to reach their engagement score. Talent attraction, engagement fullest potential. We strive to and development respect and appreciate all individuals and to embrace both our differences and similarities – regardless of ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation. This is important in attracting, developing and engaging employees. See Diversity & Inclusion pages 23-26. Responsible Finance Environmental/social risk Material inside and outside We strive to make a positive Benchmarking, sales results, management in lending Scotiabank, for employees, difference in a better, more transactions reviewed for customers, investors, and prosperous future by measuring social/environmental risk. Creation of products with wider stakeholders. social and environmental risk in environmental benefits our lending practices and investing in sustainable solutions. Our Environmental Policy governs our approach. See Responsible Finance pages 31-33. 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Disclosure Material topics Reporting Boundary Location/Explanation Management SDGsEvaluationUNGC Principles Requirement 103-1 103-2 link 103-3 Climate Change Environmental footprint Material inside and outside Managing our carbon footprint, Environmental data including Scotiabank, for employees, reducing our energy energy, water, waste in our Sustainable/responsible customers, investors, and consumption and improving operations. Our own KPI procurement supply chain wider stakeholders. energy efficiency in our including: operations. Our Environmental • 10% reduction in Scope 1 Policy governs our approach. and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions globally by 2021 See Climate Change (based on 2016 levels). pages 34-36. Maintaining Trust Governance of operations Material inside and outside We rely on our stakeholders Benchmarking, rankings, Scotiabank, for employees, both in and outside the customer and employee Customer service customers, investors, and business. To ensure we maintain feedback. wider stakeholders. their trust, we strive to enhance customer protection, lend fairly, Data privacy and security balance stakeholder interest and operate with integrity. A number Transparency of operations of policies and procedures and services govern our approach including the Scotiabank Code of Human rights Conduct. Commitment to external See Maintaining Trust sustainability/CSR initiatives pages 13-16. Corporate Structure Regulatory reform 53 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 201-3 DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER RETIREMENT PLANS Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations a. Estimated Value of liabilities CAD$4,918,413,000 as of November 1, 2016 b. E xtent to which the scheme’s 116% funded on a Going Concern Basis at November 1, 2016 liabilities are estimated to be covered c. Funding Strategy Follows Canadian legislative requirements for funding pension plans d. Employee Contributions 4% of salary if employee participates in the Contributory portion of the plan or 0% to 4% if the employee participates in the Defined Contribution portion of the plan The employer contributes the remaining amount needed to pay the pension benefit and matches the employee contributions into the Defined Contribution portion of the plan e. Plan participation 35,896 as of November 1, 2016 205-2 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ABOUT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES The Scotiabank Code of Conduct (the “Code”) is Completion by Employee Category communicated to all Scotiabank employees, directors and officers, who are required to read, comply and affirm Employee Category Complete compliance with the Code annually. The Code includes an CASUAL 68 explicit expectation that employees comply with the Code and CONTRACT 480 all applicable Scotiabank policies; the Anti-Corruption Policy is REGULAR 14,919 one of such policies, and it is specifically identified in the Code. The Anti-Corruption Policy is an enterprise-wide policy that is Grand Total 15,467 reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption course is a learning Completion by Region tool designed to provide training and guidance to employees on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption. It includes detailed Region Complete guidance, scenarios and a test. The course is assigned to Asia 663 employees through the me@scotiabank learning platform, Caribbean and 1,032 the International Learning Centre, or local learning platforms. Central America The Board of Directors reviews and approves the Europe 381 Anti-Corruption Policy. Latin America 3,406 The total number and percentage of employees that received North America 9,985 training on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption are broken down by employee category and region. A total of 16,720 Grand Total 15,467 employees completed the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption course in FY2017. 15,467 of those employees were still active on November 1, 2017. 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION 2017 Energy Consumption (Canada) Type of Energy Total Energy Use Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity emissions per Employee per m2 Electricity (MWhs) – Scope 2 241,393 34,634 Heat (GJs) – Scope 2 153,268 7,797 Fuel Purchases (GJs) – Scope 1 265,302 13,408 Total Electricity and Fuel (GJs) 1,287,586 55,839 1.52 0.0517 2017 Energy Consumption (International) Type of Energy Total Energy Use Total GHG GHG Intensity GHG Intensity emissions per Employee per m2 Electricity (MWhs) – Scope 2 174,494 65,750 Fuel Purchases (GJs) – Scope 1 7,976 542 Total Electricity and Fuel (GJs) 636,153 66,292 1.49 0.0629 The above information was collected from the best available Our Canadian report is based on 995 owned and leased retail data and methodologies, which includes information directly locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 147 office captured from invoices processed for payment from various buildings across Canada, representing approximately utility vendors. We continue to expand the geographic scope 1,079,152 square meters. of our reporting boundary with the objective of reporting Our International report is based on 1,548 owned and leased total emissions. When necessary, some buildings were retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 204 estimated using consumption data found in similar regions office buildings Internationally, representing approximately and building types. 1,054,187 square meters. 303-1 WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 2017 Water Consumption (Canada) 2017 2016 2015 Utility Total Use M3 Intensity Total Use M3 Intensity Total Use M3 Intensity per m2 per m2 per m2 Water (M3) 719,778 0.67 415,492 0.66 441,521 0.77 2017 Water Consumption (International) 2017 2016 2015 Utility Total Use M3 Intensity Total Use M3 Intensity Total Use M3 Intensity per m2 per m2 per m2 Water (M3) 430,331 0.88 418,727 0.88 170,739 0.99 55 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 The information for 303-1 Water Withdrawal by Source was Our 2017 Canadian report is based on 955 owned and leased collected from the best available data and methodologies, retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 147 which includes information directly captured from invoices office buildings across Canada, representing approximately processed for payment from various utility vendors. We 1,079,152 square meters. continue to expand the geographic scope of our reporting Our 2017 International report is based on 543 owned and boundary with the objective of reporting total consumption. leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank For 2017, the table represents the full Canadian portfolio and in 125 office buildings in Chile, Costa Rica, Colombia, a sample of the International portfolio. For 2015-2016, the El Salvador, Mexico and Peru, representing approximately table represents a sample of the Canadian portfolio 486,490 square meters. and a sample of the international portfolio. When necessary, some buildings were estimated using consumption data M3 = cubic meter found in similar regions and building types. 305-1 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS and 305-2 ENERGY INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS and 305-3 OTHER INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS Measuring Energy Consumption boundaries of what qualifies as Scope 1 emissions. Heat that The gases used in calculation include CO2, CH4, N2O. is not metered was moved into Scope 2. Fuel purchases for The Bank uses a 2012 Base Year for its 15% emissions owned premises in Scope 1 were restated to 100% reductions target on Scope 1 and 2 Canadian Absolute consumption indicating full control. emissions to be achieved by the end of FY2017. As 2012 was Quantification of data is calculated in accordance with GHG the first time emissions for the entire Canadian portfolio were Protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting standard disclosed, this year was chosen as a base year as it provides (2006) and GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: an amendment a common denominator from a premises perspective (plus to the GHG protocol corporate standard (2015). or minus any organic growth/contraction) in comparing all subsequent years’ emissions. In FY2015, the base year along Data is verified using the ISO 14064-3 standard, and with 2013 and 2014 emissions were restated to account for is consolidated using operational control. the amendment to the GHG Protocol concerning operational 2017 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (CANADA AND INTERNATIONAL) Source GHG emissions* (metric tonnes) Scope 1 Direct CO2e emissions produced from combustion of fuels 13,950 Scope 2 Indirect CO2e emissions produced from heat and electricity/steam purchases 108,181 Scope 3 Indirect CO2e emissions produced from employee travel 18,060 Total CO2e footprint 140,191** * Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World ** T he completeness and accuracy of our total GHG emissions has been verified by Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development an independent third party. Proxy data amounting to 7% of our Scope 2 emissions (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors for electricity purchases, was not subject to verification. natural gas and fuel. 56 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Emissions Factors Emissions factors are below. GWP source is IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (SAR – 100 year). Canadian Provincial Electricity Conversion Factors Province Energy Factor Newfoundland Electricity 0.0320 PEI Electricity 0.0200 Nova Scotia Electricity 0.6000 New Brunswick Electricity 0.2800 Quebec Electricity 0.0012 Ontario Electricity 0.0400 Manitoba Electricity 0.0034 Saskatchewan Electricity 0.6600 Alberta Electricity 0.7900 BC Electricity 0.0129 Reference: Canada’s 2017 UNFCCC Submission – Annex 13 Unit: Metric Tonnes CO2e per MWH Other Fuels Other Fuel Factor Units Natural Gas 0.00188496 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Cubic Meter Fuel Oil 0.002939342 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Litre Propane 0.0016117 Metric Tonnes CO2e per Litre Reference: GHG Protocol V4.0 2010 57 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER A. T otal number and percentage of new employee B. Total number and percentage of employee hires during the reporting period (by age group, turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region). gender and region. Region Count % of Hires Region Count % of Hires Americas 23,756 99% Americas 18,554 99% Asia 103 0% Asia 119 1% Europe 91 0% Europe 62 0% Oceania 6 0% Oceania 4 0% Undefined 131 1% Undefined 21 1% TOTAL 24,087 TOTAL 18,760 Age Range Count % of Hires Age Range Count % of Hires Under 30 years 13,671 57% Under 30 years 8,810 47% 30 to 50 years 9,338 39% 30 to 50 years 8,299 44% Over 50 years 1,078 4% Over 50 years 1,650 9% Gender Count % of Hires Gender Count % of Hires Female 10,094 54% Female 10,574 56% Male 10,993 46% Male 8,186 44% Voluntary employee turnover 2017 2016 2015 Canada 15% 14% 11% International 12% 12% 12% 401-2 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES Benefits that are provided to full-time employees vs. benefits provided to part-time and temporary employees Benefit Full Time Part Time Temporary (Contract) Life Insurance • • • (1 year) Health Care • • • (1 year) Disability and invalidity coverage • • N/A Parental leave • • N/A Retirement provision • • N/A Stock ownership • • N/A 58 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 403-2 TYPES OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND ABSENTEEISM AND NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES Injury by Case Type – Provincial Breakdown Sub-Category Major Minor Other Under Grand Total Reportable Reportable Investigation Alberta 9 4 12 4 29 British Columbia 12 5 31 9 57 Manitoba 2 0 1 0 3 New Brunswick 5 0 2 1 8 Newfoundland 0 0 0 1 1 North West Territories 1 1 1 2 5 Nova Scotia 0 1 0 0 1 Ontario 48 32 37 34 151 Prince Edward Island 0 0 0 0 0 Quebec 4 1 3 1 9 Saskatchewan 3 0 0 1 4 Grand Total 84 44 87 53 268 Injury by Gender Row Labels Male Female Location* Grand Total Alberta 1 14 14 29 British Columbia 1 21 34 56 Manitoba 0 2 1 3 New Brunswick 0 6 2 8 Newfoundland 0 1 0 1 North West Territories 0 4 1 5 Nova Scotia 0 1 0 1 Ontario 15 95 41 151 Prince Edward Island 0 0 0 0 Quebec 1 5 3 9 Saskatchewan 2 1 1 4 Grand Total 20 150 97 267 * Robberies are often reported by location, reporting by transit (branch/department) – as no individual is identified. 59 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Injury by Case Type Sub-Category Major Minor Other Under Grand Total Reportable Reportable Investigation Armed Robbery 0 0 15 0 15 Attempted Robbery 2 0 4 0 6 Bruises/Contusion 6 8 0 1 15 Burns 0 0 0 1 1 Customer 0 0 1 0 1 Cuts/Lacerations 2 2 0 1 5 Employee 30 1 0 20 51 Fracture 4 0 0 0 4 Fumes/Odours 0 2 1 1 4 In course of robbery 7 0 1 0 8 Loss of Consciousness 0 2 2 0 4 MVA 0 0 1 1 2 Note Passing 0 0 30 0 30 Other 2 5 1 21 29 Overexertion 0 1 0 1 2 Psychological Distress 6 2 0 0 8 Repetitive Motion 1 0 0 0 1 Slip/Fall from a Height 2 3 0 2 7 Slip/Fall on a Flat Surface 9 8 0 3 20 Sprain/Strain 8 5 0 0 13 Struck Against Object 4 4 0 0 8 Struck By Object 0 1 0 1 2 Trip Hazard 1 0 0 0 1 Verbal Request 0 0 31 0 31 Grand Total 84 44 87 53 268 60 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Injury by Case Type – Sum of Lost Time (Days) Sub-Category Major Minor Other Under Grand Total Reportable Reportable Investigation Alberta 250 0 0 0 250 British Columbia 424 0 0 0 424 Manitoba 6 0 0 0 6 New Brunswick 405 0 0 0 405 Newfoundland 0 0 0 0 0 North West Territories 1 0 0 0 1 Nova Scotia 0 0 0 0 0 Ontario 831.5 0 0 0 831.5 Prince Edward Island 0 0 0 0 0 Quebec 167 0 0 0 167 Saskatchewan 6 0 0 0 6 Grand Total 2,090.5 0 0 0 2,090.5 61 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Workplace Accommodation and Health & Safety (WAHS) Workplace Accidents has the primary responsibility for Hazardous Occurrence Law: Accident includes & Incident Reporting (HOIR). This includes preparing and submitting the annual report to Employment and Social • A willful and intentional act, not being the act of the worker Development Canada (ESDC) of all reportable Hazardous • A chance event occasioned by a physical or natural cause, Occurrences bank-wide. and ESDC’s Hazardous Occurrence Report is completed by the • A disablement arising out of and in the course individual unit manager/delegate and/or Health and Safety of employment. representative and then sent to WAHS. The HOIR is Chance event: reviewed, investigated and reported as per policy and federal requirements. • A chance event is defined as an identifiable unintended event which causes an injury. An injury itself is not WAHS determines whether the Hazardous Occurrence a chance event. constitutes a workplace injury. It must be established that the occurrence and resulting injury occurred due to and Disablement: in the course of the employment relationship. If this is the The definition of disablement includes: case, a copy of the revised report is forwarded back to the department by WAHS. • A condition that emerges gradually over time • An unexpected result of working duties. The following table represents coding information related to the HOIR. Type Name Definition Person Major • Disabling injury: one that prevents an employee from reporting for work or from effectively performing all the duties connected with the employee’s regular work on any day subsequent to the day on which the injury or disease occurred, whether or not that subsequent day is a working day for that employee, or results in the either temporary or permanent loss of body member or function. • All lost time (absence on the next scheduled working day or subsequent to the day on which the injury or disease occurred) occurrences except for illnesses. • Major incidents must be faxed within 14 days to ESDC except in some cases thus 24 hours e.g., a fatality; a disabling injury to two or more employees; the loss by an employee of a body member or part thereof or in the complete loss of usefulness of a body member; the permanent impairment of a body function of an employee; an explosion; damage to a boiler or pressure vessel that results in fire or the rupture of the boiler or pressure vessel; any damage to an elevating device that renders it unserviceable or a free fall of an elevating device. • Robbery related incidents are considered major with above noted definitions applicable. Noted difference is these incidents have robbery related time missed. • All robberies must be faxed regardless of absence only in the province of British Columbia. • ‘Intermittent Day’ email should be sent to supervisor for absences (first day of absence is the day following the accident). The first three days should be coded as ‘special leave with pay’. 62 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 Type Name Definition Person Minor • No lost time Reportable • Medical attention received e.g., employees involved in robbery that sought medical; asthma attack related to IAQ issue and received medical attention; or cut finger with medical attention “Minor injury” means an employment injury or an occupational disease for which medical treatment is provided and excludes a disabling injury. [Note: Medical treatment is that which is provided at a medical treatment facility, which means at a hospital, medical clinic, or physician’s office at which emergency medical treatment can be dispensed and is not to be confused with first aid.] Event Other “Other hazardous occurrences” Reportable Any other situations where events have occurred that resulted in: • an explosion; • damage to a boiler or pressure vessel that results in fire or the rupture of the boiler or pressure vessel; or • damage to an elevating device that renders it unusable, or a free fall of an elevating device; • an electric shock, toxic atmosphere or oxygen deficient atmosphere that caused an employee to lose consciousness; • the implementation of rescue, revival or other similar emergency procedures; or a fire • attempted robbery (e.g. ATM) • bomb or phone threat. 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE Gender Average # of Learning Data limitations: where detailed learning records by gender Hours and employee category do not exist (for the manual records reported in the aggregate), the same ratios of Gender and Female 31 Employee Category as for where detailed information exists Male 35 were assumed. Total Average 33 As we make efforts to digitize and make training more relevant and efficient, the average of learning hours and total Employee Category Average # of Learning spend on learning and development is expected to decrease Hours over time. CASUAL 22 Total training investment: CAD$69.9 million CONTRACT 20 Training investment per employee: CAD$796 REGULAR 35 Total Average 33 63 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX: GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017 G4-FS10 NUMBER OF COMPANIES THE ORGANIZATION INTERACTED WITH ON SOCIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Equator Principles Transaction Reporting Project Finance and Project-Related Corporate Loans The total number of project finance loans and project-related corporate loans that reached financial close during the Bank’s fiscal year ending October 31, 2017 was three. The breakdown is as follows. Project Finance Project-related Corporate Loans Category A Category B Category C Category A Category B Category C Sector Mining 0 0 0 0 0 0 Infrastructure 0 0 0 0 0 0 Oil & Gas 1 0 0 0 1 0 Power 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 0 0 0 0 1 0 Subtotal 1 0 0 0 2 0 Region Americas 1 0 0 0 2 0 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 1 0 0 0 2 0 Country Designation Designated country 1 0 0 0 2 0 Non-designated country 0 0 0 0 0 0 (Automatically Generated) Subtotal 1 0 0 0 2 0 Independent Review7 Yes 1 0 0 0 1 0 No (Automatically Generated) 0 0 0 0 1 0 Subtotal 1 0 0 0 2 0 Total number of projects 1 0 0 0 2 0 7  n independent review may not be required for all projects (not required for category C projects). Please refer to the Equator Principles for details on what is required for each A category and product type. The reporting entity is Scotiabank on an enterprise-wide basis including its subsidiaries. Category A – Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts. 64 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION CSR AT SCOTIABANK GOVERNANCE CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX AWARDS Access to Finance • Scotiabank Chile was awarded the Best Companies • Global Finance named Scotiabank the 2017 World’s Best for Working Parents award for implementing the best Consumer Digital Bank in North America and 25 countries life-work-family reconciliation policies. across the Caribbean, Central America and South America. • In 2017, Scotiabank Mexico was recognized as a Great Investing in Young People Place To Work with regards to diversity and inclusion, coming in 3rd place. • Scotiabank has been recognized by Junior Achievement Americas (JA) as the winner of the 2017 Transforming • Scotiabank won two awards in the 2017 Brandon Hall Education Award for impacting the lives of thousands Group Human Capital Management Excellence of young people in the region. Awards: Gold in Best Advance in Women’s Leadership Development for Scotiabank Women in Leadership Initiative Sustainability and Innovation – International Banking. Silver in Best Advance in Executive • Scotiabank Canada’s Digital Factory won the 2017 Development for Scotiabank Executive Leadership Remmy Workplace Award, recognizing teams whose Development Program. collaboration and vision on a specific project raised the bar for real estate in Canada, and brought innovation and • 2017 recipient of the Talent Board’s North American sustainability to the workplace. Candidate Experience (CandE) Award. Scotiabank ranking moved from 82nd (2016) to 33rd out of 200 Diversity and Inclusion eligible corporations. • Great Place to Work in Canada (7th year in a row), Caribbean, Panama, El Salvador, Costa Rica and • UN Global Compact Chile Network nominated Dominican Republic. Scotiabank Chile in the field of Labor Relations for the Practical Program Advance of Women. • Scotiabank was ranked #56 in Equileap’s global ranking of the Top 200 companies demonstrating progress toward • Scotiabank Chile received the Revolución Wellness gender equality in 2017. award, a distinction awarded to companies that promote practices oriented to the integral well-being of their work • Scotiabank Uruguay won the Premio Crear Award teams, in areas such as physical activity, health, benefits for Innovation and Best Practices in Human Capital. and recreation. Scotiabank’s submission focused on removing barriers in the advancement of women which resulted in a • Scotiabank Chile participated in Merco Talento Study, 3rd place win. which recognizes the best companies to attract and retain talent in Chile. Scotiabank Chile is ranked 12th in the • Scotiabank Peru won the Universidad del Pacifico and overall ranking (100 companies) and 4th in the Financial Aequales award for Gender Inclusion. We ranked 8th out Institutions category. of 141 companies and were the only bank in the rankings. 65 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y – REPORT 2017 ® Registered trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia. ™ Trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia.
