Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report CEO Message Amorepacific Group’s ten-year journey of sustainability management is the representation of our long-time commitment and devotion to creating “A MORE Beautiful World” with society. First of all, we will help our customers build a sustainable lifestyle “Amorepacific Group will continue its journey by closely studying the environmental and social impact of their consumption activities. toward becoming a ‘Great Brand Company’ By raising awareness of the environmental and social impact of consumption, Amorepacific Group wants to create a sustainable lifestyle throughout society. From product planning to production, sales and disposal, we want our products to that is building a beautiful future for humanity exert a positive influence on the environment and society. To that end, we will establish principles and strategies to develop sustainable products. Moreover, we will enhance sustainability in our offline stores and all other points where we connect by communicating with society with an open-heart.” with our customers, while providing our stakeholders with various opportunities to participate in sustainable consumption. Second, we will pursue inclusive growth with our employees, business partners and local communities. Amorepacific Group makes diverse efforts to grow together with all social and economic actors that compose the corporate ecosystem. We will pursue inclusive growth by creating an efficient work environment where our employees can find the Dear valued stakeholders, balance between work and life, and by strengthening the capacity of our business partners. We will also carry out activities to improve the quality of education and a culture of gender equality while supporting women’s health and well-being, For the past seven decades, Amorepacific Group has dedicated itself to communicating with the world through “Asian Beauty.” Despite economic empowerment, and independence to build a society in which all women and their families can enjoy a truly fierce competition and uncertainties in the business environment, we have maintained our focus on our customers, while spearheading beautiful and healthy life. the great journey toward creating a more beautiful and healthy world by developing innovative products, presenting inspiring customer experiences, and leading digital innovation. Third, we will build a circular economy by enhancing resource efficiency throughout As a responsible global corporate citizen, we are strongly committed to building A MORE Beautiful World where our customers, the all processes in our corporate activities. environment and society can grow in harmony with each other. More than a decade ago, we published the first sustainability report in the Amorepacific Group seeks to contribute to protecting nature for both current and future generations. Through the circular Korean beauty industry, pledging our responsibilities and duties as a corporate citizen. We have undertaken a wide range of innovative use of resources and enhanced resource efficiency, we will continue our efforts to reduce the environmental burden handed activities based on three focus areas and eight commitments in order to achieve our “2020 Sustainability Commitments”. Furthermore, down to the next generation. In particular, we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by introducing renewable energy into we have endorsed and actively carried out the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, the our production sites, with the ultimate goal of reaching a “Carbon Free” status. environment and anti-corruption. The grand dream of building a beautiful future for humanity cannot be achieved by the efforts of only a few individuals. Amorepacific Group will devote itself to creating A MORE Beautiful World, yielding to no obstacle and closely working Now, the Amorepacific Group continues its journey toward becoming a “Great Brand Company” at its new headquarters in Yongsan, together with all our stakeholders. Seoul, which embraces its history of being the first and the best based on our founder’s philosophy of “contributing to humanity through beauty and health” and the perseverance with which it has weathered various obstacles and hardships. With an open heart, we will We ask for your continued support and interest as we continue our journey. communicate with society and “Act Now”, helping to create a sustainable future for humanity. Our decade-long journey toward sustainability represents our enduring pursuit of creating “A MORE Beautiful World” for humanity. Thank you. May, 2018 Suh Kyung-bae, Chairman & CEO of Amorepacific Group 2 3 Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report A MORE Beautiful World 2017 Company Overview A MORE Beautiful World Sustainability Reporting of Sustainability Appendix Management System Management Performance Brand Portfolio 8 2020 Sustainability Commitments 30 Governance 68 Human Capital 82 Independent Assurance 108 Statement Global Network 14 ㆍ Sustainable Lifestyle 32 Stakeholder Engagement 72 Customer Satisfaction 88 Verification Statement 110 Corporate Vision 16 ㆍ Inclusive Growth 42 Ethical Management 74 Transparent Tax Payment 89 GHG Inventory AP WAY 17 ㆍ Circular Economy 52 Risk Management 76 Sustainable Supply Chain 90 GRI Standards Index 111 Financial Performance 18 Special Theme. A 10-Year Journey of 59 Materiality Analysis 78 SHE Management 92 UNGC Communication 114 Sustainability Management R&D Innovation 21 CSR 100 on Progress Major Management Activities of 22 About This Report 115 Subsidiaries 1 2 3 4 5 1 Company Overview Amorepacific Group has shared the value of Asian Beauty embracing the wisdom of nature and humans with customers all over the world. We will devote ourselves to becoming a Great Brand Company changing the world with beauty through relentless innovation. Brand Portfolio Relentlessly pioneering the world of beauty to respond to customer expectations and needs, our brands are quickly expanding their global presence and becoming symbols of Asian beauty across the globe. Holistic Beauty from Asian Wisdom Inspired by Asian philosophy, Sulwhasoo blends time-honored Asian medicinal herbs and modern technology to offer holistic skincare and beauty, which values harmony and balance between nature and human, and body and mind. Based upon scientific research on skinaging processes combined with rare and indigenous natural herbal ingredients, our line of products offers ultimate skin solutions that help restore skin’s balance, and comforts your body and mind through relaxing scents and rich textures. Experience holistic beauty of Asian wisdom with Sulwhasoo. www.sulwhasoo.com More Sparkling, More Confident beauty It’s All Yours with LANEIGE Ready to experience sparkling beauty with LANEIGE? With dedication and expertise in moisture research, LANEIGE has discovered the secrets of sparkling beauty from water and completed the water recipe for individual skin types. Developed to address the different skin concerns of women losing their vitality due to stress and hazardous environment, LANEIGE water will be a solution that awakens your skin’s potentials. Now, LANEIGE is here for your sparkling beauty and confident charm. www.laneige.com 8 9 Exceptional Beauty from SEOUL Functional Brand to Make Vibrant and Presenting the Blooming Beauty of Flowers to You www.hera.com Beautiful Skin www.iope.com Through advanced research on flowers in search of the root of true beauty, Mamonde re-invents beauty from the amazing power and energy derived from flowers. Quickly becoming a global masstige brand, Mamonde delivers the strength of blooming flowers to women across Asia. www.mamonde.com Global Premium Haircare Brand Sprout Energy for the Prime Moments Natural Benefits from JEJU from Asian Wisdom and Korean Beauty of Skin Vitality We offer innovative beauty solutions powered by the finest natural www.ryo.com www.primera.co.kr ingredients found on Korea’s pristine Jeju Island. Thanks to its volcanic origins, this fertile oasis has a unique ecosystem with abundant resources to nurture beautiful skin. With the wonders of nature at the heart of innisfree, we take great care to preserve and protect the environment in all that we do. www.innisfree.com Artisan Beauty Brand pursuing Timeless Beauty Health Functional Food Brand Offering Life is sweet, Make Today Sweeter! from Asian Botanicals and Advanced Technology Solutions for a Healthy and Beautiful Life Born as Korea’s first make-up brand, ETUDE House is the friend of all www.amorepacific.com www.vitalbeautie.com women dreaming of sweet lives. Enjoy the pink energy of ETUDE House and let the sweet imagination of being beautiful become a reality. www.etudehouse.com 10 11 French High Perfumery House Inspired Korean Natural Beauty Brand Delivering the A Happy Moment with Nature My First Healthy Shampoo, by Emotion Benefits and Comfort of Nature to Your Skin Restoring the Skin’s Natural FRESH pop www.happybath.com Strength through Advanced Science www.annickgoutal.com www.hanyul.co.kr Derived from Asian Ingredients Professional Make-up Brand Icon of Fast Beauty Customized Prescription Dental Care from Nature www.espoir.com www.aritaum.com for My Teeth www.median433.co.kr Valuable Relaxation Provided by Tea from Jeju www.osulloc.com Prestige Marine Cosmetics Conveying the A Hair Care and Styling Brand Fashion Inspired, Life Beauty Device Brand Caring for Skin, Caring for Mind Vitality of the Seas to Your Skin Leading Hair Trends Professional Touched www.makeonbeauty.co.kr www.aestura.com www.lirikos.com www.miseenscene.com www.amosprofessional.com 12 13 Global Network Amorepacific Group’s Global Brands Sales (KRW bn) Employees (Number of Persons) Location of Headquarter and Subsidiaries Countries with Brand Launched North America Europe and others Sales 57.1 Sales 34.5 Korea1) Employees 135 Employees 125 Sales 4,104.8 Employees 7,703 Asia Sales 1,832.7 Employees 4,385 Sales 6,029.1 bn Employees 12,348 1) The Republic of Korea 2) Sales figures are based on the 2017 consolidated financial statement of Amorepacific Group. 14 15 Corporate Vision AP WAY Amorepacific Group undertakes various innovative activities to achieve our “Vision 2025” of becoming As the times have changed, Amorepacific Group has developed its own set of corporate values enshrined in a Great Brand Company. With this vision, we focus on expanding global market, developing innovative the AP WAY, that define why we exist as a company, how we discern right from wrong, and what we should products, implementing digital innovation in order to make the world a better and healthier place through do to fulfill our vocation and realize our values. We will pursue our dream of changing the world through Asian Beauty. Furthermore, we continue to accelerate our efforts in attaining sustainability by minimizing beauty by understanding and observing the AP WAY in our endeavors. our environmental footprint as well as maintaining mutually beneficial partnerships. “The reason we exist” We Change the World through Beauty. Our Vocation GREAT GLOBAL Amorepacific Group Global Top 3 Achieve 50% of the seeks to become a Asia No. 1 Overall Sales from Great Brand Company “The standards by which we judge right or wrong” Vision 2025 Overseas Markets through innovative Openness, Integrity, Innovation, Proximity, Challenge Great Brand products and digital Company Our Values innovation for a better customer experience that OPENNESS INTEGRITY INNOVATION PROXIMITY CHALLENGE will surprise the world. BRAND Strengthen Brand Singularity “The code of conduct to fulfill our vocation and realize our values” Our Story Story about people around us Story about Our Work and the world AP Minds 1. I am the pride of Amorepacific 5. Give first, always 7. The customer decides 2. Who am I growing to be 6. Build trust, be responsible 8. Think more, question more 3. I am the best of tomorrow 9. Do it now, do it right · Attain Qualitative Growth 4. I work and I am happy 10. Strive to discover the new GREAT · Innovate Production and Work Process · Strengthen Harmonious Relationships with Stakeholders AP WAY Activities · Accelerate Global Growth Based on a Four-pillar Strategy My Way Workshop AP Minds Play AP Minds Awards AP Minds Communication GLOBAL (Korea, China, ASEAN and North America) · Explore New Global Markets (Middle East, Europe and Australia) Companywide workshop Action-oriented activities Program for finding Production and distribution for recalling the corporate led by team leaders to exemplary employees of AP Minds videos and · Strengthen Brand Identities and Values, and Developing Engine Products for Each Brand philosophy and the meaning practice the AP Minds and putting the AP Minds in posters to enhance BRAND · Enhance the Capacity of Our Retail and Digital Sales of AP Minds corporate values at work site practice and sharing their stories employees’ understanding · Strengthen Our Global Brand Portfolio 16 17 Financial Performance In 2017, the Korean economy achieved 3% growth supported by an increase in exports as the global Domestic Business Activities Major subsidiaries saw slowdown in sales and profit growth due to steep decline in number of foreign economy underwent a recovery. On the other hand, competition intensified in the cosmetic industry due tourists. Nevertheless, Amorepacific Group heightened its efforts to strengthen fundamentals for midto-long term growth by diversifying product and distribution channel portfolio, enhancing digital to changes in consumer and retail environment as well as uncertainties both at home and abroad. Despite competitiveness, and offering differentiated customer experience. these circumstances, Amorepacific Group sought to reinforce its business values and competitiveness based on the business principles of “developing innovative products”, “enhancing customer experience” and Amorepacific “strengthening digital leadership”. Furthermore, Amorepacific Group made continuous efforts to fulfill its Amorepacific Group’s major subsidiary, Amorepacific, made efforts to create additional demand in the domestic market and provide differentiated customer experiences. The Luxury Business Unit goal of becoming a Great Brand Company that makes the world more beautiful through Asian Beauty by (Sulwhasoo, HERA, primera, VITALBEAUTIE, etc.) strengthened its product competitiveness through accelerating its global expansion. In 2017, total revenue declined by 10.0% yoy to KRW 6,029 billion and numerous new product launches and diversified point of sales by entering digital platform and multioperating profit decreased by 32.4% yoy to KRW 732 billion. brand channels. The Premium Business Unit (LANEIGE, IOPE, Mamonde, HANYUL, etc.) responded to diverse customers’ needs by expanding its product categories within make-up and launching a new derma line while enhancing its service and brand retail environment to improve customer experience Amorepacific Group Financial Performance (Unit: KRW bn) and convenience. The Daily Beauty Business Unit (Ryo, mise-en-scène, Happy Bath, etc.) focused on 2015 2016 2017 the premiumization of its hair and body care category as well as launched a new natural dental care brand “Pleasia” which contains naturally derived ingredients. Osulloc secured the foundation for Sales 5,661.2 6,697.6 6,029.1 quality growth by expanding its Jeju heritage-based premium products and strengthening its retail Operating Profit 913.6 1,082.8 731.5 competency of both online and offline channels. Net Profit 673.9 811.5 489.5 innisfree innisfree offered fun brand experience to customers by introducing VR zone to vividly experience brand concept and expanding “Green Lounge” with more experiential contents. Also, innisfree strengthened Amorepacific Financial Performance (Unit: KRW bn) its core brand identity as a natural brand by opening brand concept store “Gong Byeong Gong Gan” 2015 2016 2017 made from recycled materials and hosting brand activities like “PLAYGREEN Festival” to celebrate green life. Sales 4,766.6 5,645.4 5,123.8 Operating Profit 772.9 848.1 596.4 ETUDE ETUDE opened its flagship store inspired by the brand philosophy of “Sweet Dream” and offered fun Net Profit 584.8 645.7 398.0 make-up experience through color experiential services. In addition, ETUDE enhanced its brand appeal Domestic Sales and strengthened its communication with young millennial consumers through its continuous launch of trendy new products (“Dear Darling Water Gel Tint”, “Play Color Eyes Wine Party”, “Soon Jung line”, 4,104.8 KRW bn etc.) and introduction of the “Color Picking” service which analyzes lip colors shown in photos sent in by customers. eSpoir eSpoir increased its revenue through steady sales of key products within online and travel retail channel. eSpoir solidified its position as a professional make-up brand by showcasing differentiated make-up looks through the brand campaign “Signature 7 Looks” and opening Korea’s first “Make Up Proportion of Domestic Sales Pub concept store” inspired by lounge pubs. AESTURA AESTURA increased revenue through stronger sales of inner-beauty products and representative 68.1% products of medical beauty brand AESTURA. In marking the 10th anniversary of the launch of its Atobarrier products, AESTURA strived to enhance its brand recognition by recruiting prosumers and strengthening customer communication. As a professional medical beauty company, AESTURA is seeking sustainable growth by strengthening internal capability and competitiveness. AMOS Professional AMOS Professional saw revenue growth through stronger sales from its premium hair care brand AYUNCHE and hair salon’s leading brand AMOS Professional. It is positioning itself as a trend leading professional hair care brand by showcasing seasonal hair fashion and color looks. 18 19 R&D Innovation Sustainable Technology Amorepacific Group has developed customized sheet mask production equipment using 3D printing technology. Innovations Existing mask sheets were limited due to their inability to suit different facial features and skin imperfections International Business Activities Amorepacific Group’s overseas businesses maintained solid growth centered on its five global in different facial areas. Accordingly, we developed equipment that automatically designs mask sheets that fit champion brands (Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, ETUDE House). While Amorepacific each individual customer’s face considering the location of his/her eyes, nose and mouth, as well as the areas of Group has been accelerating expansion mainly within China, ASEAN and North American market, it is the forehead, cheeks and chin, based on photos taken by smart phones. The equipment produces customized actively exploring new opportunities within new markets such as Western Europe and the Middle East. sheet masks by having a 3D printer extrude hydrogel-containing substances suitable to each person's skin condition, and customers can immediately purchase custom-made sheet masks in stores. In addition, sheet Sulwhasoo masks could not be produced with existing 3D printing technology because it used materials with the hardness Sulwhasoo reinforced its position as a global beauty brand through strong growth within key countries of plastics. Our newly developed equipment, on the other hand, brings together skin-friendly materials and in Asia. It also expanded points of sales by diversifying distribution channels from department stores the 3D bioprinting technology of the Korea Institute of Industrial Technology, enabling the use of 3D printing and roadshops to digital platforms. Sulwhasoo also opened its first store in a major department store technology in producing sheet masks. in Paris, successfully delivering the brand philosophy of Asian wisdom to European consumers and laying the foundation for entry in Europe’s skin care market. Amorepacific’s R&D Performance Category 2015 2016 2017 LANEIGE LANEIGE strengthened its brand identity as “Sparkling Beauty” by launching differentiated new Number of Published Academic Papers 52 51 54 products and promoting its global marketing campaign “Beauty Road”. LANEIGE also began to visibly Ratio of R&D Expenditure to Sales(%) 2.12 2.31 2.28 expand its business in regions other than Asia by reconstructing its distribution channels in North America. Research on Alternatives Amorepacific Group had discerned the negative global trend for animal testing on cosmetics and since 1997 Mamonde to Animal Testing have continued research and academic activities for animal alternative test. In 2008, we stopped animal testing Mamonde enhanced its market responsiveness by launching exclusive products which reflect local on cosmetic ingredients and finished products. In addition, we declared a ban on unnecessary testing on animals Chinese customers’ needs. Mamonde also diversified its distribution channels within ASEAN countries for cosmetics in 2013 and has prohibited all kinds of animal testing on cosmetics unless inevitably required or through entry into department stores and online malls. In Singapore, Mamonde sought to better obligated by the laws and regulations of other countries. Moreover, we have spread the principle in our partners. communicate with its customers by opening its first global flagship store “Mamonde Boutique”, Currently, we have developed and introduced alternative testing for skin irritation, skin sensitization, providing customers its flower brand story experience. phototoxicity, skin absorption, eye irritation, vaginal mucosal irritation, oral mucosal irritation and endocrine disruption in order to evaluate the safety of our products and their raw ingredients. innisfree innisfree strengthened its nature-related brand concept while expanding its Asia business and newly Furthermore, we have conducted research projects of alternatives for animal testing in cooperation with Korea entering the US market. The brand opened its 400th store in China thanks to its popularity among Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, academic and industrial circles and abroad research groups. As a leading millennial consumers and accelerated its store expansion in key ASEAN countries while opening its first group for animal alternative test for cosmetics, we are making our efforts to spread out our knowhow for animal store in Indonesia. innisfree also opened a flagship store in Union Square, New York, taking its first alternative testing to cosmetic industries and CROs Contract Research Organizations through the workshop and other Overseas Sales successful step in the North American market. activities. 1,924.3 KRW bn ETUDE House Protecting Amorepacific Group showcases innovative technologies through continuous research and development. To ETUDE House accelerated its global expansion by continuously opening new stores in key Asian Intellectual Property protect these valuable technologies through patents, we apply various strategies from the initial stages of countries. ETUDE House also enhanced its communication with young Asian consumers by expanding Rights research and development. In 2017, we succeeded in 1,368 cases of patent applications and registrations by e-commerce platform and strengthening its online marketing. establishing guidelines and structures on inventions to secure broad rights of patents, devising technology customized protection strategies, and managing patent applications efficiently. Overseas Sales by Region (Unit: KRW bn) Amorepacific Group’s Patent Application and Registration (Unit: Cases) Proportion of Overseas Sales Region 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Asia 1,111.2 1,636.2 1,832.7 Number of Patent Applications and Registrations 949 1,099 1,368 North America 41.4 53.8 57.1 31.9% Amorepacific’s Patent Application and Registration (Unit: Cases) Europe and Others 52.0 110.0 34.5 Category 2015 2016 2017 Korea Applications 329 360 357 Registrations 145 148 285 Overseas Applications 296 466 495 Registrations 105 118 183 20 21 Major Management Activities of Subsidiaries Since its establishment in 1945, Amorepacific has devoted itself to becoming the “Asian Beauty Creator” with the mission of spreading the essence of innisfree is a natural brand dedicated to conveying the purity and cleanliness of nature through its products and spreading a green lifestyle to its Asian beauty to the rest of the world. Determined to win customer trust through technology and quality, it established Korea's first cosmetics research customers. Since its official launch in 2000, the brand has grown into a sustainable brand based on the five commitments of natural ingredients, good institute and has created new beauty embracing Asian wisdom with its passion and unsparing investment in heritage ingredients and dermatological consumption practices, eco-friendly campaigns, green designs and natural customer experiences. research. Based on extensive research and technology accumulated throughout its history spanning seven decades, Amorepacific has created global brands including Sulwhasoo, HERA, LANEIGE and Mamonde, quickly becoming one of the most loved and trusted companies not only in Asia but in the world. 2017 Highlight Accelerating Global Outreach 2017 Highlight Expanding into the Global Market through Debut in the U.S. In 2017, Amorepacific strengthened its foothold in Asia while accelerating its expansion into new markets including In 2017, innisfree accelerated its growth in the global markets, impressing local customers worldwide. In February, it North America and Europe. HERA and LANEIGE opened pop-up stores in Shanghai, China, offering opportunities for celebrated its launch in Indonesia, solidifying its position as a natural beauty brand in the ASEAN market. In September, local customers to experience unrivaled brand values and products. Mamonde opened its first global flagship store it made its debut in the U.S., laying the groundwork for further expansion in the North American market. In 2018, in Singapore, signaling its successful launch in the new market. LANEIGE made its official debut in Sephora U.S. as a innisfree will strengthen its brand recognition as the global No. 1 natural brand by continuing a solid performance in global brand, while Sulwhasoo opened its store at Galeries Lafayette in Paris, accelerating its growth in France and the existing markets while expanding its global portfolio to Japan and Australia. establishing a foothold for the brand's expansion into the European market. In 2018, Amorepacific will strengthen its brand portfolio in the global market by launching mise-en-scène in China and Mamonde in North America, while Strengthening Customer-oriented Brand Campaigns expediting its expansion into new markets. innisfree has undertaken various initiatives to convey the brand’s genuineness to its customers. The brand opened its concept store “Gong Byeong Gong Gan”, built with over 70% of finishing materials made from recycled bottles, in Leading Digital Beauty an effort to provide customers the unique experience of upcycling firsthand. The “Gong Byeong Gong Gan” is an ecoAmorepacific carried out various digital innovation activities to satisfy both millennial consumers who are always friendly store where customers can engage in the virtuous cycle of nature and the brand philosophy, and learn how to looking for new experiences and omni-channel consumers who easily traverse the online and offline worlds in their appreciate the value of nature and resources. daily lives. ARITAUM strengthened its O2O Online to Offline services by simultaneously launching the “Beauty Delivery” As of 2017, innisfree has planted over 35,000 trees through its “innisfree Forest Campaign”, playing its part in and “Beauty Takeout” service, showcasing a smart shopping system integrating online and offline. Amorepacific also addressing the global challenge of deforestation. The brand will continue to carry out various customer-participatory reinforced data-based personalized services on the Amorepacific Mall and launched “Beauty Tailor”, an application activities in 2018 to convey its brand philosophy and authenticity. diagnosing the skin condition of each customer and recommending products and services suited to their individual needs. Innovating the Offline Customer Experience innisfree has introduced various new contents for customers looking for new experiences. For instance, the “Green Providing Unique Customer Experiences Lounge” allows customers to feel and truly experience innisfree products. Also, with this space, innisfree is conducting Multiple brands of Amorepacific opened their own flagship stores in an effort to better convey their brand philosophies test and learn for laying the foundation of future self stores that provide experiential service space. In addition, the and core values to customers. Mamonde opened its flagship store “Mamonde Boutique” based on the concept of the brand installed five “Media Vending Machines” in densely populated areas near universities and terminals, as a new “Journey of Flowers”, offering visitors the opportunity to experience the energy and strength of flowers. In ARITAUM’s platform proposing customized products targeted at those districts. innisfree will expand its experiential merchandising flagship store, customer experience goes beyond beauty to fashion and living through state-of-the-art digital devices services in 2018 to maximize in-store customer experience and convenience. that fill the store. At the same time, Amorepacific developed innovative technologies to provide unique customer experiences. The “Amorepacific Tech-up Plus”, a program to support startups and foster talents in innovative technologies, selected its first five teams, while the company held the “Tech-up Plus Demonstration Day” where the participants shared their achievements in beauty tech and services. In addition, Amorepacific employees from various fields came together for the Advanced Product Development Program to share creative ideas for developing innovative new products. The first innisfree flagship store in U.S. innisfree ‘Green Lounge’ Sulwhasoo in ‘Galeries Lafayette’, ARITAUM O2O Service France 22 23 ETUDE House is Korea’s first makeup brand launched in 2005, fulfilling women’s dream of becoming more beautiful and enjoying magical days. It eSpoir seeks to become a leader in Asian makeup as a professional make-up brand. With a wide spectrum of optimal colors and innovative products for leads the makeup trends and promotes a fun, playful makeup culture for young generations around the world. It enjoys tremendous popularity as the Asian skin tones and textures, it offers a transformative experience to customers who want to make a bold change to find their new look by combining top K-beauty makeup brand not only in Korea but across many Asian countries, including China, Japan and Singapore. unique colors, textures, and shades with the innovative techniques of professional make-up artists. 2017 Highlight Expanding into the Global Market 2017 Highlight Launching the “eSpoir Makeup Pub Concept Store” ETUDE House opened its first flagship store “Sunway Pyramid” in Malaysia and successfully launched a line of localized In November 2017, eSpoir launched the “eSpoir Makeup Pub Concept Store”, inspired by trendy lounge pubs with products. In Japan, it opened stores in “Shibuya 109”, “Harajuku Takeshita” and other popular local landmarks, the theme of “Lively, Free, Exciting and Enjoyable”. The first of its kind in Korea, the eSpoir Makeup Pub targets the securing the brand’s stable growth in the country. In 2018, plans are underway for an expansion into the Middle millennial generation that pursues fun and exciting makeup experiences. In addition to that, it provides premium East, in preparation for which the brand is focusing on developing color products for the skin tones of Middle Eastern products with exclusive services only available at eSpoir Makeup Pub. consumers and local marketing strategies. Expanding the Door Drop Service to Enhance Customer Satisfaction Providing Consumers with a Unique Brand Experience Recognizing the growing importance of on-demand (demand-centered system or strategy) services in the O2O online to offline age, eSpoir launched the O2O-based “Door Drop Service” in 2016. In 2017, it expanded the service scope, In 2017, ETUDE House opened its flagship store to convey its brand philosophy of delivering positive energy through the brand and product experience (“Sweet Dream”) under the slogan “Life is Sweet”. The “Color Factory”, where store enabling customers to request and pick up products sold out in online channels at the off-line store closest to them. visitors can receive personal color consulting from professional beauty partners and have their personal lipsticks made, has contributed to establishing itself as a leading makeup brand. In April 2017, it introduced the ETUDE House signature makeup look bringing together the latest beauty trends and the brand values of “Lovely, Playful, Trendy”. Furthermore, the “Pink Play Concert”, the brand’s signature cultural event held for the 7th time in 2017 was upgraded to a new form of beauty show combining makeup demonstrations, runway shows and a music concert where 3,500 participants were given a unique brand experience. eSpoir Hongdae Makeup Pub Concept Store Strengthening Digital Services In Sep. 2017, ETUDE House launced the “Color Picking” service, which analyzes lip colors from photos sent by customers and recommends similar colors and products, providing a colorful experience for digital-savvy millennial shoppers. ‘Color Factory’ in ETUDE House ETUDE House Color Picking service Myeongdong Flagship Store 24 25 AMOS professional is a specialist hair-styling product manufacturer for hair salons with its signature brand AMOS professional and the premium brand AESTURA is a medical beauty brand offering derma care solutions to hospitals and clinics. In pursuit of healthy beauty and innovative products, AYUNCHE. AMOS professional has maintained its No.1 status in sales among Korean hair styling brands, leading the trends in the hair-styling market. AESTURA continues its research efforts and expands brand influence. Through various partnership and training programs, it supports the competitiveness and sustainability of Korean hair designers. Centering on its derma care cosmetic brand AESTURA, the brand seeks to position itself as Asia’s hidden champion brand, accelerating its global outreach and strengthening sustainability efforts. 2017 Highlight Launch of the New Educational Platform “AMOS Mobile Academy” 2017 Highlight Tapping into the Chinese Market In 2017, AMOS Professional launched the “AMOS Mobile Academy” application, the first educational platform for AESTURA has taken the first step toward offering the best skincare solution to Chinese consumers. In October 2017, hair designers developed by a professional hair care brand, with the goal of providing equal educational access and it signed a partnership agreement with Zhejiang. Wansheng Pharmaceutical, a subsidiary of the fourth-largest opportunities to hair designers. dermatological drug maker in China. In November, it held academic and promotional events for the launch of its The AMOS Mobile Academy is a mobile application providing various educational contents so that hair designers can Atobarrier line of products at the 13th Annual Meeting of the Chinese Dermatologists Association (CDA) participated by learn anytime, anywhere. The contents provided on the app include basic sessions on hair dyes and perms, special over 12,000 dermatologists in China. techniques for cuts and color, business mind, salon marketing and the operation manual, and the customer satisfaction guide. AMOS Professional will continue to improve and update this new O2O educational platform so that it can Strengthening R&D through Open Innovation develop into a place of communication and education for aspiring and professional hair designers. AESTURA has been running a research and advisory study group in partnership with dermatologists at major university hospitals in Korea. In 2017, research seminars and various research activities were undertaken in seven research areas “Hair ARTIST on the Go” Program including skin conditions, product quality analysis and improvement measures, new indication finding and the correct usage of products. As part of the “Makeup ARTIST on the Go” program, AMOS Professional carried out its CSR program “Hair ARTIST on the Go” for students wishing to work in the haircare industry. The program involved career mentoring and presentations on how to become hair artists and overcome trials and errors. Osulloc Farm Established in 1974, Osulloc Farm is a premium tea company specializing in tea cultivation, processing and sales, committed to handing down the traditional Korean tea culture and harvesting the best tea leaves grown in our soil. Osulloc Farm is both a leader in popularizing tea culture and a pioneer of the luxury green tea market with sulloc tea grown in the organic plantations in Jeju Island and Gangjin. AMOS Mobile Academy AMOS Professional ‘Hair Artist on the Go’ “Unlike many other countries that take pride in their own special teas, Korea sadly has none. I wish to establish a traditional Korean tea culture at any cost.” The late Suh Sung-hwan, founder of Amorepacific 2017 Highlight Enhancing Brand Value through High Value-added Products ‘Osulloc’ enhanced its brand value by expanding its line of high value-added products originating from Jeju. Osulloc Samdayeon Brick Tea won the gold prize at the Shizuoka World Green Tea Contest 2016, and the premium green tea Ujeon won first place at the North America Tea Championship 2016, elevating its status as a global luxury tea brand. Introducing Halal Certification (JAKIM) In 2017, Osulloc Farm introduced a halal certification system in response to the fast-growing Muslim market overseas. By having its exported green tea powder halal-certified, it began supplying to global companies in the second half of 2017 and plans to have more items halal-certified. Through these efforts, Osulloc Farm seeks to meet the various needs in the global market and diversity its markets. 26 27 2 A MORE Beautiful World Amorepacific Group moves toward the future on the footing of our 10-year history of sustainability management. By helping our stakeholders lead a sustainable lifestyle, growing together with other members of the business ecosystem and contributing to a circular economy for future generations, we continue our journey toward building A MORE Beautiful World. 2020 Sustainability Commitments 2017 Targets 2017 Performances 2018 Targets Through its 2020 Sustainability Commitments, Amorepacific Group seeks to help its stakeholders create a “sustainable lifestyle” in their everyday lives, Incorporate environmentally · 24% · 28.8% · 36.5% Sustainable achieve “inclusive growth” with economic and social communities, and contribute to the “circular economy” for future generations. Lifestyle 1 or socially friendly elements into new products The 2020 Sustainability Commitments are closely linked to 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs, adopted by the United Nations General Use LED lighting in all new · 100% · 100% · 100% Assembly in 2015. Through the efforts to execute its 2020 Sustainability Commitments, Amorepacific Group seeks to help in solving the rising global and renovated stores in Korea issues and endeavor to create a more beautiful world for all. (ARITAUM, ETUDE House, innisfree) Applying sustainable · Use sustainable materials · ARITAUM developed · ARITAUM uses sustainable packaging materials to shopping bags 4 types of FSC-certified materials for its store and buffer packaging shopping bags packages 2 · innisfree and ETUDE House · innisfree uses sustainable use plastic bags containing materials for its store VMDs 25% bioplastics (e.g. name tag, wobbler, etc.) 지속 가능 Su한 sta Opened the innisfree’s · Use upcycled cosmetic · Used recycled finishing 라in 이ab Upcycling Store, bottles in over 70% of interior materials made from 230,000 프le ‘Gong Byeong Gong Gan’ materials of store used containers for over 70% 촉e진 of store interior work ty l 1 Li 타 스 fe s일 [Sulwhasoo] Beauty from Your Culture · Encourage participation of 5,000 customers in Korea and overseas markets · Participation by over 50,000 customers from 4 countries · Hold campaigns in 5 countries Incorporate at least one 3 co n om y 8 benefit for environment or society into more than 40 percent of 2 [LANEIGE] Refill Me Campaign · Donate campaign proceeds in 9 countries · Held in 8 countries and donated over KRW 218.8 million of sales proceeds · Hold Refill Me Campaign in 9 countries and donate sales proceeds Improve resource efficiency Integrate environmental and l ar E our new products. Create a great place to work · Create an innovative space · Created work space for · Foster women leadership by promoting reuse and recycle. social consideration into the design Inclusive Growth in new headquarters horizontal communication and operation of our stores and Circu 4 disclose our improvement. · Restructure welfare and · Operated AP-Severance Clinic · Promote diversity among health programs employees 7 2020 3 Percentage of suppliers that meet the ‘good performance’ sustainability target · 63% · Improved the sustainability assessment system for suppliers · 70% Reduce our CO2 emissions Enhance our customers’ by 30% per tonne of Sustainability awareness of environmentally and 5 Implement the Good Jobs · Provide career development · Issued makeup certification · Support career development production from a socially sustainable lifestyles. Strategy for beauty partners opportunities for innisfree Green-Us and capacity-building 2015 baseline. Commitments · Support professional · Introduced color training · Enhance workers satisfaction capacity-building programs for ETUDE Sweeties Number of beneficiaries of · 49,000 women · 143,722 women · 89,250 women 6 4 6 women’s health and well-being programs ‘20 by 20’ commitment support Create a great place to work Number of beneficiaries · 1,000 women · 1,683 women · 1,280 women 5 the health, well-being, by improving employees’ of women’s economic and economic empowerment health and welfare. empowerment programs of 200,000 women Reduce CO2 emissions · 7% reduction · 7% increase2) · 1% reduction by 2020. Contribute to inclusive growth Circular Economy by actively supporting per tonne of production1) our business partners’ 7 development and growth. Apply renewable energy · Daily Beauty Production Site, · Daily Beauty Production Site · Beauty Campus Osan, Beauty Campus Shanghai (140kW) Beauty Campus Shanghai Reduce water use · 7% reduction in Korea and · 7% reduction in Korea and · 15% reduction in Korea and per tonne of production1) 28 % in Mainland China 33 % in Mainland China 36 % in Mainland China 8 Develop Sustainable Packaging · No. of products using Biobased PET containers: · No. of products using Biobased PET containers: 68 · Development & application of sustainable plastic materials Inclusive Growth approx. 70 · Develop technology for · Developed recycled plastic producing recycled product materials packaging 1) Compared to 2015 (Applicable Sites: Beauty Campus Osan, Daily Beauty Production Site, Osulloc Production Site, Beauty Campus Shanghai, Water : municipal water and industrial water) 2) Increase due to establishment of distribution centers and expansion of production infrastructures 30 31 Sustainable Lifestyle Sustainable Lifestyle Incorporate at least one benefit for environment 1 or society into more than 40 percent of our new products. Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan From 2018, we will secure 100% RSPO certification through Book and Claim-certified purchase and use of RSPO-certified palm oil ingredients. Sustainable consumption, and efforts to As part of our effort to develop sustainable We will expand research and investment in consider the social or environmental impact products, we revised the Group’s guideline developing sustainable technologies and ecoof consumption, has become an important on sustainable products in 2017, defining 19 friendly packaging materials. Through these Expanding the Use of Amorepacific Group is increasing the use of sustainable paper and bio-based and recycled plastic social trend. Businesses are now required categories of sustainable products. Pursuant efforts, we will minimize our environmental Sustainable Packaging Materials materials to minimize the environmental impact of our packaging materials. to cater to those demands by producing to the guideline, the departments in charge impact and strengthen the positive social and supplying products that can facilitate a of R&D, marketing, design, and packaging impact of our products. In the case of packaging papers, we use a variety of sustainable papers including papers made more sustainable lifestyle for consumers. As development collaborate from the initial from plant by-products and forest management certified papers. We intend to participate in a consumer product company, Amorepacific stages of product development to ensure the protecting forest ecosystems by using papers made from trees grown in sustainably-managed Group seeks to minimize any negative impact sustainability of our products. The Group’s forests. While Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, HERA, primera, IOPE and HANYUL reduce the that may be caused by the consumption of guideline on sustainable products and environmental impact of their products by using FSC Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper for our products, while empowering consumers identified 19 ways our products can deliver product boxes, innisfree and LIRIKOS use tangerine and seaweed papers, respectively, made to play an active role in solving environmental more positive social or environmental impacts. from a combination of wood pulp and discarded plant resources. Through these efforts, each and social issues through consumption. brand contributes to increasing resource efficiency and reducing the use of new wood pulp. At the same time, we are expanding the use of bioplastics derived from renewable biomass Ratio of new products with sources and recycled plastics to manufacture product containers. In 2017, plant-derived plastics environmentally and socially-friendly properties 28.8% were applied to innisfree body cleansers, toners, lotions and diffusers and Happy Bath body wash products. Recycled plastics were used for ETUDE House eyeshadows and foundations and innisfree hand wash products. innisfree Olive Real Skin, primera Olive Real Lotion Super Sprout Serum Developing Products with Less Environmental Impact Used FSC-certified papers Applied Bio-based PET made from sugar cane in 95% of for product boxes product packaging Expanding the Use of Amorepacific Group responds to the issue of depletion of non-renewable resources by increasing Natural Ingredients the use of renewable natural ingredients. In 2017, innisfree launched My Essential Body Soft Green Body Lotion containing 98% natural ingredients, reducing the environmental impact of its products and securing improved consumer safety at the same time. We will continue reducing innisfree My Essential Body the environmental impact of its products by strengthening R&D into securing more natural Soft Green Body Lotion ingredients to replace chemical substances. Natural fragrance, 98% natural ingredients Happy Bath “Tea Collection Body Wash” Achieves Water Footprint Certification Sustainable Palm Oil and Amorepacific Group recognizes forest destruction by reckless expansion of palm oil plantations, A product water footprint calculates the water use over the entire lifecycle of Palm (Kernel) Oil Derivatives extinction of species and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as serious environmental threats. a product, from raw materials through production, transportation, use and Accordingly, we will continue our support for the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) for disposal, and the impact of that process on water quality. the use of sustainable palm oil throughout the industry, while expanding the use of palm oil and palm (kernel) oil derivatives produced without causing the deforestation. In 2017, eight items from Happy Bath Tea Collection Body Wash achieved Water Measured certification from Carbon Trust, a non-profit organization Annually, we use approximately 27,000 tonnes of palm-derived and palm kernel-derived in the United Kingdom, for the first time in Korea as a body wash product. Happy Bath Water Footprint ingredients as raw materials for fatty acids, glycerin and surfactants. In cooperation with our Tea Collection Body Wash Certification Mark suppliers, we will continue to switch from the current palm or palm kernel-derived ingredients to RSPO-certified ingredients. 32 33 Sustainable Lifestyle Sustainable Lifestyle Integrate environmental and social 2 consideration into the design and operation of our stores and disclose our improvement. Minimizing Residual Product Amorepacific Group prevents waste of resources and environmental damage by minimizing Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Content in Containers product waste thrown away with used containers. In 2017, illiyoon Ceramide Ato Lotion and three other illiyoon items and mise-en-scène Perfect Base Up Essence applied the dual structured Our stores are the primary platform through Amorepacific Group has established an internal We will continuously reduce the environmental containers with airless pump which can reduce residual content to less than 5%. Thanks to this which consumers experience our brands and guideline, setting forth ten measures to impact of our stores by managing their achievement, consumers can have more content to use while reducing environmental damage products. They are also a platform to help our ensure the sustainability of our stores. Under construction, operation, and disposal stages. caused by the products. customers maintain a sustainable lifestyle. the three key goals of promoting sustainable We will also create a user-friendly store consumption, securing environmental environment that values our stakeholders. In order to ensure the sustainability of our convenience, and creating a user-friendly space Furthermore, we will offer education and stores, they must be designed and operated in for our stakeholders, the guideline explains hold campaigns so that our customers can Obtaining Eco-labels To enhance its leadership as a global natural brand, innisfree seeks to reduce the environmental a way that reduces environmental impact. We how our stores should strengthen their better understand and practice sustainable impact of its products. In 2017, 15 product items of its perfumed diffusers received eco-labels want our stakeholders, including customers sustainability. consumption. certified by the Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute (KEITI) in recognition of and beauty partners, to feel that they are their effect on resource circulation and reduction of harmful substances. valued as individuals in our stores. Finally, we With the guideline, we have been expanding innisfree Perfumed Diffuser believe our stores are where we can propose our stores’ contribution to the society as well as Obtained Korea Environmental Industry and promote sustainable consumption for our environment. and Technology Institute (KEITI) certified eco-labels customers. LED lighting installation rate in new and renovated ARITAUM, innisfree and ETUDE House stores in Korea 100% Developing Products with More Social Impact Using Raw Materials from Amorepacific Group pursues mutual growth with local communities by using raw materials Beautiful Fair Trade purchased through Beautiful Fair Trade. In 2017, Sulwhasoo, Mamonde, innisfree, Hanyul and other brands developed products containing raw materials from Beautiful Fair Trade. By using reliable and high-quality raw materials, we ensure consumer safety while contributing to the Making Our Stores Eco-friendly development of local communities. Installing High-efficiency ARITAUM has now made it mandatory for all new stores to use high-efficiency LED lighting. In LED Lighting accordance with this new policy, LED lighting was installed in 302 ARITAUM stores in 2017, with Developing Universal Amorepacific Group is expanding the application of universal design to our product containers the target of reaching 640 stores by 2020. Design Containers so that anyone, regardless of their age or physical disability, can easily use our products. miseen-scène, for instance, indicates “shampoo” and “conditioner” in braille on its Real Perfume ETUDE House replaced its ceiling and furniture lighting with LED lighting in 274 stores in 2017, and Double Moisture lines of products, while Ryo makes it easier for consumers to distinguish with plans to complete the replacement process in 80% of its stores by 2020. shampoo and conditioner bottles by adding a protrusion to its Hambitmo (damage care) and As of 2017, innisfree has switched to LED lighting in all of its stores and will maintain its policy. Jayangyunmo (anti hair loss and scalp hair) shampoo bottles. Applying Eco-friendly Amorepacific Group builds sustainable stores by applying eco-friendly interior materials in its Developing Social Amorepacific Group participates in solving social issues by joining our donation efforts with major brand stores, including ARITAUM, innisfree, and ETUDE House. We make it mandatory for Interior Materials Contribution Products the sale of our products. For instance, HERA has contributed to improving the health of Korean our stores to only use key interior materials, such as woodworking adhesives, water-based paint, women by launching the Pink Ribbon Limited Edition of HD Perfect Powder and Sensual Lip and plaster boards, that have eco-labels and are certified by the Korea Environmental Industry Serum Glow and donating part of its sales proceeds to the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation in and Technology Institute (KEITI). The use of eco-friendly interior materials is continuously 2017. monitored through strict on-site supervision. 34 35 Sustainable Lifestyle Sustainable Lifestyle innisfree Vertical Gardens The interior designs of our innisfree stores are infused with vertical gardens of natural plants only with automatic water supply and drainage system, so that our customers can feel close to nature Promoting Sustainable Consumption at any time of the year. The vertical gardens not only create a pleasant store environment but provide a refreshing experience for visitors by maintaining an optimal level of temperature and humidity. Eco-friendly Shopping Bags and Amorepacific Group seek to reduce environmental impact by using eco-friendly materials for our Supplies store supplies. ARITAUM used FSC-certified paper in producing four types of new paper envelopes and shopping bags in 2017. By applying eco-friendly materials to more of its supplies, including tissue paper innisfree’s Upcycling Store In June 2017, innisfree opened its first upcycling store, “Gong Byeong Gong Gan”, in Sogyeokfor gift wrapping, ARITAUM aims to produce 95% of its expendable items using eco-friendly ‘Gong Byeong Gong Gan’ dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul. The store was constructed with 230,000 recycled bottles collected materials by 2020. Beginning in 2018, ARITAUM will print the FSC certification mark on each through its empty bottle recycle campaign launched in 2003. expendable item, sharing its environmental protection efforts with customers and raising The Gong Byeong Gong Gan is based on the concept of “fill up with beauty, one more time.” awareness of sustainable consumption. 70% of the interior finishing materials were made from empty bottles collected through the innisfree expanded the use of tangerine paper made from 95% recycled pulp and 5% tangerine campaign. Recycled bottles were also used to build store furniture and other objects. Bottle peel. Tangerine paper has been mainly used to produce product boxes, but innisfree applied this crushers were placed inside the store, as well as monitors that show how many empty bottles waste-reducing, forest-protecting eco-friendly paper to produce various kinds of papers used have been collected in real time. This entire space is designed so that visitors can experience firstin its stores. In 2017, tangerine paper was used for promotional materials such as price tags, hand how upcycling works. wobblers, etc., reducing the overall environmental impact of its stores. ARITAUM's FSC-certified Shopping Bags Moreover, 100% of the plastic bags used at innisfree and ETUDE House contain 25% bioplastics Number of empty bottles used for in an effort to reduce the environmental impact caused by the use of plastic bags. the interior design of innisfree ‘Gong Byeong Gong Gan’ 230,000 Sustainability Management ETUDE provides sustainability management training to store managers to raise awareness of the Training for Store Managers brand’s social and environmental responsibilities. ETUDE facilitate their understanding of sustainability management by discussing important social issues such as recent consumption trends, which associate consumption with environmental and social issues, as well as sharing Amorepacific Group’s 2020 sustainability commitments and related activities. Store managers also learn about various measures they can take to improve the environmental and social impact of their stores. Through these efforts, ETUDE help store managers grow into valuable partners with whom we can build sustainable stores. We will continue to strongly encourage sustainability activities of our stores by holding meetings to share ideas on how to promote sustainability. Introducing Smart Receipts Amorepacific Group is the first Korean cosmetics company to introduce the mobile point-ofsale (mPOS) system in 2017 in major ARITAUM, ETUDE House, and espoir stores in Seoul. By combining barcode reading sensors, credit card readers, and cameras, mPOS handles customer and product information, payments, and electronic receipts. Through the mPOS system, customers can receive in-store counseling and immediately pay for their purchases. We can also contribute to environmental protection as the mPOS system allows e-receipts to replace paper receipts. In recognition of these achievements, our mPOS system received the Excellence Prize at the eASIA innisfree ‘Gong Byeong Gong Gan’ Awards 2017 hosted by the United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (UN/ CEFACT) and the Asia-Pacific Council for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (AFACT). 36 37 Sustainable Lifestyle Sustainable Lifestyle Enhance our customers’ awareness of 3 environmentally and socially sustainable lifestyles. Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Brand Campaigns Promoting Sustainable Consumption As a consumer product company, Amorepacific Through specialized campaigns based on We will carry out in-depth research on Group has the responsibility and obligation to each of our brand philosophies and strategies, sustainable consumption and enhance the minimize environmental impact and prevent Amorepacific Group seeks to change consumer sustainability of our products and brands by Beauty from Your Culture Campaign In 2017, Sulwhasoo expanded its traditional culture preservation activity “Sulwha Cultural by Sulwhasoo Exhibition”, which has been going on for 11 years in Korea and expanding to the global market to resource depletion by improving production perceptions and encourage participation in conducting sustainability assessments and spread brand’s sought value in traditional culture. processes, also to facilitate more people to sustainable consumption. In line with the making improvements accordingly. We will practice sustainable lifestyles. In addition to global expansion of our brands, we are also also offer opportunities for our consumers to In linkage to this exhibition, Beauty from Your Culture Campaign also begun in Korea, Mainland ensuring the sustainability of our products, expanding the scope of our campaign activities participate in value consumption and gain a China, Singapore and Malaysia during 2017. Sulwhasoo launched Beauty from Your Culture we are obliged to provide an appropriate to various regions across the globe. new perspective on sustainable consumption Limited Edition, consisting of its bestseller First Care Activating Serum EX, so that customers can platform through which consumers can by strengthening brand campaign activities. participate in the cultural mécénat activities by purchasing the product. better understand and practice responsible consumption. Through our brand campaigns, All sales created from the limited edition purchase will be used to support the artisans of Korean we promote sustainable consumption and 2017 Beauty from Your Culture tradition and cultural heritage preservation activities in Mainland China, Singapore and Malaysia. Limited Edition encourage consumers to play an active role in causing positive changes for the environment and society. Beauty from Your Culture Launching Countries and Number of Participants Proceed in four countries Participation by over 50,000 customers Korea, Mainland China, Singapore, Malaysia Refill Me Campaign by LANEIGE LANEIGE holds the Refill Me Campaign, which donates part of its sales proceeds to promote water Strengthening Brand Sustainability resource preservation and help people around the world to gain access to drinking water. In 2017, it launched the Water Sleeping Mask Refill Me Edition, a limited edition of its global bestselling product Water Sleeping Mask. By donating part of the sales proceeds to an NGO named Team and Developing Brand Sustainability In an effort to strengthen brand sustainability and competitiveness in the global market, Team, LANEIGE helped install underground water pumps in three African villages. Assessment factors Amorepacific Group has developed brand sustainability assessment factors reflecting consumers’ perception of sustainability. Upon review by experts in various fields including consumer The Refill Me Campaign is also held in other countries in which LANEIGE does business. In Mainland China, it donated part of its sales proceeds to World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) which was used research, brand development, and sustainability management, we defined the concept and to protect trees and water surrounding Qinghai Lake. In Malaysia, LANEIGE worked together with features of brand sustainability, and derived 30 assessment items from six dimensions. the Global Peace Foundation, setting up 30 water purifiers in four local villages to provide clean Based on the selected items, we conducted a pilot brand sustainability assessment by consumers. water to villagers. Other efforts were made in Hong Kong (China), Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand and Developed underground water pumps This assessment revealed the need to: (a) pursue brand sustainability based on brand philosophy Indonesia as part of the Refill Me Campaign through cooperation with local NGOs. in Africa and values that coincide with customer values and (b) communicate related efforts to consumers LANEIGE will continue to expand the Refill Me Campaign with the aim of helping more people gain more actively. We will further develop our brand sustainability assessments as we pursue access to clean water and lead healthy lives. sustainability at the strategic level. KRW 218.8 mn Developed factors Pursued sustainability and 2017 Refill Me Campaign of brand sustainability Undertook pilot study communication in line with Financial Contributions from sales proceeds evaluation brand and customer values 38 39 Sustainable Lifestyle Sustainable Lifestyle innisfree, Changing the World PLAYGREEN Campaign primera’s Love the Earth Campaign and Love the Earth Campaign through Daily Green Lifestyles In 2017, four countries including South Korea organized the PLAYGREEN Campaign. While Let’s Love Campaign primera’s Love the Earth Campaign supports global efforts to protect wetlands. In 2017, primera PLAYGREEN Class took place in Chengdu and Shanghai, Mainland China and Malaysia, and Eco cooperated with the Ramsar Regional Center-East Asia (RRC-EA), borrowing their expertise to Hankie Cinema in Taiwan, on September, the 4th “PLAYGREEN Festival” was held in South Korea. more directly engage in wetlands protection activities. By donating part of the sales proceeds from campaign goods to RRC-EA, we also contributed to wetlands preservation activities in Korea. In the 4th PLAYGREEN Festival held in Seoul, participants experienced an eco-friendly lifestyle In October 2017, it held ‘wetland art project’, a mini exhibition of illustrations and sculptures through various classes and activities under the theme of using handkerchiefs, and 10 million won by emerging artists who are inspired by the beauty of wetlands to raise public awareness of the of the proceeds from the campaign was donated to the innisfree Moeum Foundation to be used importance of preserving the wetlands. for its Forest Campaign. innisfree’s PLAYGREEN campaign poster primera, Love the Earth Campaign Eco Hankie Campaign Since 2010, innisfree has introduced eco-friendly handkerchiefs in stylish limited-edition designs each year, conveying the message that the simple act of reaching for a handkerchief over a tissue Let’s Love Campaign can help save a tree and protect our forests. In 2017, innisfree presented a set of handkerchiefs Launched in 2013, the Let’s Love Campaign improves the living conditions of girls in Jamui, India, inspired by Bijarim, Saryeoni and Gotjawal Forests in Jeju island, South Korea and Inner Mongolia, who have no access to education due to poverty and gender discrimination. Through Beautiful Fair Mainland China. innisfree will carry out various participatory campaign activities to encourage the Trade, primera uses mangoes grown in Jamui and donates 10 mango trees to families in Jamui use of handkerchiefs as a way of leading a green lifestyle. using the proceeds from the sales of its Mango Butter products. In the last four years, a total of 4,700 mango saplings were donated. In 2017, mangoes grown from these trees were harvested for the first time, thus realizing a donation system based on the circular economy beyond an event. Celebrating its first harvest, primera made pop-up book videos in November 2017 to share about primera’s Let’s Love Campaign the importance of the Let’s Love Campaign to consumers. innisfree, Eco-Handkerchiefs 40 41 Inclusive Growth Inclusive Growth 4 Create a great place to work by improving employees’ health and welfare. Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Implemented Global Talent Program Amorepacific Group has launched the “Hyecho” program, its global talent management program, since 2011. The goal of this program is to explore new markets and conduct consumer research We believe that fostering a workplace culture Our welfare policies and Great Work Place We will develop a variety of programs to within those markets. As of 2017, 167 employees have been sent to 26 countries. that celebrates diversity and providing each (GWP) program helps employees manage a improve our employees’ job satisfaction In 2017, 18 people were sent to 13 cities in 7 countries, including Russia, Mexico and Iran. Based individual with an opportunity to show their healthy work-life balance. Furthermore, we level, while reinforcing our safety and health on their analysis of the local markets and proposal for localized marketing, the Group established potential is the driving force of our sustainable train women leaders and are hiring more local programs applied in our domestic and overseas its entry strategies. They also carried out an in-depth analysis of regional characteristics and growth. We also recognize that providing a staff across the globe to promote diversity. business sites including research centers, beauty trends in Mainland China. safe work environment for our employees and In order to create a safe work envirment, we offices, plants, stores and distribution centers. the support they need to lead healthy lives is implement seven principles of safety and We will foster women leadership and global In 2018, we plan to introduce “Theme Hyecho,” who will explore new R&D and IT technologies, fundamental to secure both job satisfaction health and a SHE Safety, Health and Environment talent through various programs. in addition to “City Hyecho” who will lay the groundwork to enter into new markets in Poland and and corporate competitiveness. management system. Peru. Operating WeDream, Amorepacific provides a friendly workplace to the disabled through its subsidiary, “WeDream.” In Standard Workplaces for the Disabled Beauty Campus Osan’s Distribution Support Unit, 32 WeDream employees with disabilities are responsible for packaging our products. The work space is arranged in a way that allows them to both engage in manual labor and use automatic machines, depending on the type of work and skill level. WeDream offers various welfare programs for those with disabilities to communicate with each other and build self-confidence so that they can stand on their own as members of society. Promoting Employees’ Health and Welfare Strengthening Employee Health In 2017, Amorepacific Group provided useful health information to our employees through various in-house media: once a month via Intranet and three times a month via in-house broadcasting. and Welfare Programs Strengthening Safety and Health Management We also held CPR Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and AED Automated External Defibrillator training to give our employees the skills and confidence to respond in emergency situations. We intend to hold CPR/ AED training more frequently. From 2018, we will work together with AP-Severance Clinic to Safety Leadership Tour Program Based on its seven principles of safety and health, Amorepacific Group has newly introduced the “Safety Leadership Tour” program, which refers to a safety inspection under the leadership of the share more information on health programs and services. business site manager. The aim of a safety leadership tour is to create a safe work environment by In addition, we have built a 1,101m2 fitness center inside our new headquarters to promote our strengthening safety and health management and building awareness among employees. The tour employees’ health and improve their concentration at work. We will introduce various fitness involves an inspection of the work environment, health, hygiene, training management, emergency programs in the near future to enhance employee satisfaction with our fitness facilities. response and supplier management based on our SHE standards and regulations. In 2017, we launched a pilot program in Beauty Campus Osan and R&D Center, and expect to apply the program to all business sites, the headquarters, and major stores in 2018. Safety Leadership Tour Promoting Women Leadership and Diversity Strengthening Safety and To ensure the safety of our customers and employees in our stores, we have established safety Health Standards in Stores standards and rules that must be applied in store design and operation. In accordance with these standards, our stores must be designed in a way that ensures the proper Offering Women’s Leadership As the importance of women leadership is gaining greater emphasis in today’s global business installation of firefighting facilities, electric equipment, and storage facilities, secures pedestrian Cultivation Programs environment, Amorepacific Group has offered various women leadership programs. In 2017, safety, and allows for appropriate emergency response. Safety and health standards regarding store we conducted “Balance Coaching” program for women executives to help them find balance in operation regulate specific items including electric equipment, firefighting facilities, pedestrian their capabilities as leaders and “On boarding Coaching” program for new women executives safety, movement/storage of goods, and first aid. Our stores are strictly managed in accordance to transition into their new roles and adjust to changes. In 2018, we will introduce an in-house with these standards, and they apply a checklist to efficiently inspect and improve safety and healthmentoring system through which women leaders can share their experiences with future leaders. related matters. 42 43 Inclusive Growth Contribute to inclusive growth by actively New Headquarters: A Space for Creativity and Welfare 5 supporting our business partners’ development and growth. Communication and Connectivity: Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Building a Horizontal Workplace Culture The work environment inside our new headquarters is based on It is our belief that fostering inclusive growth In an effort to build a sound business ecosystem, We will increase the percentage of suppliers the theme of “connectivity”. We created a communicative space and the sustainability of all our business Amorepacific Group pursues the following who are able to meet targets as assessed by installing open desks with no partitions between colleagues, partners will have a positive impact on three strategic tasks: establishing a fair trade sustainabililty levels of ‘GOOD’ to more than vertically placing departments that perform interrelated tasks achieving long-term economic growth and relationship based on mutual trust, reinforcing 80% by 2020 by assessing their sustainability and using internal staircases to facilitate communication. We also other benefits for our society. By providing our the competitiveness of our suppliers for and providing the necessary support to improve promote horizontal communication by connecting the work spaces business partners with opportunities of highsustainable development by supporting their their capacity. We will double the number of for both executives and non-executive employees. quality jobs and participation in economic growth and innovation, and enhancing the benefit sharing projects with our suppliers activities, we hope to create a mutually sustainability of the overall supply chain. We (from 2016) and continue to provide financial beneficial (win-win) relationship and a positive have also established a “Good Jobs Strategy” for aids. Furthermore, to help strengthen our Internal staircases for free movement between the upper and lower floors cycle of inclusive growth. our beauty partners and offer various programs beauty partners’ core competencies, we will to provide decent working conditions. provide training and certification programs and support the improvement of their working conditions. Flexible Work Environment We provide a flexible work environment for our employees. In Supporting the Growth and Innovation of Suppliers addition to open desks with no partitions, which is the basic working environment, we also provide casual meeting rooms for up to four people and a focus work space for individuals who need to Financial Support Amorepacific provide loans to our suppliers at low interest rates using our KRW 20 billion Winwork intensively on their own. Win Partnership Fund, which provides direct assistance to suppliers, and our KRW 4 billion Mutual Growth Fund, which we jointly developed with the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK). As of 2017, we also run a KRW 550 million Mutual Growth Investment Fund to enhance our suppliers’ capacity. In April 2016, we revised our payment policy to ensure that all payments to small and mediumsized suppliers, with whom we have a fair trade agreement, are made 100% in cash within ten Flexible Work Environment days of receiving an invoice. By using the mutual growth partnership loan and cash payment monitoring system, we extend an inclusively beneficial payment system, offering prompt payment to small enterprises in the second and third tier supply chain. AP-Severance Clinic Amorepacific Group offers the AP-Severance Clinic in cooperation Supporting Technological Innovation Amorepacific operates the Business Partner Study Group on Innovation with the major suppliers with the Severance Hospital of Yonsei University Health System to help our suppliers to handle various challenges in the areas of cost reduction, production, in an effort to provide various medical services to our employees. product quality, distribution, production technology and equipment management. We also Services provided by the Family Practice Clinic include physician support innovation initiatives and provide consulting to that end. In 2017, seven partners who office visits, screening, treatment, vaccination, dietary consultation, had received low scores in the capacity evaluation participated in the Study Group, deriving medical exams and consultations, and overseas business trip major tasks regarding product quality, delivery and distribution, and undertaking voluntary steps support services. Physicians also provide consultation and screening for improvement. As a result, they received 10 more points (23% higher in score) in the 2017 of frequent health problems of office workers such as metabolic capacity evaluation as compared to the previous year. Furthermore, we undertook 30 benefit syndrome. The AP-Severance Clinic also runs a body remodeling sharing projects with our suppliers in 2017 by implementing an incentive based partnership center to help our employees deal with musculoskeletal disorders. mechanisms, while transferring four patents to small-and medium-sized enterprises at no cost through the “Patent Sharing Program” of the Amorepacific Jeju Center for Creative Economy and AP-Severance Clinic Innovation. 44 45 Inclusive Growth Inclusive Growth Strengthening the Infrastructures Since 2015, Amorepacific has provided both manpower and financial support for participating in exhibitions held overseas with the goal of securing a global market for 5~6 small and medium Strengthening the Professional Expertise of Our Beauty Partners sized suppliers. In 2016, five suppliers participated in overseas exhibitions, as a result of which thirteen new export innisfree Based on its pride and reputation in the cosmetics industry, innisfree runs professional makeup contracts were signed. In 2017, also five suppliers participated in overseas exhibitions, and we certification programs to strengthen the professional expertise of Green-Us (beauty partners) and Running Professional Makeup held the Global Smart Talent Training in cooperation with the Korea Small Business Institute prior offer professional makeup application to customers in stores. The programs include both theoryto participating in overseas exhibitions. Certification Programs based learning for acquiring basic knowledge and practice-based learning for improving practical for Green-Us Through our Consortium for HRD Ability Magnified Program, established to provide training skills. Green-Us with over six months of continuous service are eligible to apply, and those who courses to employees of small-and medium-sized suppliers and facilitating human resource have obtained certification are given their own kits so that they feel motivated to provide better management, we opened 33 training courses and provided cosmetics industry-related education services to customers. As of 2017, a total of 196 Green-Us completed the makeup course and 86 to 1,538 employees of 341 suppliers. of them passed the makeup certification examination as they increased their expertise and are able to provide professional service to customers. Energy Partnership Program Amorepacific seeks to respond to global climate change by working together with our suppliers. Participating in the Energy Partnership Program organized by the Korea Energy Agency, we have assessed the current status of energy use by our small and medium-sized suppliers and proposed measures to enhance energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. No. of Trainees to Complete the Makeup Certification Program 196 persons No. of Trainees to Pass the Makeup Certification Examination 86 persons In 2017, we undertook sustainability assessments of our critical suppliers and supported five suppliers for those who were found to be vulnerable in terms of environmental management. We identified 14 tasks to enhance their core competencies and improve environmental management. We will fund facility investments required for executing these tasks, through which we expect to ETUDE To strengthen the capacity of beauty partners, “Sweeties,” ETUDE introduced a color-training reduce 411.54 tCO2 of GHGs annually. Introduced Color Training program in 2017. Approximately 520 Sweeties nationwide participated in three-month color training consisting of lectures on chromatology, personal color theory, and color draping. The for Sweeties Supporting the Growth program was followed up by practice-based training using products and follow-up sessions since May 2017. and Innovation of Suppliers In 2018, ETUDE newly established a color draping master course and further advanced its professional color and make-up training, through which Sweeties first become makeup masters, then color-draping masters, and finally S-MAs Sales Makeup Artist. Ultimately, the goal is to help its Sweeties grow into color professionals. Supporting Financial Strengthening Technological Support the Infrastructures Innovation · KRW 24 bn · 10 points (23%) increase · 5 companies Low-Interest Loan Fund Improvement in the capacity Number of companies participating in evaluation score of companies overseas exhibitions Color training manual participating in Business Partner Study Group on Innovation · KRW 550 mn · 30 projects · 1,538 persons Mutual Growth Investment Fund Number of benefit sharing initiative Number of suppliers’ employees AMOS Professional AMOS Professional offers specialized training to Beauty Masters, referring to salespersons for the projects for suppliers implemented participating in the HRD Consortium Offering Specialized Training brand’s authorized retail stores. The training program ranges from “PRE ABC” which is completed program by new Beauty Masters before they commence sales activities, to sharing business know-how to Strengthen the Capacity of · 100% in cash within a 10 day · 18 persons · Establishment of courses to to be applied in actual business settings. By developing a more systematic program for Beauty foster Global Smart Talent Beauty Masters Payment period to suppliers with fair Personnel dispatched for quality and Masters at different levels of professional experience, AMOS Professional hopes to build win-win trade agreements technology transfers Education for suppliers’ employees to relationships with them. 46 facilitate global business expansion 47 Inclusive Growth ‘20 by 20’ commitment support the health, Osulloc Farm Achieves Mutual Growth by Growing Organic Ginseng 6 well-being, and economic empowerment of 200,000 women by 2020. Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Recent issues regarding residual pesticides in ginseng and its place of origin have resulted in a decline in both consumer trust and the Amorepacific Group seeks to grow with the Our aim is to beautify the lives of women Amorepacific Group will support the health consumption of Korean ginseng. Against this background, Osulloc local community while fulfilling its social by supporting the health, well-being, and and well-being of over 49,000 women and Farm has developed a new cultivation method for the production responsibility as a global corporate citizen. As economic empowerment of 200,000 women economic development of over 1,000 women of organic ginseng and shared it with ginseng farms across the a company that has grown by serving women, by 2020. To this end, we are enhancing the each year with an annual budget of at least nation. To support the cultivation of organic ginseng, we provided we believe that making women’s lives more quality of women’s lives in various nations KRW 7 billion. In 2018, we will extend our consultation and demonstration sessions for farmers, while beautiful is the way to make a more beautiful and regions including Korea, Mainland China, activities into the ASEAN regions. establishing a systematic purchasing process and strengthening world. We aim to beautify the lives of women Singapore, Hong Kong (China), Taiwan, and pesticide detection tests. by supporting their health, well-being and Vietnam. In addition, we strive to fulfill our economic empowerment, so that they can live corporate social responsibility and share our Through these efforts, we regained consumer trust in ginseng as their best in a more beautiful world. vision with more people by participating a raw ingredient, provided a stable market for ginseng farms, and in the United Nations’ Every Woman Every reduced environmental impact by using an organic cultivation Osulloc Farm, Research on Organic Ginseng Cultivation Child movement, which aims to intensify method. Osulloc Farm will strive to strengthen a cooperative international action to ensure the health and structure which will enable farms, consumers, and Osulloc Farm to well-being of women and children around the all grow together. world. Mind Care Program Supporting Women’s Health and Well-being Contributed to reducing women’s cancer Amorepacific Group carries out various activities to help more women enhance their health and mortality and improving the lives of happiness in their lives by reducing the women’s cancer mortality rate and improving the lives of women’s cancer patients. ARITAUM offers a variety of mind-care programs for its beauty women's cancer patients partners to help prevent and release work-related stress and For women in their 20s and 30s, we have been carrying out an awareness raising campaign to emotional demands. “Delivery Dreamers” is a program designed promote the importance of breast cancer prevention and self-exams. For women in their 30s and to listen to the concerns of beauty partners and offer counseling as 40s, we offer the Pink Tour Program to provide education on self-examination for early detection they meet each month to discuss how to cope with stress. In 2017, of breast cancer and promote breast health. We provide financial support for women in their ARITAUM introduced a new program named “Beauty Inside” with 40s and 50s to take breast cancer screenings and fund breast cancer surgeries, while offering the goal of helping its beauty partners find stronger motivation for psychological recovery programs for breast cancer patients in their 50s. their work. While our activities supporting women’s cancers have so far been limited to Korea, we are now ETUDE also runs various mind-care programs to strengthen a sense expanding these efforts to reach women in other countries across the globe. By identifying which of camaraderie between its beauty partners (Sweeties) and improve types of cancers have high incidence rates by region, we undertake activities to raise awareness of their job satisfaction through communication workshops, mindthose cancers and support early detection through self-exams and medical screening. healing programs, wellness programs (weight loss, massage, etc.) and personal development education. Number of beneficiaries and expenditure (2017) ETUDE, Activities of Mind Care Programs No. of beneficiaries 143,722 persons Expenditure KRW 4.78 bn 48 49 Inclusive Growth ‘20 by 20’ Commitment: Supporting 200,000 Women by 2020 The ‘20 by 20’ Commitment is our promise that we will beautify Global Performance (2017) women’s lives by supporting the health, well-being, and economic empowerment of 200,000 women by 2020. Based No. of beneficiaries on our experiences and activities in Korea, we are expanding our Strengthening Women’s Economic Empowerment influence to other parts of the world in which our business sites are located. In addition to Korea, five of our global offices in Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong (China), Vietnam, and Singapore also 145,405 persons Amorepacific Group introduced a door-to-door cosmetics sales system in 1964, in a way to support women participated in the ‘20 by 20’ Commitment in 2017. to achieve financial independence as the breadwinner of their families during the post-war period. Against Expenditure this backdrop, we are currently engaged in various activities to help women stand on their own financially ‘20 by 20’ Activities by overseas offices and achieve gender equality. KRW 8.06 bn Amorepacific Group actively supports the prevention and treatment of breast cancer and cervical cancer, two types of cancer showing high incidence rates among Chinese women. We offer free examinations pertaining to these two types of cancer for women Support women’s economic Amorepacific Group supports the employment of women in socially vulnerable groups. To this end, in low-income regions and regions with high incidence rates in empowerment, thereby contributing to our Beautiful Life Campaign provides technical training and mentoring in support of job-seeking Mainland China. Furthermore, we promote awareness-raising low-income women. Through these programs, 47% of all participants obtained professional women’s self-reliance and prevention activities, in addition to holding campaigns to certificates and 21% found employment or started their own businesses, having a positive emphasize the importance of early detection of two types of cancers influence on increasing women’s income overall. -breast cancer and cervical cancer. We also support women’s financial and social independence through our Hope Store program, In 2017, our global offices in Hong Kong (China), Taiwan, Vietnam, a start-up assistance program designed to support low-income single mother households. As and Singapore joined in various activities to help women’s cancer of 2017, 334 stores (cumulative) have opened up and beneficiaries have reported that starting patients recover from their diseases and return to their everyday Korea their own business has increased not only their household income but also gained enhanced selflives. Our Hong Kong Office, in particular, supported campaign confidence while providing psychological stability to their children as well. activities to raise public awareness of female hereditary cancers (e.g. Mainland “Makeup ARTIST on the Go” is another signature CSR program that supports girls who aspire to be breast cancer). China make-up artists. Through the program, we provide professional training and scholarships, helping girls pursue their dream of becoming professional make-up artists. Taiwan Amorepacific Group will continue to support women achieve financial independence and the selfconfidence to help them live their best lives as healthy and productive members of society. Hong Kong (China) Number of beneficiaries and expenditure (2017) Vietnam No. of beneficiaries 1,683 persons Expenditure KRW 3.28 bn Singapore Region Program Beneficiaries (person) Expenditure (KRW mn) Korea makeup your Life, Pink Ribbon Campaign, Hope Store, Beautiful Life, Makeup ARTIST on the Go 46,463 5,988.4 Beautiful Life · Supporting job-seeking women to ensure their self-reliance Mainland China makeup your Life, MORI Run, Screening for Breast/Cervical Cancer 98,726 1,913.0 Taiwan makeup your Life, Pink Heels Race Campaign 101 99.5 · Supporting start-up of single mothers Hong Kong (China) makeup your Life 24 21.6 Hope Store · Opened 334 stores (cumulative) Vietnam makeup your Life 46 32.4 Singapore makeup your Life 45 5.3 Makeup ARTIST · Professional education on makeup skills on the Go · Support scholarships 50 51 Circular Economy Circular Economy 7 Reduce our CO2 emissions by 30% per tonne of production from a 2015 baseline. Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan Applying Renewable Energy Amorepacific applies renewable energy to reduce GHG emissions caused by energy consumption in production sites. In 2018, we installed a 140kW of solar power generation system at our Since the Paris Agreement entered into We are expanding the use of renewable In 2018, we will launch project to install Daily Beauty production site, and plan to install about 1MW of solar power generation system in force in November 2016, the international energy, including solar power, within our sites solar panels in Daily Beauty production site, Beauty Campus Osan and Beauty Campus Shanghai. We will continue our efforts to explore how community has been working toward and enhancing energy efficiency by upgrading Beauty Campus Osan, and Beauty Campus renewable energy can be further applied in our existing and new business sites based on our longthe common goal of keeping the global our facilities. We will also establish long-term Shanghai. By 2018, we aim to reduce the GHG term plan to switch to renewable energy. temperature rise below 2℃ above pregoals and strategies to finally achieve carbonemission intensity by 1% compared to 2015 industrial levels. The Agreement also requires free status. by introducing more efficient facilities and businesses to respond to global climate increasing the energy efficiency. Applying Renewable change by reducing GHG emissions. Energy As a responsible global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group seeks to achieve the carbon-free status of zero GHG emissions by undertaking the following activities: through our process of applying renewable energy and New Daily Beauty Beauty Campus Beauty Campus improving energy efficiency, we managed Headquarters Production Site Osan Shanghai to reduce GHG emissions throughout the entire business process and offset our carbon emissions by engaging in various corporate activities. 3,450 kW 140 kW 1,000 kW 50 kW · Solar power generation · Solar power generation · Solar power generation · Solar power generation (Scheduled for 2018) (Scheduled for 2018) · Solar heat generation · Geothermal heat generation Reducing GHG Throughout Product Lifecycle Reducing GHG in Our Through various efforts in 2017 to increase energy consumption efficiency and improve heating Production and Distribution and cooling systems, we reduced GHG emissions in our production and distribution sites and Amorepacific Group undertakes various strategic actions to minimize environmental impact throughout the offices. At our distribution centers, we switched all lighting to LED bulbs and carried out activities lifecycle of its products from product development to disposal. Sites and Offices to prevent energy loss and increase the energy efficiency of our heating and cooling systems. Applying Energy Saving Since 2014, Amorepacific Group has developed and applied a energy saving process technology to Process Technology reduce energy use when producing emulsion products such as lotions and creams. Energy saving Installation of Replacement with Insulation process technology includes the following three technologies: a) low temperature emulsification a Natural Cooling System high-efficiency lights process that uses cold water when mixing with hot oil, b) multi-stage emulsification process that emulsifies oil in water at high temperature while only exposing a minimum amount of mixture to high temperature, and c) emulsification process at room temperature without the need for heating or cooling. Compared to the existing emulsification process, our processes reduced energy use by 20%, 40%, and 100%, respectively. In 2017, we applied 43 products including Sulwhasoo, Annual reduction of Annual reduction of Annual reduction of LANEIGE, and Mamonde in Beauty Campus Osan, Daily Beauty production site and Beauty Campus 60 tCO2eq of GHG 71 tCO2eq of GHG 7 tCO2eq of GHG Shanghai. Reduction of Reduction of Reduction of KRW 20 mn KRW 30 mn KRW 10 mn 52 53 Circular Economy New Headquarters: Eco-friendly Building The new headquarters of Amorepacific pursues eco-friendliness 8 Improve resource efficiency by promoting reuse and recycle. and efficient energy use. Certified as a ‘Highest grade in Green Standard for Energy and Environmental Design (G-SEED)’ and ‘First grade in Building Energy Efficiency Rating’, the new headquarters Why we act Our approach Achievement Plan has been designed to reduce energy use by 37.6% against expected consumption through various energy-efficiency systems. Rising consumption from population growth As part of our efforts to ensure efficient use By 2020, our goal is to reduce water use per and unsustainable consumption has led to of water resources and to increase recycling tonne of production by 22% in Korea and 41% natural resource depletion and increase of and reuse, we have strived to improve the in Mainland China (from a 2015 baseline) by Enhancing Energy Efficiency waste throughout the world. It is becoming operational efficiency of water usage at our recycling wastewater and increasing rainwater Our new headquarters recycles heat energy through air increasingly important to switch from the production sites, to recycle rainwater and storage facilities. We will also improve the conditioning facilities that apply a waste heat recovery system. In current “linear economy,” in which resources wastewater and to reuse condensed water resource efficiency of our packaging materials addition, we installed facilities to enhance energy efficiency, such as are used to make products and then discarded produced during the water ionization process. by applying eco-friendly materials and high-efficiency certified transformers, high-efficiency motors, and after use, to a “circular economy,” in which We are also undertaking activities to reduce reducing the amount of packaging materials. power factor correction capacitors. resource use and disposal is minimized the amount of non-recyclable waste produced through reuse and recycling. Amorepacific within our production sites and increase waste All lighting within the building uses energy-efficient LED bulbs, Group seeks to contribute to building a recycling. while applying the DALI Digital Addressable Lightening Interface system, a digital circular economy by reducing environmental lighting system that automatically adjusts lighting intensity by impact and improving resource efficiency detecting the amount of natural light available, and a human through the circular use of resources. detection sensor system, which controls lighting based on detection of human presence. Through these efforts, we have minimized any unnecessary power usage. The ceiling of the lobby area is made with Skylight (glass ceiling) to allow as much natural light as possible into the building while the vertical pins installed along the curtain wall block out the sun’s Management of Water Resources and Waste rays. Above-New Amorepacific Headquarters Below-Curtain wall on the outer wall Amorepacific Group recognizes water shortages as a serious global problem. We conducted water risk assessment in physical, regulatory, and reputation perspective within our production sites using the Water Risk Assessment Tool developed by the World Wildlife Fund WWF . We strive to improve water resource efficiency by reducing the amount of water use in production Applying Renewable Energy processes and increasing water recycling and reuse. In our new headquarters, renewable energy is used in a variety of Waste generated in production sites is treated according to the 3R principle Reduce, Reuse, Recycle in an ways. The geothermal heat system uses the ground temperature effort to minimize resource use and expand resource recycling. In particular, we try to find the to control our heating and air conditioning systems. The solar heat optimal recycling measures for each type of waste by categorizing them by type and trait. system stores the heat energy from solar power so that it can be used as an energy source, while the photovoltaic system generates electric power from sunlight. Through these measures, we generate approximately 7.2% of our energy with renewable energy. Reduce 3R ㆍMinimize the use of resources Principles ㆍExpand circular use of resources Reuse Recycle Solar power Geothermal heat Solar heat Photovoltaic Panel on the Rooftop of the New Headquarters 350kW 3,100kW 196m2 54 55 Circular Economy Circular Economy Recycling and Reuse of Water Amorepacific reduces water use through wastewater recycling and the reuse systems within its production sites. Applying Eco-friendly Packaging Materials In 2017, we tripled our rainwater storage facilities in Beauty Campus Osan to increase rainwater use, through which it expects to reduce 20,000 tonnes of water, equivalent to approximately 10% Applying Eco-friendly Packaging Materials of its annual water use. It also adopted a wastewater recycling system using membrane filtration, Amorepacific Group applies bioplastics and recycled plastic materials to our products to reduce allowing recycling of first-treatment wastewater into landscaping and cleaning water. environmental impact from packaging materials. Also, it expects to reduce annual water use by 6,000 tonnes by reusing condensed water produced Bioplastics, entirely or partly made from renewable biomass sources, are used for PET, LDPE plastic during the water ionization process as first washing water in Beauty Campus Shanghai. bottles and wet puffs. Bio-based PET bottles were applied to 68 items in 2017. Recycled plasticsPacificglas reduces water use by recycling effluent water from wastewater treatment facility. specifically PCR Post-Consumer Recycled PP and PETG-are used by innisfree and ETUDE House. It ensures the safety of recycled water by establishing a first chlorination and second filtration Furthermore, we prepared guidelines for using eco-friendly plastics for different types of system. Filtered recycled water is then used as landscaping and cleaning water. Through these mise-en-scène Perfect Serum Original containers and shared it with the department in charge of packaging development to apply ecoefforts, it saved approximately 3,500 tonnes of water in 2017 and continues to expand recycling. Shampoo and Conditioner friendly plastics more efficiently. Applied Bio-based PET made from sugar cane in 95% of product packaging to minimize the use of non-renewable petroleum-based derivatives and Optimizing Water Use 68 items Amorepacific has optimized the cleaning process and adopted an automatic cleaning system for response to depletion of natural resources Number of products using major facilities in order to enhance the efficiency of water use within its production sites. As a Bio-based PET containers result, it reduced water use by 34% compared to the former manual cleaning system and cleaning time by 59%. Through various efforts to improve water efficiency, approximately 35,000 tonnes of surface water and underground water was reduced and KRW 100 million saved in Beauty Campus Osan in 2017. Reducing the use of packaging materials Water Consumption Reduction Effect (Beauty Campus Osan) Amorepacific Group minimizes unnecessary product packaging for efficient resource use. In 2017, we reduced the weight of packaging materials used in Ryo Jayangyunmo Anti Hair Loss Treatment 35,000 tonnes by approximately 11.4% by reducing the number of parts for its safe touch cap. Water Use Reduction Cost Reduction KRW 100 mn The packaging weight of Mamonde Brightening Cover Powder Cushion and 14 other products was reduced by 21.2% by changing the cases’ structure. Reducing packaging weight has resulted in enhanced portability of the products and reduction of plastic use by 5.6 tonnes in 2017. Mamonde Brightening Cover Powder Cushion Furthermore, as part of our efforts to simplify the disposal process, shrinkable film was used on all Reduction of packaging case weight by 21.2% and plastic use by 5.6 tonnes in 2017 through packaging labels of Ryo Damage Care Shampoo and Conditioner, thereby reducing environmental packaging reform impact caused by label production and facilitating separate disposal. 56 57 GREENCYCLE Campaign: A MORE Creative Recycling of Resources Beautiful World GREENCYCLE is Amorepacific Group’s eco-friendly CSR program Key Achievements of GREENCYCLE designed to promote sustainable lifestyle that values life in coexistence with nature. Our main activities include not only Used container collected recycling used cosmetics bottles collected from our brand shops, but also include “upcyling” various by-products produced through manufacturing processes into beautiful artworks. As part of the campaign, we have undertaken various challenges such as 1,458 tonnes producing cosmetic packaging from used containers and plastic raw materials and upcycling by-products into vases, scented candles and art pieces through consumer participation. In April Equivalent to planting 2017, we promoted the GREENCYCLE Campaign in Cheonggye Plaza, sharing the importance of resource recycling and introducing upcycled art pieces to the citizens of Seoul. In December 2017, we 17,475 young pine trees worked together with Touch4Good, a Korean social enterprise that A 10-Year Journey of specializes in recycling, and succeeded in recycling used containers into plastic pellets. Sustainability Management Since the launch of the Campaign, we have collected 1,458 tonnes of containers as of 2017 as part of our efforts to contribute to the circular use of resources. We are also working to achieve higher efficiency of resource use through continued research on recycling and upcycling methods. GREENCYCLE Campaign in Cheonggye Plaza 58 59 Our 10-Years Journey Toward A MORE Beautiful World For the past ten years, Amorepacific Group has continued its journey of creating A MORE Beautiful World for our customers, the environment and society. Since announcing the “Unlimited Liability” campaign for the environment in 1993, we established sustainability management strategies and operating systems in 2008 in an effort to systematically carry out our sustainability management activities, followed by publishing the first Sustainability Report in the beauty industry the following year. Since then, we have actively promoted communications with our stakeholders and carried out various innovation activities to provide them with better values. As we continue our journey, we will relentlessly take on new challenges to create A MORE Beautiful World with society. 2012 2013 2018 ㆍ Acquired certificate on the grant of plant variety right ㆍ Announced a ban on unnecessary animal testing on Cosmetics ㆍ Published the 10th Amorepacific Group for Chrysanthemum indicum var. albescens ㆍ Expanded Beautiful Fair Trade agreement to overseas Sustainability Report ㆍ Established sustainability guidelines (Indian mango seeds) and the sustainability assessment for suppliers ㆍ Concluded mutual growth agreements ㆍ Expanded the Win-Win Partnership Fund with 67 suppliers for the first time for suppliers to KRW 20 billion ㆍ Undertook the Consortium for HRD Ability Magnified Program ㆍ Obtained Green Building Certification for the training of supplier employees for Beauty Campus Osan ㆍ Celebrated the 10th anniversary of Hope Store ㆍ Received the Presidential Citation as Company and opened 202 stores in total(cumulative) with Excellent Gender Equality Culture 2011 2014 2017 2008 ㆍ Established the Sustainability Management Team ㆍ Launched the makeup your Life ㆍ Published the first Amorepacific China Sustainability Report ㆍ Established the global SHE management system ㆍ Re-established the 2020 Sustainable Vision and Targets and endorsed the SDGs ㆍ Established sustainability management in Mainland China Office ㆍ Announced the ‘20 by 20’ Commitment ㆍ Established the sustainable technology roadmap strategies and systems and extend our activities into the ASEAN regions ㆍ Held the first Dialogue with Stakeholders ㆍ Included in the FTSE4Good Index (Amorepacific) 2009 2010 2015 2016 ㆍ Announced sustainability management ㆍ Established sustainable ㆍ Published the first Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report ㆍ Expanded the Pink Ribbon Campaign ㆍ Published the first Amorepacific Sustainability Report product development criteria ㆍ Introduced the Benefit Sharing Initiative for suppliers to the Mainland China Office ㆍ Concluded the first Beautiful Fair Trade agreement and launched the MORI Run ㆍ Convened the first Sustainability Management Committee ㆍ Received the Consumer Staples Sector Winners (Jeju Camellia Village) ㆍ Revised the Global SHE standards ㆍ Launched the GREENCYCLE Campaign for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (Amorepacific Group) ㆍ Established Absolute Quality standards and improved the audit system (collection of used cosmetic containers) ㆍ China Office receives an excellence award for exceptional and operated Subcommittee on Quality Management ㆍ Established the process and framework CSR performance among Korean companies in Mainland China ㆍ Established biodiversity conservation strategies for sustainability assessment for ingredients and activities ㆍ Included in the DJSI World for the first time in the Korean cosmetics industry (Amorepacific) 60 61 Our 10-Years Journey of Sustainability Management: Highlights Ratio of Amorepacific Group has made positive changes in the business ecosystem Inclusive Growth Women in Management Increased by strengthening sustainability management in all of our business endeavors. 6.6% 17.2% 27.1% Throughout the past decade, our efforts in sustainability management have helped 4.1 fold our stakeholders switch to a sustainable lifestyle, facilitated inclusive growth 2008 2013 2017 with other members of the business ecosystem, and contributed to protecting the environment. Moving forward, we will actively explore and address new social Mutual Growth Fund 245.5 and environmental challenges, dedicating ourselves to creating A MORE Beautiful World. (KRW 100 mn) 200 50 2008 2013 2017 Number of Beneficiaries of 490,122 Women’s Health & Well-being 190,467 and Economic Empowerment 53,395 Programs Number of Sustainable Sustainable Products Increased Lifestyle 8 340 860 108 fold 2008 2013 2017 2008 2013 2017 GHG Emissions per Tonne of Production 1.440 Circular Economy (tCO2eq/KRW 100 mn) 1.006 Reduced by 9 0.818 Number of Beautiful Fair 43% Trade Agreements 2008 2013 2017 3 Cumulative Generation from 2011 133 Renewable Energy 2010 2017 (MWh) 2013 627 2017 1,430 Number of Products Using Recycled or Bio-based 114 Plastic Containers 25 2 Cumulative Amount of Used Container Collected 431.2 1,458.3 from GREENCYCLE 2.9 Campaign 2010 2014 2017 (Tonnes) 2009 2013 2017 *GHG emissions per tonne of production are calculated based on Amorepacific, and others are based on Amorepacific Group. 62 63 Major Awards and Recognitions A MORE Beautiful World Amorepacific Group discloses information on environmental, social and governance (ESG) in a transparent and reliable manner based on its 2020 Sustainability Commitments. By participating in a variety of global sustainability initiatives, Amorepacific Group has been recognized for its sustainability performance through domestic and global evaluations including socially responsible investments (SRI). Included in the DJSI Korea Index Recognized by CDP Korea as a Climate for 8 Consecutive Years Change Response Carbon Management Sector Winners in the Consumer The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is an SRI standards system evaluating the Staples Industry sustainability performance of companies by The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), operating comprehensively assessing their economic, in more than 30 countries, collects information environmental and social aspects, jointly on companies’ climate change activities developed by the world's largest provider and performances and uses it to evaluate of financial market indices, S&P Dow Jones investments by investment agencies, legislation Indices and RobecoSam, an investment of government policies and corporate Amorepacific Group will continue specialist focused exclusively on Sustainability benchmarking. Amorepacific was selected as Investing. Amorepacific was included in the a carbon management sector winner by CDP to work towards sustainability DJSI for eight consecutive years. Korea for response to climate change. through innovation and pioneering spirit. Included in the FTSE4Good Index for 7 Most Admired Companies in Korea Consecutive Years 2018 All Star Company and 1st Place in Cosmetics Industry An important standard in sustainability investments, FTSE4Good Index companies “KOREA’s Most Respected Companies” selects have been jointly selected by the Financial 30 All Star companies and the top company Times and London Stock Exchange since in each industry, in consideration of their 2001. To be included in the FTSE4Good innovation efforts, shareholders, employees, Index, companies must satisfy ethical, social customer and social values. and environmental standards. Amorepacific has been included in the Index for seven Amorepacific was selected as an All Star consecutive years. Company as well as the top company in the cosmetics industry, proving its outstanding social value. *All these awards and recognition pertain to Amorepacific-a major subsidiary of the Amorepacific Group. 64 65 3 Sustainability Amorepacific Group strengthens sustainability management in all of our business endeavors, encouraging stakeholder engagement and communication based on trust, and seeks to Management System build a strong foundation for sustainable growth. Governance Amorepacific Group implements a responsible management system for each business, centered on the deliberative corporate governance Independence of BOD The BOD guarantees the independence of non-executive directors to actively state their opinions on overall structure of our holding company. Our efforts allow us to professionalize and reinforce our core competency and expertise in beauty and healthcare management. The ratio of non-executive directors at Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific is maintained at businesses, which include cosmetics, personal care and healthcare products. In addition, our corporate governance structure contributes to 50% and 57%, respectively. The independence of non-executive directors is guaranteed in accordance with the generating sustainable values for all stakeholders, including strong shareholder returns and the disbursement of management risks. Commercial Act of Korea. Board of Directors (BOD): As the highest decision-making body, the Board of Directors (BOD) of Amorepacific Group consists of six Criteria of the Independence of Outside Directors (Article 382 of the Commercial Act) Composition and Authority registered members as of March 2018. The BOD of Amorepacific consists of seven registered members. Pursuant to the Commercial Act of Korea and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, all directors on both Where any outsider director falls under any of the following subparagraphs, he/she shall be removed from office: boards are obligated to faithfully exercise their fiduciary duties and fulfill their responsibilities as good managers 1. Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company, or directors, auditors, executive directors to promote the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the last two years; 2. The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person; Amorepacific Group BOD (As of March 2018) 3. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation; Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility Industry Experience Committee Activities 4. The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive directors; Executive Directors Suh Kyung-bae CEO Supervision of management Head of Planning and Coordination of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Management Committee 5. The directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company; CEO of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee Current Chairman and CEO of Amorepacific Group 6. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business relations with Bae Dong-hyun President Supervision of management Chief Financial Officer of Amorepacific Management Committee the company; Executive Vice President of Corporate Support Unit Risk Management Committee 7. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company for which directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve at Amorepacific as directors and executive directors. Current President of Amorepacific Group Kim Seung-hwan Executive Vice HR Senior Vice President of Planning Innovation at Strategy Risk Management Committee President and Finance, Amorepacific Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning Division at Amorepacific Group Current Executive Vice President of Group HR Unit at Transparency of the Executive directors and non-executive directors are appointed by the approval of the General Shareholders’ Amorepacific Group Meeting upon recommendation by the BOD and nomination by the Non-executive Director Recommendation BOD Election Process Non-executive Shin Dong-youb Professor at Yonsei Audit Committee Member Deputy Director of Yonsei Sangnam Institute of Management Audit Committee Committee, respectively. For recommendation of non-executive directors, Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific Directors University School of Director, Korean Association of Human Resource Development Non-executive Director Business Recommendation Committee convene the Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee as a non-standing committee. The Nonexecutive Director Recommendation Committee recommends candidates to the BOD based on an evaluation Lee Ok-sub Vice President of Audit Committee Member Executive Vice President of Amorepacific R&D Center Audit Committee SK Bioland Co., Ltd. of their independence from the company and the largest shareholder, and their professional expertise required President, The Society of Cosmetic Scientists of Korea Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee by global companies. The BOD decides and submits the final candidate to the General Shareholders’ Meeting Choi Jung-il Director at Sejong Audit Committee Member Ambassador to India Audit Committee which then decides whether or not to elect the candidate in question. Prior to the General Shareholders’ Institute Ambassador to Germany Non-executive Director Meeting, personal information of the candidate is officially announced on the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Recommendation Committee Transfer (DART) System of the Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr). Amorepacific BOD (As of March 2018) Category Name Position/Affiliation Key Responsibility Industry Experience Committee Activities Committees under BOD In order to faithfully fulfill the responsibilities and roles of the BOD, Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific Executive Directors Suh Kyung-bae CEO Supervision of Management Head of Planning and Coordination of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Management Committee have four committees under the BOD: Audit Committee, Management Committee, Non-executive Director CEO of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee Current Chairman and CEO of Amorepacific Recommendation Committee and Risk Management Committee. The Audit Committee consists only of nonAhn Sae-hong President Supervision of Management Senior Vice President of Amorepacific Market Sales Management Committee executive directors to assure fairness and transparency of management. Director of innisfree Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee Current President of Amorepacific Committees under the BOD (As of March 2018) Lee Sang-mok Executive Vice Management Support Senior Vice President of Finance at Amorepacific Management Committee President Current Executive Vice President of Corporate Support Unit at Risk Management Committee Committee Key Responsibilities and Activities Amorepacific Non-executive Kim Seong-su Professor at Seoul Audit Committee member President of Korea Institute of Management Case Research Audit Committee Audit Committee Performs audits on the company’s financial and business affairs in accordance Directors National University Director at Korean Academy of Organization and Non-executive Director with the laws and the Articles of Incorporation or the regulations of the BOD, Business School Management, Korea Industrial Relations Association Recommendation Committee and handles matters delegated by the BOD Eom Young-ho Professor at Yonsei Audit Committee member Economist at Federal Reserve Bank of New York Audit Committee University School of Chairman of Disciplinary Committee at Korea Exchange Non-executive Director Management Committee Deliberates and resolves general managerial matters delegated by the BOD in Business Recommendation Committee President of Korea Derivatives Association accordance with the purpose of the Committee which is to promote expertise Park Seung-ho Professor at China Overall business management Head of Samsung Economic Research Institute Beijing Office and efficiency in decision-making in management Europe International Business School (CEIBS) Non-executive Director Authority to recommend non-executive directors at the General Shareholders’ Recommendation Committee Meeting Kim Jin-young Head of Yonsei Audit Committee member CFO of Shinsegae Chosun Hotel Audit Committee University Health Current Adjunct Professor at Yonsei University School of Non-executive Director System Severance Medicine Medical Education Management Unit Recommendation Committee Risk Management Discusses, evaluates and resolves general matters relating to management risks, Hospital Creative Center Committee including risk prevention and management/post-management of actual risks 68 69 Activities of BOD In 2017, Amorepacific Group convened five BOD meetings and decided on 11 items with 100% attendance Shareholders rate for both executive and non-executive directors. Amorepacific also convened five BOD meetings and decided on 11 items in 2017 with 100% attendance rate for both executive and non-executive directors. Key resolutions made by the Board in 2017 were notified to shareholders and other stakeholders through official Domestic announcements of the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange. Individual Treasury stock Investors 0.1% Activities of the Amorepacific Group Board of Directors (2017) 1.4% Major shareholder and Domestic Individual Session Date Topic and Contents Attendance Rate Treasury Investors Amorepacific Group stock affiliated parties 1 2017.02.02 Reporting of management status for 2016 and the operation and evaluation 100% 5.3% 35.4% of internal accounting management system 6.7% 62.9% Domestic 2 2017.02.20 Matter of convening the regular General Shareholders’ Meeting and approving 100% Domestic Institutional submitted agenda items Institutional Investors Matter of resolving the agenda of 58th (2016) cash dividends Investors 12.2% 3 2017.04.24 Reporting of management status for the first quarter of 2017 100% 8.1% Amorepacific Group Major shareholder Amorepacific 4 2017.07.25 Reporting of management status for the first half of 2017 and appointment 100% Foreign and affiliated of compliance support officer Investors parties 5 2017.10.30 Reporting of management status for the third quarter of 2017 and the inspection 100% 20.9% 14.1% outcome regarding compliance with compliance control standards Matter of changing the location of the headquarters Foreign Investors Activities of the Amorepacific Board of Directors (2017) 32.8% Session Date Topic and Contents Attendance Rate 1 2017.02.02 Reporting of management status for 2016 and the operation and evaluation 100% of internal accounting management system Sustainability In an effort to create A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific Group has set out three focus areas (sustainable Matter of approving the 11th (2016) financial statements and sales report lifestyle, inclusive growth, circular economy) and eight commitments of the 2020 Sustainability Goals. Each Management 2 2017.02.20 Matter of convening the regular General Shareholders’ Meeting and approving 100% Committee year, we draw and implement new tasks toward achieving these goals, while disclosing our sustainability submitted agenda items management activities to all stakeholders transparently in order to share the values we pursue. To that end, Matter of resolving the agenda of 11th (2016) cash dividends the Sustainability Management Committee, the highest decision-making body, makes strategic decisions on 3 2017.04.24 Reporting of management status for the first quarter of 2017 100% sustainability management issues and monitors the implementation of core tasks. In 2017, the Committee Matter of appointing a new member of the Non-executive Director was convened twice, enhancing the execution of sustainability management by reflecting key indexes on the Recommendation Committee performance evaluation of executives in charge. 4 2017.07.25 Reporting of management status for the first half of 2017 100% 5 2017.10.30 Reporting of management status for the third quarter of 2017 and the inspection 100% outcome regarding compliance of compliance control standards CEO Matter of changing the location of the headquarters and appointing a new member to the Management Committee ㆍConsists of Amorepacific Group executives Sustainability Management Committee ㆍHighest decision-making body for sustainability management Performance Evaluation Amorepacific Group performs annual evaluation of the composition, functions, responsibilities and operation and Compensation of the BOD and states the results in its Business Report. The evaluation results are reflected in establishing Amorepacific Group Planning Division BOD operation plans and making the BOD a place for constructive discussion. For fair compensation, the HR Committee undertakes a thorough evaluation regarding the directors’ compensation cap, followed by the resolution of the BOD and final decision at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. ㆍCoordinator of sustainability management Compensation of Amorepacific Group Directors (2017) Sustainability Management Team ㆍEstablishes Amorepacific Group’s sustainability management strategies and draws relevant tasks Number of Directors (persons) Total Compensation (KRW mn) Average Compensation (KRW mn) 6 5,590 932 ㆍDraws tasks for each job category as the implementing body of Working Group on Sustainability sustainability management Compensation of Amorepacific Directors (2017) Management Strategies ㆍOperates working groups on sustainable packaging, sustainable stores, SHE1), mutual growth, etc. Number of Directors (persons) Total Compensation (KRW mn) Average Compensation (KRW mn) 1) SHE: Safety, Health, Environment 9 12,090 1,343 70 71 Stakeholder Engagement Amorepacific Group defines stakeholders as all parties, including customers, employees, shareholders, local communities and business Dialogue with Amorepacific Group has held the annual “Dialogue with Stakeholders” since 2011 in an effort to gather partners, that directly and indirectly influence or are influenced by the company’s business activities. For each stakeholder group, Stakeholders stakeholder opinions and reflect them in our business activities. In 2018, the event was held on the theme of we identify and reflect key issues in our business activities. We also gather their opinions and understand their expectations through “Measures to Resolve Consumer Concerns on Chemical Substances” with the participation of relevant NGOs, various communication channels available on a permanent or regular basis. Furthermore, we draw key issues through the annual government agencies and academic experts. Held on February 8, the Dialogue with Stakeholders 2018 provided an opportunity for participants to discuss consumer expectations and concerns of product safety and come up Dialogue with Stakeholders which are reported in our Sustainability Report transparently. with measures to resolve consumer anxiety on the use of chemical substances. Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency of Key Opinions Measures Taken Each Channel Understanding and Responding to Chemophobia Customers ㆍCorporate or brand website, SNS ㆍOn demand ㆍStrengthen customer services ㆍOpened AI-based “Chatbot” ㆍCGAP activities/CGAP Exhibition ㆍOn demand/ ㆍReinforce product safety ㆍShared customer complaint cases and Date: February 8, 2018 Once a year took improvement measures through Participants: Han Sang-man (Professor, Sungkyunkwan University), Kang Jung-hwa (President, Consumers Union CGAP Exhibition of Korea), Yoon Myoung (Secretary General, Consumers Korea), Leeahn So-young (Secretary General, ㆍBeauty-Schumer activities ㆍOn demand ㆍExpand customer ㆍExpanded development of sustainable Korean Women’s Environmental Network ), Cho Yoon-mi (President, C&I Consumer Research participation products Institute), Park Jung-yong (Director General, Korea Consumer Agency) Employees ㆍEmployee engagement survey ㆍOnce a year ㆍCreate an environment for ㆍRan in-house clubs (throughout the year) work-life balance and thematic lectures (4 times/year) ㆍRegular labor-management ㆍOnce per quarter ㆍExpand opportunities for ㆍHeld employee communication programs meetings personal growth (on demand) ㆍIn-house online community ㆍThroughout the year ㆍCreate a safe work environment Shareholders ㆍAnnual General Shareholders' ㆍOnce a year ㆍEstablish fair corporate value ㆍQuarterly and yearly earnings release Meeting ㆍEnhance shareholder values ㆍShare midto long-term business strategies ㆍAnalyst Day ㆍOnce a year ㆍPromote corporate access ㆍPresent market trends and future outlook ㆍConference calls ㆍQuarterly/ ㆍExpand 1:1 meetings with shareholders ㆍIR website On demand and investors ㆍOn demand ㆍDomestic/overseas investor conferences ㆍOn demand Local ㆍCorporate and brand social ㆍOn demand ㆍSupport women’s health, wellㆍOutcome of ‘20 by 20’ commitment Communities activities being, economic empowerment (makeup your Life, Pink Ribbon Campaign, ㆍBOD meetings and websites of ㆍOnce a year ㆍSupport life in harmony with Hope Store, Beautiful Life, Makeup ARTIST 1. Understanding Chemophobia and Inspecting the Safety Process foundations nature on the Go) ㆍCSR portal site, SNS Amorepacific Group should inspect and improve its safety process based on an accurate understanding of ㆍOn demand ㆍSupport discovery and sharing ㆍReport CSR plans and share performance of cultural values widespread consumer concerns over chemical substances, establish a platform for relevant divisions within ㆍCSR seminar ㆍOnce a year ㆍImprove awareness on SDGs and share the company and supplier networks to share information on product safety, and respond proactively to ㆍIncrease the community global CSR strategies and status of overseas ㆍGlobal CSR Roundtable ㆍOnce a year engagement offices potential safety-related risks by organizing stakeholder consultative groups. ㆍA MORE Beautiful Day ㆍOnce a month ㆍThe way to achieve ㆍDiscussed local communities’ concerns and (Sharing Campaign) ‘20 by 20’ commitment issues 2. Establishing Consumer Communication Strategies ㆍRespond to local community ㆍEnhanced a sense of global citizenship and sponsorship request encouraged a sharing culture Amorepacific Group should make an effort to disclose substantial information that consumers actually want to ㆍExpand a sharing culture know, such as allergy precautions, fragrant substances and the explanation about safety of alternative substances and engage in genuine communication with consumers, including sharing research efforts and progress on improving chemical substance-related matters. Business ㆍMutual growth general ㆍOnce a year ㆍStrengthen support for ㆍSupported supplier funds and human Partners meetings (per sales channel) mutual growth resources 3. Expanding Social Responsibilities as a Leading Company ㆍWin-Win practice seminar and ㆍOnce a year ㆍEstablish a culture of ㆍConducted joint R&D projects with suppliers general meeting communication and ㆍOpened communication channels on a Amorepacific Group should (a) go beyond meeting legal standards and actually resolve consumer anxiety as ㆍBusiness partner satisfaction ㆍOnce a year participation regular basis a leading cosmetics company and (b) make various efforts such as undertaking continuous research and survey ㆍEmpower beauty partners ㆍCarried out “Good Jobs Strategy” for beauty voluntarily disclosing more information on substance safety of new and existing products as well as satisfying and improve work partners the level of communication demanded by consumers. environment 72 73 Ethical Management Amorepacific Group conducts ethical management in an effort to spread its corporate ethics built on “integrity”, one of the core Strengthening We provide online and offline education on the Code of Ethics to all employees, combining each item of the values of the AP WAY, to the overall business ecosystem. Education on the Code and relevant case studies in order to promote their understanding of the Code. In the first half of 2017, Code of Ethics we used ethical fairy tales on the theme of respect for customers, business integrity and responsibilities as a corporate citizen to facilitate an understanding of the Code of Ethics for our employees. In the second half, employees learned about respect for employees, harmonious growth and protection of corporate assets to help them better practice ethical management. Revision of Code of Amorepacific Group revised its Code of Ethics, the standards of ethical conduct for all employees as well as Ethics a commitment to fully carry out its corporate ethics. The Code is organized around six principles of respect Furthermore, we strengthened education on the Code of Ethics and relevant cases by adding a compliance for customers and employees, business integrity, harmonious growth, protection of corporate assets and module to each course offered at our Learning & Culture Center, in addition to holding compliance training responsibilities as a corporate citizen, and sets out the standards of ethical conduct all employees are required to attuned to each subsidiary and division. comply with in both their private and working lives. Online Ethical Education for Employees in 2017 Distribution of the Code of Ethics in English and Chinese The newly revised Code of Ethics was translated into English and Chinese, in consideration of the social and cultural environments of each country, and distributed to our overseas offices. The translated Code of Ethics was made available on our English and Chinese websites, offering better access for employees as well as global customers to the Code and our ethical management efforts. 90% 82% completion rate completion rate Ethical Management Amorepacific Group actively carried out compliance activities by improving relevant systems and developing Activities guidelines as part of its ethical management efforts. 1st Half 2nd Half Establishing and Sharing the Guidelines for Ethical Marketing Amorepacific Group has established and follows the Guidelines on Prior Inspection of Labelling and Advertising Expanding Ethical Management in Suppliers in an effort to carry out ethical and responsible marketing based on characteristics and effects of its products We promote the Code of Ethics in our suppliers and encourage reporting by utilizing the purchasing system, supported by scientific facts. a channel for us to communicate and cooperate with our suppliers. When signing an electronic contract, the ethics pledge clearly states that suppliers are required to comply with the Code of Ethics of Amorepacific Group. Preventing Conflicts of Interest We make educational and promotional efforts to prevent conflicts of interest that may arise in a variety of Reporting of Unethical Conduct by Stakeholder Group (2017, Unit: Cases) situations, while providing guidance on specific issues by, for example, establishing the Standards of Operation of Field Sales Offices. Clients Suppliers Employees Customers Others Total 19 4 14 3 9 49 Understanding Employee Awareness on Ethical Management We gathered employee opinions on ethical awareness and level of compliance based on the Code of Ethics to identify relevant issues for each organization and draw countermeasures. Encouraging a Healthy Corporate Dinner Culture ‘Great People Great Company’ Campaign and To establish a healthy corporate dinner culture, we have held the “119 Corporate Dinner Culture Campaign” Communication since 2012 and encourage all employees to follow the “119 Corporate Dinner Culture Action Guidelines”. Amorepacific Group carried out various ethical management Finding and Rewarding Best Practice Cases in Compliance campaigns throughout the year under the slogan of “Great People We held an in-house contest on the theme of compliance and risk management, rewarding best practice cases Great Company”. Notable activities in 2017 include the 119 and sharing various means to carry out ethical management. Corporate Dinner Culture Action Guidelines, the Creating a Good Congratulatory and Consolatory Culture Campaign, and the No Gift Campaign. 74 75 Risk Management Establishing Amorepacific Group has an effective risk management system to respond to various risks such as fast-changing Risk Management To effectively manage risks, Amorepacific Group categorizes risks identified through its risk management a Integrated Risk domestic and global political and economic conditions, fluctuating business environments, increased influence of Activities process into the following four categories, and separately manages factors that may potentially have a Management System social media including social networking services and blogs, and heightened expectations of stakeholder demands. significant impact on the company’s reputation as well as ethical and legal matters. The Risk Management Team communicates with subcommittees on each issue, undertakes potential risk prevention activities and forms early responses to actual risks. To allow prompt decision-making and stable Market Risk Product Risk Supply Chain Risk Sales & Distribution Risk business operations, we formed a group-wide risk-management committee consisting of C-level executives. For an effective and proactive approach to manage risks in our overseas offices, we are in the process of implementing ·Increased global regulations ·Increased importance of managing ·Increased importance of demand ·Increased need for efficient on safety and environment product safety and harmful materials prediction and supply management management attuned to each country a more advanced system of risk management, in order to address a gradual increases in the potential and impact in accordance with changes in the ·Diversification of customer needs ·Measures to prevent recurrence of ·Response to changes in regulatory of global risks. customer claims market environment environment of each sales and ·Increased possibility of major disasters and natural calamities ·External influences on supply chain distribution channel and ensuring a robust supply chain CEO for stable supply of raw materials Risk Management Committee Reputational Risk CRO Managing Potential Through regular analysis of internal and external environments and social changes, Amorepacific Group Compliance & Risk Management Division Risks identifies long-term risks having an impact on its business and implements countermeasures to effectively respond to those risks. Risk Management Team ·Establish risk management policies and standards Compliance Team Category Changes in the regulatory environment Changes in the distribution and sales Increase in environmental risks due to ·Monitor operational risks following the expansion of global businesses environment following the development of ICT1) climate change Group Risk Management ·Perform risk assessments and Ethics/Compliance Economic and ·Increase in the need to tap into new overseas ·Continued growth in online and mobile markets ·Continuous increase in the possibility of Control Tower establish response measures markets due to domestic market saturation due to ICT development materialization and impact of environmental Social ·Segmentation and diversification of laws and ·Stronger regulations enforced by the Fair Trade risks, including abnormal climate, Environments regulations in each country, such as environmental Commission, including the Act on the Fairness of natural disasters and air pollution Subcommittees for Each Type of Risk regulations, certifications, import requirements Franchising Transactions and the Fair Transactions and regulations on raw materials in Agency Act, and increase in the importance of Subcommittee on Subcommittee mutual growth Subcommittee on Subcommittee on Subcommittee on Safety, Health and on research and communication quality management mutual growth Impact of ·Decline in brand reputation in the case of violation ·Decline in sales through existing offline retail ·Changes in crop-producing areas caused by Environment development Risks of local laws and regulations in foreign countries channels due to increase in online or climate change, including unusual weather, and ·Financial impact such as fines and penalties for mobile purchasing difficulties in securing natural raw materials for violation of laws and regulations, and negative ·Impediment to achieving mutual growth following cosmetics Executing Divisions (AP and Subsidiaries) impact on market expansion business decline in franchises and agencies ·Stronger regulations and monitoring by the government, consumers and civil groups on the Under the guidance of the head of each division, responsible units collaborate with the Risk Management Team (Control Tower) and relevant subcommittees to use of substances affecting the natural ecosystem effectively respond to and manage individual risks ·A series of risks such as destruction of production facilities due to earthquakes and other natural disasters and corporate paralysis Risk Management The risk management system of Amorepacific Group operates based on the following keywords: “Detect”, “Respond” and “Prevent”. Based on an analysis of internal and external environments, we prioritize highRisk ·Establishing processes for reputation risk ·Innovating mobile services within existing retail ·Conducting research and development to secure Process management in overseas offices channels such as ARITAUM’s O2O services, alternatives for ingredients difficult to procure impact, high-potential risks and establish a detection system by which we can proactively respond to key risks Prevention ·Conducting regular analysis of changes in local door-to-door mobile Q ·Participating in efforts of the international Activities by identifying their causes. In 2017, we upgraded the risk management and compliance system of our China systems and regulations, and establishing response ·Strengthening mutual growth by supporting the community in preventing marine pollution by, for Office to facilitate a proactive and effective risk response by our overseas offices. By upgrading the risk response processes for each issue business activities of field sales offices and agencies instance, establishing policies on no microplastics systems of other overseas offices one-by-one, we will build a solid basis for their sustainable growth. (microbeads) ·Developing and operating BCP (Business Continuity While risk managers in each business division monitor and report risks pertaining to their division, we have Planning) to maintain business continuity in case of disasters or calamities established a unified system enabling prompt decision-making and immediate response in the case of risks occurred. Future Plans ·Preventing occurrence and recurrence of risks by ·Developing products considering the ·Analyzing on a regular basis the effect of climate continuously improving the process of entering characteristics of online and offline markets change on business activities and identifying Furthermore, we minimize the impact of risks by responding based on the risk scenarios and risk management into new markets ·Promoting cooperation and mutual growth of potential risks policies, while preventing recurrence of those risks by analyzing their causes. The Risk Management Team franchises and agencies and operating ·Strengthening voluntary efforts to comply consultative bodies on demand with environment protection policies and meet provides trainings on the risk-management system on a regular basis and carries out various campaigns to stakeholder expectations establish a healthy and effective risk management culture throughout the company. ·Strengthen corporate level capabilities to respond risks by examining supply networks in case of unexpected disasters and reinforcing updates on Risk Detection and RM Diagnosis and Risk Response risk management manual process, etc. Prevention Prevention of Recurrence 1) ICT, Information and Communications Technologies 76 77 Materiality Analysis Amorepacific Group carried out a materiality analysis in order to gain an accurate understanding of stakeholder interests and business Prioritizing Material Material Issues were prioritized in overall consideration of their business impact and stakeholder interests, impact and use it to better achieve our sustainability goals. In compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards on Issues based on which 12 material issues were identified. reporting topics, the analysis included topics including perspectives of internal and external stakeholders including media, domestic and global economy, social changes and key issues in the cosmetics industry. HIGH 9 3 Stakeholder Interest 1 8 10 Materiality Analysis Process Materiality Analysis 7 Identification of Prioritization of Sustainability Issues Material Issues Business Impact Stakeholder Interest 4 Configuring recently sustainability issues Researching Analysis of Internal Analysis of Reviewing Media 11 (Stakeholder-proposed ESG issues in the Strategies and international experts’ opinions analysis issues, political issues cosmetics industry Issues standards and regulations, industry 2 characteristics, etc.) 5 companies 2020 Sustainability Experts’ Opinions Analysis of GRI Standards 6 5 chosen by Commitments about the economic, social 12 Media analysis DJSI DJSI World and major issues sustainability and environmental Determined a total of (Issues with regard to SASB Amorepacific Group and and on it activities of issues from 12 material issues ISO26000 the cosmetics industry) 6 advanced Amorepacific approximately companies Group and 2,200 articles UNGC in the same recently International standards and SRI (Social industry sustainability Business Impact HIGH issues Responsible Investing) assessment criteria Impacts on Amorepacific Group 2020 review Issue No. Material Issue Sustainability GRI Topics Page Cost Risk Benefit Commitment 1 Strengthening product sustainability 32-34 Business Impact We carried out an analysis of major sustainability reporting issues in the same industry and internal strategies Implementing sustainable technology Customer health 21, 32-34 2 innovation and investment Commitment 1 to ascertain the relevance of each sustainability issue to the cosmetics industry in which Amorepacific Group and safety carries out its businesses. Benchmarking of advanced domestic and foreign companies in the industry identified 32-34, 73 3 Strengthening product safety the following as core issues: response to climate change, promotion of resource circulation, strengthening of product sustainability, water resource management and respect for human rights. These issues have already 4 Creating sustainable stores Commitment 2 35-37 been reflected in our sustainability management vision and officially announced as goals to be achieved by Enhancing brand values and 2020, while we constantly review their implementation status and communicate them to external stakeholders 5 corporate image Commitment 3 38-41 through our sustainability reports. 6 Pursuing work-life balance Commitment 4 42-44, 87 Supplier environmental 45, 46, 48, Supporting suppliers’ growth Stakeholder Interest To analyze the degree of interest in Amorepacific Group by the media, expert groups, external evaluators and 7 Commitment 5 assessment, and development 90, 91 other stakeholders, we performed media analysis and a review of international standards. Our analysis of 2,200 Supplier social assessment media articles on the Group published between January 1 and December 31, 2017 identified several key issues including CSR activities such as “20 by 20,” issues in the global market including China and digital beauty, which Indirect economic 8 Carrying out strategic CSR activities Commitment 6 impacts, 49-51, 100-105 are outlined in this Sustainability Report. This Sustainability Report discusses issues exposed by the media as aligned with our businesses Local communities well as our activities in response to the demands of various sustainability assessment (investment) institutions. Furthermore, Amorepacific Group holds Dialogue with Stakeholders as an annual event as a channel for 9 Minimizing impact on global warming Commitment 7 Energy, Emissions 52-54, 92, 93 gathering stakeholder opinions on various issues. 10 Promoting circulation of resources Water, 57, 58, 96 Commitment 8 Effluents and 11 Managing water resources waste 55, 56, 94, 95 Human rights 12 Respecting employees’ human rights 86 assessment 78 79 4 Reporting of Sustainability Amorepacific Group strongly believes that the growth of our stakeholders is our own growth. We will build a happier Management Performance tomorrow for all by providing better values to our customers, employees, business partners and members of society. Human Capital Employee Status Employment Status Recruitment and Turnover The total number of employees directly employed by Amorepacific Group in 2017 was 12,348, an increase of Amorepacific Group solidifies the basis of its human resources and creates jobs through new hiring. In 2017, 4.1% from the previous year. The company maintained a similar number of domestic employees compared to Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific hired 996 and 756 persons. the previous year, while strengthening human resources in overseas offices to explore new markets and diversify Turnover rate in 2017 was around 6% in both Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific, showing a slight increase global businesses such as launching new brands in existing markets. from the previous year. Amorepacific Group will take various measures, including improving employee welfare Both Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific maintain over 60% ratio of women employees within the age group and corporate culture, to increase employee satisfaction and reduce turnover rate. of over 30 and under 50 accounting for the highest number of employees. We maintain a certain proportion of employees with disabilities through “special hiring of people with disabilities”. New Employees (Domestic) Employment Status (Unit: Persons) Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total 10,535 11,867 12,348 Number of New Employees (persons) 1,421 1,496 996 1,184 1,218 756 Domestic 1) 7,084 7,718 7,703 Overseas 3,451 4,149 4,645 Turnover (Domestic) 1) Domestic employees include permanent and temporary workers Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category Domestic Employment Status (Unit: Persons) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Turnover Rate (%) 6.0 4.5 6.6 5.7 4.3 6.1 Category 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Employment Permanent 6,563 7,189 7,375 5,269 5,726 5,871 Status Securing Women Leadership Temporary 521 529 328 487 484 265 Amorepacific Group is committed to securing women leadership in line with the characteristic of the cosmetics Gender Men 2,601 2,758 2,790 1,818 1,881 1,932 industry where the majority of consumers are women. Accordingly, we are creating a corporate culture in Women 4,483 4,960 4,913 3,938 4,329 4,204 which all employees regardless of gender are considerate toward each other, and offer various programs for women employees to find a balance between work and life. The ratio of women employees of all employees at Age Group Under 30 2,930 3,236 2,948 2,476 2,715 2,408 Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific is 63.8% and 68.5%, respectively, and the ratio of women managers is 30-49 3,957 4,263 4,522 3,135 3,342 3,558 also on the increase in both companies. 50 or higher 197 219 233 145 153 170 Employees with Disabilities 56 59 56 50 25 20 Women Employees and Managers (Unit: %) Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category Employment Status in Overseas Offices 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Ratio of Women Employees 63.3 64.3 63.8 68.4 69.7 68.5 Number of Locally Hired Total 3,344 4,019 4,515 Ratio of Women Managers 18.5 24.7 27.1 20.3 26.5 29.1 Employees (persons) Asia 3,070 3,761 4,270 Europe and others 201 163 118 North America 73 95 127 Ratio of Locally Hired Employees (%) 96.9 96.9 97.2 Ratio of Locally Hired Women Employees (%) 80.7 85.9 85.3 Ratio of Locally Hired Managers (%) 67.6 68.3 65.4 Ratio of Locally Hired Women Managers (%) 65.0 66.7 68.6 82 83 Fostering Talent Amorepacific Group fosters “Creative Masters” that change the world to a more beautiful place based on the five core values of openness, integrity, innovation, proximity and challenge set forth by its value structure, also Good Workplace Programs known as the “AP WAY”. Key Talent Fostering Activities In-house Clubs Thematic Lectures Managing Corporate Culture Cultivating Leaders Training Creative Masters We offer various in-house clubs to support our employees’ We offer thematic lectures in consideration of the wide range leisure activities and help them fraternize and build networks of interests and personalities of our employees. In 2017, we ·Managing changes based on ·Strengthening leadership ·Developing and operating with colleagues. As of the end of 2017, 441 employees are organized four lectures, including “Mind Healing Concert” with AP Minds development for executives professional job training courses participating in 18 in-house clubs. Haemin Sunim and “Why We Travel” with travel writer Tae Leadership workshops, based on job training system ·Advancing Engagement Survey and Won-Jun. The lectures were broadcast live for all employees to operating programs for reinforcing Leaders’ Agora, executive coaching, ·Promoting digital-based talent executive on-boarding, participate. organizational capacity cultivation systems and fostering SNU E-MBA program professionals Strengthening the Capacity of Hope Tree AP Cloud Festival Fostering Talent Fostering Global Talent Beauty Partners Hope Tree is a wish-come-true program for employees who We held a beer festival in each of our business sites for colleagues ·Establishing an autonomous/ ·Developing and operating global ·Developing and providing video wish to share hope with their teams, colleagues and family. to fraternize and communicate. With the participation of some continuous learning culture by standardized leadership programs contents on new products and beauty First launched in 2013 under the theme of “giving thanks”, the 2,000 employees in certain business sites, the event was a great introducing new learning systems (5 ASEAN countries, Amorepacific ·Strengthening capacity of beauty program contributes to building an environment of mutual success and contributed to promoting communication. China office, Amorepacific partners and managers respect. Hong Kong office) ·Supporting future beauty talents ·Defining and strengthening capacity through academic-industrial MOUs of local new hires and leaders Maternity and Parental Leave Employee Education and Training Status Amorepacific Group offers a “Care for Expectant Moms” program in an effort to create a women-friendly work Amorepacific Group offers a variety of educational programs to enhance the competency of all its employees. environment for expectant mothers. The program includes flex-time work, prenatal testing during work hours Despite the slight decrease in the average educational expense and hours per employee in comparison to and no overtime, in addition to raising an awareness among team members to be considerate toward their the previous year, we will continue to carry out various programs to strengthen leadership, secure global pregnant colleagues. competitiveness, promote our corporate culture and reinforce professional job competency. The program also provides ergonomic chairs, foot rests and blankets to help relieve physical discomfort as well Education & Training Cost and Hours per Person as stretch mark creams and supplements to stay healthy during pregnancy. Furthermore, expectant mothers are encouraged to use parental leave to encourage a balance between work and childcare after giving birth. The Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category company also allows flex-time work for childcare and operates an on-site daycare center. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, the number of employees using parental leave increased both in Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific. Education & Training Cost per Person Return-to-work rate and one-year retention rate after parental leave is maintained at over 90% and 80%, 150.9 145.4 119.3 153.4 154.8 122.2 (KRW 10,000) respectively, in both companies. Education & Training Hours per Person 82.7 76.4 81.1 82.8 80.3 (Hours) Parental Leave Status 1) Pertains to permanent employees only Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Creating a Good Amorepacific Group creates an organizational culture in which its members can enjoy their work and be Category 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Workplace creative. We conduct the Engagement Survey annually in order to gather and reflect employees' opinion in our business basis. In 2017, the model was improved by revising certain criteria and specifying the definition of Number of Employees Using 258 260 289 232 237 259 engagement to understand the level of employees’ engagement better. 7,259 of employees were participated Parental Leave (persons) in the Engagement Survey from 14 countries, and the results were 73% for Amorepacific Group and 68% for Return-to-work Rate After 94.2 97.3 99.0 93.5 97.5 98.8 Amorepacific. Parental Leave (%) Engagement Survey Results One-year Retention Rate After 84.5 88.9 84.3 86.4 88.0 84.6 Returning to Work (%) Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Engagement(%) 82 83 73 81 82 68 1) The engagement score in 2017 was converted by applying the methodology used in 2016 to ensure consistency in comparison. 84 85 Human Rights Human Rights Management Principles Management Amorepacific Group endorsed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007 and fully respects the Universal The Amorepacific labor-management meeting is held each quarter as a place to discuss employee welfare, Declaration of Human Rights and the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. grievance handling, safety management and other ways to achieve mutual growth. Furthermore, we promote We have also established and publicly announced our own human rights policies reflecting our commitment active communication between labor and management through various channels including management toward respect for human rights, while promoting the implementation of human rights management not only seminars, sharing business plans and meeting with union members. in our subsidiaries but the overall value chain. Identifying Human Rights Risks and Areas of Improvement Improvement of Amorepacific Group offers various programs to promote employee health and wellness. Employees’ Health Amorepacific Group identifies potential human rights issues not only in its supply chain including subsidiaries Employee Health Promotion Programs but throughout its overall business activities. We comprehensively consider past incidents and frequency of human rights issues and the seriousness of their financial and non-financial impact. Moreover, We will further Type Key Programs strengthen our human rights management efforts. Our human rights inspection process consists of human Stress Management ·Stress test equipment in Signature Tower health management center rights risk assessment, human rights inspection, and implementation and management of improvement measures. ·Happy life consulting: Face-to-face/phone/bulletin board counseling and weekly visiting consultation Healthy Working ·Management of lighting, noise, air quality, humidity and temperature to create Human Rights Risk Human Rights Inspection Implementation Environment an ergonomic work environment Assessment and Management of ·Conduct inspections of Physical Health ·Fitness center in the new headquarters Improvement Measures ·Analyze the frequency and subsidiaries and suppliers financial impact of human ·Implement improvement Health and Nutrition ·Health fund, no-smoking fund, health exam follow-up program for diagnosed workers ·Analyze inspection rights issues in the past measures results and draw areas of ·Nutritionally balanced meal program ·Draw major inspection items improvement ·Monitor improvement status ·Nutrition consulting at AP-Severance Clinic for employees requiring health exam follow-ups (high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, etc.) Flex-time and Working ·“ABC Working Time” system enabling employees to work flexibly by coming into work On-site Assessment of Human Rights from Home at a time of their choice between 7am and 10am Amorepacific Group conducts self-inspections of human rights status in all of its 11 subsidiaries including Childcare Support ·Three daycare centers at Seoul (headquarters), Yongin and Osan Amorepacific, and evaluates their compliance with laws and regulations on labor and human rights such as ·Kindergarten and tuition support: Tuition support for kindergarten, domestic the Labor Standards Act as well as wage standards and the non-discrimination principle. In 2017, no items middle/high school or university for improvement were found in nine subsidiaries including Amorepacific, while five items were identified and fully rectified in two subsidiaries including the need to strengthen the rules of employment, lack of internal Maternity and ·Compliance with regional laws on maternity and parental leave announcements and the need to hold labor-management meetings. Parental Leave ·Programs to promote maternity and parental leave 1) Maternity protection system: Flextime during pregnancy, no overtime, prenatal exam Each year, Amorepacific inspects the human rights status of its suppliers through third-party assessment 2) Care for Expectant Moms program agencies, identifying and requiring corrective actions for areas of improvement such as providing education and training to employees and ensuring their freedom of association. Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Amorepacific Group undertakes sexual harassment prevention education to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. In 2017, we offered online courses for all employees, in addition to regular education programs in July and additional courses for new employees and those who had not completed their courses. Establishing a Trust-based Labor-Management Relationship For the past 26 years, Amorepacific has maintained a dispute-free labor-management relationship by building mutual trust and communication. We carry out self inspections of work conditions at least once a year to ensure full compliance with labor-related laws and regulations at Amorepacific and all affiliates. Labor-management Cooperation Team and HR Team provide active support to improve labor-management relations. As of the end of 2017, the Amorepacific Labor Union has 3,035 members, which accounts for 51.7% of all employees. Employees are entitled to freely decide to join or withdraw from the union and the biennial collective agreement applies to all employees. 86 87 Customer Satisfaction Transparent Tax Payment Customer Complaint CGAP Management The CGAP (Customer Gift for Amorepacific) is Amorepacific’s customer complaint handling system, Amorepacific Group pays its fair share of taxes transparently by complying with the Commercial understanding customer complaints as their gift for product improvement and handling them as promptly as Act and tax-related laws and regulations in Korea and all other jurisdictions in which it operates. possible. In 2017, 38 cases were handled by taking corrective actions, as a result of which customer satisfaction For important matters regarding reporting tax affairs or any ambiguity in interpreting tax laws, is gradually increasing in Korea, while customer complaint resolution rate in China stands at 85% and 98.9 the company receives consultation from professional service firms such as accounting firms in points in customer satisfaction in counseling services. order to draw the most appropriate response measures and minimize tax-related risks in advance. In particular, we adopt a reasonable transfer pricing policy in its global transactions with foreign 2017 CGAP Exhibition companies, in accordance with the domestic tax laws and the OECD Guidelines. In addition, pursuant The CGAP Exhibition is an in-house exhibition where our employees gather to share customer complaints on to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans for the prevention of tax evasion of our products services over the past year and explore improvement measures. In 2017, we celebrated the 10th multinational companies, we submit the BEPS report (Master file, Local file and Country-by-country anniversary of the CGAP Exhibition by looking back on the past decade under the theme of “Re-”, sharing best report) to the Korean and other competent tax authorities. Through these activities, the headquarters practice cases of customer complaint resolution and finding ways to resolve areas that still require further and overseas offices are committed to fulfilling their obligations to pay tax in full compliance with the improvement. The exhibition also included an introduction to the new customer communication channel “Chat relevant laws and regulations. BOT”, an AI-based messenger service providing various information through text-based communication with humans. Amorepacific currently provides the Chat BOT service via the AP mall website. Tax Payment Status (Unit: KRW bn) Major Regions 2016 Customer Communication Performance Korea 181.32 Category 2015 2016 2017 Asia 38.52 Customer Complaint Resolution Rate(%) 98.1 99.1 99.3 Europe Customer Satisfaction1) 50.3 54.4 61.4 North America 0.03 1) Indicated NPS (Net Promoter Score) Other Regions 2) Calculation scope based on Amorepacific's domestic businesses. Protecting Customer Hacking Protection System Information For real-time response to cyber attacks, Amorepacific Group operates a 24/7 control system in collaboration with external experts, analyzing the impact of certain patterns suspected of being cyber threats, and establishing rules to manage the same patterns of attacks. Moreover, we carry out mock training on a regular basis for prompt response to real cyber attacks such as stealing customer information or causing errors on our websites, thereby protecting customer information and ensuring the continuity of our businesses. Prevent to APT Hacking Recently, there has been a increase in the number of advance persistent threat (APT) hacking, accessing an internal corporate system by hacking into an employee’s personal computer and stealing information. In response, Amorepacific Group has established a three-tier defense system1) which prevents, detects and responds to attempts to leak customer information files by using malicious codes against end users. 1) Three-tier defense system: Next-generation firewall, network forensic solution, dynamic file analysis solution 88 89 Sustainable Supply Chain Supplier Status Amorepacific Group designates and manages “key supplier” in consideration of their impact on our business, Advancing the In 2017, Amorepacific Group concentrated on advancing supplier risk management and improving the the scope of business transactions and their business capacity, categorized by types of purchasing. As of the Supplier Sustainability supplier sustainability assessment system. By reflecting global requirements and potential sustainability risks, end of 2017, out of 456 suppliers, we categorized 52 as key suppliers, of which 23 supply packaging materials, Assessment System we increased the number of assessment items regarding compliance with the laws and regulations of local 16 supply raw materials and 13 provide ODM products. We purchased a total of KRW 1,038.7 billion from our governments, management of potential risks and sustainability activities. We also provide a manual to facilitate suppliers, while promoting local purchasing to share our business performance with local communities. suppliers’ understanding of sustainability assessment items and how they can translate them into actions. Business Transactions with Suppliers Identify Conduct supplier Develop diagnosis Category 2015 2016 2017 assessment Redesign diagnosis diagnosis and index and conduct items and COC index Number of Suppliers (Companies) 464 475 456 status analysis pilot test improvement areas Number of Key Suppliers (Companies) 54 54 52 Total Purchasing Amount (KRW 100 mn) 10,577 12,115 10,387 Supplier Assessment Results in 2017 Purchasing Amount from Key Suppliers (KRW 100 mn) 6,413 6,907 5,872 Through supplier sustainability assessment, we identify potential risks and require suppliers to take corrective Local Purchasing Rate in Overseas Business Sites (%) 56.9 65.4 69.6 measures. We apply follow-up measures such as reduction of business with suppliers that have been found to have significant violations or performance under a certain level, while providing support programs for those suppliers in need of sustainability capacity-building. Supplier Selection Policy in the Purchasing Process Amorepacific Group conducts business transactions only with those suppliers that satisfy our minimum Low Performance Risk Level1) Corrective action sustainability requirements at the point of executing the business contract. We undertake a sustainability Areas request rate (%) assessment of all new suppliers reviewing compliance with legal requirements regarding quality, product safety, labor standards, safety and health, and environment, based on which we decide whether to enter into a contract. Human Rights and Education and training Middle 100 Labor When signing contracts, we require all suppliers to comply with the Amorepacific Group Code of Ethics and Freedom of assembly High 100 Supplier Sustainability Guidelines. Safety and Health Safety and Health management system High 100 Disease and heath management High 100 Supplier Sustainability Assessment Amorepacific Group has established, and requires all suppliers to comply with, our Supplier Sustainability Safety design and engineering Low 100 Guidelines, which set out 34 items on human rights and labor, health and safety, environmental protection, Environment Environmental management system Low 100 ethical management and other areas that need to be considered in order to fulfill their social responsibilities. We Environmental licenses and legal compliance High 100 have also prepared a manual on how to translate those into actions, publishing it on our website. We conduct annual sustainability assessment of key suppliers every year, reflecting the results in supplier assessment. Based Reduction of waste and less use of resources Low 100 on the results of supplier assessment, we offer incentives such as giving priority to receiving support for inclusive Response to climate change High 100 growth programs or in allocating the quantity of goods supplied. Corporate Ethics Information disclosure Middle 100 Over the past three years, 99 suppliers including all of our key suppliers and new suppliers have undergone sustainability assessment by an independent third party. Suppliers that have been found to have significant Fair trade and mutual growth High 100 social or environmental risks are required to take actions to handle those risks and follow up with measures to Reporting of unethical conduct and Low 100 confirm that such risks have been dealt with. protection of reporters Contribution to local communities Low 100 Category 2015-2017 1) Risk level for each item measured based on surveys of internal and external stakeholders Ratio of new suppliers that have undergone assessment of social and environmental impact (%) 100 Number of suppliers that have undergone independent assurance on their social and 99 environmental impact in the past three years (Companies) Ratio of key suppliers that have undergone independent assurance on their social and 100 environmental impact in the past three years (%) ※ Data for ‘Sustainable Supply Chain’ are calculated based on Amorepacific. 90 91 SHE Management Response to Climate Amorepacific Group fully recognizes the seriousness and urgency of global climate change. Accordingly, we Energy Consumption by Amorepacific Change strive to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout all processes of our business activities including Category 2015 2016 2017 purchasing, production, transportation, use and disposal, to help mitigate the effects of climate change. Total Energy Consumption(TOE) 12,016 13,170 13,080 GHG Reduction Activities in Production Total Consumption Electricity 9,978 10,882 10,731 Amorepacific Group continuously identifies and implements tasks to reduce GHG emissions in our production by Fuel Types (TOE) LNG 2,026 2,264 2,327 sites. By increasing energy efficiency in the production process and introducing renewable energy, we reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions. In 2017, we carried out 125 GHG reduction activities, reducing Diesel 11 14 13 approximately 2,500 tonnes of GHG emissions and achieving cost-saving effect of approximately KRW 700 Others 10 9 million. Moreover, we share a notable energy reduction case through our internal cross-functional task force on Energy Intensity climate change. 0.147 0.140 0.152 (TOE/tonnes of production) GHG Reduction Activities in Distribution To reduce GHG emissions in distribution, we identify and implement various activities, such as replacing lighting Major Energy Reduction Cases in distribution centers with high-efficiency LED lighting and blocking unnecessary energy usage. Reduction Item Reduction Amount(kWh) Reduction Cost(KRW mn) All lighting in our Incheon and Gwangju Distribution Centers were replaced with LED lighting, with similar Photovoltaic Generation 162,991 23 plans for all distribution centers nationwide. In addition, we have introduced a smart energy management Installation of Natural Cooling and system for improving energy efficiency to monitor energy use, identify the cause of energy loss. To better reflect 136,620 19 the voices of on-site workers and discuss improvement measures on practical terms, we hold energy-saving Heating System meetings six times a year with managers of each distribution center. We also encourage eco-driving by installing Replacement of High-efficiency Lighting(LED) 157,686 32 digital tachographs (DTGs) on distribution vehicles. Finally, we measure the amount of Scope 3 GHG emissions Insulation 15,505 10 generated in distribution in order to identify the indirect environmental impact of our business operations. GHG Emissions by Amorepacific Group Energy Consumption by Amorepacific Group Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Total GHG Emissions(tCO2eq) 84,181 87,208 87,627 Total Energy Consumption(TOE) 31,378 32,536 31,882 Amorepacific 37,097 40,128 41,902 Amorepacific 12,016 13,170 13,080 Pacificglas 31,987 30,085 27,332 Pacificglas 12,333 11,561 10,508 Others 15,097 16,995 18,393 Others 7,029 7,805 8,294 Type Direct (Scope 1) 29,644 29,460 29,558 Total Consumption Electricity 22,227 23,066 22,698 by Fuel Types (TOE) Indirect (Scope 2) 54,537 57,748 58,070 LNG 5,341 5,613 5,649 GHG Emissions Intensity 0.689 0.653 0.729 Bunker-C oil 2,966 2,993 2,753 (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) Others 843 864 782 GHG Emissions by Amorepacific Energy Intensity 0.257 0.244 0.265 (TOE/tonnes of production) Category 2015 2016 2017 Total GHG Emissions(tCO2eq) 37,097 40,128 41,902 Type Direct (Scope 1) 7,255 7,089 8,092 Indirect (Scope 2) 29,842 33,038 33,810 Other indirect (Scope 3) 3,348 3,531 GHG Emissions Intensity 0.453 0.428 0.488 (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) 92 93 Water Resource By recognizing water shortage and natural resource depletion as urgent global challenges, Amorepacific Group is Wastewater Discharge Amorepacific Group tries to minimize the impact of effluent water discharged from its business sites on adjacent Management undertaking various efforts to reduce water consumption throughout our production cycle. On a 2015 baseline, and Reuse ecosystems. In particular, we reuse wastewater as landscaping and cleaning water through wastewater recycling our goal is to reduce water consumption per tonne of production by 22% in Korea and 41% overseas by 2020. To systems. achieve this goal, we continually improve water consumption efficiency and increase recycling and reuse. By introducing a wastewater recycling system, Beauty Campus Osan reduced by approximately 13,000 tonnes its water consumption in 2017. Furthermore, by collecting and reusing condensed water produced during the water ionization process and sprinkling water in thermo-hygrostats, it saved approximately 28,000 tonnes of water. Reduce Recycle Reuse Improving water Increasing recycling Increasing reuse In our Daily Beauty Production Site, we increased the efficiency of boiler water usage by introducing a water consumption efficiency quality management system that reduces the pollution degree of condensate water generated by the cooling of steam inside boilers. In the near future, we plan to introduce a heat recovery system for condensate water. ·Optimize water consumption ·Recycle first treated wastewater ·Reuse rainwater ·Minimize water loss such as water ·Reuse condensed water from leakage ionization process Amorepacific Group Wastewater Discharge and Reuse Category 2015 2016 2017 Amorepacific Group Water Consumption Reuse of Wastewater(Tonne) 30,339 32,604 22,191 Category 2015 2016 2017 Amorepacific 30,339 32,604 18,544 Total Water Consumption (Tonne) 770,961 988,697 950,707 Pacificglas 3,647 Discharge (Tonne) 410,098 424,561 431,070 Amorepacific 476,147 530,837 470,539 Pacificglas 110,173 99,651 89,597 Amorepacific 256,688 274,154 268,702 Others Pacificglas 102,895 94,986 88,359 184,641 358,209 390,571 Municipal water Others 50,515 55,421 74,009 Water Consumption by 598,754 628,431 602,364 Source of Water (tap water) COD (Tonne) 23.4 14.7 20.2 (Tonne) Industrial water 41,208 53,854 43,134 Amorepacific 11.2 16.0 17.3 Ground Water 98,740 270,411 268,794 Pacificglas 0.6 0.8 0.9 Rainwater 32,259 36,001 36,415 Others 2.8 3.4 5.2 Intensity of Water Consumption 6.315 7.402 7.907 (tonne/tonnes of production) Amorepacific Water Consumption Category 2015 2016 2017 Total Water Consumption (Tonne) 476,147 530,837 470,539 Water Consumption by Municipal water 394,582 432,546 384,799 Source of Water (tap water) (Tonne) Industrial water 35,913 48,322 42,309 Ground Water 13,393 13,968 7,016 Rainwater 32,259 36,001 36,415 Intensity of Water Consumption 5.820 5.662 5.475 (tonne/tonnes of production) 94 95 Waste and Recycling Amorepacific Group seeks to contribute to building a circular economy by minimizing waste generated in Emission of Air Amorepacific Group strive to reduce the emission of air pollutants. We have introduced low-NOx burner production sites and promoting recycling. Waste generated in each production site is categorized by types and Pollutants boilers and increased the efficiency of air pollutant prevention facilities. Furthermore, we regularly monitor the traits, while optimal recycling measures are implemented for each type of waste. emission of air pollutants at each production site in order to minimize the impact upon local communities. In 2017, Amorepacific Group generated 18,483 tonnes of waste and recycled 58% of it. In 2017, there was a temporary increase in the amount of waste generated by Amorepacific due to the disposal of some of the Amorepacific Group Emission of Air Pollutants toothpaste products it began recalling in the second half of 2016. Pacificglas reduced the amount of waste generated in 2017 compared to the previous year and increased the recycling rate. Category 2015 2016 2017 Dust (Tonne) 2.7 3.0 3.7 Amorepacific Group Waste Generation and Recycling Amorepacific 2.4 2.8 2.7 Category 2015 2016 2017 Pacificglas 0.3 0.2 0.3 Waste Generation (Tonne) 11,447 13,472 18,483 Others 0.7 Amorepacific 8,961 10,952 15,516 SOx(Tonne) 20.2 20.7 18.8 Pacificglas 1,947 1,856 1,671 Amorepacific 2.1 1.6 Others 539 664 1,296 Pacificglas 20.2 18.6 17.2 Recycling(Tonne) 10,022 11,208 10,663 NOx(Tonne) 18.7 26.1 24.8 Rate of Recycling(%) 88 83 58 Amorepacific 0.6 12.0 10.4 Waste Amount by Non-hazardous waste 10,121 11,853 16,293 Pacificglas 18.0 14.2 14.3 Disposal Methods (Tonne) Landfill 260 407 395 1) Air pollutant emissions are based on the measurement standards of each country Incineration 836 1,259 6,899 Recycling 9,026 10,187 8,999 Hazardous waste 1,326 1,619 2,189 Environmental Amorepacific Group strengthens environmental investment in pollutant reduction and renewable energy Landfill 10 54 34 Investment equipment to create eco-friendly business sites. In 2017, Amorepacific Group invested KRW 5.51 billion in environmental operations and investments, a 16.5% increase compared to the previous year. There have been Incineration 320 544 491 no violations of environmental regulations and no penalties. Recycling 996 1,021 1,664 Amorepacific Group Environmental Operations and Investments Amorepacific Waste Generation and Recycling Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Total Cost (KRW 100 mn) 26.5 47.3 55.1 Waste Generation (Tonne) 8,961 10,952 15,516 1) Amorepacific 16.2 30.3 37.0 Recycling(Tonne) 8,169 9,560 8,633 Pacificglas 7.2 7.9 11.4 Rate of Recycling (%) 91 87 56 Others 3.1 9.2 6.6 Waste Amount by Non-hazardous waste 7,971 9,768 13,965 1) Costs in 2015 and 2016 recalculated due to changes in calculation standards regarding environmental operations and investments Disposal Methods (Tonne) Landfill 212 399 339 Incineration 576 822 6,418 Recycling 7,184 8,547 7,209 Hazardous waste 990 1,184 1,550 Landfill 6 7 Incineration 4 165 118 Recycling 986 1,013 1,425 96 97 Employee Safety Establishing a Safety and Health Management System for the Entire Value Chain Amorepacific Industrial Safety and Health (Unit: %) Amorepacific Group continuously engages in creating a safe and healthy work environment throughout Category 2015 2016 2017 the overall value chain. In 2017, we revised our health management operating standards considering the 1) Korea Accident rate 0.000 0.086 0.032 characteristics of each business site to better protect our employees from health hazards such as chemical substances and dangerous work environments. The newly revised operating standards include 14 items Injury frequency rate 2) 0.000 0.450 0.166 including work environment management, chemical substance management, respiratory protection program, 3) Occupational disease rate 0.000 0.000 0.000 operation and management of health management center, and management of local ventilation equipment. We have enabled effective health management on work sites by establishing a health management system in Overseas Accident rate 0.157 0.201 0.119 consideration of the characteristics of each business site. (Mainland China) Injury frequency rate 0.819 1.045 0.617 Occupational disease rate 0.000 0.000 0.000 Amorepacific Group’s Seven Principles on Safety and Health 1) Accident rate = (No. of employees involved in accidents / Annual average no. of employees) x 100 2) Injury Frequency Rate = (No. of accidents / Annual work hours) x 1,000,000 Awareness Behavior Check 3) Occupational disease rate = (Number of cases of occupational diseases / Annual work hours) x 1,000,000 ·Safety and health training ·Safety management of facilities ·Measurement and monitoring ·Expertise management and equipment ·Auditing and corrective actions ·Safety management of hazardous and dangerous work ·Preparation for and response to emergency situations Internalizing SHE Standards Amorepacific Group has internally strengthened its global SHE standards by holding information sessions for SHE managers as Group-managed events and established midto long-term roadmaps for major business sites. We also held SHE auditor education for 17 SHE managers to develop internal experts for implementing SHE standards at the Group level. In 2018, we will perform SHE audits on 17 major domestic and overseas business sites to accurately analyze the SHE management status in each site and devise improvement measures. Strengthening Safety Culture and Communication Amorepacific Group carried out various educational programs to strengthen the safety awareness of its employees and promoted communication on safety. We trained new employees on Amorepacific Group’s SHE vision and relevant programs, while introducing a SHE educational program for store managers to secure the safety and health of customers visiting the stores as well as employees. Furthermore, we produce card news and animation on the importance of safety and health on a regular basis, sharing them with employees to raise their SHE awareness. Operating the Industrial Safety and Health Committee Amorepacific Group convenes the Industrial Safety and Health Committee in each business site on a quarterly basis, creating a safety culture through the collaboration of labor and management. The Committee consists of an equal representation of labor and management, including union representatives and heads of each business site. Amorepacific Group Industrial Safety and Health Category 2015 2016 2017 Accident Rate (%) 0.038 0.103 0.042 98 99 CSR In order to make A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific Group runs various CSR programs focused on three main initiatives – Enhancing Women’s makeup your Life Women, Natural ecosystem and Nurturing Culture – with the aim to produce a positive impact on our society. Health & Well-being and Launched in 2008, makeup your Life Campaign is designed to support women’s cancer patients overcome Economic Empowerment emotional stress caused by the changes in their physical appearance due to their illness. In Korea, AMORE counselors visit hospitals or individual patients to give them one-to-one makeup and skincare advice so that they can cultivate their own beauty. This is not merely to help them look physically better, but ultimately to help them reenergize their daily life with full confidence. In 2017, celebrating the campaign’s 10th anniversary, 769 Women Ecosystem Culture counselors visited 1,264 patients in 36 hospitals nationwide. Enhancing Women’s Health & Well-being Making a World Where Humans and Nature Finding New Values in Culture and Sharing and Economic Empowerment Coexist in Harmony The campaign, now in its 7th year in Mainland China, was held in Chengdu, Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. In Taiwan, while educating women’s cancer patients to be able to cultivate their own beauty, the campaign plans As Korea’s leading beauty company that As we have created the Asian Beauty with We are making various efforts to discover to provide a variety of programs, such as a talk show led by a psychologist to help patients regain their emotional has grown through the support of women, ingredients found in our nature, we are the hidden values of our culture and stability. In 2017 Singapore, Vietnam and Hong Kong (China) also held makeup your Life campaign to support we announced the ‘20 by 20’ Commitment fully dedicated to finding ways to coexist developing them into greater beauty. women’s cancer patients. that supports women’s health & well-being with our nature in harmony and continue By constantly communicating the values and economic empowerment to achieve sustainable development in our society so to the public, we hope that our culture is According to research1) makeup your Life Campaign shows positive psychological effects of makeup. We can our ultimate goal of beautifying the lives that we can beautify our lives and the world. recognized by more people. found out that cancer patients who participated in the makeup your Life campaign showed a 17% decrease in 200,000 women by 2020. their stress level and a 12% decline in evasive responses to cancer. 1) Makeup Program’s Psychological Effects on Cancer Patients (Kim Seong-won, Director of Daerim St. Mary’s Hospital, Kim Jung-Hyun & Park HaeYeon, Professors, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital) CSR Activities by Amorepacific Group Category 2015 2016 2017 Key Achievements of makeup your Life (2008-2017) Social Contribution Amount of Expenditure(KRW mn) 18,654 23,994 20,600 Expenditure Ratio Compared to Sales(%) 0.35 0.36 0.34 Number of Beneficiaries 14,040 persons Number of Volunteers 5,241persons Employee Volunteer Activities Participation Rate(%) 90.5 88.7 80.8 Number of Participating Nations and Regions 6 regions Average Hours of Volunteer(hrs.) 10.8 10.9 9.2 Public Foundation Amorepacific Foundation(KRW mn) 486 741 923 Disbursement Amorepacific Welfare Foundation(KRW mn) 564 560 650 makeup your Life Campaign (Unit: persons) Korea Breast Cancer Foundation(KRW mn) 2,409 2,732 2,761 Category 2015 2016 2017 innisfree Moeum Foundation(KRW mn) 18 358 926 Beneficiaries Korea 808 1,049 1,264 Mainland China 240 180 200 Vietnam 100 25 46 Value of CSR Activities by Amorepacific (Unit: KRW mn) Hong Kong(China) 24 Category 2017 Singapore 45 Cash Contribution 12,390 Taiwan 101 In-kind Giving: product or services donations, projects/partnerships or similar 1,008 Volunteers Korea 432 697 769 Management Overhead 4,206 Mainland China 60 42 50 1) In 2017, Amorepacific employees spent a total of 36,596 hours in volunteering, equivalent to approximately KRW 997 million in monetary value. Vietnam 50 11 17 Hong Kong(China) 9 Singapore 25 Taiwan 24 100 101 Pink Ribbon Campaign Hope Store In 2000, the Amorepacific Group funded and established the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, a non-profit Hope Store is a start-up assistance program launched in 2003 designed to support single mother households in public organization for breast health. Amorepacific has run the Pink Ribbon campaign to promote public partnership with the Beautiful Foundation. Hope Store provides a maximum of KRW 40 million in the form of awareness of the importance of early detection and encourage women to take screenings for breast health in microcredit as start-up fund (including deposit) and reinvests loan repayments to form “Heemang Seed Money” partnership with the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation. The two signature programs of the campaign are Pink to fund other women preparing to start their own businesses. This virtuous circle of sharing enables women Run, a running festival aimed to spreading the importance of breast cancer early detection, and Pink Tour, a to achieve financial independence through self-efficacy, self-empowerment and social support network, while touring lecture program teaching women how to perform breast self-exams. helping their family members find emotional stability. As of December 2017, Hope Store owners have repaid 85% of their loans and 934 of their family members, including children, have succeeded in achieving financial The Pink Run, which is held every year in five regions across Korea, donates proceeds made through entry fees independence. from its participants to the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation. The donated money is used to support surgery and examination for breast cancer patients. From 2001 to 2017, 323,662 participants raised a total of KRW 3.5 Hope Store began a new project in 2017 for sharing start-up know-how and providing mentoring to more single billion. The Pink Tour, national health education program sharing information on breast health and self-exam mothers hoping to open up their own Hope Stores. Mentors were selected from Hope Store owners with stable methods, has conducted 1,134 lectures across Korea, at which more than 285,000 people in total learned how sales performance and outstanding business mind, sharing their business know-how with start-up hopefuls to perform breast self-exams. with little experience or expertise. Through this project, two new Hope Stores (restaurants) opened in 2017. In 2018, 15 years of trial-and-error stories of Hope Store owners will be compiled into the “Hope Store Manual”, In Mainland China, we host the “MORI Run”, a running festival to raise awareness of women’s health, attracting supporting more women achieve financial independence through Hope Stores. approximately 3,600 participants in 2017. All participation fees, in addition to the proceeds from the charity Key Achievements of Hope Store (2004-2017) bazaars held by five major Amorepacific brands held prior to the MORI Run, were donated to support screenings for breast cancer and cervical cancer in Chinese women, as well as their recovery from medical procedures. In Hong Kong (China), the Group supports the Pink Heels Race, a fundraising event supporting BRCA tests and Number of Opened Stores 334 Startup Loan KRW 12.1bn genetic counseling services, and advocating the importance of early detection of BRCA-associated hereditary breast cancer and ovarian cancer. In 2017, approximately HKD 151,000 was donated to the campaign through Repayment Rate (As of 2017) 85 % Survival Rate (As of 2017) 89.4 % the sale of Amorepacific brand charity kits. Beautiful Life Key Achievements of Pink Ribbon Campaign (2001-2017) “Beautiful Life” supports the employment and economic empowerment of low-income women through technical training and mentoring. Launched in 2008 in partnership with the Community Chest of Korea, the Promote Awareness 330,482 persons Support the Screening 61,446 persons Beautiful Life has helped 47% of its participants earn professional certificates, 21% find employment or start their own businesses, and 28% experience an increase in their earned income. From 2017 onward, along with Support for Education 408,757 persons Support for Surgery 1,047 persons the existing project of designated donations, we have also begun to operate an open bid project for the purpose of expanding our support to include small-scale facilities. And with the project of designated donations running in 2 to 3 years we try to support job-seeking women to ensure their self-reliance. Key Achievements of Beautiful Life Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2016 2017 Total Expenditure (KRW mn) 2,147 3,848 4,059 Beneficiaries (persons) 595 832 1,427 Promote Pink Run Korea 21,231 24,105 24,279 Expenditure (KRW mn) 1,232 1,288 2,520 Awareness (persons) MORI Run Mainland China 3,200 3,600 Pink Heels Race Hong Kong (China) Makeup ARTIST on the Go Support for Pink Tour Korea 29,440 39,612 41,900 Makeup ARTIST on the Go is a program providing career mentoring to aspiring makeup artists and supporting Education women to find self-confidence through makeup. The program is offered in collaboration with various schools, (persons) Education in Mainland China 43,500 80,000 institutions and organizations, and in 2017 supported a total of 669 participants through talent sharing on a Support the Korea 727 1,081 1,505 monthly basis. In addition, scholarships in the amount of KRW 50 million were given to 12 students to foster Screening future makeup artists. (persons) Mainland China 12,078 18,526 Support for Surgery Korea 85 71 111 Key Achievements of Makeup ARTIST on the Go (2017) (persons) Beneficiaries 669 persons Volunteers 91persons Expenditure KRW 97 mn 102 103 Harmonizing Life and GREENCYCLE Campaign Discovering and Sharing mise-en-scène Short Film Festival the Beauty of Nature GREENCYCLE is Amorepacific Group’s eco-friendly CSR program designed to promote green lifestyle that values Cultural Values For the past 17 years since 2002, mise-en-scène has sponsored the mise-en-scène Short Film Festival to life in coexistence with nature. Our main activities include not only recycling used cosmetics bottles collected promote short films in Korea and discover emerging directors. Given that most corporate sponsorships are from our brand shops, but also include “upcyling” various by-products produced through manufacturing directed toward mainstream culture, the aim is to contribute to the long-term development of the Korean film processes into beautiful artworks. In 2017, we collected 265 tonnes of glass and plastic containers via its industry through continuous support of short films, a relatively less popular genre, and discovery of directors brand stores in department stores and supermarkets, ARITAUM, innisfree and ETUDE stores, and used them to and films that bring unique visions. The 16th mise-en-scène Short Film Festival in 2017 had a record high of 1,163 undertake various eco-friendly activities. entries, of which 70 films that had passed the preliminaries were shown. The “Moving Pink Ribbon”, a kinetic artwork made with 1,000 used bottles which makes the bottles on pink Research on ‘Asian Beauty’ ribbons move by working a pedal, was showcased at the Pink Run and well-received by its participants. We also used plastic bottles to produce 1,500 sets of “A MORE Beautiful Kit” for assembling jump ropes and wave hoops, Since 2011, Amorepacific Foundation has been interested in studying in depth the topic of “Asian beauty”. In which were used in employee sharing programs and participant programs at the Pink Run. Other recycling comparison to visually-oriented western art and western perception of beauty, our research is primarily focused efforts include producing “plastic pellets” which will be followed up with more initiatives in 2018. on Asian beauty that values beauty found in everyday lives and aesthetic experiences through the five senses. Research outcomes are published in the “Asian Beauty” series, first published in 2014. As of 2017, seven books Mamonde Bee Happy Day Campaign have been published, with plans to complete the series with 20 or so books. Mamonde launched its honeybee protection initiative “Bee Happy Day” in order to create an eco-friendly city environment where flowers, honeybees and people can exist in harmony. The campaign began in 2016 when first “Mamonde Garden x Honey Bees” was created on the rooftop of the Korea Scout Association building in Supporting and Sharing Beautiful Goods Sharing Yeouido in cooperation with the social enterprise Urban Bees Seoul. This was followed by the second Honeybee with Local Communities In order to build a more beautiful world by achieving mutual growth with local communities, Amorepacific Garden built in Seoul Forest Community Garden in 2017, providing a habitat for endangered honeybees, Group has been donating Amorepacific’s household items and cosmetic products to social welfare facilities responsible for one-third of the moisture that flowers require to grow, thereby exerting a positive influence on Launched in 2003 as “Sharing the Love”, the program was expanded and newly branded in 2009 as “Beautiful the overall ecosystem. Goods Sharing”, through which cosmetics and daily necessities worth KRW 3 billion are donated each year to social welfare facilities nationwide for women and children, in partnership with the Community Chest of Korea. Mamonde plans to build the third Honeybee Garden inside a museum located in Seoul, and collaborate with In 2017, LANEIGE, IOPE, innisfree, Happy Bath and 12 other brands participated in the program, donating KRW the museum in holding garden-themed exhibitions and flea markets where it will sell honey produced from the 3.8 billion worth of products (based on retail price) to 2,923 social welfare facilities. Garden. Starting next year, Mamonde will provide more opportunities for customers to participate in its CSR activities. Employee Volunteer Activities innisfree Forest Campaign Amorepacific Group undertakes various sharing and volunteering activities, through which its employees fulfill their social responsibilities as corporate citizens. We have designated every first Friday as “A MORE Beautiful innisfree has held the “Forest Campaign” since 2012 to protect forests, the source of clean water and air. Our day”, where employees participate in sharing and play their part in making the world a more beautiful place. In passion for preserving forests began on Jeju Island with our efforts to conserve the Gotjawal Forest. By donating 2017, the program was introduced in 7 overseas offices (U.S., Vietnam, Singapore, Hong Kong (China), Malaysia, part of the sales proceeds from its “Forest for Men” products, innisfree is purchasing and communalizing the Taiwan, Thailand) and participated in by 250 employees. privatized parts of Gotjawal. In 2017, we created an eco forest by restoring a landfill in Seongsan, Jeju. Notably, the newly created forest in Seongsan, Jeju is sustainably managed through the use of digital technologies, Restoration of Osancheon Stream Ecology including IoT sensors that collect environmental data and live cameras that monitor inventory status. Amorepacific Group has donated KRW 7 billion and undertaken multiple activities to support the “Restoration innisfree is gradually expanding the scope of its Forest Campaign to overseas countries that are in need of of Osancheon Stream Ecology” project in Osan-si, where Beauty Campus Osan is located. Since signing a MOU ecological restoration. The brand has been planting 10,000 trees each year with local customers in Inner with Osan-si in 2016, we have been involved in the renovation of Namchon Small Park and the “Creating Mongolia, China, to prevent deforestation. Recently expanding the Forest Campaign to Taiwan and Malaysia, Pedestrian-friendly Street” project. By 2018, we will build a marsh ecological park, clean up areas near cultural innisfree has planted over 25,000 trees overseas as of 2017. innisfree will continue to broaden its Forest and art centers, and install ecology education facilities. We will spare no effort to ensure that Osancheon Stream Campaign to proclaim our commitment to the green movement, while providing customers with more is restored completely by 2020 through clean up activities near the restoration area and Waterfront Plaza and opportunity to participate in its eco-friendly CSR initiatives. printing ecology park promotional leaflets. Key Achievements of Forest Campaign Planted in 2017 35,600 trees Cumulative (2012-2017) 94,600 trees Newly introduced in Taiwan (March) and Malaysia (September) in 2017 104 105 Public Foundations 5 Amorepacific Amorepacific Foundation was established for the purpose of supporting academic, educational and cultural Foundation programs to explore the values of culture and communicate those values to the public. Since its establishment in 1973, Amorepacific Foundation has been dedicated to supporting academic research on “Asian Beauty” and “Women and Culture” from a multidisciplinary approach. The Foundation has used these research findings to communicate with the world and generate new values. In 2017, it supported 31 research projects on the theme of “Women and Culture” and four research projects on the theme of “Asian Beauty”. Through its lecture series “Lecture on Beauty”, the foundation held four lectures, Appendix providing valuable opportunities for researchers of Asian beauty to communicate with the general public. Amorepacific Amorepacific Welfare Foundation was established in 1982 with the vision of building a beautiful and Welfare Foundation harmonious society by promoting the welfare of socially vulnerable women and enhancing the quality of their lives. Its main projects include Space Design Improvement Project for “improving well-being through spatial beauty”, efficient use of Space Utilization Support Program, and Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project. The ultimate goal of these projects is not to simply improve a facility but help women in need of social 1. Independent Assurance Statement protection enjoy a new life and find independence. The Space Design Improvement Project, started in 2005, 2. Verification Statement GHG Inventory has contributed to turning around 185 women’s facilities and non-profit women’s organizations nationwide into safe and pleasant spaces until 2017. The Foundation will continue to play its role as a supportive partner for 3. GRI Standards Index women in our society. 4. UNGC Communication on Progress 5. About This Report Korea Breast Cancer Korea Breast Cancer Foundation is Korea’s first non-profit organization dedicated to breast health, entirely Foundation funded by Amorepacific Group in 2000. The Foundation undertakes various initiatives on multiple fronts to raise awareness of the importance of breast health, which include the Pink Run, breast health lectures, financial support for low-income breast cancer patients, support for academic research, sponsorship of breast cancer patient associations, and activities to promote breast health among unprivileged women including those from multicultural families. The Pink Ribbon Campaign, a joint initiative between Korea Breast Cancer Foundation and Amorepacific Group, has made a significant contribution to promoting women’s health by emphasizing the importance of breast health and encouraging early detection and treatment through self-exam, when there is still little breast cancer awareness despite the fact that breast cancer is the most common type of cancer (excluding thyroid cancer) found in Korean women. In 2017, the Foundation organized the 17th Pink Run, accruing 24,279 participants in total, in addition to attracting 41,900 participants by holding the Pink Tour 160 times in the same year. Furthermore, the Foundation provides emotional support to breast cancer patients through the Pink Ribbon Healing Camp and supports the development of information on breast cancer and health by funding 13 academic research projects. innisfree Moeum innisfree Moeum Foundation is a public foundation funded entirely by innisfree, which will invest KRW 10 billion Foundation over a five-year period from 2015. Under the slogan “Adding Value to Jeju,” the Foundation pursues mutual growth with Jeju Island, where the brand’s vision and inspiration comes from. Its main focus is to preserve Jeju’s natural environment, foster future talents and support cultural and art projects. In 2017, the Foundation primarily concentrated on restoring nature and preserving Jeju’s unique values by maintaining Oreum trails, building forests in Gotjawal, holding public contests for cultural content development and running educational programs for fostering Jeju’s future talents. Notably, the Foundation worked closely with the Jeju Provincial Government and social innovation enterprise named Tree Planet in restoring a landfill located in Gujwa-eup, Jeju-si, and turning it into a 50,000m2 forest. With the participation of Amorepacific Group employees and Jeju residents, the Foundation planted junipers, sun trees and cherry sage, in addition to installing an “Empty Bottle Time Capsule Wall” where visitors can leave a memory of themselves using recycled bottles. 106 107 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT AS-PRJC-575283-2017-AST-KOR-E Introduction Amorepacific Group (“APG”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake Stakeholder Inclusiveness independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2017 (the “Report”). The directors of APG have sole responsibility for the APG has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Shareholders, Local community and preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of APG in accordance Business Partners. APG engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided examples of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. In the future, APG could engage by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. stakeholders in the region where APG resents more, address the reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders and report corresponding actions taken in the Report. Scope of The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2017. This included: Sustainability Context assurance · Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) APG has stated the ‘2025 Vision’ and 2020 sustainability goals and objectives. In addition, APG is helping readers understanding Sustainability Reporting Standards how 2020 sustainability goals are linked to UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals). The reasons for selecting 2020 sustainability · Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Standards (Core option) management goals and plans to achieve them are also addressed in the report. In particular, this is the 10th report, APG has · Evaluation of the process for determining material topics for reporting and the management approach to presented various performance indicators with which the performance and goals of sustainability management can be monitored. material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative Materiality data in the Report. APG has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. Issue pools were used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material topics and 12 material topics are prioritized accordingly. DNV GL has reviewed material topics that could Basis of our We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustain 1), which is based on our professional experience, have a significant impact on the APG's economic, environmental and social impacts or affect the decision-making of stakeholders in opinion international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the assessing materiality. limited level of assurance. The verification was carried out in March and May 2018. The site visits were made to APG Head Office and Factories. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: Completeness · challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of APG for the reporting robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; period. The reporting boundary has been set to include all affiliates in APG. Amorepacific, a major affiliate, includes not only domestic · interviewed representatives from the various departments; sites but also some performances of overseas corporation. DNV GL has reviewed that the materiality assessment process and confirms · conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed completely in the Report. as they relate to selected content and performance data; Further opinions with the principles of report quality of GRI Standards as follows; · reviewed the materiality assessment report. Report quality: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness · site visit and test of data gathering process; DNV GL has reviewed the quality of the report based on the 6 principles defined in the GRI Standards. DNV GL also has reviewed the Domestic: Beauty Campus in Osan reliability of the disclosure data water consumption, the amount of waste water discharge and recycling, waste generation and Overseas: Amorepacific China office and Shanghai Beauty Campus in China recycling, air pollution emissions, the verification team has interviewed the Person-in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. APG could improve the data collection process and Limitations The engagement excludes below; present the sustainability performance for the last 3 years to allow for comparability over time. Any errors or misstatements identified • The sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of APG’s associated companies, during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report being published. The information in the subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. Report indicates the time period to which it relates. • External stakeholders interview • Financial statements and announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service Competence and DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as APG’s website (www.apgroup.com) Independence Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a Code of Conduct during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with APG and did not adherence to the Principles in GRI Standards nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards Core option. The verification team provide any services to APG in 2017 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. DNV GL has conducted the has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions verification of GHG emissions in 2018, which isn’t considered a conflict of interest in the report verification. with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; May 2018 Ahn In-kyoon Seoul, Korea Country Representative 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website. (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 108 109 GRI Standards Index VERIFICATION STATEMENT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE 1. General Disclosures Amorepacific Group NO.: AS_ PRJC-576372-2018-AST-KOR Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by Amorepacific Group to verify the Amorepacific Group’s Greenhouse Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 16 Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2017 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. Amorepacific Group is responsible 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-13 for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Amorepacific Group only and in accordance with terms of 102-3 Location of headquarters 14, 15 reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based 102-4 Location of operations 14, 15 upon this assurance statement. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 71 102-6 Markets served 14, 15 Scope of The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) 102-7 Scale of the organization 14, 15, 18-20 Assurance and Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions) from Amorepacific Group boundary of the report; · Organizational boundary for Amorepacific: HQ/Sale offices, Sites (Osan, Daejeon and Jincheon), Distribution centers (Gangbuk, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 82 Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Busan, Songtan, Incheon, Jincheon and Osan), R&D/HRD, Local Business unit (Gwangju, Daegu, 102-9 Supply chain 90 Daejeon and Busan), Delivery and transportation by centers (Other indirect emissions) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 90, · Organizational boundary for PACIFICPACKAGE: Cheonan Amorepacific Group Business Report 5 · Organizational boundary for AESTURA: Ansung 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 76, 77 · Organizational boundary for COSVISION: Daejeon 102-12 External initiatives 65, 86 · Organizational boundary for OSULLOC: Hannam, Premium factory, Seokwang, Dolsongi and Wolchulsan (Jeju) 102-13 Membership of associations 65 · Organizational boundary for Amorepacific Shanghai: Shanghai (China) Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2, 3 nd st The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 2 February through 31 March 2018 and performed in accordance with the 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2, 3 Verification verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior http://www.apgroup.com/int/ko/aboutus/ethics-governance/code-of-ethics.html Approach and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion with 5% materiality 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 74, 75 level, concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in tonne CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process; Governance 102-18 Governance structure 68, 69 · We have reviewed and verified the SHEQM system of Amorepacific Group Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 72 (activity data, GHG emission calculation results, emission factors, and other parameters) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 86 · We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 72 Based on the above verification core elements, it is DNV GL opinion that the data and the information reported in the GHG assertion are free 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 72 of errors, omissions and misrepresentations providing a fair and balanced quantification, in compliance to the above reported verification 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 78, 79 Conclusions criteria. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Amorepacific Group Business Report The GHG Emissions of Amorepacific Group for the year 2017 were confirmed as below; 3, 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 115 102-47 List of material topics 78, 79 Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Amorepacific Group from Yr. 2017 Unit: tCO2-eq 102-48 Restatements of information 115(Any changes to the items are Amorepacific Direct emissions Energy indirect emissions Scope 1 Other indirect emissions Total noted separately) Group (Scope 1) (Scope 2) and Scope 2 (Scope 3) emissions 102-49 Changes in reporting 115(Any changes to the items are Amorepacific 7,356 27,807 35,163 3,531 38,694 noted separately) PACIFICPACKAGE 390 4,120 4,510 4,510 102-50 Reporting period 115 AESTURA 1,447 3,223 4,670 4,670 102-51 Date of most recent report 115 COSVISION 1,405 4,652 6,057 6,057 102-52 Reporting cycle 115 OSULLOC 2,106 1,050 3,156 3,156 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 116 Amorepacific Shanghai 736 6,003 6,739 6,739 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 108, 109 Total 13,440 46,855 60,295 3,531 63,826 102-55 GRI content index 111-113 ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2-eq ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 (Total emissions of Amorepacific included Scope 3 emissions) 102-56 External assurance 108, 109 31st March 2018 Kim Tae-ho Ahn In-kyoon ※ Amorepacific Group Business Report can be viewed on the following website. Lead Verifier Country Manager http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20180402002570 DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (31st March 2018). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Amorepacific Group is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 110 111 2. Material Topic-specific Disclosures 3. Non Material Topic-specific Disclosures Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Economic Standards Economic Standards Indirect Economic MA 49 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 18-20 Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 49-51 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 52, 53 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 101-103 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Amorepacific Group Business Report 105 Environmental Standards 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Amorepacific Group Business Report Energy MA 52 110 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 92, 93 Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 82 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 92, 93 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 90 302-3 Energy intensity 92, 93 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 75 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 52, 53, 92 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 74, 75 Water MA 55 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 75 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 94 Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and There was no violation of 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water 94 Behavior monopoly practices the applicable laws. 303-3 Water recycled and reused 95 Environmental Standards Emissions MA 52 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations There was no violation of the laws. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 93 Social Standards 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 93 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 83 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 93 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 84, 85, 87 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 93 part-time employees 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 97 401-3 Parental leave 85 Effluents and Waste MA 55 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 86 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 95 Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health 98 Health and Safety and safety committees 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 96 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 99 306-3 Significant spills There was no leakage. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Supplier Environmental MA 45 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 99 Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 90(100%) 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 98 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45, 46, 91 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 84 Social Standards 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 84 Human Rights MA 86, 90 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42, 43, 86 Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 86, 90 Equal Opportunity 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 86, 91 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Non-discrimination 86 (There was no discrimination) Local Communities MA 49, 52, 55 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Freedom of Association 86 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 51, 101-103 and Collective Bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk and development programs Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 86, 90, 91 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 95, 96 Forced or Compulsory 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 86, 90, 91 local communities Labor compulsory labor Supplier Social MA 45 Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 32-34 Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 90(100%) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information There was no material case. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45, 46, 91 and labeling Customer Health and MA 32, 35 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications There was no material case. Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of There was no violation of Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses There was no material case. products and services the applicable laws. of customer data Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area There was no material case. Compliance 112 113 UNGC Communication on Progress About This Report Ten Principles of the UNGC and Amorepacific Group’s Activities Classification Amorepacific Group’s Principles and Activities Page Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Amorepacific Group supports the Universal 86, 90, 91 Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Purpose of the Report This report was created to disclose Amorepacific Group’s sustainability management activities to stakeholders Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principles on Business and Human Rights; Ruggie transparently and collect various opinions to reflect them in management. The scope of the Amorepacific abuses. Framework. Sustainability Report, which has been issued annually since 2009, was expanded in 2015 to be issued as Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Amorepacific Group supports the employees’ right to 86 Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report with the aim of expanding communication with stakeholders. and the effective recognition of the right to collective join and leave the labor union and build trust between bargaining; the management and the employees through communication. Scope and Boundary The scope of this report covers Amorepacific Group and all its subsidiaries (Amorepacific, innisfree, ETUDE, etc.). Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Amorepacific Group strictly prohibits any form of child 86, 90, 91 In the case of Amorepacific, the domestic production sites (headquarters in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development of the Report labour; labor, involuntary or forced labor and discrimination Center, Regional BU, and Beauty Campus Osan, Daily Beauty production site and Osulloc production site) were Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and throughout its entire business process, and conducts mainly under review, and, in some cases, includes performances of overseas offices. annual on-site reviews of the company and its Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of suppliers. employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Amorepacific Group is committed to reducing 52-58 Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, 2017 and data from 2015 and 2016 were included for environmental challenges; greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption comparative purposes. Data regarding performance from the first half of 2018 were reflected in some cases. intensity, introducing renewable energy and Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental developing a sustainable package by 2020 as part responsibility; and of environmental protection and circular economy Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of strategy. Third Party Assurance In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of this report, the content was verified by an independent environmentally friendly technologies. verification institution, DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Based on VeriSustain, the content was verified to AntiPrinciple 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Amorepacific Group puts “Integrity” as the top priority 74, 75 a limited level of assurance and a reliability assessment was conducted regarding environmental performance. Corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. of the AP WAY values to promote ethical practice and raise awareness throughout the corporate eco-system. Reporting Standards This report was prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guideline standards (Core Option) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is based on major agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Amorepacific Group's internal reporting guidelines. 114 115 Date of Publication May 21, 2018 Publisher Suh Kyung-bae Publishing Organization Amorepacific Group Production Sustainability Management Team, Group Planning Division, Amorepacific Group Design Planning CI Design Part, Amorepacific Design Center Design vergum Hangangdaero 100, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Korea 04386 Tel +82. 2. 6040. 5818 Fax +82. 2. 6040. 5209 E-mail csr@amorepacific.com www.apgroup.com
