Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 1/37 Table of Contents CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT 3 E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 6 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES 19 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 21 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 32 05 Selected examples of social activities within Hager Group 32 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2/37 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Blieskastel, June 2018 energy-efficient solutions for our customers. Markets, technological standards and customers’ needs are changing faster than ever before, therefore, the highly soughtafter ‘windows of opportunity’ for establishing innovative solutions that are ethical, environmentally-friendly and lower in energy consumption, open and close at breath-taking speed. If we are good, fast and ahead in the field we can play a more active part in shaping sustainable progress than ever before. On the other hand, there is also considerable risk: anyone who misses important developments and rests on their laurels will find the march of time Tomorrow, next year, ten years’ time… leaving them behind even faster and more What will the future bring? Nobody knows. mercilessly than in the past. Never before Yet at Hager Group we have chosen to has innovation been so important to drive a anticipate the future by calculating risks cleaner, greener and brighter future. and seizing our opportunities proactively. For example, our company projects have a We follow the guidance provided by the longer-term approach, they are based on ISO 26000 standard to integrate social five years of commitment – our current one responsibility into our organisation. With is Project 2020. We invest in our E3, our approach for sustainable employees and their training, in energy development, we act ethically, caring for efficiency and future technologies, in fair people, and we respect the environment by trade relations and we work actively to taking into account our planet’s limited continuously improve our eco-balance resources in our business activities, sheet. Maybe we are giving up more profit offering our customers energy-efficient in the short term, but we are convinced that solutions. this is the way to achieve sustainable success for the future. In April 2007, over ten years ago now, we signed up to the United Nations Global Indeed, at Hager Group our ambition is to Compact, the voluntary business initiative transform and grow in the long term rather supervised by the United Nations to foster than maximising profits in the short term. Corporate Social Responsibility. With this Making money is, of course, something document we renew our commitment and that we have to and want to do, but what contribution as a committed signatory. counts is how we go about it. We want to do things properly for the right reasons by adopting an ethical approach when interacting with employees, partners and suppliers, and by continuously reducing our Daniel Hager, CEO Hager Group ecological footprint and developing more Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3/37 HAGER GROUP, CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY… … because, our values are not negotiable, … we believe in respecting people and our environment, … Corporate Social Responsibility is more than just words. E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH “As a family-owned company it is in our nature to be sustainable.” With increasing globalisation and professional development and to promote diminishing natural resources, we must ethical behaviour with all our stakeholders. consider the consequences of our actions. The need for greater corporate E for Environment: we aim to make our responsibility and shaping a sustainable environmental footprint as neutral as future is increasing. At Hager Group, we possible for the planet by optimising the want to move forward in such a way that use of energies and resources, avoiding we leave a clean bill of health for future hazardous substances, and limiting generations. We have translated this vision emissions and waste. of sustainable development into a structured approach that we called E3. E for Energy: we offer value to people and their assets through safe, smart, ecoE for Ethics: we strive to offer our friendly and energy-efficient products, employees a safe and secure working solutions and services for both their living environment, equal opportunities of and working environments. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4/37 E3 is a firmly For more information concerning our established commitment to employees all over the approach at Hager world, please consult page 70 & 71 of Group, it is easily Building Bridges Hager Group Annual accessible to Report 2017/18. employees, customers and In our current company project, Project suppliers alike In a 2020, our sustainability strategy has eight video our Head of transverse challenges & eight key process Sustainable Development, Denis Munch, indicators and objectives. The success of (above) outlines the principles of our E3 the sustainability strategy requires the approach. involvement of every site, every function, every employee. French with English subtitles French French with German subtitles Our 8 E3 challenges Ethics: > Assessment, policy and goals: improve health and safety at the workplace > Implementation: reduce number of work and commuting injuries (with stoppage) per 1000 employees (temporary workers included) > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: foster skills and talents > Implementation: 95% of people in scope of a Personal Development Interview have one validated individual appraisal review per year > Measurement of outcomes: 20% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase gender diversity in key positions > Implementation: increase % of women in management positions > Measurement of outcomes: + 15% > Assessment, policy and goals: strengthen ethical behaviours in business > Implementation: 80% of managers qualified (trained and skills validated) in ethical management > Measurement of outcomes: 80% Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5/37 Environment: > Assessment, policy and goals: Optimise on-site energy consumption > Implementation: decrease on-site energy consumption in MWh / million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% > Assessment, policy and goals: Reduce CO2 emissions related to freight > Implementation: kg of CO2e emitted related to inter-sites and OTD-sales freight/million € TO > Measurement of outcomes: -10% Energy: > Assessment, policy and goals: Strengthen eco-design of products > Implementation: % of eco-designed products amongst the innovative projects > Measurement of outcomes: 80% > Assessment, policy and goals: Increase sales of energy efficiency devoted solutions > Implementation: Turn Over achieved with solutions enabling energy measurement, energy savings, energy storage or devoted to renewable energies > Measurement of outcomes: +100% “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6/37 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We at Hager Group support and respect employees, being reduced by 13% on human rights through our daily activities by average over 2 years. providing safe and healthy working We expect a great deal from our conditions and by ensuring nonemployees, however we also make every discrimination in personnel practices. effort to encourage them and develop their For example, from 2016 to end 2017, in the abilities in a favourable balanced working frame of Project 2020, occupational safety environment. In 2017, the total number of actions have been put in place to promote training hours for all Hager Group safety group wide. The LTIFI indicator (lost employees, both e-learning and face to time injury frequency index), shows our face totalled 30,000; thus increasing actions have resulted in the number of collective knowledge and skills for all to work accidents and travel to, per 1,000 enjoy the benefits. > Assessment, policy and goals: Diversity Diversity (n. f. Latin: diversitas, atis): Since our beginnings, we quickly character which is varied, diverse. Applied established ourselves in different local to companies, is the variety of human regions and abroad, seeking to capitalise profiles that may exist within (country of on this asset. “Beyond a humanistic origin, region, neighbourhood, patronymic, approach, we believe that diversity is culture, age, gender, physical appearance, essential for us to be successful in our disability, sexual orientation, qualifications, various markets. Proper management of etc. ...). This definition highlights a reality diversity at all levels of our organisation today: every company is faced with and in cooperation with our partner diversity and the challenges it represents. networks is now more than ever a genuine Hager Group has chosen to encourage lever to support our business,” explains diversity by seeing it as an advantage. Daniel Hager, Hager Group CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7/37 > Implementation: We are operating in a global, multicultural, achieve success diversity is approached multigenerational & diverse world; to from four different angles in all we do. Multicultural approach We work in an increasingly international environment with colleagues from all over the world. Transversal projects and processes throughout the group necessitate a better understanding of cultural and linguistic differences. To facilitate our work numerous training sessions are in place to help us better understand and work efficiently with our colleagues from all around the world. Gender Balance 41% of our working population is female and 59% male, 16.5% of managers are female (project mgr, dept. mgr, senior mgr, directors). When appointing new colleagues, HR asses female and male candidates, however, we maintain a sensible and pragmatic approach. Our business approach on gender equality is to allow women to grow and access positions. Disability At Hager Group, disability is not considered as inability, rather a different kind of ability. In 2017 there were 156 colleagues in France registered within RQTH (Reconnaissance en Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé) and 267 with a RQTH, declared invalidity or an IPP (Incapacité Permanente Partielle – permanent partial incapacity). Inter-generational approach We act fairly in working relationships between colleagues, be they young trainees, employees with few or many years’ experience and seniors. This approach aims to bring employees together in purposeful, mutually beneficial work to promote greater understanding and respect between generations and contributes to the growth of the company. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8/37 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR & community activities > Assessment, policy and goals: Corporate Social Responsibility is an Multinational Enterprises. We ensure that integral part of how we conduct our our suppliers and partners respect a business at Hager Group, make decisions number of rules on human rights and and set our priorities. Our corporate social labour law. That is how we aim for a responsibility approach is based on the 30 balanced and safe competitive articles of the United Nations Charter of environment and broad international Human Rights, the standards of the diversity. This approach not only increases International Labour Organisation and the the motivation of our employees, but also Organisation for Economic Co-operation the loyalty of our customers and our and Development Guidelines for partners, at home and abroad. > Measurement of outcomes: Hager GO! In 2017 a third edition of Hager GO! an additional sum of 12,500€ to Make A-Wish, internal opinion survey was launched for all an international charity, whose objective is employees. They gave anonymous to make the wishes of children who are or feedback about working conditions, have been seriously ill, come true. The 5 motivation, organisation of the company countries chosen for this donation where etc. The mid-year feedback resulted in both the Make-a-Wish Foundation and actions plans to improve working life within Hager Group are present were: The the company. For each survey completed, Netherlands, India, Ireland, Italy and Hong Hager Group donated one euro and the Kong China. Blood donations On 12th September 2017 and 24th May 2018, colleagues in Obernai had the opportunity to donate their blood, as every year the National Association of Blood donors set up on site. Over 50 colleagues participated at each session. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9/37 when! when!* a feminine network for inspiration, networks and communities, create sharing experience and solidarity at Hager links, generate ideas and extend Group for meeting and exchanging ideas, horizons. contributing to women’s personal &  Café when! a discussion with the professional development and valorising philosopher Eugénie Vegleris about them in the workplace. being a woman in the working world The network, to which all Hager Group of today. colleagues, both men and women, are  Success story testimonial welcome, has been active since October session with Gaëlla Haller, project 2017. This grass-root initiative generated a Manager for eco-efficiency at ES lot of enthusiasm and gained strong Energies Strasbourg. support at all levels of the company. Within  Presence at L’Industrie a short space of time, when! has grown Magnifique. stronger and organised several events.  Mentoring programs with mentor*when! W for women, H for Hager Group, mentee duos for employees E for energy, ethics, environment wanting to share and or develop engagement, electricity… the possibilities their skills. are endless and N for network!  External networking and meetings with other companies For more details, click here. to meet with other women’s In a (football) league of our own Hager Group is building bridges to the local community through its involvement with the Football club Racing Club Strasbourg Alsace (RSCA), now in Ligue 1. Page 35 of Building Bridges Hager Group Annual Report 2017/18 features an interview with the club president about how important Hager Group support is. On 18th May 2018 a friendly match was even held between Hager veterans and RCSA. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10/37 Hager Group sponsors the event L’Industrie Magnifique From 3rd to 13th May 2018, the city squares “Hager Group is an international company of Strasbourg displayed 24 works of art to with the ambition to transform. L’Industrie the general public. The exhibition brought Magnifique is very much in keeping with together manufacturers, artists and public our approach: listening to our customers bodies to promote and develop artistic and the people around us so that we can work, the culture of innovation and the build new technologies and tomorrow’s region’s industrial legacy. Each art work world,” commented Daniel Hager. was the result of close cooperation A series of Hager Group events were between a local company and a selected programmed; a Design café, a artist. mathematics workshop for secondaryHager Group was one of the companies school pupils, a round-table to discuss participating, exhibiting Mann auf Stier by women in industry, a children’s painting Stephan Balkenhol. Being part of workshop, an opportunity for the visually L’Industrie Magnifique was a novel way to impaired to discover Mann auf Stier and a promote industry to the general public and lecture about innovation. showcase Hager Group’s expertise. As a major player in the local economy, Hager For more details, click here. Group wanted to help people discover the region’s large industrial base. Celebrating music at Hager Forum Financed and supported by Peter und Luise Hager Foundation, on 25th July 2017, colleagues in Alsace, France were cordially invited to a rehearsal concert of the Percussion Quintet of the French National Orchestra at Hager Forum. In the spirit of making classical music more accessible and mixing genres, the orchestra was accompanied by three hip-hop dancers as part of Obernai’s Summer Music Festival. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11/37 Diabetes & Melanoma Awareness End November 2017 was the opportunity prevention day in June 2017 at Hager for colleagues to learn more about diabetes at Hager Forum in the context of International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Over 200 colleagues had their blood sugar level tested and were given advice by the diabetologist Dr. Hocher. A conference about how to prevent diabetes was given by Mrs. Damgé the president of l’Association des Diabétiques du Bas-Rhin Forum in Obernai. (Diabetes Association) and various On the agenda: activities to demystify this medical  Q&A session by the League against condition. The company restaurant also Cancer and the Department of offered diabetes-friendly dishes at lunch Health at Work. time and a nutritionist was on hand with  Free sun protection products. advice about healthy and balanced eating.  A general knowledge quiz about the potential harmful effects of tanning. Getting a sun tan can be a risky business.  Free Skin diagnosis by Cap Vital. Sun exposure is the most important risk  Conference on skin cancer led by factor for the development of skin cancers; Professor Schraub. to make employees aware of this issue, the Occupational Health Service organised a Cultural awareness In the spirit of opening up to other cultures, during Chinese New Year in February 2018 Hager Forum helped colleagues and visitors to celebrate by creating a festive atmosphere. Every day almost 500 people discovered the festive atmosphere, local culinary specialities and information about Hager Group’s presence in China. There was also an introduction to the ancient art of Taï Chi. Christmas carols for charity On 21st December 2017 Hager Group Obernai chorus group sang for an hour for the delight of colleagues and visitors, and also to raise money for a local charity. 240€ were raised and donated to a local association that fights against poverty and encourages solidarity the Secours Populaire du Bas-Rhin, Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 12/37 Hager Group stimulates and promotes sustainable development during ESDW of the company of tomorrow by commenting that, “…it will be caring and ethical . The five activities were:  an open innovation day with secondary school students in partnership with the local As part of European Sustainable association from the Junior Development Week (ESDW) in June 2017, Achievement Worldwide network, a positive attitude Forum was instilled at  an exhibition on stereotypes, Hager with PIW#2. The programme  a serious game, focused on the intergenerational approach  a gardening workshop, and equality.  a conference on generations at More than 360 people took part in the five work. Click here for a 4-minute activities organised. The conference on interview with Ms. Duez. generations at work with Emmanuelle Duez was a real highlight. She shared her vision Toy collection For the second year running at the Bischwiller site in Alsace France a toy collection took place. All the toys given were donated to a local association that provides aid to handicapped children. Many of the gifts were donated around Christmas time. Creativity Week and the South faces. This author and keynote speaker shared her experiences and talked about team spirit, leadership, problem-solving, perseverance, and creativity: All of these skills helped her and her team to overcome the impossible. Are you up for it? Workshops. The This third edition of Creativity Week was all challenge was to make energy production about creatively achieving the impossible. of Hager Forum’s photovoltaic panels more The programme was developed to help understandable. push back the barriers of the impossible. Pitch & Chips: a follow-up named Pitch & On the agenda was: Chips where the teams showcased their A talk by Cathy O’Dowd, the first woman unique solutions to the above mentioned to climb Mount Everest twice: by the North photovoltaic panel challenge. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 13/37 France and Germany Hager Group confirms its commitment to the silver economy digitalisation, the Internet of Things (IoT) and the Silver Economy, developing solutions for integrating connected objects in order to create, manage and inform various communities in the area of personal care. In France, Hager Group and End June 2017 Hager Group and Hakisa Hakisa are already working together as entered into a strategic partnership. By part of the social hub Facilien. acquiring a stake in Hakisa, Hager Group is continuing to develop its services in the In Germany, Hager Group and Hakisa area of Ambient Assisted Living (AAL). have already joined forces to approach Hager Group and Hakisa have already local communities, providers of personal worked together for over four years to care services, housing associations, simplify everyday life for people dependent property developers, associations and on care, their loved ones and care staff. caregivers’ networks. Hakisa successfully combines Germany Hager Seniors Retired, yet still actively representing the offices at the Blieskastel site to Hager Group, the Hager Seniors are a coordinate all the group’s activities before group of more than 50 retired Hager Group they happen; they even have a Face Book employees who have been meeting in page to discuss and show photos of their Blieskastel, in Germany, on a regular basis numerous excursions and events. In July since 2008 in order to actively present the 2017, for instance, the group travelled to company’s corporate culture to the outside Mannheim for a day out at the Luisenpark world and stay in touch with Hager Group municipal park. and the Hager family. There is also a working group consisting of For more details, click here. twelve members who frequently meet in Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 14/37 Holiday childcare for Hager MiKids For the past five years, the CJD in water competitions and group baking & Homburg and Hager Group have worked woodwork sessions in the workshops. The together to provide summer holiday children were also taken on a guided tour childcare for Blieskastel’s Hager Group of Hager Group factory in Blieskastel. They employees’ children. saw where their parents work and tried In summer 2017, 18 children aged 5 to 12 their hand at production. Hager Seniors spent a week with the CJD (Germany’s (retired employees) also took part on a Christian Association of Youth Villages) in voluntary basis, assisting the CJD Homburg. Their fun programme included employees with looking after the children. doing sports and engaging in creative tasks. The carers organised team games, For more details, click here. Summer camp in Spohns Haus On the 6th July 2017 during the summer Blieskastel site. Next stop was Kirkel camp in Spohns Haus, Gersheim in Castle with crossbow shooting, archery, Germany, a Hager-Day took place. After a horseshoe throwing and hit the nail! brief welcome and introduction from both Afterwards, as every year, a joint knights’ Hager Group and the Peter und Luise dinner took place with Hager Seniors. Hager Foundation, the youngsters participated in a factory tour at the For more details, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 15/37 Talent spotting Career Day for Family Businesses (KFU) On 30th June 2017, Hager Group took part a dialogue with lots of potential employees. in the 19th Career Day for Family One of the highlights of the event was the Businesses Karrieretag engineering lab opened to give visitors a Familienunternehmen, KFU for the third chance to find out more about our products time. and solutions. The Human Resources team interviewed To get young academics and experienced nearly 30 candidates; some of the managers excited about careers in familyinterviews were planned, while others were run companies, the Foundation for Family spontaneous. The candidates were highly Businesses (Stiftung motivated and very interested in the career Familienunternehmen) joined forces with opportunities at Hager Group, and now that leading family-run companies and the the fair is over, the application processes Entrepreneurs’ Club to launch the Career are in full swing. Day for Family Businesses (Karrieretag This day allowed Hager Group to present Familienunternehmen, KFU). itself and its corporate culture and open up Hager Group at the Saarbrücken careers fair Almost 6000 youngsters flocked to the Training, three skilled technical instructors, Messe der Wirtschaftsjunioren recruitment five trainees and a student representative. fair for school leavers at Saarbrücken on This Hager Group team held just short of 2nd September 2017. This careers fair is 100 meetings in total during the day. primarily geared towards students who are looking for an in-house apprenticeship or For more details, click here. degree course. Welcoming at the Hager Group stand were the Head of Commercial Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 16/37 Long Night of Industry 2017 The Lange Nacht der Industrie (Long Night welcomed two separate groups of 50 of Industry) took place in Saarland on 28th visitors to our company on the evening of September 2017. Once a year, this event the event. Welcoming the groups were the gives school pupils, students and people TAI Community (Trainees, Apprentices and looking for jobs and training opportunities a Interns), the relevant specialist chance to see what goes on behind the departments and Corporate scenes at major companies. 17 companies Communications. At each stop along the from the region took part; Hager Group, way, former trainees gave the visiting participating for the 7th time, was one of groups informative insights into their roles them. The event is organised by the and responsibilities. Saarland Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK) with the employers’ For more details, click here. association AGV ME Saar. Hager Group Italy Several actions were implemented:  A charitable contribution was made di Solidarietà: an organisation that in favour of Comunità Papa supply food and offers support to Giovanni XXIII. This nationwide families in financial difficulty. The Association helps girls who are or organisation provides them with have been victims of slavery or food and other basic necessities. sexual exploitation by offering them a new life. The contribution was  Hager Lumetal continues to work made in collaboration with FAAC, a with the foundation Il Giglio in social partner: projects aimed at helping disabled people.  As every year, a food collection was organised at AB Plast for the Banco Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 17/37 Responsible purchasing at Hager Group > Assessment, policy and goals: As a signatory of the United Nations Global commitment from the supplier to comply Compact we aim to promote the principles with the terms of Hager Group's of sustainable development among our sustainable growth and ethical trade policy, suppliers. From the selection of our we encourage our suppliers to be active in suppliers, which involves ethical work and rolling out their socially responsible environmental protection criteria, to signing business approach. a purchase contract, involving a > Implementation: Hager Group stands for high standards in our sustainable development commitment. brand quality, reflected in our procurement Hager Group requests that its suppliers activities. We are very careful in choosing comply with Hager Group’s ‘Sustainable suppliers, and apply a range of selection Growth and Ethical Trading Policy’ that criteria. Any supplier wanting to work with includes the request to source materials us must recognise our core values used in needed for their operations solely from our own business: professionalism, fast socially responsible vendors. In particular, response times and a high level of the signing of our ‘Conflict mineral positioncustomer focus. Hager Group’ document to determine if Hager Group fully supports the OECD their components contain tin, tungsten, initiative of 2013, ‘Due Diligence Guidance tantalum and/or gold, is mandatory. for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk For more details about our sourcing policy, Areas’, which is in line with our values and click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 18/37 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Occupational Health & Safety > Assessment, policy and goals: At Hager Group, employee health and employees with a safe workplace, safety are vital issues. Beyond compliance environment and working conditions is a with the applicable regulations and the core value at Hager Group, which places financial aspects of the costs of workplace the company’s men and women at the accidents or occupational illnesses, it is not heart of its concerns. This is an integral ethically acceptable for an individual’s part of our commitment to sustainable mental or physical health to be development, and more specifically to the permanently or temporarily affected by ethical aspect contained within E3. their professional activity. Providing > Implementation: Hager Group’s European Works Council, in appearance of major risks to the health and agreement with the company’s Top safety of individuals or to the environment. Management, has put in place a committee In the context of this mission, this made up of elected members of staff committee is tasked with carrying out whose goal is to notify management in the monitoring visits of the company’s sites. event of any serious issues or the > Measurement of outcomes: A shared health and safety indicator for the travel accidents resulting in stoppages of group was put in place in 2009: this is one day or more per 1,000 people (Hager known as the frequency index. This Group employees or temporary staff) per measures the number of workplace and year. Internal mobility > Implementation: International Mobility policy is part of a Internal mobility on a local and global scale wider business strategy developing is an important factor in career businesses in new countries as well as development and Hager Group developing international careers. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 19/37 > Measurement of outcomes: Human Resources departments in Hager  France was 25% Group follow indicators for the number of  Hager Group was 20%. positions filled through internal mobility. For example for 2017: Health & Safety Certifications > Assessment, policy and goals: OHSAS 18001 & ISO We do our utmost to uphold the 18001 and ISO throughout Hager Group’s international standards such as OHSAS industrial and other sites. > Measurement of outcomes: Number of production sites including 3 logistic sites certified to: ISO 14001: 21 OHSAS 18001: 22 Number of sites in France (5 industrial: Annecy, Bischwiller, Crolles, Obernai, Saverne, as well as Bordeaux) certified to: ISO 50001: 10 Number of production sites certified to: ISO 9001: 28 Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 20/37 France A sub-contractor, APF Entreprises Alsace, company with the specificity of employing for electronic PCBs (Printed Circuit Boards) workers with disabilities, where the working and bobbins is a dynamic employer of abilities of employees are taken into people with declared handicaps. It is an consideration and conditions suited to their EA, Entreprise Adaptée, that is to say a possibilities. Italy Several projects and initiatives have taken place in Hager Group companies in Italy over the last 12 months. Pages 21 & 22 of this report offer a selection: Atral Italia celebrated its 25th Anniversary most important events over the past 25 with a party on 18th March 2018 at Villa years were projected and there was an Sapori e Lazzari. During the party a fun award ceremony for employees with over puzzle based on Atral's history was 10 and 20 years at the company. A organised in order to involve all the souvenir with the 25 years logo was given employees and agencies. Videos of the to all participants. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 21/37  AB Plast and Hager Lumetal  Bocchiotti SpA provided training provided free influenza vaccinations courses for Health & Safety policies for all employees. for all employees.  Hager Lumetal provided training  Bocchiotti SpA created an operative courses for the use of a defibrillator group for security. Its 8 members and first aid. hold monthly meetings.  Atral Italia updated first aid training  AB Plast provided training for the courses for employee employee representatives and the representatives were according to Health & Safety Manager in the Italian Law D.LGS. 81/2008. company’s safety systems.  Atral Italia updated training courses  Hager SpA updated training for safety issues for employee courses for employee representative. representatives for safety issues (first aid and fire-safety). This action  Hager Lumetal provided training in involved the headquarters and the company’s safety systems for branch offices. the following employees: Department Managers, employee  Bocchiotti SpA provided training representative and Emergency courses for Health & Safety policies Teams & all staff. for all employees.  English training courses were  At Hager SpA the new provided for 16 Bocchiotti headquarters Casa Hager were employees. inaugurated on 20th July 2017 with the participation of Daniel Hager. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 22/37 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies The following commitments form our approach for sustainability. At Hager Group, we: put ethical behaviour at the centre of all want to be a corporate citizen and a we do with our customers, partners, responsible employer, suppliers & employees, care for people, contribute, with our solutions to a more act for the protection of the planet, efficient use of energy in buildings. For further E3 (Ethics, Environment and Energy) details, consult pages 5 & 6 of this report. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 23/37 > Assessment, policy and goals: In line with E3 and Global Compact’s encourages the development and diffusion principles to support a precautionary of environment friendly technologies that approach to environmental challenges, reduce our carbon footprint. As a familyHager Group undertakes both internally owned company, social responsibility is a and externally to promote greater matter close to our hearts. environmental responsibility and > Implementation: Hager Group's employees have played a improving safety and creating good significant role in our company's success working conditions, with the professionalism and commitment supporting internal advancement, they have shown. The future of Hager developing competencies and increasing Group depends on its employees, so with employability, this in mind, priorities have been set for 4 promoting diversity, different areas: respecting and supporting ethical principles. > Measurement of outcomes: Ethics: For every 1,000 employees, we and safety policy is for all our production have seen a reduction of 43% in the sites worldwide to be certified in number of accidents occurring in the accordance with the international standard workplace and on the way to or from work OHSAS 18001. So far, 74% of Hager since 2009. One of the aims of our health Group's employees work at a certified site. Environment: 21 sites are already certified ceremony where environmentally friendly ISO 14001 (environment management) projects were presented. For more details and 10, ISO 50001 (energy management). please refer to page 26 of this report. March 2018 saw 2 projects highlighted at a Energy: The need to contain CO2 the best compromises to be made in order emissions and curb the extraction of the to limit any negative impact on the earth's oil reserves has brought with it a environment, it also enables an demand for new transport solutions. One of environmental profile to be created for the these solutions is the electric car. Hager product. This serves as a sort of ‘green Group develops the charging stations for pass’ for products. The number of products these electric cars. The equipment used in with an environmental profile, named our sustainable buildings is intended to Hager Product Passport, has tripled in the have as little impact on the environment as space of two years. For more information possible. The solutions Hager Group about Hager Product Passport, please develops are subjected to a life cycle refer to pages 74 to 77 of our 2016 Annual analysis from the conceptualisation stage. Report. This analysis not only helps us to pinpoint Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 24/37 “We do not inherit the earth from our parents; we borrow it from our children.” Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, a French writer, aviator and poet. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 25/37 Hager Group Eco-Awards conditioning system and injection machine & workshop lighting was adapted. These actions brought a total saving of 391kRMB within 2 years. The reduction kwh/turnover was -2.2% in 2016 and -4.6% in 2017. In addition to this, a monthly event for employees Energy Saving Theme Month promotes an energy saving culture. Electrical Energy Consumption Reduction: the objective of Electrical Two ECO projects were featured at Hager Energy Consumption Reduction project Group Operational excellence Awards was to reduce the electric energy costs in ceremony on 14th March 2018. Hager Dongguan factory. From start 2017 a team was organised to work out all Energy Saving in HEHL: the objective of energy saving opportunities. The final Energy saving in HEHL project was to positive result was 344k RMB savings in reduce electricity consumption and electrical cost by the year end; a big encourage E3 spirit. To reduce electricity contribution to POH cost target reductions consumption, the Huizhou facility team and also aligned to group concept of introduced a technical solution in air ‘Produce more with less’ for factories. “All employees are part of our sustainably shaped future.” Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 26/37 E-mobility: excellent news for the climate and consumers This means that, with e-vehicles, vast decentralised storage capacities are suddenly being made available.” In this way, the growing use of e-vehicles can noticeably balance out the natural fluctuations in renewable energy production. This is because, in future, more As e-mobility becomes increasingly popular and more home-owners will have a battery around the world, the question of how in their garage or outside their front door in climate-friendly it really is and continues to which, for example, energy generated by be subject of controversial debate. Etheir own photovoltaic system can be mobility and renewable energy production stored. However, this requires a robust are spurring each other on. connection to a smart home-energy Ulrich Reiner, e-mobility expert and system. Static home batteries such as Advanced Energy Solutions Manager at Hager Group’s E3DC storage system Hager Group comments, “… a vehicle optimise the use of renewable energies battery can store about as much energy as even further. an average household needs in a week. For more details, click here. E-mobility: Bridging cars and buildings full interview consult pages 46 to 52 this afore mentioned Annual Report. VR: That’s how we see it, too. Right now, we’re integrating the customer’s digital experience into our cars, so networking the vehicle with its environment is, in principle, nothing new for us. The energy management system of buildings is adding another important element. UR: The other major topic is the energy In the past, houses were the places where revolution. Right now, rooftop photovoltaic cars were parked. Today, the two systems, energy storage devices and communicate with each other. In the future, electric heat pumps are being used in electric vehicles and intelligent buildings households and their production and will exchange both information and energy consumption need to be managed. This as they increasingly merge into one digital requires intelligent management systems entity. Experts Veit Rohrberg (VR), Head of capable of managing energy flows and Development of Smart Charging at Audi costs. The Home Energy Management AG, and Ulrich Reiner (UR), Advanced System (HEMS), which Hager Group is Energy Solutions Manager at Hager Group, now developing, manages the optimal work together on the inevitable breakdown charging speed scheduling for electric of the barriers between house and car. The vehicles. This prevents customers from two were interviewed for Building Bridges overloading their home power grid and Hager Group Annual Report 2017/18. The enables them to reduce their ecological interview excerpt below gives a taste of footprint and energy costs. discussions and progress so far. For the Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 27/37 Energy storage & running almost entirely on renewables 2018 began with a new record for company specialising in energy storage, electricity customers in Germany: for part Hager Group has also now laid another key of the day on 1st January, 95 per cent of building block that will help pave the way the country's electricity requirements were for a future-oriented energy supply. “The met with renewable energies. This energy transition is picking up speed achievement broke the previous record thanks to the constantly growing share of from 30th April 2016, when 88 per cent of renewables in the mix and the updates to Germany’s electricity needs were met with the infrastructure,” says Daniel Hager, electricity from renewable sources. The Chief Executive Officer of Hager Group. record was primarily the result of strong “Similar changes are on the cards for many winds and – for a few hours – the use of countries all over world. And as a solar power. This is good news for Hager developer of future-oriented energy Group, as it has been playing a key role in management solutions, we aim to play a the energy transition with smart building defining role in this transformation.” control centres, charging stations for electric vehicles and the relevant For more information, click here. controlling software. By acquiring E3/DC, a Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 28/37 > Measurement of outcomes: Health, Safety and Environment France Spotlight on Hager Forum breaks that take place at Hager At Hager Forum a certain number of Forum. initiatives have been set-up to reduce  Event: all printed matter is done impact upon the environment: with 100% recycled paper.  No plastic cups: end 2017 plastic  Catering: use of local & seasonal cups were replaced by reusable produce and organic where eco-cups for all organised meeting possible and no throw-away plastic or paper plates. Spark café: eco facts & figures  30% of all fruits and vegetables  80% of the menu is ‘home-made’. used are produced locally.  Used coffee grains are collected  100% of all fresh drinks are local. and used as compost by a local fruit  100% of hot drinks are from organic & vegetable producer. farming. Hager Group in Obernai continues to serves over 164,000 meals per year and participate in funding a local bus to avoid Spark café 22,000 equating to a saving employees taking their personal vehicles. more than The bus runs between the sites and from 744,000 kms per the sites to the train station and town year, this centre. corresponds to Pascal Christmann, in charge of Health, about 126 tonnes Safety and Environment in France equivalent CO2. comments that “every effort we make to This has a reduce our carbon footprint helps, for positive impact on example our company restaurant the environment.” Bicycles encouraged and to the ready In the past year, 5 extra bicycles were week period 46 participants in Obernai added to the pool for use for employees to clocked up 3,600 kilometres. A small event travel the few kilometres between Factory was organised to thank them for their 1 and Factory 4; an extra dissuader to participation in driving. reducing theirs To encourage and facilitate the use of and Hager bicycles, 20 extra parking spaces have Group’s carbon been added to the Obernai bicycle parking footprint. area. The action will To further encourage bicycle use, from 6th be repeated to 18th June 2017, a project was launched again this the boost the use of bicycles as a means of summer. transport to and from work. Over the twoHager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 29/37 Home office equates to 75,000 non-driven kilometres In the three Alsatian sites, the promotion of (almost the equivalent of driving twice working from home has resulted in over the around the world!) and 13 tonnes past year 2,058 days of home office, which equivalent of CO2. Energy economy results The following figures expressed in 450 photovoltaic panels of the roof of percentages, represent the reduction in Hager Forum in Obernai produce 23% of production equivalent at Obernai: the buildings electricity consumption Electricity: 8.77% needs, this is the equivalent to annual Gas: 19.22% production of 130 000 kWh. Water: 3.73% Compressed air: -1.66% Respecting ISO standards Certify every production or logistics site to In particular for Environmental and Energy ISO 14001 standard. Management Systems we have Certify every site with more than 250 consolidated and guarantee to carry out employees to ISO 50001 standard. the following: Request newly acquired companies to Assess, analyse and improve most satisfy these obligations at the latest three significant environmental impacts including years following the acquisition. Indeed energy consumption in a systematic way at several small companies have been all sites. recently bought and they are all being accompanied for Health & Safety. Zero pesticides in Obernai An article in a local magazine highlighted that over the last two years Hager Group uses zero pesticides at the Obernai site. The aim is the preservation of water, biodiversity and health of both employees and visitors on site; as such no pesticides are used and alternative methods were found to prevent weeds. In addition to this, a small vegetable garden has been planted where colleagues and visitors alike can try their hand at gardening. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 30/37 Germany Funding for energy-efficient projects 2 energy-efficient projects in Germany are extruder, the other for upgrading LED being funded; this funding comes from inserts. ERDF and Rhineland-Palatinate. One of the projects is for a new generation of For more information, click here. Italy The following initiatives took place at Hager Group companies in Italy:  At Hager Lumetal a new system to  At Hager Lumetal the yearly audit sort waste collection was or Environment & Safety complying implemented. to the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational  Bocchiotti SpA achieved OHSAS Health & Safety Management 18001 Certification for Occupational System) and ISO 14001 Standards Health & Safety Management was successful. System.  At Atral Italia the yearly audit for  ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Quality Certification according to Certifications were also renewed. Standard ISO 9001:2015 was successful. Regulations & Certifications > Measurement of outcomes: REACH Regulations Hager Group requires its suppliers to on randomly chosen products to confirm declare the presence or not in their that they don’t contain hazardous supplied goods of one or more of the latest substances over the regulatory thresholds. substances added to the SVHC list At Hager Group we endeavour to not use (substance of very high concern). This these substances of high concern in our declaration concerns good provided with existing products and all new projects do and beyond Europe. Yearly screening tests not contain any of them. are carried out by a third party laboratory ISO 14001 Certifications By the end of 2016, 21 of our 28 production and logistics sites were certified ISO 14001. ISO 50001 Certifications By the end of 2016, 10 of our 25 production and logistics sites were certified ISO 50001. (Energy Management System) Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 31/37 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption initiatives > Assessment, policy and goals: What is the right thing to do? business environment, making the right What is not right? choices becomes increasingly more Where do you draw the line? complex and more important. It is important that new and current employees be guided Doing business globally entails many through our company values and challenges, particularly when working in understand our Ethics Charter which make diverse cultures where ‘appropriate’ it very clear what is expected behaviour of business conduct can vary widely and in a Hager Group employee. Our Ethics countries where enforcement of national or Charter is a reference framework based on international standards may be weak. our values, providing an authoritative Therefore adherence to the company’s guideline for an upright, reliable yet Ethics Charter must be observed. In a successful way of doing business. > Implementation: Hager Group has set out its company Hager Group firmly believes that only those values and philosophy in its own Code of whose actions are moral and trustworthy Ethics. In addition to obeying the law and will benefit in the long term. To apply these treating competitors fairly, it also covers principles to the daily lives of employees, complex problems. 80% of executives will be receiving online and face to face ethics training by 2020. For example can I accept a supplier’s invitation to a symposium with a stay in a For more details about our Ethics Charter, luxury hotel? click here Is the gift of a pen tantamount to bribery? > Measurement of outcomes: Italy Legislative Decree no. 231 entered into All Hager Group companies in Italy are in force on 8th June 2001, and safeguards compliance with the Italian Standard against corruption within a company (Legislative Decree) 231. This Italian . Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 32/37 05 SELECTED EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN HAGER GROUP Peter und Luise Hager Foundation > Assessment, policy and goals: As a family-run company, it is part of Hager responsibility. The founders are convinced Group’s culture to be aware of its that it is important to give something back responsibility. This means taking to society in return for its commercial responsibility for employees and their success. Such a commitment reflects the families as well as the sustainable Hager family culture, integrity and their protection of the environment and natural values. resources, and above all, social > Implementation: The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation located near Hager Group sites and was established in December 2010 to therefore benefit the people who live and support projects in the fields of science and work in close proximity to the company. research, protection of the environment, The name of the foundation is also fitting; it culture, child development and education is named after the parents of the company and social care. Many of the projects are founders, Dr. Oswald and Hermann Hager. > Measurement of outcomes: A section of Building Bridges Hager Group Annual Report 2017/18 features the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation (PLHF) with interviews of its members. For more details about recent activities of the Foundation, please consult pages 28 to 34. On the next pages are some examples. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 33/37 The Peter und Luise Hager Prize Since 2011, the Foundation has been several different ways. One such project supporting young artists in association with involves supporting the Modern Gallery, the Saar Academy of Fine Arts and Design part of the Saarland Museum, which was (HBKsaar). Alongside HBKsaar, the reopened in 2017 after it underwent a Foundation supports art, music and large-scale expansion. education in its home state of Saarland in Experiencing science up close The schoolchildren of Saarlouis are able to schoolchildren, who take part in various get up close and personal with science, experiments in groups. The laboratory thanks to a state-of-the-art facility that’s equipment was almost exclusively funded practically on their doorstep. The town’s by foundations such as the ME Saar Student Research Centre, which opened in Foundation, set up by the Saarland Metal 2015, houses three large laboratories, as and Electrical Industry Association, as well well as conference and meeting rooms. as the PLHF. Each laboratory has space for 20 Water for India The PLHF has organised the construction themselves in future, who will also be able of two check dams in the Indian state of to carry out any necessary repair work Rajasthan in association with the PHD themselves. Recently, the Foundation Rural Development Foundation. The further increased its involvement by Foundation provided 30,000 euros for the introducing the Wash in School necessary materials, the structures programme, which operates in five schools themselves were built by men from in the region. It funds sanitary kits and neighbouring villages. As such, the check facilities for these schools as well as dams can be serviced by the residents hygiene classes for the schoolchildren. With our neighbours, for our neighbours Many of the projects support initiatives and Schools programme that provides support communities based in the vicinity of Hager to students who successfully apply Group sites and recommended and/or themselves despite the difficulties they supervised by Hager Group colleagues. face. Larry Darst based in Edison, New Jersey is Nuno Gonçalo Pina at Hager in Portugal is involved in a project at a school in the personally involved in providing support to company’s neighbourhood. An abovea riding centre at Cascais, Portugal with average number of students at Lakewood the Associaçao Hipica Terapeutica. They High School have difficult family situations offer therapeutic horse-riding sessions for and are forced to take on part-time work people with physical disabilities and/or alongside their school commitments to learning difficulties. Some 80 people make ends meet; this is reflected in the low benefit; riding improves self-confidence as proportion of students successfully well as flexibility and body awareness. The graduating High School. PLHF wants to economic crisis left many parents unable to help to change this situation by contributing afford this for their children, PLHF decided to the Positive Behaviour Support in to step in. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 34/37 Supporting the German-Polish-Ukrainian youth camp (Urban Land Art) The summer camp at the environmental this year. The participants also went on education centre Spohns Haus is several excursions during the two-week Germany’s largest youth exchange project camp. The highlight was a day trip to Paris. between Poland, Ukraine and Germany. It For many of the young people it was their ran from 3rd to 15th July, and was the fifth first visit to the French capital. time that Peter und Luise Hager The camp programme also included the Foundation sponsored the camp. traditional Hager Day, where young people This year’s theme was Urban Land Art. visit Hager Group’s headquarters in A total of 62 young people took part: 27 Blieskastel and meet Hager Seniors (die from Poland, 20 from Ukraine and 15 from hager-Senioren), who, together with Germany. The timetable included language specialists from the Technical Sales courses in the morning and afternoon Promotion department take them on a tour workshops on topics such as graffiti, urban of the plant and answer all their questions dance and film. The graffiti workshop was about the company. particularly popular with the young people For more details, click here. Award Ceremony for Peter und Luise Hager Prize The 2018 Peter und Luise Hager Prize was Academy of Fine Arts and Design presented at the Hochschule der Bildenden honoured students for outstanding work Künste Saar (Saar Academy of Fine Arts and concepts dealing with the sensual and Design – HBKsaar) in Saarbrücken, experience and communication of Germany, on 2nd February 2018. Peter und technical, social and cultural processes in a Luise Hager Foundation and the Saar creative, artistic way. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 35/37 The brief for this year’s competition was to Kunstforum in Berlin from 16th March to examine the subject of contact in art and 14th April. design. The students were free to decide The jury selected 3 of the exhibited works which media they wanted to use to convey as winners of the prizes, which were the theme of the competition. presented by Evi Hager, President of the From the total of 47 entries received, the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation. jury selected 11 candidates whose work The winners were in order: was included as part of an exhibition at the  Lukas Ratius & Frederic Zenner HBKsaar gallery from 3rd February to 4th  Felix Bronko Noll March.  Jenny Tran. Their work was also displayed in the Saarländische Galerie-Europäisches For more details, click here. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 36/37 Follow Hager Group: Hager Group Communication on Progress 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 37/37
