Year 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report FENNOVOIMA Contents 3 On Behalf of Sustainable Energy Production 5 Highlights 6 Responsibility Strategy 6 Fennovoima Responsibility Program 7 Risk management 9 Responsible Business Practices 9 Our practices 10 Compliance with legal requirements 11 Protection and support of human rights 11 Continuous work against corruption in all its forms 12 Efficient Hanhikivi 1 Program and Construction Management 12 Our practices 13 Well-functioning management system that complies with all regulatory requirements and ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards 14 Economic Profitability 14 Our practices 14 Key financial figures 15 Hanhikivi 1 project has a significant positive contribution to the site region and on national level 17 Nuclear Safety 17 Our practices 18 Fennovoima continuously develops its safety and keeps safety at as high level as possible 22 Organizational Development and Employment 22 Our practices 23 All competencies and personnel to meet the statutory and legal requirements according to project phase 24 Continuous development of competences and qualifications – effective training 24 High quality leadership 25 Strong corporate culture and highly engaged employees 26 High personnel wellbeing 27 Good and continuously improving employer image 28 Supply Chain Management 28 Our practices 29 Qualified and well-functioning supply chain 31 Gray economy is effectively prevented 31 Respecting and supporting human and labor rights, fair labor practices 32 Occupational Health and Safety 32 Our practices 33 Providing a healthy and safe working environment 34 Strong occupational safety culture 35 Maintaining an effective risk management system 36 Environmental Management 36 Our practices 37 Proactively preventing and mitigating the environmental impact of the project 39 Preservation of the nature conservation areas and protected species 40 All operations comply with the water and environmental permits 41 Ensuring efficient construction waste management 42 Functioning and timely communication with environmental authorities and other external stakeholders 44 Stakeholder Engagement 44 Our practices 45 Transparency and proactive communication 45 Upholding continuous collaboration with the key stakeholders 46 Strong reputation within the organization and its stakeholders 48 Company Information 48 Operational environment 49 Company structure 49 Fennovoima's role in the project 50 Supply chain structure 51 Reporting Principles 52 GRI index FENNOVOIMA On behalf of sustainable energy production Low-emission energy generated with nuclear Responsibility guides our operations power During the past year, several parties have expressed their concern Fennovoima’s Corporate Responsibility Program is based on taking about the insufficiency of the actions agreed to mitigate climate safety and social, economic and environmental responsibility into change. In Finland, approximately 75 percent of greenhouse gas account in the operations of the organization. We focus on matters emissions comes from energy production and consumption, including that are important both to us and our stakeholders. energy used by traffic. In early 2017, Fennovoima was accepted into the UN Global Compact Discussion of the significance of nuclear power in curbing greenhouse corporate sustainability initiative, after which we verified that our gas emissions has become active worldwide, and Fennovoima has also Corporate Responsibility Program conforms with all the ten principles taken a prominent stand on behalf of clean energy production. The of the initiative. At the same time, we clarified and refined the goals set least effects on the climate over the entire life cycle are created by in the Program to even better describe our progress with regard to wind and solar power, as well as nuclear power, where there are responsibility. practically no carbon dioxide emissions from production at all. Even though the use of renewable energy sources has increased Results in occupational health and safety significantly in Europe, most of the EU’s low-emission energy is through persistent work generated with nuclear power. On the global scale, more energy was generated with nuclear power last year than ever before. Alongside nuclear safety, occupational health and safety is a number one priority in the Hanhikivi 1 project. In 2017, more than 550,000 Renewable energy sources and nuclear power are not mutually hours of work was performed at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site exclusive forms of electricity production. Investments in all forms of without a single lost-time accident. We are very proud of this electricity production with low emissions will make it possible to achievement. produce clean electricity in Finland for the country’s increasing needs in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, while Central to the success were the commitment of all parties working at improving the security of supply. the construction site to the principle of zero accidents, strict occupational safety practices, and continuous training of different parties to prevent accidents. 3 FENNOVOIMA Objective to achieve readiness for starting Environmental impacts considered in decisionconstruction in 2019 making Last year, Fennovoima faced challenges in delivering the design The responsibility principle also applies to the management of the documentation of the nuclear power plant required for the safety project’s environmental impacts. At the beginning of 2018, assessment to the Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority. Fennovoima’s environmental management system received an Taking the Finnish requirements and legislation into account in the environmental certificate conforming to the ISO 14001 standard. design work has taken more time for the plant supplier than we originally anticipated. The environmental management system is developed and kept always up to date, so that it will correspond to the changing conditions Now, our objective is to receive the Construction License required to at the construction site. This way, we want to ensure that the build the power plant in 2019. The Construction License is granted by environmental impact during all construction stages remains as low as the Government, after the Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety possible. Authority finds that the power plant can be built in compliance with Finnish safety requirements. As the project proceeds, the plant supplier’s supply chain The Hanhikivi 1 project has strong local preparedness and supply chain management also become more support important. In accordance with our strategy, we are committed to In everyday life in Pyhäjoki, the progress of the Hanhikivi 1 project has acting in a responsible manner, and we expect the same of our been visible to the local residents as increased construction work, new business partners. job opportunities and generally increased activity in the area, among other things. According to an opinion poll we commission every year, support for the project in Pyhäjoki and its neighboring region has risen above 70 percent. Toni Hemminki Fennovoima's CEO 4 FENNOVOIMA Highlights of the year 2017 Fennovoima's Annual Report of the Board of Directors 2017 is available at: www.fennovoima.fi/en/publications/annual-reports 5 FENNOVOIMA Responsibility Strategy The Fennovoima Responsibility Program supports sustainable development of Fennovoima’s operations and Hanhikivi 1 Program. Nuclear power is an economical source of electricity generation, combining the advantages of security, reliability, very low greenhouse gas emissions and cost competitiveness. It plays an important role in the implementation of the Finnish Climate and Energy Strategy towards a carbon-free society. Currently more than half of the clean energy production in Europe is based on nuclear energy. Photo: Ferry Design Agency. Fennovoima Responsibility Program Goals and targets The Fennovoima Responsibility Program supports sustainable Effective implementation of the Responsibility Program requires development of Fennovoima’s operations and Hanhikivi 1 Program. continuous development, setting targets and monitoring their During 2017, the Responsibility Program was revised to clarify its achievement, and when required, adjustments to the operations to presentation and simplify its structure, and to ensure that all the fulfill the sustainability and responsibility standards that Fennovoima Principles of the UN Global Compact are included. has set for the organization and its operations. The objective of the Responsibility Program is to ensure that practices, The Responsibility Program’s goals and targets are reviewed annually. operations and objectives in Fennovoima’s organization and at the The progress and achievement of the targets of the Responsibility construction site are in line with the corporate responsibility Program is monitored by the responsible departments and units and expectations of Fennovoima’s internal and external stakeholders. the management team. The progress in each area is reported yearly in This Corporate Responsibility report follows the structure of the the Corporate Responsibility Report. Fennovoima Responsibility Program. Our responsibility goals and progress in the different areas is described in the following pages. The responsibility goals defined in the Fennovoima Responsibility Program are marked in the report with this symbol. 6 FENNOVOIMA Risk management As a nuclear power company, Fennovoima operates in an This is done by identifying risks as early as possible, and by actively environment that is rigorously regulated at both national and taking corrective and preventive action. international level. Integrated risk management approach From a risk management perspective, corporate responsibility relates to effective and transparent corporate governance and management, Fennovoima applies the “integrated risk management approach,” and to people, nuclear safety and the environment. Besides putting where strategic, financial, and operational and safety-related risks are Fennovoima's reputation, and even operations, at risk, a breach of law integrated in an effective way. Fennovoima’s entire organization is or regulations could cause serious harm to society overall. As a involved in risk management, which is coordinated centrally. This responsible member of society, and complying with the regulatory allows the organization to use the best possible risk management and requirements as well as Fennovoima’s policies, Fennovoima's activities know-how in each area, as well as systematic methods and practices. and decision-making are characterized by a low risk appetite. It also ensures that the risk management is integrated into all The aim of Fennovoima’s risk management is to support the operations. achievement of the set objectives and prevent negative effects in all Since a significant part of the project’s risks are in the hands of the areas of Fennovoima’s operations, as well as to enhance the safety, plant supplier, Fennovoima ensures that the supplier’s risk quality and security of operations, economic value creation, corporate management is conducted in accordance with Fennovoima’s responsibility, and cooperation and dialogue with stakeholders. requirements. Fennovoima's high level risk map Effective risk management Fennovoima's risk management covers all phases of the Hanhikivi 1 Probabilistic risk assessments are integrated into risk assessments of Program. Risk monitoring ensures that existing risks and newly nuclear safety-related risks and the overall risk management process. discovered risks are effectively managed. Existing risks as well as the The same also applies to radiation safety risks. success of risk treatment are continuously monitored and reported as Occupational health and safety: Fennovoima has set a target part of Fennovoima’s monthly reporting. of zero accidents for its operations. Occupational accidents and Nuclear and radiation safety: As a nuclear power company, diseases will be prevented by proactive measures. Efficient risk Fennovoima puts nuclear and radiation safety first in all its activities management is one of the most effective tools for ensuring the and decision-making. Nuclear and radiation safety comprises safety, fulfilment of the target. Fennovoima, as the Project Owner, ensures security, emergency arrangements and nuclear safeguards at all that occupational health and safety risks have been eliminated or stages of the use of nuclear energy.Regulatory Guides on nuclear mitigated, and that construction work is executed safely without safety (YVL Nuclear Safety Guides) set requirements for the overall use endangering the health of employees. of probabilistic risk assessment (PRA) for analysis of nuclear safety. 7 FENNOVOIMA Environment: To ensure that the environmental impact of its Quality affects the project mostly through safety, technical operation is minimized as much as possible, Fennovoima sets high performance, or other aspects ultimately affecting licensability, standards for its environmental management activities. Risk schedule, costs or plant features. management is integrated with each operation that may have impacts Security: Corporate security ensures the security of operations, on the environment. information security, personnel security, physical security, crime Quality: To ensure safety, Fennovoima sets high standards for the prevention, fire protection and preparedness. It also discusses quality of its activities. The quality criteria for activities and products business continuity planning as well as crisis management. As required are set according to their significance regarding safety.According to in YVL A.12, Fennovoima has an information security management YVL requirements (e.g. A.7 301), the strictest quality requirements are system in place, including specific information security risk assessment assigned to products and functions with the highest risk significance. and management. Thus, risk mitigation and control measures are reflected in the quality requirements. 8 FENNOVOIMA Responsible business practices Compliance with applicable laws, regulations and ethical guidelines is crucial for Fennovoima's success. Our practices Fennovoima aims to be a world-class nuclear power company with a Our key policies and guidelines for responsible business practices are good safety culture and the highest level of integrity in everything we the following: do. The Fennovoima Code of Conduct (which incorporates the Fennovoima’s Compliance and Ethics Program is based on inserting principles that are considered in all our actions and operations.) compliance into the overall strategy process and into the existing The Company Policy (which defines the principles according Fennovoima Management System and the related risk management to which Fennovoima takes care of nuclear and radiation safety in processes. The Compliance Program is approved by the Board of its functions and ensures the quality of its activities and products. Directors, while the CEO is responsible for the Compliance and Ethics It includes aspects related to nuclear and radiation safety, quality, Program being executed and complied with in Fennovoima. human resources, occupational health and safety, security, Fennovoima has defined the three most significant goals related to environment, and communication.) responsible business practices of our operations. These goals are Instructions on preventing money laundering and compliance with legal requirements, consistent protection and support terrorist financing (Fennovoima is committed to international of human rights, and continuous work against corruption in all its standards preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, forms. and complies with applicable laws.) The fulfilment of the targets defined for these goals is monitored by Instructions on anti-bribery and anti-corruption Fennovoima’s Compliance function, which is responsible for the (Fennovoima has zero-tolerance to bribery and corruption) planning and development of the Compliance and Ethics Program, The principles of the UN Global Compact (which is a handling compliance concerns, providing advice and training to the voluntary initiative to implement universal sustainability principles organization, and taking necessary action regarding suspected in our operations and actions) violations of compliance. More information on the Compliance and Ethics Program can be found at our website: Policies and guidelines. 9 FENNOVOIMA Compliance with legal requirements We comply with all applicable legislation, protect human and labor and the correct procedures for how to act in case there are any rights, employ fair labor practices, and never accept any form of suspected breaches. At the end of the year 2017, over 88 percent of bribery or corruption. Fennovoima's employees and in-house consultants had attended the training. The training will continue during 2018 also as part of the Fennovoima conducted a third-party compliance risk assessment in induction training for new employees, and targeted interactive group 2016. The main areas with risk exposure were identified as potential training sessions will be developed. risks of corruption, unjust influence, conflicts of interest, noncompliance with legislation, and risks relating to the supply chain. Reporting compliance concerns According to a follow-up assessment conducted in 2017, Fennovoima’s Compliance and Ethics Program covers the above-mentioned risk At Fennovoima, the primary way of raising compliance concerns is to areas. Also, Fennovoima’s supply chain management practices have report them to the person’s direct supervisor or to the Compliance been developed to cover the monitoring and management of these function. The Compliance function is available and encourages matters (more information in the Supply Chain Management chapter employees to raise their concerns, ask in case of any questions, and of this report). speak up if they suspect any misconduct or violations. Fennovoima also has an independent whistleblowing tool that enables Compliance and ethics training anonymous internal reporting of any compliance concerns. The Compliance function is responsible for evaluating all reports received Fennovoima’s personnel and in-house consultants have been trained of suspected compliance violations and ensuring that appropriate to ensure the employees have sufficient knowledge of the legislation action is always taken. During 2017, none of the reports received required action. SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCES WITH LAWS AND 2017 2016 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS Fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance in the social 0 0 and economic area 10 FENNOVOIMA Protection and support of human rights According to the Constitution, Finland adheres to international treaties Our aim is to conduct a follow-up of all contracts during 2018. of human rights. Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct emphasizes the Compliance and ethics assessments will be implemented in compliance with laws and regulations, and the importance of human Fennovoima’s procurement and supply chain management rights protection in the supply chain. procedures from 2018 onwards. During 2017, Fennovoima’s contract templates were reviewed, and all Also, a specific steering committee will be established to analyze new contracting partners of Fennovoima must confirm their compliance concerns raised in supplier pre-qualification and supplier compliance with the Fennovoima Code of Conduct as part of the reviews, and to make decisions concerning the required corrective contract. actions or consequences. Continuous work against corruption in all its form Fennovoima has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. All Anti-corruption training is part of the compliance and ethics training Fennovoima’s operations were assessed for risks related to corruption that is mandatory for all Fennovoima employees and in-house as part of the third-party compliance risk assessment conducted in consultants. Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption instructions are 2016. Fennovoima’s Compliance and Ethics Program provides available on the intranet for all employees. Fennovoima’s Compliance instructions, training, monitoring and processes to handle incidents of function is available to provide further advice for the personnel and, if suspected corruption and violations. In 2017, there were no incidents necessary, to take action regarding any suspected compliance where Fennovoima employees were found to have been involved in violations. All compliance concerns are taken seriously and handled corruption. confidentially. To prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, we follow riskThere were no incidents where Fennovoima employees were found to based identification and due diligence procedures for suppliers and have been involved in corruption. other contracting parties. CORRUPTION 2017 2016 Incidents of corruption 0 0 11 FENNOVOIMA Effective Hanhikivi 1 program and construction management Fennovoima’s own internal functionality is a precondition for responsible operations. Our practices Efficient program management requires, among other things, effective The FMS helps us in ensuring that responsible business and labor processes and systematic ways of working, and a well-functioning practices, occupational health and safety practices, and environmental management system.The Fennovoima Management System (FMS) management practices are followed in all Fennovoima’s activities. ensures that nuclear and radiation safety is always considered first in Fennovoima’s goal for the FMS is to have a well-functioning all operations, to meet the requirements set by applicable regulations management system that complies with all regulatory requirements and good corporate governance, to bear the responsibilities of a relevant to the current state of the life cycle and ISO 9001, ISO 14001 nuclear licensee, and to oversee shareholders’ and other key and OHSAS 18001 standards. stakeholders’ interests. 12 FENNOVOIMA Well-functioning management system that complies with all regulatory requirements and ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards During 2017, the development of the FMS continued, with participants The OHSAS 18001 certificate was granted for the occupational health from all over our organization. The usability of the FMS was improved, and safety management system at the beginning of 2017, and a and the implementation of management system was emphasized by follow-up audit was conducted at the end of 2017. e.g. launching a new FMS training program including company-wide In 2018, we are focusing on further improving the effectiveness of the training of the review and approval process. Also, internal project process-based FMS by e.g. training and implementing effective communications practices have been developed to improve the process follow-up methods. Also, a graded approach method will be information flow between departments. implemented to support us in identifying those of our activities that are Fennovoima’s environmental management system was assessed significant in terms of safety. according to the ISO 14001:2015 standard at the end of the year, and The management system is implemented through a web interface, the certificate was granted at the beginning of 2018. The quality training and internal communication according to the FMS management system was assessed according to the new standard Communication Plan. revision ISO 9001:2015, and the certificate was granted at the beginning of 2018. FMS review and assessments All Fennovoima’s operations must comply with the regulatory nuclear Internal audits safety requirements. The ability of the FMS to meet the specific needs of each phase of the life cycle is objectively assessed and Fennovoima conducts regular internal audits according to its current systematically monitored. The status of the management system and audit program. The purpose of these audits is to review whether the progress of adequate development actions are reported monthly. performance is in compliance with the processes and instructions defined in the Fennovoima Management System, and to indicate Management reviews development needs, where applicable. Our biannual management reviews, which are routine evaluations of Altogether, 19 audits were conducted in 2017. Three planned audits whether management systems are performing as intended, were were rescheduled for 2018. A comprehensive internal audit program organized as planned. The results of the FMS developmentare will also be conducted during 2018–2020. presented in the management reviews, where also applicable corrective actions are defined. In addition, we perform self-assessments and we are developing methods to facilitate the personnel’s commitment to continuous improvement of the FMS. 13 FENNOVOIMA Economic profitability Economic responsibility means us creating long-term value for the shareholders and having a positive economic impact on Finnish society. Our practices Fennovoima contributes to maximizing the positive impact of the Fennovoima has offices in Helsinki and Pyhäjoki. The headquarters is in project in many ways and has set the related goal: the Hanhikivi 1 Helsinki. Fennovoima Oy has a 100%-owned subsidiary, OOO Program will have a significant positive contribution to the site region Fennovoima Rus, in Russia. The subsidiary was registered in and the country as a whole. November 2015 to control procurement in Russia. OOO Fennovoima Rus has an office in St. Petersburg, Russia. Key financial figures Financial year 2017 Fennovoima has one major task, which is to build a new nuclear power Fennovoima had no turnover in 2017. The reason is that the company plant in Finland and to produce electricity at a stable price for its is still in the project phase. The construction of the actual plant will shareholders. begin as soon as the project site is prepared and the Construction Fennovoima’s Finnish shareholders consist mainly of industrial License is granted by the Government of Finland. According to the companies and municipal energy companies that utilize energy in their plant supplier, the construction and commissioning of Hanhikivi 1 is own operations. Fennovoima’s Hanhikivi 1 project will benefit the planned to be completed by 2024, after which the plant will be in whole of Finland due to the increased carbon-free electricity supply. commercial use. Fennovoima will be operating on the cost-price principle (the “Mankala As a result, all the costs of Fennovoima basically relate to the design, principle”), whereby the shareholders are entitled to the electricity construction and commissioning of this nuclear power plant. The generated by the nuclear power plant at cost price in proportion to distribution of economic value is described in the following figure. their ownership in the company. As a result of this principle, Fennovoima will not make a profit nor pay dividends in the normal course of its business. 14 FENNOVOIMA As there are no revenues expected before the plant begins commercial operations: The economic value generated (a) remains at a modest level, consisting mainly of occasional financing income related to the loan facilities and liquidity management. The economic value distributed (b) is naturally considerable prior to commercial operations, because the whole power plant investment is spent during this period. Fennovoima is not yet able to generate revenues nor economic value that it could distribute as a typical enterprise. Instead, the company distributes the invested capital to various stakeholders: its own personnel, external services, authorities, EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) contractors, etc. which contributes to the completion of the power plant. As a result, the economic value retained (a b) is currently negative. After the plant starts commercial operations, the economic value generated is going to cover the economic value distributed. However, due to the Mankala principle applied by the company, the economic value retained is expected to be close to zero, even during commercial operations. Hanhikivi 1 project has a significant positive contribution to the site region and on national level The Hanhikivi 1 Program is a significant domestic investment, which to work closely with private and third sector actors right from the early will have an effect on the whole of Finland and its economy. The stages of the project. investments related to the project will increase employment, Fennovoima participates in the work of collaboration projects that particularly in the construction industry. focus on improving the capabilities of the local actors to prepare for the The building of new nuclear power also generates significant additional Hanhikivi 1 project. investments, not only within the energy sector and construction, but The main objective of these preparations is to maximize the positive also in capital-goods-producing industries. The additional income that impact of the Hanhikivi 1 project on the region and increase the is created by the investments will increase the purchasing power of attractiveness of the region as well as creating prerequisites for households and stimulate consumer demand. capacity-building. The area’s ability to support and adapt to the According to our surveys and discussions with local residents, the requirements that the project sets for the area is important for the effects of the Hanhikivi 1 project are already visible in the area as fluent realization of the Hanhikivi 1 project. Pyhäjoki has become a more lively living environment, construction activities have burgeoned and there are more job opportunities available than before. Improving the capabilities of local actors The Hanhikivi 1 project has a significant social dimension as the large construction project sets requirements also for the area. Fennovoima has sought 15 FENNOVOIMA Business support We are actively encouraging Finnish companies to take part in the Hanhikivi 1 project and providing related information through various events and forums that are organized in the plant site region or other parts of Finland. In addition, Pyhäjoki municipality itself along with business associations and business development organizations are providing information about the employment and contracting opportunities at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. We are also helping the plant supplier RAOS Project and the main contractor Titan-2 to collaborate with Finnish companies. Fennovoima provides the Finnish business sector with information concerning the project and the related contracts, procurement procedures and requirements at info and networking events organized by FinNuclear at national level and locally by municipalities and Regional breakdown of the Finnish companies in the site register. business services. The abilities of Finnish companies to successfully participate in the bidding process are enhanced by coaching. Fennovoima participates in the design and implementation of the training provided by FinNuclear. SITE REGISTER 2017 2016 Companies Total number of companies 486 345 Registered in Finland 454 (93%) 329 (95%) People Total number of people 2299 1523 Finns 2017 (88%) 1498 (98%) The share of the Finnish companies and people in the site register. The number of people working at the site has doubled since last year. Approximately 300 people have been working at the site on a daily basis. 16 FENNOVOIMA Nuclear safety Nuclear safety is the core of our operations. LAES II Our practices Nurturing safety mindset of the organization is essential in the Fennovoima has set three specific goals for nuclear safety culture management of the overall safety of the nuclear power plant during development and nuclear and radiation safety in its Responsibility its whole life cycle. Prioritizing safety, being mindful of the importance Program. The goals are the following: of one's own actions, bearing responsibility, openness, learning from own and others’ experiences, and encouraging partners to act safely Strong safety culture: Fennovoima continuously develops its safety and keeps safety at as high a level as possible. are key elements of Fennovoima's way of working. The highest level of nuclear safety: Fennovoima is It is of the utmost importance that there is a consensus among all committed to the highest level of nuclear safety, resulting in a low project parties on what is meant by safety, and that everyone working risk of incidents and radiation exposure for the environment and in the project bears the responsibility for safety. Shared safety culture public. principles were agreed upon to ensure a coherent approach to safety, The highest level of occupational radiation safety: which all parties involved in the project must follow. Our four safety Fennovoima is committed to the highest level of occupational principles are: radiation safety. Radiation doses are kept as low as reasonably Commitment: put nuclear safety first, take responsibility and achievable (the ALARA principle). show a good example Fennovoima has a Safety Culture Program in place to support Awareness: know what you are doing and why implementation of the above mentioned principles and to continuously Transparency: communicate and cooperate develop the safety culture in the Hanhikivi 1 Program. Continuous improvement: take the initiative and seek to learn more Continuous observation of these safety principles is a precondition for the safe construction, operation and decommissioning of Fennovoima’s nuclear power plant. 17 FENNOVOIMA Fennovoima continuously develops its safety and keeps safety at as high level as possible During 2017, the Nuclear Safety Culture Program and its associated The description also presents how the license applicant will assess the procedures were revised as part of making the Fennovoima fulfilment of safety culture requirements during the construction stage Management System ready for the nuclear construction. The revision in respect of its in-house organization, the plant supplier’s organization, built on experiences gained from the implementation of the previous and other organizations involved in the project. Requirements for the version of the program, as well as international experience. Two new description of safety leadership and safety culture during construction procedures were written to cover both Fennovoima’s internal safety are stated in YVL A.1, Annex A, Chapter A14. culture development, and safety culture assurance in the supply chain of the Hanhikivi 1 Program. Evaluation of project site surveys The resources of safety culture work were further increased by Fennovoima also initiated an internal evaluation of the project site recruiting a safety culture specialist. surveys that the plant supplier conducted at the Hanhikivi peninsula during 2014–2016. The investigation was done in order to confirm that WANO support mission the surveys were conducted correctly and their results have been utilized in the basic design of Hanhikivi 1, especially the selection of the A WANO (World Association of Nuclear Operators) technical support exact location of the reactor. mission on safety culture was conducted at Fennovoima in May 2017. Experts from various other power companies reviewed Fennovoima’s Phase 1 of the investigation was carried out during 2017, and it safety culture program and offered advice. A training workshop for focused on the validity and utilization of the survey data. The second senior management was also held during the mission. phase of the investigation aims to clarify the handling of the topic within Fennovoima. This investigation will be conducted by an Description of safety leadership and culture independent group of experts during 2018. Fennovoima also delivered to STUK a description of safety leadership The aim of both investigations is to assure the nuclear safety of the and culture during construction for their information. The description Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant and learn in order to develop work specifies how Fennovoima will ensure the supplier’s competence and practices and safety culture within the Hanhikivi 1 Program. Several the appropriateness of project management systems for pursuing the corrective actions were initiated during 2017 to make sure the project construction project in compliance with the safety culture site surveys are performed and the data is used systematically in the requirements specified in the YVL Nuclear Safety Guides. basic design of the power plant. Safety culture in the supply chain Fennovoima continued its safety culture assurance practices in the The latter three organizations joined the working group at the supply chain. beginning of 2017. New members will be nominated during the 2018 as the project progresses. The nuclear safety culture working group met five times in 2017. The working group aims to clarify common safety culture expectations, to The working group meetings have been whole-day meetings, where increase awareness of the topic among all parties, and to control and topics such as safety culture lessons learned, safety culture and monitor the development of safety culture in the entire supply chain management systems, evaluation of safety culture, safety cultureand at the project site. related documentation, and Finnish requirements in safety culture have been discussed and clarified. In addition to the working group By the end of 2017, the group had official representatives from meetings, several other workshops have been arranged, for both Fennovoima, RAOS Project, Gidropress, Atomproekt, manufacturing organizations (chaired by Atomenergomash) and Atomenergomash, Titan-2, RASU, TVEL and the Kurchatov Institute. construction organizations (chaired by RAOS Project). 18 FENNOVOIMA Safety culture audits In addition to working groups, Fennovoima carried out dedicated safety culture audits in the supply chain. During 2017, six audits were carried out in the following companies: Atomenergomash, Titan-2, Atomproekt, Gidropress, RAOS Project, and AEM-Technology (jointly with a management system audit). Some progress was noted in comparison to the previous year. LAES II Independent assessment of safety culture Safety observations In 2017, STUK ordered an independent assessment of the Hanhikivi 1 The aim of the safety observation system is to facilitate organizational Program safety culture from the Technical Research Centre of Finland learning and employee involvement. A safety concern can be reported (VTT). The objective of the independent evaluation was to gain a if a person feels an issue is not getting the attention warranted by its picture of the current status of safety culture at Fennovoima, the plant significance. Such issues may concern e.g. human resources, legal supplier RAOS Project and the main building contractor, Titan-2, in issues, project management, engineering, nuclear safety, security, order to provide information that supports STUK in its assessment of occupational health and safety, or safety culture in general. This the Fennovoima’s Construction License Application. process supports a good safety culture by giving a legitimate route for reporting of safety observations and by increasing transparency in the The main conclusion of the evaluation was that the safety culture organization. The threshold for making an observation should be low in within Fennovoima is acceptable for a license-holder, but some things a learning organization, and thus everyone is encouraged to make still need to be improved. Safety culture at Titan-2 and RAOS Project them. required more improvement. Fennovoima’s personnel were active in making observations, and a According to the report, the strengths of Fennovoima’s organization new Observation Team was established to facilitate the handling of are its working climate, the fact that its employees have adopted observations and follow up on the corrective actions. The critical safety safety as a genuine value quite well, and organization being mindful of concerns dealt with commenting of documents and management safety in its practices. The report concluded that the biggest challenge practices at Fennovoima. For both concerns, a corrective action plan in the Hanhikivi 1 project resides in the supply chain and the ability of was drawn up. Fennovoima to monitor, control and support it, and to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the entire project and the integrity of the design. Fennovoima will conduct a self-assessment of its safety culture during autumn 2018, and the development of safety culture in the supply chain will continue. SAFETY CONCERNS 2017 2016 Number of reported concerns 42 18 Critical 2 0 Significant 25 10 Minor 15 8 Number of development initiatives 69 n/a (implemented in 2017) 19 FENNOVOIMA LAES II. Preparing for commissioning Commissioning is one of the main phases of the project. In order to Furthermore, Fennovoima is using LAES II commissioning as an ensure successful commissioning, along with Fennovoima’s priority of opportunity for observational learning. Individuals from multiple units nuclear safety, we are committed to investing resources in preparing of Fennovoima (commissioning, design and Operations & for commissioning. Two such activities are currently underway: Maintenance) have witnessed a number of commissioning activities at commissioning lessons learned and development of Fennovoima’s LAES II, e.g., containment pressure tests and Passive Heat Removal employee skills at Leningrad Nuclear Power Plant II (LAES II), which is System (PHRS) tests, improving their knowledge of these systems. If Hanhikivi 1’s reference power plant. LAES II is situated approximately skills and experience gaps are identified within Fennovoima’s 70km to the west of St. Petersburg and is currently undergoing personnel, which could be resolved by LAES II ‘On-The-Job’ training, commissioning. these individuals are deployed to LAES II. Essentially, both LAES II and Hanhikivi 1 share key design aspects, In all aspects of the Hanhikivi 1 project, Fennovoima takes its safety features and suppliers. Fennovoima is utilizing this shared responsibilities as license applicant seriously and the commissioning design and supply chain to better understand any differences between phase is no exception. Commissioning at Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power commissioning in Russia and Finland. Where possible, Fennovoima will plant will follow a disciplined and systematic approach to convert also identify any specific lessons learned (technical, organizational, newly constructed systems to a fully operational plant in the most etc.) from LAES II to better enhance the Hanhikivi 1 commissioning safe, efficient and environmentally-friendly manner. activities. LAES II. Photo: Aleksander Kashin, JSC Concern Titan-2. LAES II. Photo: Aleksander Kashin, JSC Concern Titan-2. 20 FENNOVOIMA Final Disposal In June 2016, Fennovoima entered into a ten year service agreement Resident surveys will be conducted as part of the EIA procedure. At the with Posiva Solutions, a Finnish expert organization in nuclear waste same time, monitoring groups consisting of key stakeholders will be management. The agreement will enable Posiva’s extensive expertise established to monitor the EIA procedure. The objective of the to be utilized in Fennovoima’s final disposal of spent nuclear fuel. monitoring groups is to further communications between Fennovoima, The estimated duration of the final disposal project is more than 100 the authorities and other interest groups. Local residents will also be years. The location will be selected in the 2040s and the final disposal invited to small group events. of Fennovoima’s spent fuel will begin in the 2090s at the earliest. Currently we are doing design work together with Posiva Solutions. In In the Environmental Impact Assessment Program (EIA) for final 2017, we have implemented e.g. a study of geological characteristics disposal of spent nuclear fuel submitted in June 2016, Fennovoima that are required from the final disposal location and a research into presented two alternative locations for the facility: Eurajoki and the final disposal of low and intermediate level waste. Pyhäjoki. Field investigations in the Pyhäjoki and Eurajoki research During 2018, Fennovoima will establish a new website for final disposal areas will begin in a few years’ time at the earliest. in cooperation with Posiva Solutions to provide information about spent nuclear fuel and its final disposal in an easily accessible manner. Image: Ferry Design Agency 21 FENNOVOIMA Organizational development and employment Competent and committed personnel is one of our key assets. Our practices Competent and committed personnel is one of our key assets. Fennovoima realizes its human resources management according to Fennovoima ensures that it has the necessary expertise and the company policies and follows the guidelines of the UN Global competence in all phases of the project and pays a lot of attention to Compact principles. the continuous development of its organization. Fennovoima has set the following goals for organizational development Resource planning and competence management are critical success and employment: all competencies and personnel for ensuring the factors for Fennovoima. Fennovoima’s corporate culture development statutory and legal requirements according to project phase, is continuous, and wellbeing management and related processes are continuous development of competences and qualifications, effective in place to create a good and equal working environment. training, high-quality leadership, a strong corporate culture and highly Fennovoima’s Human Resource Manual, Organizational Manual and engaged employees, high personnel wellbeing, and a good and related processes and plans are an integrated part of the Fennovoima continuously improving employer image. Management System. 22 FENNOVOIMA All competencies and personnel to meet the statutory and legal requirements according to project phase Our key objective for the moment is to develop an organization that Some of the planned recruitments were postponed due to the updated has all the competencies and personnel to meet the statutory and project schedule. We also faced some challenges in finding competent legal requirements set for the construction phase of the nuclear power and suitable candidates for positions in the Electrical Engineering and plant. I&C Engineering (Instrumentation and Control), but by the end of the year, the situation had clearly improved. The recruitment decisions are made based on the competence, qualifications, motivation and suitability of the candidate related to the Activities to strengthen the resources and competences of our open position in question, i.e. the gender, age or nationality do not organization will continue also in 2018, when we aim to recruit over 50 affect the selection.During 2017, Fennovoima conducted seven new employees. The focus in recruitment remains on engineering, recruitment phases. In addition, some extra recruitments took place. project management and nuclear safety competences, as during past years. The emphasis on recruitment remained as before in strengthening Fennovoima’s engineering, nuclear and turbine island areas, project management and nuclear safety organizations. EMPLOYMENT 2017 2016 Total number of employees 303 270 Change in the employment number +33 +55 Personnel covered by collective bargaining agreement 100% 100% Personal Development Discussions 98% 97% EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE, OPEN-ENDED FIXED-TERM TOTAL GENDER AND REGION Helsinki Pyhäjoki Helsinki Pyhäjoki Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Full-time 71 189 10 17 3 5 1 1 85 208 Part-time 1 3 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 8 All 72 192 10 17 4 6 1 1 87 216 The share of female employees is 28.7 %. Fennovoima applies mostly open-ended employment contracts. Fixed-term contracts are used only for e.g. temporary positions when a permanent employee has taken parental or study leave, summer jobs, or to cover short-time project needs. The possibility to have reduced working hours (part-time employees) has mostly been used for part-time child-care leave. NEW EMPLOYEES HELSINKI PYHÄJOKI TOTAL Age group Women Men Women Men n % Under 30 years 2 7 0 3 12 16.0% 30-39 years 9 17 3 5 34 45.3% 40-49 years 5 10 0 0 15 20.0% 50-59 years 0 12 0 0 12 16% Over 60 years 1 1 0 0 2 2.7% Total (n) 17 47 3 8 75 Total number of new employees in 2017 was 75 including 11 summer trainees (2016: 84 new employees including summer trainees). 23 FENNOVOIMA Continuous development of competences and qualifications – effective training In Fennovoima, training is organized based on the annual training plan, Our training activities continued intensively according to our training which is updated regularly according to the needs of the project, the plan, and the training offering was extended with several new courses. organization and the employees, as well as regulatory requirements. This year, we are continuing the development of a long-term training All employees are offered training regularly, and there are several plan, and attention will be paid to the development of the supplier mandatory training courses related to matters such as induction training in cooperation with RAOS Project. Training activities will training for new employees, VVER plant technology, YVL Nuclear continue mainly as in the past year. To better meet the requirements Safety Guides, nuclear safety culture, compliance and ethics, the set for competence management we plan to gradually replace our Fennovoima Management System, and internal tools. current HR-system with a new talent management system. Also, development of competence model and defining job role profiles In 2017, our training management processes and procedures were continues. further developed. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING WOMEN 2017 WOMEN 2016 MEN 2017 MEN 2016 TOTAL 2017 Management team 45.3 13 43.5 38 44.1 Supervisors 50.1 40 48.5 37 48.8 Employees 54.6 44 77.9 50 77.0 The average hours of training for the whole organization were 72.8 hours (46h in 2016). The differences in the training hours depend on the attendance at the introduction training, as only new employees attend the training, and on the participation in VVER plant technology training for engineers. High quality leadership Fennovoima develops its leadership culture and emphasizes According to a survey conducted in June within Fennovoima’s management and leadership skills. Fennovoima has in place employees, the leadership culture is on a good and positive track, and leadership and management development practices for the company the results of our indicator “My supervisor treats employees fairly” rose supervisors and management team to ensure skillful management from 4.88 to 5.04 in a six-month period. New leadership quality targets and uniform ways of action. The management and leadership have been defined for 2018 to improve the follow-up of development development program includes training, individual and group in the area. coaching, and mentoring. During 2017, all the supervisors and company management participated in the development program as planned. 24 FENNOVOIMA Strong corporate culture and highly engaged employees Fennoway cornerstones were implemented in our corporate Fennoway also highlights the importance of clear roles and culture 2017. As a result, new operating models were developed and responsibilities in our working environment, high-quality leadership implemented, for instance in our meeting practices, to make sure that and employeeship, and high motivation and professionalism among our ways of working are in accordance with the corporate culture. managers and employees. Fennoway promotes personnel wellbeing, employee engagement, The corporate culture is effective if it materializes in our everyday equal and fair treatment of all people, diversity and cultural versatility, working practices. During 2017, we rewarded employees acting and work–life balance. according to Fennoway. The development of the corporate culture will continue during the coming years. Fennoway cornerstones. VOLUNTARY TURNOVER HELSINKI PYHÄJOKI TOTAL Age group Women Men Women Men n % under 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 30-39 years 2 8 1 1 12 40-49 years 3 3 1 0 7 50-59 years 2 6 0 0 8 over 60 years 1 1 0 0 2 Total 8 18 2 1 29 9.57% *Voluntary turnover rate: voluntarily resigned / total number of employees on Dec. 31, 2017 × 100. In 2017, the voluntary turnover rate was 9.57% (7.04 in 2016). 25 FENNOVOIMA High personnel wellbeing High-quality leadership and training Monitoring the level of wellbeing We want Fennovoima to be a good place to work for all of us. The The level of wellbeing at work is followed biannually with the ParTy® workplace wellbeing consists of many different matters. High-quality survey, which will be conducted again in 2018. The survey is management and leadership skills are a key factor in workplace implemented by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health. We also wellbeing and we devote attention to the leadership culture and monitored the work welfare with a Pulse survey once last year. management practices. Fennovoima provides the personnel with According to the results, workplace wellbeing is at good stage in extensive training and career development possibilities. Fennovoima. The survey will be replaced with another survey tool in 2018. Also, personal development discussions, that include target setting and follow-up, wellbeing, feedback, competence evaluation and personal Non-discriminatory and equal working environment development plans, are held annually for everyone. Fennovoima aims to provide a non-discriminatory, equal working Facilitating wellbeing environment in which all genders, employees with different duties and from different backgrounds receive equal treatment and can In addition, personnel wellbeing is facilitated i.e. with different working participate without discrimination in all activities. The management arrangements, flexible working hours, and by increasing awareness team and supervisors are responsible for promoting equality and nonamong management. We also organize wellbeing days for our discrimination in their work and follow-up realization of it in personnel, we have a sports club, cultural club and Young Professionals Fennovoima. Club, and we participate in sports campaigns together. Each Fennovoima employee has the responsibility to promote equality and non-discrimination in their own working environment. There were no reported incidents of discrimination in 2017. Occupational health and safety in the workplace Fennovoima’s occupational health care is more comprehensive than During 2017, we experienced five (seven in 2016) accident in the legal requirements dictate. To maintain a good working ability, Salmisaari headquarters or on the way to work or home from work. Fennovoima has adopted an early caring and intervention approach. It However, these accidents did not lead to any absences from work. means that all sick leave is registered and monitored, and if sick leave occurs frequently, preventive and health-maintaining measures can be addressed in time. PERSONNEL WELLBEING 2017 2016 Absentee rate of the personnel (sick leaves) (target: 1.63% 2.07% >2.5%) Pulse wellbeing index (scale 0-6, national average 4.53, 4.59 4.76 and 4.63 target: 4.5) Party survey result (scale 0-20, manufacturing sector Next survey will be 14.5 average 13.9, target: 14) conducted in 2018. Lost-time accidents in the office premises 0 2 (of which, one accidents resulted in 14 lost-working days) 26 FENNOVOIMA Good and continuously improving employer image Having a good employer image is an important aspect while The employer image survey was last conducted in 2016 and will be developing a successful organization. Fennovoima has received good conducted again in 2018. feedback on its recruitment campaigns. 27 FENNOVOIMA Supply chain management The purpose of Fennovoima’s supply chain management is to provide a way of managing, monitoring and developing the performance of the entire supply chain of the Hanhikivi 1 project. Our practices High-quality supply chain management requires appropriate contracts, Fennovoima’s supply chain management assesses prospective experienced and qualified personnel, a proper description of the supplier companies in a comprehensive manner. The selection criteria management system and the processes, close relationships with the to act as a supplier in the Hanhikivi 1 project includes for instance subcontractors, active monitoring and guiding, and immediate technical, financial and safety requirements, compliance with Finnish corrective action if non-conformances are found. and international laws, fulfilment of the contractual requirements and compliance with the occupational safety and environmental The fulfillment of the safety requirements is a prerequisite for acting as requirements of the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards. a supplier in the Hanhikivi 1 project. Fennovoima ensures that only those suppliers who have the capacity to comply with the Also, safety-related suppliers must have a quality management requirements and have clear quality management and assurance system that is appropriately certified or independently evaluated by a procedures can participate in deliveries. third party, e.g. ISO 9001 certification, and suppliers must have in place processes to control the operations of their own sub-suppliers. Fennovoima has set three goals for the responsible supply chain management and labor practices. These goals are a qualified and wellIn addition to the above-mentioned requirements, Fennovoima functioning supply chain, effectively preventing the gray economy, and expects its suppliers to comply with the ethical requirements of respecting and supporting human and labor rights and fair labor Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct and to monitor the compliance of their practices. own sub-suppliers. 28 FENNOVOIMA The Code of Conduct requires the suppliers and sub-suppliers to Full compliance with all applicable laws, ensure: Prohibition of corruptive behavior, Occupational safety in all operations, Respect for human rights, including prohibition of child labor and slavery, Environmental compliance and sustainability actions, and Promotion of Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct amongst stakeholders, especially sub-suppliers. Qualified and well-functioning supply chain Developing a qualified and well-functioning supply chain for the During 2017, the assessment and approval practices of the supply construction of the nuclear power plant is one of the key requirements chain have been further developed, and attention was paid to ensuring for a successful commissioning phase. that the sub-suppliers have the required awareness and understanding of the regulatory and contractual requirements of the Hanhikivi 1 In total, 331 new sub-suppliers have been accepted for the RAOS project. Project’s and Fennovoima’s supply chains during 2017. Also, the pre-qualification of suppliers and supplier compliance and GE Alstom Power Systems has been selected for the supply of ethics assessment methods were developed to include the compliance complete turbine generator set and in November, Titan-2 and Rollsmanagement and monitoring processes of prospective and actual Royce signed an agreement for the I&C licensing support work. The suppliers. The implementation of the new processes is scheduled for final I&C delivery contract is under negotiation by Titan-2. 2018. Fennovoima and RAOS Project have a supply chain working group that To ensure that the suppliers fulfil the requirements and have the gathers monthly to discuss supply chain development matters. In required abilities to produce the products or services they are addition, the working group arranges topical workshops and seminars contracted for, Fennovoima executes established supplier audit about specific themes (e.g. the Machinery Directive) when necessary. procedures. FENNOVOIMA'S SCOPE OF WORK 2017 2016 Total number of suppliers 184 158 Suppliers by country Finland 84% 89% Sweden 9% 5% United Kingdom 1.5% 2% USA 1.5% 0% Others (Czech, Denmark, Germany, South Africa, Switzerland) 4% 4% 29 Fennovoima’s supply chain included 184 companies, of which 84 percent were Finnish (12/2017). FENNOVOIMA RAOS PROJECT'S SCOPE OF WORK 2017 2016 Total number of suppliers 524 210 Suppliers by country Finland 80% 72% Russia 15% 23% Estonia 1% <0.5% France 1% 1% Netherlands 0.5% 1% United Kingdom 0.5% 1% Others (Bulgaria, Czech, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, Ukraine) 2% 2% RAOS Project’s supply chain included 524 companies, of which 80 percent were Finnish (12/2017). Supply chain auditing Fennovoima’s audits cover all the safety-significant suppliers of the management, and manufacturing capabilities of long lead items. Most Hanhikivi 1 project supply chain according to a graded approach. of the remarks identified in the supplier audits were related to missing Fennovoima conducted 35 audits of its own and the plant suppliers’ practices and poor implementation of documented practices. supply chain in 2017. Fennovoima also audited the environmental and occupational health The plant supplier performs its own audits of its sub-suppliers within and safety management systems of the plant supplier, RAOS Project, the whole supply chain of the Hanhikivi 1 project. In addition to and its main contractor, Titan-2. In addition, we participated as an Fennovoima and the plant supplier, in different phases of the observer in most of the audits that were conducted by the plant Hanhikivi 1 project, audits and inspections can be conducted by subsupplier and its sub-suppliers. suppliers, third parties or the Finnish Nuclear and Radiation Authority During 2018, we continue to focus on clarifying the EPC agreement (STUK), if any audit is regarded as necessary within the scope of work. requirements and YVL Nuclear Safety Guides to the supply chain. STUK always has the authority to participate in these audits according to its own decision. The manufacturing of components critical for nuclear safety will impact the scope of audits in 2018. Future audits will place more emphasis on Requirements to perform audits and assessments are referred to in nuclear safety culture, requirements management, configuration the YVL Nuclear Safety Guides. Fennovoima’s Responsibility Program management, the design review process, and the safety assessment together with the Compliance and Ethics Program set requirements for of design analysis. ethics and compliance assessments of the supply chain. During 2017, the focus of the implemented audits was on the management system, safety culture, design process, requirements 30 FENNOVOIMA Gray economy is effectively prevented Fennovoima has committed to effectively preventing the gray Fennovoima utilizes a site register to ensure that all required economy and ensuring compliance with Finnish labor legislation in the information regarding the supply chain companies and people working Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Addressing and managing labor practices at the site are in order and the construction site always complies with is necessary for Fennovoima to ensure functioning and responsible applicable legal obligations. During 2017, the register was updated to labor practices and for the successful execution of the construction improve the monitoring of the Contractors Liability Act documentation. phase. Also, training regarding the site register was organized. The subcontractor network is managed and supervised, and the gray All required information regarding the supply chain companies and economy prevented through efficient cooperation with labor and people working at the site was in order in 2017, and no access to the employer unions, the plant supplier, and authorities.Fennovoima’s site was granted to unregistered companies or persons. Construction unit is responsible for ensuring that the Site Agreement on the common rules at the construction site is followed, human rights are respected, and the gray economy prevented. Respecting and supporting human and labor rights, fair labor practices Compliance and ethics assessments that include monitoring practices Also, a compliance and ethics steering committee will be established for e.g. compliance with human and labor rights will be implemented in with representatives from the Compliance function, Contract Fennovoima’s procurement and supply chain management Management, Corporate Responsibility, Sourcing and Quality. The procedures from 2018 onwards. committee analyzes compliance concerns raised in supplier prequalification and supplier reviews, and makes decisions concerning A compliance and ethics questionnaire, which includes questions on required corrective actions or consequences. respecting human rights will be incorporated in the existing supplier pre-qualification questionnaire and sent to suppliers in Fennovoima’s own supply chain. The suppliers will undergo a compliance and ethics assessment that is based on the SA 8000 standard, ISO 37001:2016 anti-bribery management systems and Fennovoima’s Code of Conduct. 31 FENNOVOIMA Occupational health and safety Fennovoima follows the zero-accident principle – and the occupational health and safety concept covers the entire subcontracting chain. Our practices Commitment to the zero-accident principle is required from everyone Fennovoima's responsible bodies at different levels of the organization working in the project. Occupational safety and nuclear safety are the participate in decision-making on occupational safety and bear their top priorities. own responsibility for occupational safety management. Related to the zero-accident principle, Fennovoima has set three goals Occupational health and safety (OHS) performance is monitored by for occupational health and safety management. These goals are: the OHS Manager, who reports weekly to the Construction Director providing a healthy and safe working environment for all, having a and monthly to the Management Team of Fennovoima. strong occupational safety culture, and maintaining an efficient risk management system. 32 FENNOVOIMA Providing a healthy and safe working environment Fennovoima is establishing and overseeing the project site safety The inspection findings are reported, and required remedial measures regulations in cooperation with the plant supplier and project are indicated to the contractors. supervisors of the construction site. During the year, OHS tasks and In addition, alcohol testing at the site and a sanctions procedure for daily responsibilities between Fennovoima, RAOS Project and Titan-2 occupational safety violations were implemented at the project site. In have been clarified. the case of a violation, first a verbal warning is given; if necessary, it is We also focused on developing the cooperation practices with the site followed with a written warning; and ultimately with withdrawal of the contractors and creating a good safety culture at the Hanhikivi 1 site. site access permit for a fixed period or permanently. As the project owner, Fennovoima requires the operators at the site to Contractor OHS inspections, a way to ensure that the contractors fulfil commit to continuously improving occupational safety. the regulatory requirements, were first implemented in 2016 and fully in use from the beginning of 2017. A total of nine inspections by the OHSAS 18001 certification authorities were conducted in 2017, and one non-compliance Fennovoima’s occupational health and safety management system concerning activities of a sub-contractor was received. The subreceived OHSAS 18001 certification in February, and during the year it contractor conducted the required improvement and the nonwas further improved to be more easily readable and functional. Also, compliance was closed. RAOS Project and Titan-2 have received OHSAS 18001 certification for their OHS management systems for the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. No lost-time accidents During 2018, Fennovoima will update its OHS management system to During 2017, a total of 554,557 working hours were recorded at the meet the requirements of the new ISO 45001 standard. construction site, and there were no lost-time accidents. Four workers received medical aid after small injuries, but they did not result in any Reviews and inspections absence from work. The members of the Fennovoima Management Team conducted two Even though the safety culture at the project site is good, further occupational health and safety reviews at the project site, as improvements will be made during 2018, when a larger variety of planned. Daily practices at the project site have also been developed safety inspections will be conducted, and communication about and improved. A new Hazard Hunt procedure was implemented at the occupational health and safety will be developed as the extranet to the project site. The Hazard Hunt procedure means targeted thematic project site will be implemented and info screens will be taken into use. inspections that focus, for instance, on all lifting accessories or all storage locations for chemicals on the project site. OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS 2017 2016 Occupational accidents leading to absence* 0 3 Lost work days 0 9 Average severity of accidents (in work days) 0 3 Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)** 0 8.08 TR & MVR index (target: Our minimum requirement level 90% achieved 99 times out of 105 123 times out of 100% of the measurements) measurements (94%) 129 (95%) Fatalities 0 0 a) First-aid-level injuries are not included in the IR; b) fatalities are included in the IR; c) “lost day” indicates the loss of one full work shift; d) “days” means scheduled work days; e) count begins from the day after the accident (one full work shift). If the injured person is treated on the day of the accident and he/she returns to work on the next day, the injury is reported as a first-aid case. **LTIFR is calculated by number of lost-time accidents per million hours worked. A lost-time accident is an accident that causes an absence from work of at least one work shift. 33 FENNOVOIMA Strong occupational safety culture We are committed to ensuring that everyone working on the Hanhikivi 1 project has the required knowledge and skills regarding safe working methods and best safety practices, and that they use personal protective equipment. Occupational safety is promoted at the Hanhikivi 1 site, in particular, by active training of contractors. During 2017, three safety training courses for the construction site superiors were held, and 11 Toolbox Talk training materials and eight Safety Flash info sheets were published. Since the beginning of the construction work, Fennovoima has trained all people working at the site with site access training. At the end of the year, altogether 2299 (791 in 2017) people had received the training. Safety Notices Safety Notices are occupational safety-related observations made at the project site. We encourage our employees to make these notices and report them to further develop the occupational safety culture. Fennovoima had an average of 28 employees at the site during the year, and our target of an average of two Safety Notices per member of Fennovoima’s personnel per year was exceeded. The observations vary from traffic jams to internal fire inspections and the use of personal protective equipment. Positive observations were also made and reported. Our target is to begin handling of observations within two days, to define a corrective action plan within seven days, and to conduct corrective actions within the given timetable. This target was achieved 57 out of 75 times. During 2018, the safety observation practices and analysis of the observations will be further developed. SAFETY NOTICES 2017 2016 Reported observations at the project site 627 observations, of which Fennovoima reported 102 (87 concerning 521 owner’s scope and 15 concerning EPC scope) Average of Fennovoima personnel per person 3.6 2.7 (target in 2017 >2 and in 2016 >1) 34 FENNOVOIMA Maintaining an effective risk management system Fennovoima has established occupational health and safety The plant supplier RAOS Project and main contractor Titan-2 use monitoring and inspection practices, which are continuously improved similar assessment and management practices. and extended. Comprehensive, regularly assessed risk management Identified risks are also communicated to the contractors and the processes and active reporting of safety observations form an project site workers with Toolbox Talk training materials or Safety Flash important part of preventive management of occupational health and info sheets that describe the identified risks and best practices to avoid safety. Risk assessments are done before every work.All contractors these risks. working under Fennovoima’s scope of work follow a comprehensive risk assessment and management procedure that is based As we want to continuously improve our operations, the development on Fennovoima’s risk register and ensures that the risk assessments of risk management processes will also continue during 2018. are uniform and meet the required level. Fennovoima’s risk register is updated four times a year. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk assessments conducted 100% 100% Occupational diseases No No Investigations of the occupational accidents There were no accident investigations as 100% of occupational accidents (3) and near-miss situations no lost-time accidents occurred. were investigated within 7 days. Workers with high incidence or high risk of No No diseases related to their occupation 35 FENNOVOIMA Environmental management Fennovoima supervises environmental actions at the entire construction site. Our practices Fennovoima’s objective is to proactively prevent and mitigate any executed in such a manner that environmental impacts are environmental impact from the construction work. We assess minimized. In accordance with our principles, all activities at the environmental risks and monitor the state of the environment. construction site must be carried out in a safe manner, and relevant environmental management procedures and instructions must be in Fennovoima's undertaking for continuous improvement of place and followed. environmental management relies on training, motivation and leadership, good cooperation with the plant supplier, and effective The EMS is part of the company’s integrated management system, communication with the environmental authorities and external and it received environmental ISO 14001:2015 certification at the stakeholders. beginning of 2018. It covers Fennovoima’s scope of work at the project site and will, at a later stage, also cover the operations at the Our five main goals for environmental management are: proactively Salmisaari premises. preventing and mitigating the environmental impact of the project, preserving the nature conservation areas and protected species on the Environmental supervision Hanhikivi headland and in the Natura 2000 area, ensuring that all operations comply with the water and environmental permits, The plant supplier, RAOS Project, and all subcontractors working at the ensuring efficient construction waste management, and functioning project site bear the main responsibility for continuous environmental and timely communication with environmental authorities and other supervision and fulfilment of environmental requirements primarily external stakeholders. within the scope of their own work. The plant supplier is required to supervise the environmental management of subcontractors who Environmental management system perform work within the supplier’s scope of work. RAOS Project has prepared and implemented its own environmental management The environmental management system (EMS) supports Fennovoima system for the construction site activities, and it received in ensuring that the requirements of environmental legislation ISO 14001:2015 certification in 2017. and permits are fulfilled and construction operations at the site are 36 FENNOVOIMA Proactively preventing and mitigating the environmental impact of the project Our objective is that the environmental impacts of the construction of knowledge of the status of the environment of the Hanhikivi the nuclear power plant are minimized as far as possible, and that the headland and provide information that is necessary for applying for work interferes as little as possible with the nature around the permits, as well as for the design of the buildings and structures. construction site area. A risk assessment is conducted before the beginning of each phase of construction work. Environmental inspections Environmental monitoring In addition, Fennovoima and RAOS Project conduct regular environmental inspections of the Hanhikivi 1 site. Environmental Fennovoima and RAOS Project conduct environmental monitoring inspections are used to drive continuous improvement of according to their common environmental monitoring program, which environmental management and to ensure that all contractors comply consists of monitoring required in permits as well as additional with environmental legislation and permits and follow Fennovoima’s monitoring to evaluate the environmental impacts of construction instructions. activities. Environmental monitoring and studies ensure good ENVIROMENTAL MANAGEMENT 2017 2016 Non-compliance with environmental laws and No non-compliances No nonregulations compliances Instances of permit limits being exceeded No No (Target: No instances of permit limits being exceeded) Environmental observations (Target: <50 159 (20 from Fennovoima's scope of work and 139 from 127 observations per year) EPC scope) The environmental observations consisted mainly of small oil leaks, waste management, and chemical handling-related issues. All observations were handled and appropriate actions taken. 37 FENNOVOIMA Seawater quality Water construction work started with dredging work in November environmental accidents. The oil spill response plan for the 2015, and continued in September 2016 and in June 2017. The water construction site was prepared together with the plant supplier, and it construction work paused for the winter. The next dredging season will has been communicated to the authorities. All contractors at the plant begin in spring 2018 with removal of soft soil. Blasting work will begin site are obliged to follow the oil spill response plan.Also in May 2017, in the sea area again at the end of May according to the water an oil spill prevention drill was arranged at the project site to enhance permit. All dredging work should be completed during 2018. cooperation between the companies involved in the Hanhikivi 1 project and the associated authorities and develop the participants' skills in oil Fennovoima continued seawater quality monitoring. Water samples spill prevention on land and on sea. are taken five times a year at six monitoring points. Two monitoring points are located in the marine spoil area approximately 10 km from As a result of the improved prevention measures, there were no the Hanhikivi headland, and four near the Hanhikivi headland. significant spills during 2017. Turbidity Fishing The construction activities in the shallow offshore area cause temporary turbidity of the seawater. The shallow offshore area is Related to water construction work and as required in the water natural mixing zone, which can be seen in depositions of sand and permits, fishery monitoring and studies and fishing industry surveys organic material. Therefore, higher turbidity results have been were conducted during 2017. These monitoring and studies included monitored from the dredging area, and some of the turbidity has fish stock surveys of commercial and recreational fishermen, test spread to north-northeast towards Raahe during heavy winds. fishing for whitefish and vendace and production of Baltic herring fry, Turbidity levels decreased back to normal once the wind dropped. and coastal net test fishing. The spread of turbidity is monitored with a continuous measurement In addition to previous years’ monitoring, a survey of free-time system. The turbidity of the seawater off the coast of the Hanhikivi fishermen was carried out. The purpose of the monitoring is to assess headland also naturally increases during storms or periods of heavy the impact the water construction work has on fishing. The monitoring rainfall. included a survey of commercial fishermen, experimental net fishing, and fry production surveys of whitefish, vendace and herring. Oil spill response The fishery monitoring report regarding monitoring conducted in 2016 Related to the oil spill accidents that took place in 2016 during was finalized in May 2017. According to this report, water construction dredging work, Fennovoima, the plant supplier RAOS Project Oy, the work did not cause significant impacts on fry production of whitefish main contractor Titan-2 and the dredging company established a and vendace. In the survey, commercial fishermen reported adverse steering group for the dredging work. impact on fishing, e.g. turbidity of the water, which caused fouling of A thorough analysis of the accidents resulted in improved prevention the fishing nets, and some of the fishermen had to change their fishing of environmental accidents and preparedness to act in similar areas. situations. Fishery subsidies and compensation paid to professional fishermen During winter and spring 2017, prior to the commencement of the totalled EUR 70,000 in 2017. dredging work, more emphasis was placed on proactive prevention measures related to Oil spill response drill in May 2017. Read more about the oil spill response drill and check a video in Fennonen. 38 FENNOVOIMA Noise The noise levels can vary greatly depending on the current Also, the relevant ELY Centre asked for clarification about the issue construction phase. The area influenced by noise during construction from Fennovoima in September. and operation is less than one kilometer from the power plant site. The The dredging company aimed to conduct all the blasting work before impact of noise on nesting or bird populations is not likely to be 10 p.m. However, one bigger blast was delayed due to technical significant. problems, and it took place after 10 p.m. The blast caused a peak in Noise is monitored continuously at seven monitoring points located the noise measurements. Also, it was necessary to conduct some throughout the Hanhikivi area. The distance from the closest minor blasting work after the intended end of the work time, but monitoring point to a residential area is about 1 km. The noise levels according to the noise measurements, this minor blasting work was measured at different measuring points vary depending on the not the cause of the higher noise levels. distance from the work location and the time of day (day versus night The dredging company will do their best to avoid blasting work at night time). time by means of thorough and careful work planning during the next Average noise levels at different measuring points have been 30– dredging season, from May 20 until October 10, 2018. 65 dB during 2017 (the same level as in 2016). A level of 30 dB is equal to the sound of a whisper and 65 dB to the noise caused by Air quality normal conversation or laughter. The earthwork, traffic at the site, and certain operations, such as rock Water construction work caused some noise levels above guideline crushing, generate dust during the construction work. Most dust values measured from the monitoring point next to the sea area. The sources are located at low elevation levels, so the dust cannot spread most significant sources of the noise were blasting warning signals, far and its impact on air quality will mainly be limited to the blasting, loading of rock material and noise from the vessels. The construction site. individual peaks in the noise level are also explained by the weather Dust monitoring has been conducted at the project site since 2015. conditions, such as strong wind or heavy rain. Fennovoima has conducted dust monitoring especially near the nature Fennovoima received complaints concerning blasting work at sea conservation areas. Since the beginning of the monitoring, no increase during night time. All complaints received were handled carefully. in dust levels has been detected. Preservation of the nature conservation areas and protected species of the Hanhikivi headland and Natura 2000 area The Hanhikivi headland’s nature conservation areas and areas defined This is to ensure protected areas and preservation of the natural as habitat types protected under the Nature Conservation Act remain values. During the year, no negative changes within these areas were outside the construction areas. Fennovoima uses different measuring observed. methods to monitor that the construction work does not have adverse impacts on the natural values of the conservation areas and valuable Yellow iris nature sites. Some of the protected yellow iris (Iris pseudacorus, IUCN classification: No negative changes observed Least Concerned LC) population was located in the construction area and had been transferred during 2015 and 2016 to another suitable The nature conservation areas and other valuable natural sites located habitat on the Hanhikivi headland according to the exemption permits. in the vicinity of the construction site area are outside the construction The final monitoring of all transferred yellow irises was conducted in site fence, and some of the valuable areas are isolated with separate June 2017. The plants were well rooted in their new location and are fences. In addition, construction workers are instructed and trained to growing well. avoid moving around in the areas outside the site fence. 39 FENNOVOIMA All operations comply with the water and environmental permits The Hanhikivi 1 project requires numerous conventional permits to be The granted permit change allows the RAOS Project to execute applied for. The responsibilities between Fennovoima and the plant crushing of rock material 24/7. supplier regarding applying for conventional permits have been agreed. During 2017, some changes were needed for current Environmental permit for the operation of the nuclear conventional permits in order to ensure up-to-date permits. power plant Permit change related to water construction work and to Fennovoima was granted an environmental permit for the operation of the marine spoil area the nuclear power plant and the back-up power production of the plant in June 2016. The permit also includes the construction of cooling In April, Fennovoima submitted permit change application related to water outlet structures, as well as a water permit for the seawater water construction work and to the marine spoil area to the permit intake and use as cooling water of the nuclear power plant. In authority, the Regional State Administrative Agency of Northern December 2017, the Administrative Court of Vaasa gave its decision Finland. The agency granted the permit to Fennovoima in August. The regarding complaints concerning the permit. Some changes to the permit enables the dredged material to be placed in the marine spoil permit obligations were made, and at the moment, the decision is not area to a level of -20 meters from the surface level, instead of -23 legally valid. Fennovoima decided to appeal to Supreme meters. The permit change will not cause any additional Administrative Court, and this was submitted in January 2018. environmental impact on the area. Chemical permit application Permit change related to excavation and crushing of rock material Currently, Fennovoima is preparing the chemical permit application material. The permit concerns the large-scale industrial handling and RAOS Project applied a change for the environmental permit for storage of hazardous chemicals during the operation of the power excavation and crushing of rock material. The permit change plant. The chemical permit application will be submitted to the Finnish concerned the time limits for crushing operations. Safety and Chemicals Agency (Tukes) during 2018. 40 FENNOVOIMA Ensuring efficient construction waste management Construction waste management is based on efficient sorting of waste filling and levelling operations. The handling, storage, and at the site of its generation, as well as on uniform and efficient transportation of hazardous waste is arranged in accordance with the instruction of the various parties and companies operating at the plant regulations. site on appropriate waste management procedures. Our target of 85 percent of construction waste fractions to be utilized Waste generated during construction is appropriately sorted and as material or energy was exceeded. For the years 2018–2020, the recycled, or utilized in energy production as far as possible. target is set to 90 percent of the waste fractions to be utilized as The earth-moving, excavation, and dredging masses generated during material or energy. the construction phase are utilized, as far as possible, in various on-site Construction waste utilization as material or energy in 2017. Waste fractions Drainage water treatment During 2017, a total of 883 tons of waste was generated at the RAOS Project began excavation work in the reactor pit area in spring Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Of the demolition waste, 88.5 percent 2016. During 2017, excavation work continued to the level of -2.0 was wood, concrete and energy waste, which was utilized as material meters. Around 172 300m3 of drainage water from the reactor pit was or energy. All hazardous waste was managed appropriately by waste treated at a temporary water treatment system before being management partners. discharged into the sea. Water from the reactor pit caused temporary turbidity of seawater near the discharge point. Water quality was The majority of waste from the construction site consists of normal monitored by taking monthly samples. construction waste in different categories of waste (metal, wood, concrete, energy waste, biowaste, paper, cardboard, glass and WEEE). Drainage water is visually monitored also in Fennovoima’s excess soil The waste formed as a result of the construction of infrastructure and area. Samples of the drainage water are taken every three years, with auxiliary buildings is presented in the following table. the next occasion in 2018. The first water samples were taken when the excess soil area was taken into use in 2015. Ditch expansions and small rock dams have been constructed, which delay the water flow and allow particles to settle from the drainage water. 41 FENNOVOIMA WASTE 2017 2016 Tons (t) % of waste Tons (t) % of waste Construction waste 796 90% 208 42% Demolition waste 29 3% 259 53% Hazardous waste 58 7% 24 5% Total 883 100% 491 100% Waste generated at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. CONSTRUCTION WASTE 2017 2016 Tons (t) % of waste Tons (t) % of waste Wood waste 82 10% 132 64% Energy waste 72 9% 50 24% Concrete and brick waste 212 27% 14 6% Bitumen waste 369 46% 0 0% Mixed construction waste 42 5% 2 1% Other 19 3% 10 5% Total 796 100% 208 100% Construction waste generated at the Hanhikivi 1 site in 2017 and 2016 broken down by type and percentage. The category “Other” includes e.g. metal waste, paper, cardboard and biowaste. Functioning and timely communication with environmental authorities and other external stakeholders Meetings with the main suppliers and authorities Informing for the local residents Regular environmental meetings between the main suppliers and Fennovoima informs the local residents about the beginning of work, authority stakeholders at the construction site ensure information flow such as rock crushing operations at the project site. The between different project participants. commencement of the dredging work was also made public with ads in local newspapers. As we want to ensure bidirectional information Environmental training of the sub-suppliers flow between Fennovoima and the local residents, we are developing the communication and information-sharing practices further during The development of environmental health and safety training for the 2018. For example, two public events concerning environmental sub-supplier supervisors began together with RAOS Project and Titan-2 matters at the construction site will be arranged for the local in 2017. With the training module, we want to ensure that the stakeholders. environmental requirements set are considered carefully at the plant site. Environmental concerns and complaints In addition, all contractors receive information about topical Fennovoima has implemented instructions for how concerns and environmental issues, for example by participating in Toolbox training. complaints regarding environmental matters are handled. The purpose During 2017, environmental related Toolbox training subjects were of the instructions is to ensure that all environmental concerns and chemical handling, oil spill response materials, and making complaints relating to activities at the construction site are recorded environmental observations. and appropriate actions taken. The complaints received during 2017 concerned noise, night-time blasting work and turbidity. 42 FENNOVOIMA Energy supplies with low greenhouse gas emissions must be prioritized to keep global warming below severe levels Greenhouse gases (GHGs) from human activities are the most Energy production with nuclear power does not emit greenhouse significant driver of observed climate change. Energy-related gases. During the entire life cycle of a nuclear power plant, greenhouse emissions account for two-thirds of total greenhouse gas emissions gas emissions are generated during the construction and and 80 percent of CO2 emissions. These emissions must be cut deeply decommissioning of the power plant and from fuel production. to keep global warming below severe levels while boosting energy The lifecycle emissions of nuclear power energy production are similar security, sustaining the growth of the world economy, and securing the to wind and hydroelectric. availability of modern energy for the billions around the world who still lack it today. Lifecycle GHG Emissions Intensity of Electricity Generation Methods (World Nuclear Association, 2011). 43 FENNOVOIMA Stakeholder engagement Fennovoima’s project has a significant social dimension, both domestically and internationally. Our practices Fennovoima wants to be a good corporate citizen and cooperates with educational institutions in the technical field, educational institutions in a large variety of stakeholders at local, national and international the technical field, our peer companies and organizations within the levels. In our company strategy, stakeholders are understood as those industry, the media, the public sphere, and NGOs in the field. organizations or entities that influence the project or are influenced by Fennovoima has set the following goals and targets related to the project. stakeholder engagement: transparency and proactive communication, The most important stakeholders (not in order of importance) include continuous collaboration with the key stakeholders, and strong our employees and owners, the Pyhäjoki region, the plant supplier and reputation within the organization and among stakeholders. all our contractors, related authorities and decision-makers, Finnish labor market organizations, 44 FENNOVOIMA Transparency and proactive communication Trust and transparency are the basis of all stakeholder cooperation and our communication is respectful, honest and proactive towards the stakeholders. Fennovoima’s management is committed to ensuring that the communication and information needs and expectations of our key stakeholder groups are always considered. This includes continual dialogue with the key stakeholders, proactive communications on a daily basis and responding promptly and accurately in all situations. Fennovoima published four press release and 25 news items in 2017. Also media follows the Hanhikivi 1 project closely. During 2017, the media covered a variety of topics concerning Fennovoima and the Hanhikivi 1 project. The main topics were the schedule of the project and progress in the Construction License procedure and construction work at the plant site, the economic and employment effects of the Hanhikivi 1 project and the participation of Finnish shareholders in the project. Get to know more about our stakeholder cooperation at our website. Climate action We are concerned about climate change and its effects on our planet. To take action and support our mission of building a carbon-free future for Finland, Fennovoima launched a campaign to raise awareness of climate change and low-emission electricity production in November 2016. Sustainability and climate awareness are also promoted in Fennovoima’s communication channels such as the stakeholder magazine Fennonen. Upholding continuous cooperation with the key stakeholders Fennovoima cooperates with a large variety of stakeholders at local, PARTNERS AND MEMBERSHIPS national and international levels. The engagement and communication Association for Finnish Work, European Nuclear Society (ENS), activities are designed taking into account the needs of each Federation of Finnish Enterprises, Northern Ostrobothnia, FIBS stakeholder group. Corporate Responsibility Network, Finnish Energy, FinNuclear, In addition to official reports, working groups, meetings and daily Foratom, Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce, Industrial Lawyers communication, Fennovoima provides information on the project via Association, International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Oulu Chamber the company website and social media channels, organizes events for of Commerce , Project Management Association Finland, PSK different stakeholders, publishes a stakeholder magazine and is Standardisation Association, Taxpayers Association of Finland, World available for inquiries and questions both in Pyhäjoki and Helsinki. Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO), World Energy Council (WEC), World Nuclear Association (WNA) In 2017, we gave over one hundred project presentations and organized more than 70 site visits for different stakeholders. 45 FENNOVOIMA Local engagement Fennovoima places a strong emphasis on personal communication September attracted 2500 visitors. We also organized a public concert and face-to-face interaction with the inhabitants of Pyhäjoki and the in Pyhäjoki for Fennovoima’s tenth anniversary in June. surrounding areas. Our Pyhäjoki office serves the local stakeholders, responding to their inquiries and providing information regarding the Sponsoring current work phases at the construction site. As part of our social agenda, we support local projects and activities in We produce a regular newsletter about the topical issues at Pyhäjoki Pyhäjoki and the surrounding areas. Our focus is on supporting the and publish the stakeholder magazine Fennonen, which is distributed recreational opportunities and leisure activities of children and young to 130,000 households in the area twice a year and is openly available people as well as supporting projects of public interest. In 2017, the in digital format. largest financial donations were granted to the Pyhäjoki ice hall for the renovation of the lighting, and for the dredging of the fishing port in Public events Parhalahti. In addition, we arrange public events for local residents. For instance, In total, Fennovoima’s contribution to local activities and events was we organized energy evenings where matters such as combatting EUR 146,000 (2016: EUR 168,000). The supported projects and climate change, the future prospects of electricity production in Finland organizations are selected annually through an open call. and the current and future role nuclear power in the energy mix were discussed. Furthermore, our open doors day at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site in Strong reputation within the organization and its stakeholders Studies and surveys To ensure that the opinions of the stakeholders are heard, Fennovoima promotes open dialogue and conducts surveys to ascertain the views of key stakeholders regarding Fennovoima. The surveys are conducted for one selected stakeholder group at a time. In 2017, Fennovoima commissioned a survey of the general public’s view on Fennovoima. According to the survey, the general public emphasizes the importance of responsible business practices, transparency and openness, and proactive communication in Fennovoima’s operations. In addition, the general public expects Fennovoima to deliver on the promise to produce low-emission electricity at a stable price in the future, increase domestic energy production and energy selfsufficiency, and safeguard the competitiveness of Finnish industry and the economy. 46 FENNOVOIMA Local support The local support for Fennovoima’s nuclear power plant project According to a survey conducted in December 2017, a total of 75.0 increased significantly compared to the previous year. Maintaining and percent of Pyhäjoki residents support the Hanhikivi 1 project (2016: improving the earned position of trust requires genuine involvement 67.4%). and engagement, face-to-face interaction and open dialogue with the The support for the project also strengthened in the entire study area local stakeholders. as 71.9 percent of the residents of Pyhäjoki, Kalajoki, Merijärvi, Oulainen and Raahe combined were in favor of the project (2016: 62.0 %). Topics of interest Topics of interest for local residents have largely remained unchanged from previous years. According to the survey and discussion with people living in the Pyhäjoki region, the topics of interest regarding Fennovoima are the effects of the project on the lives of the residents, employment opportunities, environmental impacts and safety. People are also interested in getting information about the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel, the possible location of the final disposal facility, the schedule of the nuclear power plant project and how it will proceed, the profitability and financing of the project, and the involvement of the Russian plant supplier in the project. Fennovoima’s support in Pyhäjoki (12/2017) Norstat Finland Oy. 47 FENNOVOIMA Company information Operational environment Fennovoima’s operational environment can be seen from two Also, international political trends can have an effect on Fennovoima’s perspectives. Prior to commercial operations, Fennovoima’s operations project. Before the nuclear power plant is in operation, Fennovoima is have similarities with large-scale infrastructure projects. At this stage, dependent on the EPC Contractor, which is a Russian state company. factors such as availability of resources (labor, raw materials and Not only is the power plant being acquired from a Russian company, know-how) impacting the project implementation play a key role. but also a significant amount of financing is being sourced from Russia. After the start of commercial operations or in the utility company Trends affecting the operational environment: phase, Fennovoima’s operational environment is characterized by Climate change and EU-level requirements concerning e.g. factors typical for nuclear power plants. For the operating plant, the greenhouse gas emissions, emission trading and renewable factors affecting the plant operations, output, production costs, and energy sources electricity demand and market price are the most vital. Integration of European energy markets Energy markets and political environment Support for renewables leads to increased capacity, lowering electricity prices Fennovoima is dependent on the trends related to the energy markets Changes in the political environment and political environment In Europe, the pursuit of emission-free power Transformation of the energy markets and regulatory framework generation has led to vast utilization of subsidies for renewable energy Changes in customer preferences resources. However, in Finland, nuclear power plays a major role in the Technological innovations implementationof theFinnishClimateandEnergyStrategytowardsa carbon-free society, and currently more than 33 % of electricity production is based on nuclear energy. 48 FENNOVOIMA Company structure The annual general meeting of shareholders elects five to eleven Fennovoima has the following committees nominated by the Board of actual members and four deputies to the Board of Directors for one Directors: Nuclear Safety Committee, Project Execution Committee, year at a time. The CEO heads the company, assisted by the Finance Committee, and Nominating Committee. Management Team. Fennovoima's operations are divided into departments, each headed by a member of the Management Team. He or she, in turn, reports to Fennovoima's Annual Report of the Board of Directors 2017 the CEO, who is Mr. Toni Hemminki. is available at: www.fennovoima.fi/en/publications/annualThe Board of Directors ensures that the CEO carries out his obligations reports. and works for the best interests of the company. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2017 COMMITEES NATIONALITY Mr. Esa Härmälä (Chairman) Nominating (Chairman) Finnish Mr. Pekka Erkkilä (Dep. Chairman) Project execution (Chairman) Finnish Mr. Jussi Lehto Project execution, Finance (Dep. member), Nominating (Dep. member) Finnish Mr. Seppo Siljama Finance (Dep. member) Finnish Mr. Stefan Storholm Project execution Finnish Mr. Djurica Tankosic Project execution USA Mrs. Anastasia Zoteeva Russian The committees also included the following members: Project Execution Committee: Mrs. Irina Andropova, Mr. Juha Mäkitalo, Mr. Sasu Valkamo (Dep. member) Finance Committee: Mr. Esa Lager (Chairman), Mr. Juha Mäkitalo and Mrs. Anastasia Polovinkina, Nominating Committee: Mr. Arto Räty, Mrs. Diana Shafieva Nuclear Safety Committee: Mr. Ami Rastas (Chairman), Mrs. Kirsi Kavonius-Hietanen, Mr. Juhani Hyvärinen, Mr. Peter Tuominen, Mr. Gabor Vamos, Mr. Timo Äikäs FENNOVOIMA MANAGEMENT TEAM 2017 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY NATIONALITY Mr. Toni Hemminki CEO Finnish Mrs. Minna Forsström Project Finnish Mr. Wilhelm Guthwert Legal Finnish Mrs. Maira Kettunen Communications and Public Affairs Finnish Mr. Olli Virtanen Quality Finnish Mr. Vesa Ruuska Nuclear Safety Finnish Mrs. Eija Salo Human Resources and Administration Finnish Mr. Otso Torniainen Finance Finnish 49 FENNOVOIMA Fennovoima's role in the project Fennovoima is the owner of the Hanhikivi 1 project and will become installation work, materials and equipment, as well as instrumentation the operator of the finished power plant. Fennovoima has granted and control (I&C) equipment. RAOS Project Oy an EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) Fennovoima is responsible for applying for the required licenses, contract for a complete turnkey delivery of the nuclear power plant. including the construction and operating licenses. The plant supplier, RAOS Project Oy, has four main subcontractors. Fennovoima’s own construction scope primarily covers auxiliary Titan-2, as the main construction contractor of the Hanhikivi 1 project, buildings, such as the training center, the administration building and is in charge of site preparation and infrastructure work, construction of the plant office. the nuclear and turbine islands, Supply chain structure Fennovoima’s supply chain structure is divided into Fennovoima’s own So far JSC Atomproekt (Rosatom subsidiary) has been selected to act scope of works and the RAOS Project’s scope of works, which is agreed as the general designer with overall responsibility for ensuring that the in the turnkey EPC contract of the nuclear power plant supply. design of the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant is developed in accordance with and fulfils Finnish legislation and regulatory Fennovoima’s scope of work requirements, and the requirements set in the EPC contract. The owner's scope covers the engineering and site construction work JSC OKB Gidropress, also a Rosatom subsidiary, has been selected to performed by contractors and consultants directly contracted by develop the basic reactor plant design. The reactor plant chief Fennovoima. designer, Gidropress, is responsible for integrated elaboration of the reactor plant design, including systems of safety, control, diagnosis and It includes all the work preceding and related to licensing, conventional safety assurance in the design boundaries of the reactor plant. permits, site preparation, construction and other work and services (e.g. the grid connection project, regional infrastructure projects, JSC Concern TITAN-2 has been approved as the main contractor, interim storage of spent fuel, and the final disposal facility for lowand responsible for organization of detailed design and construction intermediate-level waste), excluding the EPC contract scope. operations for the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant. Fennovoima’s own scope of construction mainly covers the auxiliary OJSC Atomenergomash (AEM), which is also part of the Rosatom buildings, such as the training center, administration building and plant corporation, will provide the reactor building long lead equipment, such office. as the nuclear steam supply system, for the Hanhikivi 1 project. GE Alstom Power Systems has been selected for the supply of RAOS Project’s scope of work complete turbine generator set. According to the EPC contract, the plant supplier, RAOS Project, is Titan-2 and Rolls-Royce have signed an agreement for the I&C responsible for the supply of the nuclear power plant on a turnkey licensing support work. The final I&C delivery contract is under basis. negotiation by Titan-2. Most of the key organizations in the Hanhikivi 1 project EPC supply Later, RAOS Project will select the companies for the training of the chain are subsidiaries of Rosatom. operators and commissioning of the nuclear power plant. 50 FENNOVOIMA Reporting principles The Corporate Responsibility Report covers the financial year 2017. Supply chain data includes information from the Fennovoima Fennovoima's Corporate Responsibility Report references to Management System (FMS) and the Hanhikivi 1 site register. EPC Disclosures of GRI Standards 2016 are presented in the GRI index. In scope related supply chain data is supplied by RAOS Project Oy. addition, the report includes Fennovoima’s own disclosures that we Environmental data provided in this report covers the Hanhikivi 1 have defined as material to our corporate responsibility. Also these construction site. The information is collected from the Fennovoima disclosures are presented in the GRI index. Management System, Environmental Management System (EMS), When defining the materiality of issues impacting our operations, we monthly reports, Fennovoima’s Environmental Impact Assessment consider the expectations of significant stakeholders inside and outside Report for the construction and operation of a nuclear power plant the company. (2014) and from independent experts’ studies conducted at the plant site area. The construction waste data is from Fennovoima’s own The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: systems and contractors working at the construction site, from Core option. Fennovoima’s waste management partner Remeo Oy. Data boundaries Human resources related data in this report covers Fennovoima’s organization in Helsinki and Pyhäjoki. Occupational health and safety The data presented in this report covers Fennovoima Oy’s functions in data describes the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Helsinki and Pyhäjoki and in the Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant construction site, if not otherwise stated. External assurance Fennovoima’s subsidiary Fennovoima RUS controls procurement in An independent third party, KPMG Oy Ab, has provided limited Russia and has only one employee. The subsidiary is not included in assurance for the specific performance indicators on environmental, Fennovoima’s corporate responsibility and performance targets and social and economic disclosures in the English language corporate thus not included in this report. responsibility report 2017 as indicated in the GRI Index and KPMG’s To cover the Hanhikivi 1 construction site operations, relevant assurance report. The assurance report is available at: information related to the plant supplier RAOS Project Oy is also responsibility.fennovoima.com/documents/assurance provided. The matters related to the plant supplier RAOS Project or main contractor Titan-2 that are not directly related to the material Global Compact Communication on Progress aspects of Fennovoima’s corporate responsibility are excluded from this report. Fennovoima supports the ten principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact sustainability initiative. We respect and promote these The financial data presented in the document are from Fennovoima’s principles throughout our operations, and report on our progress in this audited financial statement. report. 51 FENNOVOIMA GRI content index This material references to the following Disclosures of GRI Standards In addition, the report includes Fennovoima’s own disclosures that 2016 presented in the GRI index below. Fennovoima has defined as material to its corporate responsibility. The external assurance scope covers disclosures marked with an asterisk (*). DISCLOSURES LOCATION AND COMMENTS OMISSIONS GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1* Name of the organization Fennovoima 102-2* Activities, brands, products and services p. 14 102-3* Location of headquarters p. 14 102-4* Location of operations p. 14 102-5* Ownership and legal form Limited company 102-6* Markets served p. 14 102-7* Scale of the organization p. 23 102-8* Information on employees and other workers p.23 102-9* Supply chain p. 51 102-10* Significant changes to the organization and its supply p. 28-31, 51 chain 102-11* Precautionary Principle or approach p. 7-8 102-12* External initiatives p.3-4, 6 102-13* Membership of associations p. 45 STRATEGY 102-14* Statement from senior decision-maker p. 3-4 102-15* Key impacts, risks and opportunities p. 3-4, 6-8, 48 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16* Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior p. 6, 9, 17, 25 102-17* Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 9-10 GOVERNANCE 102-18* Governance structure p.49 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40* List of stakeholder groups p. 44 102-41* Collective bargaining agreements p. 23 102-42* Identifying and selecting stakeholders p.44 102-43* Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 44-47 102-44* Key topics and concerns raised p. 42, 47 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 102-45* Entities included in the consolidated financial Fennovoima and Fennovoima Rus 52 statements FENNOVOIMA 102-46* Defining report topics and reporting boundaries p. 51 102-47* List of material topics p. 6, 52 102-48* Restatements of information No 102-49* Changes in reporting No 102-50* Reporting period Jan 1 to Dec 31, 2017 102-51* Date of most recent report April 4, 2017 102-52* Reporting cycle Annual 102-53* Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover, www.fennovoima.fi/en/contact-us 102-54* Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards p. 51. The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55* GRI content index p. 52 102-56* External assurance p. 51 MATERIAL LOCATION AND COMMENTS OMISSIONS TOPICS* ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 201 Economic performance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p.14 201-1 Direct economic value generated p.14 and distributed INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p.15-16 203-2 Significant indirect economic p.14, 16 impacts ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 9, 11 205-1* Operations assessed for risks p. 11 related to corruption 205-2* Communication and training about p. 11 Information is not collected anti-corruption policies and regarding the Board of Directors, business partners or others. procedures 205-3* Confirmed incidents of corruption p. 11 and actions taken Fennovoima Gray economy p. 31. Our targets are that there are no cases of gray economy and that all the information disclosure regarding the companies and people working at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site are in order. WATER GRI 303 Water 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 36-40 Fennovoima Turbidity monitoring p.38. Our target in 2017 was that turbidity monitoring is always started before the beginning disclosure* of work. BIODIVERSITY GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 36-42, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7 53 FENNOVOIMA 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, p. 39, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7.6 managed in, or adjacent to projected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2* Significant impacts of activities p. 37-39, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7 products and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or stored p. 39, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7.6 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national p. 39, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7.6.4.5 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations Fennovoima Noise and dust monitoring in place p. 39, Fennovoima's EIA Report 2014 chapter 7.3. Our target for 2017 was that noise and dust disclosure* monitoring is conducted according to plan, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 306 Effluents and waste 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 41 306-1* Water discharge by quality and p. 42 destination 306-2* Waste by type and disposal p. 42-43, The share of hazardous waste of the total amount of waste is 7% and it is reported in Waste not reported by all method the same table with other waste information. disposal methods as all data was not available. 306-3* Significant spills p. 38 Fennovoima Percentage of construction waste p. 42, Data related to the utilization of waste is provided by our waste management partners disclosure* utilization as material or energy and our contractors. Our target in 2017 was that 85% of the construction waste is utilized as energy or material. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 307 Environmental compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 36, 40 307-1* Non-compliance with p. 37 environmental laws and regulations Fennovoima Compliance with environmental p. 40. Our target is that there are no instances of target limits being exceeded. disclosure and water permits Fennovoima Number of environmental p. 38. Our target for environmental observation was 50 observations made at the Hanhikivi 1 disclosure: observations per year construction site in 2017. EMPLOYMENT GRI 401 Employment 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 22-27 401-1* New employee hires and p. 23, 25 employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Employees with temporary contract (i.e. summer trainees are provided with lunch coupons employees that are not provided to and mobile phone for work related calls. Employees with over six month temporary or temporary or part-time employees permanent contract are provided with Smartum lunch card and mobile phone benefit. Fennovoima Party and Pulse survey results p. 26. Our target for Party survey index results is 14. The Pulse survey target was 4.5 in 2017. disclosure* The Pulse survey will be replaced with another survey in 2018. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 403 Occupational health and safety 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 26, 32-35 403-1 Workers representation in formal Fennovoima has an Occupational health and safety (OHS) committee that represents all joint management-worker health employees of Salmisaari headquarters and Pyhäjoki office. 54 and safety committees FENNOVOIMA 403-2* Types of injury and rate of injury, p. 26, 33 occupational diseases, lost-days and abseenteism, and number of work related fatalities 403-3* Workers with high risk of incidents p. 35 or diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Fennovoima has a Site agreement with Rosatom and trade unions. The Site agreement states formal agreements with trade that all operators at Hanhikivi 1 construction site must comply with Finnish legislation and unions collective labor agreement.The agreement states that trade unions are allowed to name joint shop steward and joint OHS delegate to the Hanhikivi 1 construction site. Fennovoima Safety observations, investigation p. 35. Our target for the OHS observations at the Hanhikivi 1 construction site is is over two disclosure* of occupational accidents, observations per Fennovoima employee annually. Our target is that all observations are implementation of preventative handled within two days of receiving the observation, action plan is made within seven days and corrective measures and the corrective actions are implemented according to agreed schedule. Fennovoima TR and MVR index p. 33. Our target is that the minimum requirement level that we have set to 90% is exceeded disclosure* in every measurement. Fennovoima Personnel abseenteism (sick p. 26 Our target is under 2.5% of abseenteism. disclosure* leaves) TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 404 Training and education 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 22, 23, 24 404-1* Average hours of training per year p. 24 per employee 404-2* Programs for upgrading employee p. 24 No information regarding skills and transition assistance transition assistance programs programs collected. Reporting practices will be improved in 2018. 404-3* Percentage of employees receiving p. 23 regular performance and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 9, 11, 25, 26 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 23, 49 Reported data includes the employees gender and age of the employees and nationality of the Board of Directors and Management Team. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 26 406-1* Incidents of discrimination and p. 26 corrective actions taken LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 413 Local communities 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 15, 46-47 413-1 Operations with local community p. 15, 46-47 Quantitative data not available. engagement, impact assessments and development programs Fennovoima Image study p. 46-47. Our target is a positive trend in the image study results. disclosure Fennovoima Score in the local opinion poll p. 47 Our target is a positive trend in the opinion poll results. disclosure* 55 FENNOVOIMA SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 491 Socioeconomic compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach p. 10 419-1* Non-compliance with laws and p. 10 regulations in the social and economic area SAFETY GRI 103 Management approach p. 17-21 Fennovoima Safety concerns p. 19. We monitor the quality and number of the safety concerns. Numerical target has not disclosure been set. 56 Fennovoima Oy Salmisaarenaukio 1, 00180 Helsinki, Finland responsibility.fennovoima.com fennovoima.com
