NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Better Energy Better World Sustainability Report 2018 Better Energy Better World Sustainability Report 2018 About this Report Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) is a clean energy company that contributes to people’s lives by supplying natural gas in a safe and stable manner and that grows with stakeholders through corporate management to fulfill our social responsibilities. We emphasize on the balanced pursuit of economic, environmental, and social values while performing our business and transparently disclosing results through Annual Reports. This report is KOGAS’s 12th Sustainability Report. Reporting Scope and Period This report was written based on sustainability performance data from January through December 2017. Data from the first half of 2018 regarding certain quantitative performance considered to be of significance for disclosure is included in the report. Certain quantitative performance of the past three years since 2015 has been disclosed to identify trends. There was no critical change in corporate scale, corporate governance, or ownership structure during the reporting period. The scope of this report encompasses KOGAS’ headquarters, regional business locations, and R&D centers. Performance and information for overseas businesses were also included as necessary. Changes from the Previous Year If there were any changes in disclosed data in the previous report, the reasons for the changes were indicated on the relevant page. In addition, certain performance and information where there has been no change after the previous reporting were explained again for readers to better understand the content. Writing and Assurance Standards for the Report This report was written in accordance with the Core option of the international GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards. To secure credibility and quality, independent third-party assurance was conducted and the results are stated in the Appendix. Additional Information of the Report More detailed information is available on KOGAS’ website, and the contact information below is available for inquiries regarding KOGAS’ sustainability activities and feedback on this report. Website http://www.kogas.or.kr Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea (41062) Department Corporate Strategy Dept. E-mail asseo@kogas.or.kr Tel +82-53-670-0205 Fax +82-53-670-6349 Contents 02 About this Report 04 CEO Message 06 KOGAS Business 08 KOGAS Profile 10 Vision & Strategy Shared Value with KOGAS 14 Social Value Realization 16 Economic Value Realization 18 Environmental Value Realization KOGAS Sustainability Performance 22 Participation of Stakeholders 24 Materiality Test Creating Social Value 28 Job Creation 30 Mutual Growth 34 Customer Service Innovation 36 Contribution to Communities Creating Economic Value 42 Operation of Sustainable Energy Business 48 Discover Future Growth Engines 50 Communication-Based Management 52 Talent Management Creating EHSQ Value 57 Environmental Management 59 Response to Climate Change 60 Safety Management 63 Information Security KOGAS Sustainability Management 66 Corporate Governance 68 Risk Management 70 Ethical and Integrity Management 72 Human Rights Management Appendix 75 Performance Summary 81 Prizes and Awards/Memberships 82 Supply Chain Management 84 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 86 GRI Content Index 88 Sustainability Initiative 91 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 CEO Message 04 CEO Message KOGAS Business KOGAS Profile Vision & Strategy KOGAS is committed to making a better energy world through sustainable management. Dear distinguished stakeholders! Since our foundation in 1983, thanks to the warm interest and support from the public and customers, for the past 34 years, KOGAS has built and operated gas pipelines reaching a total length of 4,790㎞ and 72 11,470,000㎘-volume storage tanks in four terminals to provide clean energy – natural gas to the public, accomplishing at natural gas distribution rate of 91% to local governments nationwide. We also conducted 24 projects to develop and produce natural gas and crude oil in 13 countries worldwide to obtain necessary resources and to secure human and technological capacity to grow into a global natural gas provider. We have been able to realize energy welfare through the supply of cost-effective, clean, and convenient natural gas to all over the country through now, but it is also true that we are in a rather tough situation, due to environmental changes and supply and demand conditions surrounding us. Despite these conditions, KOGAS promises to make the following efforts to create sustainable growth and value for our stakeholders. First of all, we will do our utmost to stabilize the supply and demand of natural gas by focusing on the economic feasibility, flexibility, and diversification of import sources in response to increases in fluctuations of natural gas demand due to the frequent occurrence of abnormal weather events. Secondly, we will lead the growth of the gas industry and create new future value by taking the lead in technology-based new growth businesses, including fuel cell-based distributed power generation to resolve environmental issues such as ultrafine dust and the advent of a post 2020 new climate system, as well as LNG bunkering project to address intensified regulations in the marine environment. Thirdly, we will actively promote various innovation and communication activities to be reborn as a public corporation that is trusted by the public through establishing a culture of ethics and integrity and reorganizing our corporate culture. In particular, we, as a public corporation, will expand the scope of natural gas supply to the marginalized communities to create social value, and we will build a variety of win-win cooperation models such as packages for joint overseas projects with our suppliers to contribute to the growth of communities and build a healthy ecosystem in the gas industry. Dear stakeholders! KOGAS has established close relationships with governments around the world as well as with the global gas industry and is fully prepared to successfully host the World Gas Conference 2018 – a festival for people of the gas industry in Daegu. Going forward, under the vision of 'Next Energy, with KOGAS,’ we will open up a world of safe and clean future energy, while giving top priority to the interests of shareholders and citizens, ensure that local communities and the gas industry grow together harmoniously, contribute to developing the national energy industry, and become a company respected by the people. Once again, I would like to ask you for your continued interest and encouragement to our commitment and various efforts to achieve sustainable management. Thank you. June, 2018 Cheong, Seung-Il President, Korea Gas Corporation 05 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 KOGAS The natural gas industry is segmented into upstream, midstream, and downstream, depending on the scope Business of activities: upstream prior to liquefaction, midstream for the liquefaction and transportation stage, and downstream for the post-transportation stage. KOGAS has established the entire business scope, covering from overseas resource exploration and development to introduction and transportation of natural gases to Korea to production, supply, and sales. Exploration Mining Liquefaction Terminal Shipment Transportation Upstream Midstream Overseas Resource Exploration Projects Business Related to LNG Supply Import and Transportation KOGAS conducts overseas resource exploration KOGAS invests in acquiring stakes in operation In order to secure a stable natural gas supply through international bidding and stake acquisition, companies that perform development and that may be obtained in a timely manner and in identifies the most promising geological structures of production to secure a stable LNG supply volume. sufficient LNG volume to respond to the surge in oil and gas fields using extensive geological surveys LNG demand, KOGAS is diversifying our supply • GLNG Project, Australia and various exploration methods, and confirms the • Prelude FLNG Project, Australia lines to Brunei, Qatar, Oman, and the United States existence of resources through drilling. • DSLNG Project, Indonesia beyond the Southeast Asian market. In addition, • RASGAS Project, Qatar we have advanced our business with Korean flag • Krueng Mane Sea-based Minefield, Indonesia • LNG Project, Oman • LNG Project, Yemen LNG carriers, which require highly sophisticated • E Sea-Based Minefield, East Timor • Sea-Based Minefields #2, 3 and 9, Cypress • LNG Canada Project, Canada technologies, and have utilized national flag carriers • Coral FLNG Project, Mozambique for LNG transport since 1994. Currently, we operate Overseas Resource Development and 27 national flag carriers for LNG transport and an Production Business additional 2 ships are under construction. KOGAS establishes development plans based on results from reviewing the business feasibility of resource volume discovered by exploration, and Import Volume for 2017 performs the development process required for production, such as ground production facility 33,063 thousand tons installation and underground production well drilling. • Horn River/West Curbank Development Project, Canada • Umiak Minefield Development Project, North Pole of Canada • A-1/A-3 Development and Production Project, Myanmar • Senoro Toili Development and Production Project, Indonesia • Zubair Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq • Badra Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq • Mansuriya Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq • Akkas Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq • Surgil Gas Field Development and Production Project, Uzbekistan 06 CEO Message KOGAS Business KOGAS Profile Vision & Strategy LNG Storage LNG Gasification Delivery Production Facilities Gas Supply Management Sites City Gas Producers Power Generation Companies Household Industrial Power Generation Use Use Use Unloading Production Supply Sales Downstream Production and Supply Business Sales Business Overseas Downstream Infrastructure Business Imported LNG is unloaded in local LNG terminals, The sales volume of natural gas has increased by KOGAS engages in various downstream infrastructure stored in large storage tanks, re-gasified, and approximately 24 times during the past 30 years projects such as LNG terminals and pipelines based delivered through the nationwide pipeline network. since its first supply in 1987 and is sold to various on technologies we developed and accumulated sectors for household, industrial, and power over many years. generation usage. • Training and design of terminal expansion, Singapore Capacity • Maputo pipeline project, Mozambique LNG Sales Volume in 2017 • Al Zour terminal project, Kuwait Pyeongtaek Terminal Division 4,636 tons/hour • Manzanillo LNG terminal project, Mexico Incheon Terminal Division 4,940 tons/hour 32,162 thousand tons Tongyeong Terminal Division 3,030 tons/hour Samcheok Terminal Division 1,320 tons/hour (as of the end of 2017) LNG Storage Capacity 11.47 million ㎘ (as of the end of 2017) Total Extension of Pipeline Network 4,790 km (as of the end of 2017) 07 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 KOGAS Profile Company Outline KOGAS is Korea’s representative energy corporation established to enhance benefits in people’s livelihoods and realize their energy welfare through the safe and stable supply of natural gases. As of June 2018 Company Type of Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Corporation Overseas Credit Ratings Name Corporate Body Moody's FITCH CEO Sales S&P Cheong, Seung-Il KRW 22.1723 trillion AAAa2 AAEstablishment August 18, 1983 Net Income KRW 1.0339 trillion Date Foundation for Earnings per Korea Gas Corporation Act KRW -13,802 (for common stock) Establishment Share Domestic Credit Ratings (No. 3639, enacted in December 1983) KRW -13,802 (diluted earnings per share) Korea NICE Investors Ratings Service Location Number of 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea 3,752** AAA AAA Employees * Financial items are based on the Consolidated Financial Statements under K-IFRS (as of the end of December, 2017). ** Based on All Public Information In-One as of the end of 2017. Key Business Areas Production/supply of city gas and refinement/sale Construction/operation of bases and supply of byproducts networks for natural gas Development, transport, and ex/import of Development and ex/import of Liquefied natural gas Petroleum Gas Projects on new/renewable energies, Projects commissioned by national or local clean synthesis fuel, and climate-friendliness governments using natural gas or its byproducts Research/technology development in city Exploration/development projects for oil gas-related projects and auxiliary projects resources and related projects Overseas projects related to the above projects KOGAS History 1990’s Expanding Growth 1980’s Base building May 1990 Establishment of the R&D Center Jul. 1993 Commencement of city gas supply to the mid region (Daejeon, Cheonan, Cheongju) Aug. 1983 Establishment of KOGAS Jun. 1994 Commission of the first LNG national flag carrier Oct. 1986 First import of LNG Nov. 1995 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Yeongnam Nov. 1986 Commencement of natural gas distribution to and Honam areas power plant operations (Pyeongtaek) Dec. 1996 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Busan area Feb. 1987 Commencement of city gas supply to the Seoul Jan. 1997 Establishment of KOLNG metropolitan area Oct. 1997 Commencement of operations of the Incheon terminal Apr. 1987 Completion of terminal and distribution facilities Oct. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Seohae area at Pyeongtaek Dec. 1999 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange Dec. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the southern area 08 CEO Message KOGAS Business KOGAS Profile Vision & Strategy Organization Composition KOGAS consists of seven divisions: Management Support Division in charge of overall management, Import and Sales Division, Overseas Business Division, Terminal Division in charge of technological matters, Trunk Line Division, Technology Business Division, and Strategic Planning Division in charge of company-wide strategic aspects. Under the divisions are 24 units (headquarters and teams) and 13 divisions (terminal divisions and district divisions). President & CEO Corporate Auditor Office of Public Relations Secretariat Office of the Auditor Sr. Executive Vice President Sr. Executive Vice President of Management of Safety Technology Management Department of Central Department of EHSQ Integrated Security Dept. Cooperation Dept. System Control Office of Security & Emergency Management Marketing Overseas Corporate Strategy LNG Terminal Technology Trunk Line Division Support Division Division Business Division Planning Division Division Business Division •M anagement • Marketing Dept. • Overseas Business • Corporate Strategy • Terminal Operation • Trunk Line Operation • Daejeon •T  echnology Planing Support Dept. • LNG Procurement Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Chungcheong District & Development •H uman Resources Dept. • E&P Project Dept. • Innovation • Terminal Construc• Trunk Line ConstrucDivision Dept. Dept. • LNG Business Dept. Management Dept. tion Dept. tion Dept. • Jeonbuk District •N  ew Business Dept. • Finance Dept. • Research Institute • Pyeongtaek Termi• Seoul District Division Division •O  verseas Infra of Economics & nal Division • Incheon District • Gwangju Jeonnam Business Dept. Management • Incheon Terminal Division District Division •R  esources Division • Gyeonggi District • Daegu Gyeongbuk Technology Dept. • Tongyeong Terminal Division District Division •K  OGAS Research Division • Gangwon District • Busan Gyeongnam Institute • Samcheok Terminal Division District Division Division (As of June 2018) 2010’s Better Energy, Better World Jan. 2010 Incheon LNG Terminal surpassed the 100 million tons mark in 2000’s accumulated production of natural gas Jan. 2010 Obtained the development and production rights for the oil and gas Becoming a World Class fields in Zubair and Badra, Iraq Oct. 2010 Gained access to the Akkas and Mansuriya Gas Fields in Iraq Mar. 2011 Named as the World's 4th Most Admired Energy Company by Fortune Mar. 2000 Signed an MOU for the development project of a gas field in the Jan. 2013 Agreement signed for the E&P project on three blocks in Cyprus East Sea Sep. 2013 Additional discovery of a gas well in Area 4 of Mozambique, secured Nov. 2000 Korea, China, and Russia reached an agreement for the 87Tcf in tTotal co-development of the Irkutsk gas field Sep. 2013 Was incorporated into the DJSI Asia Pacific Level and ranked first in the Oct. 2002 Commencement of operations at the Tongyeong terminal gas sector Nov. 2002 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Gangwon area Mar. 2014 Hosted Gastech 2014 at Kintex Mar. 2003 Completed sales contract with Australia Liquefied Natural Gas for Oct. 2014 Won the bid to host the 2021 World Gas Conference in Daegu mid-term LNG Jan. 2016 Declared 2025 Vision (‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’) Jan. 2004 Reached 10 million for the number of households using natural gas Oct. 2016 Awarded the Prime Ministerial Award on World Standards Day 2016 Aug. 2005 Invested in equity for the A-3 Minefield in Myanmar Jun. 2017 Initiated full development of Area 4 gas field in Mozambique Jul. 2006 The number of natural gas-powered buses exceeded 10,000 Jun. 2017 Started commercial operation of the three 270,000§¥-volume storage Dec. 2007 Declared 2017 Vision tanks (the largest volume) in Samcheok Terminal Feb. 2008 Signed an agreement to establish a joint investment company for Jun. 2017 Started commercial operation of floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan for Australian prelude project Sep. 2008 Signed an MOU for natural gas supply between KOGAS-Gasprom Sep. 2017 Completed construction of the Samcheok LNG production terminal Dec. 2008 Inception of the LNG pipeline expansion project Sep. 2017 Achieved DJSI Asia Pacific Level five times in a row Jan. 2009 Signed a business partnership MOU with AMEC Sep. 2017 Hosted Asia Pacific Gas Conference (APGC) 2017 in Daegu Oct. 2009 Gained interest in the offshore and onshore pipelines for Myanmar gas field 09 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Vision & KOGAS 2025 Strategy In order for KOGAS to remain a public corporation with clean energy that contributes to livelihood of the public through the safe and stable supply of natural gases, KOGAS established and announced ‘KOGAS 2025,’, a new midand long-term management plan. KOGAS 2025 consists of four strategy directions and twelve strategy tasks based on the slogan for the vision, ‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS,’ meaning that KOGAS will partner with the public for a new, outstanding, and reliable future energy world. We will make ‘Better Energy, Better World’ under KOGAS 2025. KOGAS 2025 Purpose of We are committed to facilitate public benefits and improve public welfare by securing a long Establishment term and stable supply base of gases. Corporate Philosophy Better Energy, Better Tomorrow Core Value Challenge Change Responsibility Trust to the to the for the in World Future Society People Vision Next Energy, with KOGAS Vision Goals Contribution of KRW 10 trillion to the national economy, Energy conversion rate of 20%, Productivity improvement rate of 30% Four Strategic Conversion to Constitutional Directions Leading natural gas Realization of social environment-friendly improvement to industry value energy prepare for future 12 Strategic 1. Reinforcing public 4. Fostering new 7. Creation and 10. Innovation of the Tasks features of gas energy business. sharing of jobs. ways of working. business. 5. Revitalization of 8. E  xpanding shared 11. Improvement of 2. Creation of fuel conversion. and win-win coopfinancial stability. overseas business eration. 6. S  ecuring 12. A dvancement of performance. business-related 9. R  einforcing disaster ICT management. 3. Securing natural technologies. and safety environgas leadership in ment management. Northeast Asia. * 6 main tasks Vision NEXT Energy, with KOGAS N EX T with KOGAS Neo Excellent Trust KOGAS will partner with the public Pursue and secure new Strengthen technological Provide benefits to the Ensure shared growth with For a new, outstanding, and genuine growth engines competencies and public and further develop stakeholders by creating future energy world! establish a lively corporate as reliable company with social value culture that generates integrity productivity 10 CEO Message KOGAS Business KOGAS Profile Vision & Strategy Sustainability Management Strategies As Korea’s largest supplier of natural gases, KOGAS is responsible for minimizing the impact of global climate change and our ecological footprint by supplying energy safely and seamlessly. We respect and listen to our stakeholders throughout the world, including the public, local communities, government, customers, and suppliers, when implementing sustainability management. Against this backdrop, we propose ‘Global KOGAS With people, with the Planet’ as a vision for sustainability management, and we establish a relevant strategy system. The Future Strategy Team is in charge of matters on sustainability management, and strategy setting and performance results are periodically reported to the Sustainability Management Committee, which reviews key agenda items, then makes decisions. System for Sustainability Strategies Vision Global KOGAS with People, with the Planet Mission Sustainability Excellence: DJSI World Level Governance Economy Environment Society Strategic Secure leadership for sustainable Minimize environmental impact by Execute a sustainable business by supplying Create a corporate culture Directions management by strengthening the adopting leading environmental energy in a stable manner that prioritizes people foundation for management management strategies Core Issues • ‌Strengthen the efficiency of the Board •S trengthen overseas business • Intensify policies and systems for • Strengthen the operating system for of Directors and accountability in performance capacity environmental management ethical management sustainability •D evelop new demand and business • Boost reliability in internal and • Advance human rights and labor • Intensify independent risk for gas external environmental policies practices management •S trengthen demand management for • Strengthen the system for responding • Strengthen the performance-based • Establish an integrated form of stable supply to climate change compensation system stakeholder management •E xpand development of alternative • Enhance the safety and health system • ‌Enhance the analysis and common energies • Upgrade the win-win cooperation ownership system for issues related to •E stablish an anti-monopolistic infrastructure stakeholders prevention system • Reinforce social contribution strategies and performance management • Strengthen the customer management system Major Tasks •M anagement of the Board of Directors •S trengthen overseas business • Strengthen policies and systems for • Ethical Management (BOD) performance capacity environmental management Upgrade ethical management policies Increase the independence and Enhance technological competencies Redefine procedures and guidelines for Raise management transparency efficiency of the BOD Improve E&P business efficiency environmental management • Talent Management Raise the BOD’s accountability for • Demand Management Establish policies and strategies for Revamp human rights and labor sustainability management Raise efficiency on the demand side biodiversity practices • Risk Management Establish plans to cooperate with • Boost reliability in internal and external Strengthen performance-based Systematize corporation-wide risk industries environmental policies remuneration systems management • Develop New Business Improve the system for managing Develop global talent Devise measures to identify risks in Operate LNG facilities and develop environmental pollutants • Managing Safety And Health advance transport businesses ‌Continuously disclose information on Manage sites free of accident/disaster • Stakeholder Management Reinforce business networks the amount of emissions of environContinuously maintain the healthcare Manage stakeholders’ issues on an Create hydrogen-based demand mental pollutants management system integrated basis Increase transparency in costs of ‌Prevent industrial accidents for suppliCommunicate issues internally and environmental activities ers/support their safety management externally • Strengthen the system for responding activities Establish an integrated form of staketo climate change • Win-win Cooperation holder management Establish a low-carbon management Support SME’s sustainability system management Contribute to the national GHG reducInitiate competency build-up for SMEs tion target Continuously explore GHG reduction • Management for Customer Satisfaction business Analyze VOC and customer feedback Heighten privacy protections for customers • Social Contribution Improve management of social contribution activities Implement strategic social contribution programs 11 Shared Value with KOGAS Social Value Realization Economic Value Realization Environmental Value Realization KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Social Value KOGAS is a public energy corporation established with the purpose of promoting public well-being and welfare. Realization As such, we have the mission to contribute to social benefits and to develop local communities and the nation. We pursue sustainable advancement based on common social values through creating quality jobs, protecting labor and human rights, pursuing shared growth with small and medium-sized suppliers to establish a health industrial ecosystem, invest in social contribution by co-existing with local communities, and promoting energy welfare for the underprivileged in society. KOGAS makes various efforts to provide more job opportunities and establish better job environment based on a job creation vision of ‘KOGAS Job Together’ for a better society. Job Creation Sector Investment Business Collaboration with the Job creation in the Private Sector private sector (in 2017) Shared Growth 20,583 people Realization of Social Values Job Creation Satisfaction level of shared growth projects (in 2017) 90.1 points Shared Growth We believe a public corporation bears the responsibility to create a sound corporate ecological environment for the natural gas industry and to, grow with small and medium-sized suppliers. In our duty to the country and people, KOGAS pursues win-win and shared growth based on fair cooperative relations. 14 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix KOGAS actively engages in social contribution activities through ‘Onnuri Love Project’ to support energy welfare, ‘Onnuri One Heart Project’ to spread KOGAS’ vision and culture of sharing, ‘Onnuri Hope Project’ to foster future generations and the common good, and ‘Onnuri Harmony Project’ to establish trust with local communities and global citizens. Social Contribution Social Contribution Mileage (in 2017) 64.51 points/person Energy Welfare KOGAS believes that our proactive actions to accomplish our mission and objectives creates new value in energy resources and thereby ultimately helps people and greatly affects the entire industrial sector in Korea. We strive to provide quality services to our customers – the people – and are fully committed to offering high quality service and support in alignment with government policies. • City gas tariff reduction system • Support for combined heat power plant construction • City gas tariff reduction for social welfare facilities • Support for the operation of natural gas for industrial purposes • City gas tariff reduction for the underprivileged in society • Support for the operation of natural gas charging stations 15 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Economic Value The world recognizes that securing and developing energy resources is essential to achieve national Realization competitiveness, and the importance of natural gas, a low-pollution clean energy, is increasingly emphasized due to intensified environmental regulations under climate change policies. As the largest wholesaler of natural gas in Korea, KOGAS imports natural gas from foreign countries where it is produced in the form of LNG and supplies the gas after re-gasification directly to large-scale customers such as power plants or to gas retailers Import and Transport Business Production Business Research and Development Supply Business Overseas Business Sales Business Business Model 16 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix including local city gas suppliers. In the long term, our business scope is gradually expanding to the exploration and development of overseas gas fields in order to keep supply costs low and supply it gas a stable manner, and we are also entering the infrastructure market such as through the construction of overseas terminals and pipelines based on our technology. We share the economic value created through these business activities with various stakeholders. Sales KRW 22,172.3 billion In 2017 Creation and distribution of Employees Suppliers Government KOGAS’ economic value KRW 384.8 billion KRW 270.5 billion KRW 303.2 billion Salary and benefits Procurement of SMEs’ products Corporate tax payment Local communities Creditors KRW 17.1 billion KRW 829.5 billion Donations and social Interest contribution activities 17 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Since our declaration of environment management in 1997, KOGAS has minimized the adverse impact to Value Realization the environment that inevitably arise in the course of our business activities, and has participated in global climate change actions to manage carbon emissions. We actively manage pollutant emissions by setting our own management targets at a level higher than legal standards, and we create eco-friendly value by installing INPUT Use of chemicals 91,620 kg Energy usage (Basic unit: 2.85 kg/thousand tons) A total of 12,624 TJ (Direct: 5,187 TJ, Indirect: 7,442 TJ) Water usage A total of 1,241,908 thousand ㎥ Sea water Tap water Underground water 1,241,442 thousand ㎥ 459 thousand ㎥ 7.5 thousand ㎥ KOGAS’ Environment Management ISO 14001 ISO 50001 Green company Company-Wide Entire Terminal Incheon Terminal Divisions Division Entire Supply Divisions 18 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix renewable energy facilities and performing greenhouse gas reduction activities. We endeavor to fulfill our environmental responsibilities for local communities, the people, and future generations, contributing to the sustainable development of the nation and society. * This page is based on the data of resources used, emitted, and managed during 2017. OUTPUT Waste discharge A total of 84,279 tons (Basic unit: 2.62 ton/thousand tons) GHG emissions General Designated Construction A total of 623,639 tCO e 2 (Direct: 263,068 tCO2e, Indirect: 360,571 tCO2e) 547 tons 53 tons 83,679 tons Air pollutant emission NOx SOx Dust 212,995 kg 1,175 kg 3,548 kg (Basic unit: 6.62 kg/ (Basic unit: 0.04 kg/ (Basic unit: 0.11 kg/ thousand tons) thousand tons) thousand tons) Water pollutant emission Environment activity budget BOD COD SS KRW 25,555 million 55.9 kg 61.3 kg 124.5 kg (Basic unit: 0.002 kg/ (Basic unit: 0.002 kg/ (Basic unit: 0.0039 kg/ thousand tons) thousand tons) thousand tons) Renewable energy installation (GHG reduction in 2017 1,428 tCO2e) 19 KOGAS Sustainability Performance Materiality Test Participation of Stakeholders Creating Social Value Creating EHSQ Value Creating Economic Value KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Participation of Definition of Communication with Stakeholders Stakeholders The stakeholders of KOGAS are defined as individuals or organizations subject to critical impact from KOGAS’ activities and services, and they are categorized based on a classification system focused on competition and collaboration to raise benefits for the public. Value Self-Leading Type Definition Provide benefits to the public and drive growth in the gas industry Stakeholder Group Employees, labor union Areas of Interest Organizational vision, working environment • ‌Management Committee Communication • ‌Labor-Management Council Channels • KOGAS’ Intranet, etc. Direction of • ‌Aim to achieve KOGAS’ establishment purposes Communication • ‌Internalize core values Key Communication • ‌Communication meetings between the CEO and employees (7 times) Efforts and • ‌Strengthen labor-management communication, e.g. organization of a joint Performance labor-management workshop Value Cooperative Type Definition Engage in policy coordination for service for the public Stakeholder Group Public, government, national assembly Areas of Interest Energy fees, energy welfare Communication • ‌Legislative activities including inspection of the National Assembly Channels • ‌Discuss management objectives and pending issues Direction of • ‌Maintain consistency with vision Communication • ‌IImprovement the quality of public services • Promoted visiting service of tariff reduction and published a white book for Key Communication National Assembly inspection Efforts and Performance • ‌Established a real-time disaster response system in cooperation with 26 local governments (sharing activities) 22 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix We also provide communication channels that are customized for each stakeholder group so stakeholders may take part in KOGAS’ management activities. We will intensify our basis for sustainability by attentively listening to stakeholder demands and collaborating with them. Value Self-Leading Type Contribute to higher benefits through gas supply and form a relationship to Definition share partnership-based growth Stakeholder Group City gas producers, importers, communities Areas of Interest Generate demand, facilitate local economies Communication • ‌Business presentations Channels • ‌Seminars to improve customer satisfaction Direction of • ‌Pursue values of shared growth Communication • ‌Share development strategies for the gas industry • ‌Establish an integrated demand/supply management system incorporating Key Communication the private sector with the, government and public sectors and expand Efforts and supply areas Performance • ‌‘Implement ‘Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project’ (50% of business volume in Daegu Gyeongnam) Value Based Type Support and provide the basis to generate performance for growth of the gas Definition industry Stakeholder Group Investment companies, countries to which KOGAS has expanded, suppliers Areas of Interest Achieve growth in symbiotic relationships, generate national wealth Communication • ‌Meet for cooperation on resources development Channels • ‌Shared Growth Committee Direction of • ‌Establish trust-based partnerships Communication • ‌Share business information in a timely manner • ‌Strengthen communication with the governments of countries into which Key Communication KOGAS has entered and establish cooperative structures with LNG buyers Efforts and • ‌Mentor for SMEs’ technology development and support their participation Performance in overseas business fairs 23 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Materiality Test Selection of and Reporting Process for Material Issues KOGAS regularly collects information on the economic, environmental, and social needs and opinions of our stakeholders to identify priority issues for securing sustainable management activities. We address material issues based on our goals and strategies to manage outcomes, and disclose them via various channels including the Sustainability Report. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Selection of Final Issues and Identification of Sustainability Issues Prioritization of Material Issues Validity Assurance Prepare for a process for review and Identify 30 sustainability management Prioritize a pool of issues ascertained information collection of the material issues by utilizing multiple collection based on their impact on stakeholder issues selected in order to report mechanisms, including internal data evaluation and decision-making and the performance of sustainability review, media research, benchmarking, the economic/environment/social management in a reasonable and and review of international standards impact to organizations balanced manner Sustainability Materiality Completeness Stakeholder Inclusiveness STEP 1 Identification of Sustainability Issues In order to identify the economic, environmental, and social impact of all activities and services, we conducted media analysis, benchmarking of related institutions and the industry KOGAS is engaged in, and review of international reviews and stakeholder surveys, organization of T/F workshops, and analysis of internal data, etc. from January 2017 to the end of December, 2017. Media Research Analyzed news articles on KOGAS’ management and activities reported in media coverage from January 2017 to the end of December, 2017 Benchmarking Analysis Analyzed best practices and key trends based on reports of the industry at home and abroad and related institutions Review of International Standards on Sustainability Management Identified key issues in international standards related to sustainability management including GRI Standards, DJSI and ISO 26000, UNGC, etc. Stakeholder Surveys Conducted a survey from May 15 to 25, 2018, to determine material issues for stakeholders Review of Internal Data Identified major economic, environmental, and social issues by analyzing management evaluation reports, midand long-term management strategies, management disclosures, and various internal reporting data T/F Workshop Organized a workshop to assist those involved in report preparation and managers covering related issues, as well as to openly discuss sustainability management 24 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix STEP 2 Prioritization of Material Issues We determined issues with a high priority by evaluating the aspects of ‘stakeholder evaluation and decisionmaking’ and ‘importance of the organizations’ economic, environmental, and social impact’ against the identified sustainability management issues of sustainability management Interest level of stakeholders Stable production and supply of natural gases Prevention of safety accidents Securing safe operation systems and establishing disaster management systems Development of projects for new growth engines Intensification of activities for anticorruption and ethical management Development of eco-friendly technologies Compliance with fair trade and formation and expansion of investment of a culture of compliance Utilization of new and renewable Maintenance of competitiveness Fair remuneration and personnel management energies and expansion of investment in R&D and technology Advancement of social contribution activities Efforts to boost customer satisfaction Employee recruitment and welfare benefits reflecting the nature of the business Establishment of a sound labor-management culture Maintenance of financial soundness and profitability Reinforcement of safety and health Propagation of a culture of shared growth with suppliers and related efforts Enhancement of integrated risk management for employees Intensification of GHG Efficient initiation of overseas projects management activities emissions management Efforts to initiate and spread human rights-oriented management Establishment of advanced Creation of quality jobs environment management systems Improvement of environmental management on sites and protection of the surrounding ecosystem Maintenance of soundness of corporate governance Management of environmental loads Initiation of continued innovation activities in corporate management Investment in the community and facilitation of the local economy Efforts to reduce energy usage Activities to implement the national agenda Business impact STEP 3 Selection of Final Issues and Validity Assurance We finalized the content to be reported by defining the level of boundary and scope for material aspects to be included in the report based on internal review. In addition, we conducted validity checks to express our sustainability management performance in a rational and balanced manner in order to include both the positive and negative impact of KOGAS. Issues Boundaries RankMaterial Issues GRI Topic ing Internal External Government, Suppliers, Customers, 1 Stable production and supply of natural gases Shareholders/Investors, Global Stakeholders, Citizens Intensification of activities for anti-corruption and 2 Anti-corruption Government, Citizens ethical management Securing safe operation systems and establishing 3 Occupational Health and Safety Government disaster management systems Advancement of social contribution activities 4 Local Communities Local Communities, NGO reflecting the nature of the business 5 Employee recruitment and welfare benefits Employment, Training and Education KOGAS & Employees 6 Prevention of safety accidents Occupational Health and Safety Government 7 Fair remuneration and personnel management Employment 8 Development of projects for new growth engines Government, Shareholders/Investors Compliance with fair trade and formation of a 9 Suppliers, Global Stakeholders culture of compliance Maintenance of financial soundness 10 Economic Performance Government, Shareholders/Investors and profitability 25 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Creating Social Value 26 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Social contribution mileage Points/person Private sector job creation Achievement of irregular worker regularization goal Donations and social contribution activity costs People KRW billion Satisfaction level for shared growth projects Points Customer satisfaction Class Evaluation of public organizations’ shared growth activities Positive Public perception index Points Relevant Department Key Issues Background and Policies from the Perspective of Sustainability Management Direction Sakeholders in Charge • To establish midand long-term strategies and systems to create jobs. As youth unemployment emerges as an important social issue in Korea, there is a continuous • To ensure the timely regularization of demand for job creation and provision of quality jobs by companies. KOGAS promotes The government, Collaborative irregular workers and a secure workplace Job Creation ‘Creation of More Jobs,’ ‘Securing Better Job Environment,’ and ‘Win-win Management for communities, and Cooperation without discrimination to establish a Living Together’ based on strategies and systems for job creation in order to ensure a swift the public Department better job environment. response to this economic paradigm shift ‘toward job creation.’ • To create quality and win-win jobs in the private sector. • Collaboration to open up new local and KOGAS considers the creation of a sound corporate environment in the natural gas industry overseas markets for SMEs. as our responsibility as a public corporation that serves the nation and the public, and we • Support for the enhancement of R&D Mutual take relevant issues seriously. Maintaining fair cooperative relationships to ensure co-existence Shared Growth capacity of SMEs. Suppliers Growth and shared growth with small and medium-sized businesses and supporting their growth, Division • Expansion of a performance sharing KOGAS focuses on sharing our technology and expertise to contribute to the productivity system to make secure a culture of sharing improvement of the natural gas industry. fair gains. • Provide services for the public to experience benefits through innovations Customers of KOGAS are categorized into three groups: first, the general public as end-users of in public services. City Gas Sales Customer natural gases indirectly provided by KOGAS; second, city gas producers delivering natural gases • Promote user-oriented management The Public and Department Services from KOGAS to consumers; and lastly, large-volume consumers directly provided with services activities. Customers Sales Planning Innovation by KOGAS. KOGAS runs a customer satisfaction management network and communicates • Establish systems to ensure Department closely with customers in order to provide products and services that satisfy them. communication and collaboration with clients. KOGAS considers its responsibility as a public corporation to be to achieve win-win • Promote social contribution activities to cooperation with local communities, gaining support and trust, while providing plentiful Contribution create shared value. Collaborative support by communicating proactively with the community and identifying mutual needs to • Achieve substantiality in KOGAS’s social Local communities Cooperation because this is the starting point of shaaring value. In addition, we have implemented social Communities brand – ‘Onnuri’. Department contribution activities which pursue creation of both corporate values and community values, • Invigorate the local economy. expanding social contribution activities through philanthropic one-way support. 27 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 KOGAS’s Strategies to Create Jobs The issue of job creation has been at the forefront of the government’s agenda as youth unemployment continues to be a social issue. In our effort to fulfill our social obligations as a public corporation, KOGAS has set a goal of creating 18,000 jobs annually in the private sector by 2025, and we are implementing strategies and forming organizations to achieve this goal. Implementation Strategies for Job Creation Job Creation With a vision of ‘KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society,’ KOGAS established and is implementing three major goals: laying the foundation for sustainable jobs, improving job quality, and creating quality jobs in the private sector. Implementation Strategies for Job Creation Job Vision KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society Goal (by 2025) Create sustainable jobs; 18,000 jobs annually in the private sector Goal in 2017 Secure the base of quality job creation; create 19,500 good jobs in the private sector Job Creation Creating Quality Jobs Groundwork for Job Creation Job Quality Improvement Direction in the Private Sector Process for Job • Establish strategies for job • Zero temporary workers • KOGAS business-based job Creation creation • Secure the work environment expansion • Establish implementation without discrimination • Foster eco-friendly new system for job creation • Expand job sharing businesses • Strengthen the competitiveness of suppliers • Social value bases Laying the Foundation for Jobs KOGAS considers the creation of a sustainable job ecosystem where public and shared growth management is secured to be integral to a public corporation’s role in boosting employment. We believe the most desirable employment creation model is to build up the foundation for jobs, improve their quality within our organization, and create quality jobs based on shared growth and collaboration with KOGAS in the private sector. To this end, we have identified employment creation processes by shifting the implementation direction of our projects toward ‘Job Creation,’ and elevated the project’s viability by establishing a midand long-term roadmap up to 2025 for each action item. In addition, we have already put this project into action by organizing the ‘Job Committee’ with the President of KOGAS as chairman and have formed consensus between labor and management by sharing practical matters about the process of improving job quality. Furthermore, in 2018, a department dedicated to job-related matters was established and plays a pivotal role in implementing these strategies. Job Creation Strategy Implementation System Laying Groundwork P Planning D and Execution C Monitoring of Outcomes A Feedback • Midand long-term path, shortand • (Organization) Job Creation Division • (Company-Wide) KOGAS Job Com• Regular independent analysis of mid-term goals for job creation and Employment Innovation Division mittee, Performance Management outcomes based on the job creation • KOGAS Job Committee • (Budget preparation) Budget alloCommittee index cation to the individual sector of the • (Department) Status Review Meetings • Linkage with internal evaluations natural gas business of Relevant Departments Based on the Job Creation Index Target Distribution Performance of Action Items Performance Measurements Headquarters→Department•Office (Collaboration Between Headquarters Performance Evaluation Regular Management of Outcomes →Team and Branch Offices) Performance System Feedback • (Sharing) Promotion of exemplary cases, obstacle feedback and countermeasures • (Evaluation) Different incentives to headquarters, department•office 28 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Improvement of Job Quality Complete Regularization of Irregular Workers KOGAS evaluated the qualifications of applicants through an evaluation committee consisting of internal and external experts to regularize our temporary workers. We evaluated candidates against pre-set criteria, including fundamental competency and job-related knowledge based on written opinions on regularization, work performance and plan, and we regularized five temporary employees. In addition, we plan to promote dispatched workers and subcontracted workers to regular full-time workers at the time when their contract ends after the first half of 2018 based on principle. Creating a Work Environment Without Discrimination For formerly irregular workers whose employment has since been regularized, KOGAS gives the same treatment as regular full-time workers without any discriminatory elements. In addition, with the regularization of the temporary and indirectly-employed workers, we are improving their treatment by establishing a taskoriented wage system instead of the uniform salary class system that previously existed. Furthermore, other discriminatory elements have been completely eliminated by applying the same level of salary and welfare benefits to employees with high school diplomas or in permanent contract and by providing continuous benefits to special groups of employees including those who are subject to the salary peak system. Expansion of the Scope of Job Sharing KOGAS is creating a variety of jobs by managing human resources in a practical manner. We have developed management strategies to identify new employment opportunities and eliminate long-hour works by analyzing the maximum number and the current number of employees for individual positions. Following an analysis of stipends for overtime hours and annual leave, we resolved the problem of excessive work hours. Therefore, we were able to increase the number of new employees and build up a foundation for job sharing. In particular, we identified a minimum of 167 to 253 new job opportunities per job type, after we reduced working hours and allowances by improving the work shift system through a collaborative effort by labor and management. We also expect that more than 50 new jobs will be created in 2019 by reducing overtime and encouraging the use of available annual leave. Creation of Quality Jobs in the Private Sector The creation of good jobs in the private sector is implemented in terms of investment projects, private collaboration, shared growth, and social values. In 2017, the total number of jobs created in the private sector was 20,583 with 9,879 regular workers and 10,704 non-regular workers. Jobs created in the private sector in 2017 Direction of Job Creation Execution Process Sectors Number of created jobs • Construction and operation of natural gas infrastructure Investment Projects 8,417 people Expand KOGAS BusinessBased Jobs • Construction and repair of new LNG carriers • Successful operation of overseas LNG projects Collaboration with the 11,960 people Private Sector Foster Eco-Friendly New • Natural gas energy conversion projects Businesses • Establishment of new business infrastructure Shared Growth 128 people Strengthen the • Enhancement of liquidity and productivity of SMEs Competitiveness • Support for expanding SMEs’ overseas sales channels Social Value Realization 78 people of Suppliers • Improvement of work conditions of suppliers • Local economy revitalization A total of Realize Social Values • Local economy creation 20,583 people • Facilitation of in-house ventures 29 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Strategies for a Healthy Industrial Ecosystem Implementation System The type of shared growth that KOGAS desires can be defined as maintaining low-cost and stable natural gas supply bases through the growth of local SMEs, and as SMEs securing long-term and stable growth by accumulating technology and acquiringe customers. To this end, KOGAS suggests a double gear growth model to create synergies by fostering the industry throughout the entire industrial eco-system for natural gases and by jointly developing the technical packages of private companies, while also executing activities for win-win Mutual Growth cooperation on two axes – securing growth engines in SMEs and turning SMEs into global giants. Shared Growth Strategy Vision KOGAS, a Platform for Glocal Natural Gases with SMEs Midand long-term roadmap for shared growth Model for Growth Model for Double Gear Growth 2015~2017 ShortTerm Double Gear Strengthen the natural gas industry ecosystem Secure Growth Engines 1st 2st Develop Global Giants Targets (Securing Growth Engines of SMEs) Gear Gear (Help Turn SMEs into Hidden Champions) • Focus on fostering SMEs in direct collaboration • Build and strengthen the export support platform of KOGAS (GASPO) Four Strategies Strengthen Technological Deepening Corporate Broaden Efforts to Create a Culture for • Establish roadmaps for equipment localization and technology development Competitiveness Productivity Discover New Channels Shared Growth 12 Strategic Tasks • Revitalize collaborative • Support productivity • Collaborative projects • Facilitate performance 2018~2020 MidTerm technology developenhancement to open up overseas sharing system Expand the ecosystem to other gas industries ment projects • Financial and job markets • Expand projects for • Foster small enterprises in similar ecosystems • Technology informasecurity support • Jointly advance into local win-win benefits • Stabilize operation of the export support tion network support • Strengthen employee overseas projects of platform of KOGAS (GASPO) • Technology developcompetencies KOGAS • Execute the first stage of equipment ment infrastructure • Support the discovery localization and technology development support of markets for Operate technology cooperation networks domestic demand with local universities 2021~2023 LongTerm Promote shared growth in the ecosystem • Expand and advance the natural gas industry Organization in Charge ecosystem KOGAS has the Shared Growth Division which supervises and solely manages operations involving shared • Execute the second stage of equipment localization and technology development growth, as well as executes and controls such operations. We discuss major policies and action plans through • Operate GASPO in connection with the related councils, including Shared Growth Management Council, Working-Level Council for Shared Growth, localization system Public Procurement Manager Council, and Council for Shared Growth On Site, etc. Organization in Charge of Shared Growth Organization in Charge of Shared Growth Tasks Related Councils Planning Strategy Planning Department CEO Shared Growth Management Management Council KOGAS’ overall business analysis and • Key role: consultation on key Execution policy planning, etc. including shared Top Management/Executives Audit Team policies for shared growth Control growth tasks • Frequency of meetings: on an as Internal control of the appropriatness needed basis of initiating operations including Shared Growth Division prevention of unfair transactions (Supervision/In Charge) Working-Level Council for Shared • ‌Initiation of supervision of operations Growth Support Innovation Culture Dept. • Key role: consultation on measures • ‌Establishment and management of key performance indicators (KPIs) in subordinate supporting units to implement policies for shared Formation of a culture of sound • Internal evaluation and reward for performance in growth shared growth including improvment shared growth • Frequency of meetings: quarterly in the hierarchical culture with SMEs Public Procurement Manager Material Contracting Division Divisions Nationwide Construction Department KOGAS Research Institute Council Improvement in the system for Procurement of SME products, Procurement of materials for Mentoring of technological • Key role: consultation on deregulation and procurement development of small-amount construction associated with development for SMEs, technical expanding procurement of SME of SME products technologies, and receipt and equipment construction, as problem-solving, and support products on site management of complaints well as exploration of tasks for for joint usage of research • Frequency of meetings: technological development equipment and materials semiannually Overseas Business Department E&P Business Department Facility Operation Department Council for Shared Growth On Site Joint entry into overseas proJoint entry into overseas proProcurement of SME products • Key role: discussion of measures to jects with SMEs jects with SMEs involved in facility operations cooperate with SMEs on site and exploration of technological • Frequency of meetings: quarterly development processes 30 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Strengthen Technological Competitiveness With the purpose of helping SMEs spearhead their technological development and secure an infrastructure of technological development, we developed a specific KOGAS-type technology development model (K-AMS) to strengthen the convergence of R&D capacity between KOGAS and SMEs. The Concept of K-AMS Model K-AMS KOGAS-Activate R&D Financial Support for Technology Development for Small-Medium Business (Revitalize collaborative projects A KOGAS SMEs Operation of the Technology for technology development) Development K-A KOGAS-Make R&D Network Provide Specialized for Small-Medium Business Technology (Establish a technology informaM KOGAS SMEs + K-S K-M tion network) Resolve Common Issues KOGAS-Support R&D Infra. Provide R&D Equipment for Small-Medium Business (Support technology developS KOGAS SMEs Provide Test-Bed ment infrastructure) Facilitate a Technology Development Collaboration Project (KOGAS-Activate R&D, K-A) Given the nature of the natural gas industry and the special requirements for the facilities, local technological capacity for the cryogenic temperature (-162 ° C) and high pressure (7MPa) process industry is insufficient. KOGAS is making various efforts to encourage the localization of key foreign equipment. We also provide support for accumulating development experience and for securing competencies by prompting field-oriented local technology development of primary components of high-pressure pumps, portable natural gas recovery equipment, and main components of gas regulators, thereby reflecting the needs of SMEs. In addition, we are acquiring domestic technological prowess by capturing in advance and cultivating new energy fields such as shipbuilding equipment, LNG bunkering, fuel cells, and hydrogen stations. Identifying Tasks Select Tasks Collaboration Conduct Processes (Public Invitation) Cycle and Quarterly/Half-Yearly/ Department Half-Yearly and On Demand Half-Yearly and On Demand Half-Yearly and On Demand Intermediate/Final Working Department (KOGAS) Process Selection Committee Shared Growth Team Task Management Department (KOGAS) Description • Check Overlapping Tasks • Select Individual Processes • Agreement Execution • Periodic Performance • Review the substance of • Discuss Key Development • Agreement Change Management processes Issues Management • Discuss and resolve Issues Advancement of R&D for Shared Growth Establish Technological Networks (KOGAS-Make R&D Network, K-M) Development Costs KOGAS has established an industry-academy-research network through which six universities located in the Daegu and Gyeongbuk areas participate based on a business agreement among the participants. We have laid the 2015 17.0 groundwork for building a technological development infrastructure using a network of talented human resources 2016 from participating universities and invite external experts in the process of selecting and evaluating technology 8.6 development projects. With continuous mentoring support based on the research units of KOGAS, we offer one-on2017 9.3 one matching support for resolving difficulties in developing technology and implementing relevant projects. (Unit: KRW 100 million) Infrastructure Support for Technology Development (KOGAS-Support R&D Infra, K-S) Cases KOGAS supports the field installation and patent and technological certification of developed products and other matters to deal with the issue of insufficient technological development infrastructure. We have also conducted 2015 20 a pilot project of the Test-Bed support system, which supports 75% of demonstration expenses of up to KRW 100 2016 million through inviting public participation, and we plan to deliver upon the track record of technological products 18 developed by SMEs and bases with a view toward expanding local and overseas markets and securing global 2017 22 technology competitiveness by improving and fully implementing relevant systems in 2018. The scope of the pilot project is expected to expand to the areas of new growth businesses including hydrogen, fuel cells, LNG bunkering, (Unit: case) and shipbuilding equipment. 31 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Deepening Corporate Productivity Strengthening competitiveness through quality With the purpose of facilitating productivity in small and medium-sized suppliers, KOGAS operates the ‘Productivity Innovation Partnership Support Project’ to support productivity and export SME improvement using a fund jointly established by public corporations and the government, as well as the ‘Industrial Innovation Campaign’ to offer consulting services and production facilities to upgrade the work environment and manufacturing processes of SMEs. In addition, with recognition that small and medium-sized suppliers have insufficient opportunities to attend training courses due to challenging management environments and lack of supportive programs, KOGAS provides diverse training and consulting programs to foster practical competencies at production sites and capabilities for job functions. We offer management consulting for executives of SMEs and programs for employees of SMEs to improve their techniques and work capabilities. Measures to strengthen the quality competitiveness of small and medium-sized suppliers Strengthen the productivity of small and Strengthen employee competency within small and medium-sized suppliers medium-sized suppliers • Productivity innovation partnership support project • Management consulting for SME executives • SMEs industry innovation campaign project •Upgrade technical and work performance of SME • SME liquidity support project employees Financial and Job Security Support KOGAS operates a Shared Growth Fund worth approximately KRW 50 billion as a project to support the fund liquidity of SMEs. This provides a low-interest fund to SMEs by forming a loan fund via one-on-one matching Operational performance with the Industrial Bank of Korea based on KOGAS’ non-interest-earning deposits. We secured a fund worth of shared growth fund (cumulative) approximately KRW 100 billion from bank deposits of KRW 5 billion in 2015, KRW 20 billion in 2016, and KRW 25 billion in 2017, and we executed loans of KRW 77.3 billion to 282 SMEs. Furthermore, we were able to contribute Loan support for smalland medium-sized suppliers to job creation using this Shared Growth Fund. We established a loan fund worth KRW 15 billion linked to job10 companies, KRW 4.4 billion creating enterprises with an increase of more than one unemployment insurance holder as compared with the end of the previous year, and we provided loans of KRW 4.9 billion to 14 SMEs in the Daegu area, resulting in Loan support for SMEs in the Daegu area creating 108 new jobs. 261 companies, KRW 68.2 billion KOGAS implemented the project ‘Small and Medium Business Corporation Plan’ together with SMEs, aiming to help them lay the foundation for generating long-term retention of core personnel and for the recruitment Loan support for shipbuilding component SMEs of superior talent. The project is intended to provide performance pay – the joint fund accumulated by 11 companies, KRW 4.7 billion an employer and an employee to mid-term core personnel after five continuous years of service. KOGAS supported 38 core personnel selected from a total of 11 companies from October, 2016 to December, 2017. Intensified Efforts to Open up New Markets Establishing ‘KOGAS Export Platform’ for SMEs to Open Up New Markets KOGAS is building the Gas Industry ExPOrt Platform (GASPO), a platform for systematic export support, which, in light of the nature of KOGAS and governmental policies, intends to assist smalland medium-sized suppliers develop their competencies in each export stage and secure independent capability to improve performance in areas lacking in export. GASPO is a platform that integrates and improves upon the existing sporadic schemes for export support into a single system. We ensure diagnosis and resolution of points of possible export blockage by establishing and implementing GASPO, and we activate and operate the function of each core stage. In 2017, we improved the technical efficiency of SME products through on-site training in the front-end process in which products were used, and we provided solutions for technical problems through the network and an industry-academy collaboration in which six universities participated. We also expanded opportunities for small and medium-sized suppliers by helping them solve problems in acquiring certification of target countries and providing order information of overseas projects in real time. In addition, we assisted in registering SMEs as vendors for major foreign companies with high entry barriers to secure sales channels. 32 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix GASPO System Acquisition of Trade Certification of Product Technological Development 1 Infrastructure 2 3 Specification • Financial Support for SMEs • Technical problem-solving for • Support for products under • Acquisition of Personnel technological development and development to be certified for Involved in Export cooperation projects international standards • Commercialization of products • Application for intellectual through technology transfer property rights Alignment with Joint Utilization of Marketing Exploration of Export Channels 6 Overseas Advancement 5 4 Instruments • Joint overseas marketing by • Connectivity with EPC • Production of brochures for utilizing the brand of KOGAS companies export • Export driver of overseas • Acquisition of agents • Issuance of supplier certificates plants of domestic companies • Registration as overseas in English based on joint public-private vendors • Issuance of letters of cooperation confirmation on delivery • Registration as vendors on the performance in English list of projects run by KOGAS Joint Overseas Expansion In the light of the fact that it is extremely difficult for local SMEs to register as vendors of overseas major gas Shared Growth Projects companies due to complicated procedures and lack of contact routes, we focused on vendor registration of 2015 foreign KOGAS partners by taking advantage of KOGAS' global recognition. As a first step, we recommended 85.1 three local valve manufacturers to ENI – an Italian partner for KOGAS project in Iraq, and we succeeded in 2016 89.8 registering all of them as vendors. This is the first successful case in which local SME suppliers were accepted 2017 as registered vendors of a foreign major player due to direct support from a public corporation. As a result, the 90.1 SMEs gained the opportunity to present proposals when ENI places an order. (Unit: point) Dissemination of a Culture of Shared Growth Dissemination of a Performance Sharing System Dissemination Level of Performance Sharing System * KOGAS implements a performance sharing system to select tasks catering to the joint needs of smalland medium-sized suppliers and KOGAS, extend economic and technical support, and share performance. Both 2015 entities gain win-win benefits and achieve the goal of shared growth as the system spreads a culture of fair 12.2 performance distribution and provides opportunities ranging from product development to securing sales 2016 14.1 channels. We raise efficiency within the system by periodically measuring and evaluating the process of 2017 implementing projects for technological development cooperation and competency buildup of SMEs. 16.5 (Unit: case) Consideration of Bottleneck Issues of SMEs and Improvements to Relevant Systems *Dissemination Level of Performance Sharing KOGAS holds on-site meetings to listen in-depth to the honest voices and opinions of SMEs. In particular, we System: the number of registered tasks in provide immediate feedback in consultation with working-level departments on small and medium-sized the year of evaluation X 0.3 + the number of identified tasks up to the year of evaluation suppliers’ requests for improvement. We have set up a system to gather external opinions to listen and give X 0.7 feedback to SMEs on KOGAS’ website in order to gather suggestions for business, safety, contracts, and shared growth, and we report on the results on improvements made on the bulletin board and provide individual notification to those who requested the feedback. Moreover, we operate online channels, including ‘Shared Growth Band’ and ‘Shared Growth Center of KOGAS,’ and offline channels, including ‘Demand Analysis Research’ and ‘Open Council/Meeting,’ to collect diverse opinions. Procurement of SME products Expansion of Procurement of SMEs’ Products 2015 26.7 KOGAS offers training for personnel in charge in the public procurement system to expand the scope of 2016 procurement of SMEs’ products, and implements activities to facilitate opening up new markets, such as 28.1 holding sales meetings, supporting exhibitions, and providing sales support for medium-sized shipbuilding 2017 29.09 component manufacturers. We use the SMEs’ product purchase index as a performance indicator and link tasks to the performance indicator after measuring contributions to the direct sales improvement of small and (Unit: %) medium-sized suppliers. 33 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Innovation in Public Services Public Service Innovation Strategy The customers of KOGAS includes all users, from city gas companies to the public who are directly/indirectly provided with services of KOGAS. As a public corporation established for the purpose of enhancing public benefits and welfare by supplying natural gas in a safe and stable manner, KOGAS implements various programs to promote customer satisfaction by Customer Service accurately identifying the needs of customers who receive services and incorporating them in our management activities. Innovation Service Innovation System for the Public Innovation Nonstop Innovation, Changes for the People Vision Direction of Alleviation of Public Burden and Strengthen Public-Oriented Service Revitalization of the Economy Progress Increase in Public Benefits Implementa• Expand welfare services for the • Construct cryogenic logistics • Reduce gas import cost tion Process underprivileged complex utilizing cold energy • Improve energy welfare of • Improve the process of tariff • Expand the scope of supply to residents on Jeju Islands reduction application non-service areas • Support the revitalization of the shipbuilding and marine transport industries The number of households Strengthen Public-Oriented Services benefitting from city gas tariff reductions compared Expand Energy Welfare Service for the Underprivileged with the previous year 12% Increase ⬆ KOGAS is redoubling our energy welfare support for the underprivileged and we actively identify those who do not fully enjoy such benefits and provide relevant guidance to them. KOGAS and Ministry of Health and Welfare analyzed the status of persons with disabilities, individuals with national merit, lower income families, and multi-child households in the social security information system to identify those who are not receiving City gas tariff reduction for the welfare services and inform local governments of their existence. Local governments provided information to underprivileged in society those households on how to benefit from welfare services using the residential communication network. As a result of these efforts, the number of households benefitting from gas tariff reductions increased to 1.16 million 2016 1,039/71,887 households in 2017, 12% rise compared to the previous year. 2017 KOGAS also endeavors to expand the scope of groups who can receive tariff reduction benefits. In 2017, 1,163/78,508 the number of facilities eligible for this benefit, such as welfare institutions for children and persons with Number of households(1,000 households), disabilities, were increased to 13 facilities by adding youth welfare institutions. A total of 23,431 institutions Tariff reduction amount (KRW million) benefited from tariff reductions and the amount was KRW 4.99 billion in 2017. We have extended the scope of target groups exempted from the suspension of gas supply in the winter season The number of institutes by adding three groups – housing benefit recipients, education benefit recipients, and low-income families – benefitting from city gas to the existing 6 groups which includes recipients of living and medical benefits. A total of 54,000 households tariff reductions compared with the previous year were exempt from gas supply suspension in 2017, which was up 7% from the previous year. 2% Increase ⬆ Upgraded Gas Tariff Management System (GRMS) The gas Tariff Reduction Management System (GRMS) operated by KOGAS ensures easy application for gas tariff reduction benefit candidates and convenient user management for regional city gas managers. We have Record of city gas tariff reduction for social welfare facilities improved and simplified the process of how underprivileged people may apply for city gas tariff reductions and how applicants may renew their eligibility by linking them to the government’s administrative network 2016 23,025/4,945 and we upgraded the accuracy and efficiency of the management work by digitizing the beneficiaries. In 2017, 2017 a database of social welfare institutions was built and this management system was added and linked to the 23,431/4,988 Happiness E-Eum System run by the government. Therefore, the status of social welfare facilities, such as temporary or permanent closure of individual facilities may be identified more promptly, allowing city gas Number of facilities, Tariff reduction amount (KRW million) suppliers to manage tariff reduction beneficiaries in a more effective and accurate manner. 34 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Northeast Asian Cold Chain Public-Oriented Operation for Economic Promotion Laying the Groundwork for Northeast Asian Cold Chain* LNG Terminals KOGAS is implementing the idea of supplying cryogenic LNG cold energy generated from its production bases LNG(-162℃) to regional cold and refrigeration logistics complexes. In March 2018, we signed an agreement with Incheon Port Authority on a project to supply LNG cold energy to the cold chain clusters in the hinterland of New Incheon Port. Utilization of LNG cold energy in the cold chain clusters will contribute to reducing operational costs and carbon emissions and will facilitate revitalization of local economy, generating about KRW 4.3 trillion Cold Energy Refrigeration of added value and 26 thousand new jobs over the next 10 years. Heat and Freezing Supply Exchanger Logistics * Cold Chain: a cold distribution system, i.e. a distribution method of fresh food at cold or freezing temperatures. Station Complex Gasification NG (0℃) Efforts to Ease Public Burden and Improve Public Benefits City Gas Tariff Reduction to Ease the Ppublic Burden KOGAS contributes to easing the burden of the public and improving energy welfare through effective operation of its core businesses. We try to reduce the public burden by reflecting tariff reduction factors in a timely manner, and mitigate and assuage difficulty by applying tariff discounts to the public hit hard by natural disasters, including earthquakes and typhoons. In particular, we enhance public benefits by minimizing charge hikes through our continuous efforts to collect outstanding bills and reduce gas tariffs through lowering the purchase price using our purchase power. Construction of the Jeju Receiving Terminal Reflecting Local Communities’ Needs KOGAS is constructing a receiving terminal in Aewol-eup, Jeju Island. In order to minimize residents’ inconvenience and reflect their needs as much as possible, we are committed to completing the construction in time while listening to requests from local residents and cooperating with other public agencies. We were able to reduce the construction period by 6 months and construction costs by KRW 520 million by laying gas pipelines and water pipelines of the receiving terminal at the same time in cooperation with Jeju Office of Waterworks. In addition, we ensured the local fishing communities will not suffer damage by preventing the discharge of cooled water using eco-friendly ambient air vaporizers. In addition, in an effort to secure the safe navigation of ships, we designated pilotage areas and installed floating lights to prevent in advance the risk of collision. Customer Communication KOGAS communicates with customers through various channels. We run off-line promotion centers in Daegu, Incheon, Pyeongtaek, Tongyeong, Samcheok, and Seoul and provide various content, via online channels Class A Customer Satisfaction in 2017 including websites, blogs, and SNS. In addition, a separate website for children is run in an effort to expand the relationship network with citizens, and key achievements, like shared growth, improved public benefits, and expansion of energy welfare, are promoted through media. We run anthe enterprise-wide ‘network to initiate customer satisfaction management’ to actively identify customer needs. KOGAS’ on-site service organizations led by dedicated departments by type of customer handle activities for customer satisfaction (CS) management. CS leaders are selected by customer type and contact point, thereby enhancing our capability to execute tasks for customer satisfaction. KOGAS conducts on-site seminars to address in advance those inevitable problems that occur at sites, thus listening to the voices of customers and finding solutions with customers. KOGAS is equipped with face-to-face communication channels for key customers including city gas producers, power generators, and direct suppliers, and operates various programs, including a joint workshop with customers, the Demand Development Council, a seminar on tariff schemes, a seminar for customers, technical information exchange meetings, Demand Development Workshops, and On-site Business Day. In addition, we select important VOCs from individual suppliers via a website service portal, regional ARS call centers, real time chatting with wholesalers and retailers, and regional on-site communication with a regular CS promotion committee in which customer committee members participate, and actively reflect reasonable and urgent demands in improvement tasks. 35 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Implementation System for Social Contribution Activities KOGAS is committed to taking full responsibility as a corporate citizen by engaging in fundamental management activities which contribute to the livelihood of the public and returning corporate profits to society. As a part of our efforts to achieve social return, we strive to accomplish energy welfare and spread a culture of sharing through ‘Onnuri’ – our KOGAS-style social contribution brand. Social Contribution Green Energy and Happy World Contribution to Slogan Social Contribution KLOGAS Leads Socially Responsible Management for Happy and Co-Prosperous Living Communities Goals Strategic Tasks in Expand a Culture Local CommunityEnergy Welfare Foster Future Fenerations 2017 of Sharing Oriented Projects (Onnuri Love) (Onnuri Hope) (Onnuri One Heart) (Onnuri Harmony) Implementation • Community Tasks in 2017 Environment • KOGAS Business• Operation of Volunteer • Support for Education Improvement Based Projects Social Contribution Brand Groups • Support for Medical • Community Culture • Heating Efficiency • Onnuri Fund Services Activities Improvement Projects • Sharing Books • Free-Semester System • Support for On(溫-warm) nuri → Have • Job Creation Projects Pyeongchang Winter People Live in a Warm World Olympics Link to the UN’s SDG 1, 3, 7, 8, 9, SDG 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, SDG 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, Sustainable SDG 6, 11, 15, 16, 17 11, 13, 15 10, 11, 15, 17 11, 12, 14, 16, 17 Development Objectives Realization of Social Responsibility through Energy Welfare Activities KOGAS Business-Based Activities In connection with the nature of our business, our support for lowincome households and social welfare Heating Efficiency institutions includes enhancing heating efficiency by repairing floor heating and wall insulation and replacing Improvement Project windows, wallpaper, and floor paper, installing products creating demand for city gas such as gas laundry dryers, and laying city gas inlet pipelines. We also engage in projects of fuel cell installation to widen the Low-Income Families supply of new and renewable energy as well as contribute to the energy welfare of social welfare facilities. 2015 Beneficiaries were increased to 3 facilities from 2 in 2017 and the overall volume was expanded to KRW 333 57 million (KRW 33 million from KOGAS + KRW 300 million from KEMCO) in 2017 from KRW 282 million in 2016 in 2016 56 cooperation with Korea Energy Agency. 2017 65 Gas Tariff Reduction Activities KOGAS implements a program to subsidize heating costs for neighbors struggling to make payment in order to (Unit: no. of households) improve quality of life and provide energy welfare for the underprivileged. Widening the scope of those who are Facility eligible for gas tariff reductions, in 2017 we provided gas tariff reduction benefits of KRW 78.5 billion to 1,163,000 2015 underprivileged households and KRW 4.988 billion to 23,431 social welfare facilities. We strive to reach more 102 2016 neighbors by exempting the underprivileged from payment of outstanding city gas bills in the winter, and 102 providing payment discounts for residents in Pohang, which was designated a special disaster area after the 2017 2017 earthquake. 141 (Unit: place) Job Creation Since 2010, KOGAS has conducted activities under the ‘Onnuri Love Project’ to improve heating efficiency by replacing and repairing floor heating units, flooring, wall insulation, windows, and wallpaper of lowincome underprivileged households and social welfare facilities. In 2017, we implemented the heating efficiency improvement project for 152 households and 30 companies including social enterprises and self-support Heating Efficiency enterprises. KOGAS established a system to offer opportunities to trainees of the ‘Architectural Academy Improvement Project SROI for Homeless Persons,’, which we operate is run by us for vocational training and job creation for homeless 2016 persons. Trainees enter the construction industry, thereby securing a synergic effect of fostering self-reliance 136 capability of homeless persons and simultaneously creating jobs in social enterprises. A total of 14 trainees 2017 144 became employed through the Architectural Academy for Homeless Persons, which is more than twice that of the previous year (6 people). 36 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Code of Conduct for Onnuri Spreading KOGAS’s Culture of Voluntary Sharing Volunteers • Practice with humility. The ‘KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers’ team consists of a total of 26 divisions – 9 divisions in headquarters and 17 • Be together with a sincere heart. sub-divisions in regional branches. Onnuri aims to spread consensus in our culture of sharing culture through • Act with a positive mind. voluntary service activities in conjunction with local welfare institutions, labor-management joint activities for • Be together with a joyful heart. sharing briquettes, weekend family volunteer activities, and community service activities. The number of one• Act voluntarily. • Practice responsibly. on-one sisterhood relationships with social welfare facilities was increased to 9 facilities in 2017 from 7 facilities • Be together with a serving in 2016. In addition, we operate the 'Onnuri Fund' raised by our employees to support the underprivileged attitude. and were able to collect KRW 190 million in 2017, an increase of 11.8% from the previous year. Another social contribution activity was our book sharing campaign. A total of 1,193 books contributed by KOGAS employees were donated to welfare facilities. Furthermore, we have established a system to monitor the voluntary service activities of individual employees in realtime and conduct a ‘Volunteer 5 Up Campaign’ every year to raise the Social contribution activity social contribution mileage by over 5% compared with the previous year. mileage* 2015 39.91 Fostering Future Generations for a Better Future 2016 42.89 KOGAS conducts social contribution activities with the purpose of fostering future generations through 2017 64.51 educational support, medical support, and support for a free-semester system. As a part of our scholarship program, we offer scholarships for high school and college students from underprivileged households and (Unit: point/person) endeavor to improve the educational environment by building toy libraries and study rooms for young * A system that manages the performance of students. In particular, as of 2017, we opened a total of 8 toy libraries since 2014 and continuously replace old employees’ social contribution activities such or broken toys for stable operation of the libraries. In addition, we endeavor to fulfill our social responsibilities as volunteering and donations by quantifying them. as a global energy company by continuously discovering projects that contribute to fostering the self-reliance of local residents, as demonstrated by the technical training class in Mozambique, rather than simply giving benefits. Our social contribution also includes the continuous supports in medical areas, including donations for operations onyoung patients with rare and intractable diseases and young cardiac disease patients Beneficiaries from Onnuri Hope Activities  (Unit: people) in developing countries and sponsoring instruments to assist people with physical disabilities. In 2017, approximately 4,500 people participated in programs designed for youth to discover careers such as visiting Classification 2015 2016 2017 natural gas production divisions and promotion centers. Local Scholarship 200 180 284 Project Overseas Scholarship 8 8 5 Community-Oriented Social Contribution Activities Project Support for Operations of Child Cardiac Disease 2 2 2 Community Environment Improvement and Cultural Activities Patients KOGAS donated KRW 50 million for the ‘Motherly Road Project’ aimed at improving the living environment, Support for Kyungpuk National University 19 23 63 which included the installation of CCTVs and streetlights for crime prevention in neighborhoods vulnerable Children’s Hospital to crimes, drawing paintings on aging walls, planting flowerbeds, and replacing ageing steel fences in areas Support for Rehabilitation of around Daegu Innovation City. We also donated KRW 120 million for 6 households for a city regeneration Underprivileged 235 166 202 project that provides low-income families with a new houses by renovating old houses through 2017. KOGAS Children with Severe organized a park concert twice every year after holding the inauguration ceremony of Daegu Mecenat Council, Disabilities with our commitment to champion Daegu as a premium city of culture and art in 2016. We are endeavoring Monetary Value of to develop Daegu as a globally-renowned city of culture by promoting the concert as cultural content that Contribution in 2017 (Unit: KRW) represents not only Daegu but also Korea. We also sponsored the Colorful Daegu Festival and donated KRW 50 million to Daegu International Marathon in which 93 KOGAS employees also participated. In these ways, Type of Contribution Total amount KOGAS practices sharing activities and builds consensus through various social contribution programs for local Cash contribution 13,278,042,151 communities. Time: employee Sponsoring Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games volunteering during 848,379,702 paid working hours KOGAS provided infrastructure, human and physical support for the Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games, contributing to the success of the event. We initiated supply of natural gas in the Gohan, Sabuk, and Management overhead 15,240,010 Pyeongchang-gun areas at the end of 2016 and reinforced safe management of gas facilities in areas near venues of the Olympic Games, such as Gangneung, Pyeongchang, and Jeongseon in January, 2018. While the event was in progress, we dispatched 25 personnel for voluntary services such as guiding visitors in the athletes’ village and maintaining relevant facilities, and we offered financial support as well by purchasing tickets (valued at KRW 100 million) and sponsored KRW 200 million for those events that are less popular in Korea such as the biathlon. 37 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Motivation for KOGAS’ Social Contribution Activities ‘KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers’ ‘KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers’? The driving force of KOGAS’ social contribution activities comes from ‘KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers’ composed of our employees. Launched in April, 1994, the volunteer group celebrated its 18th anniversary in 2017. KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers participate in the lives of marginalized people to practice true sharing through continuous volunteer activities as well as providing physical support The Sharing Activity Calendar of ‘KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers’ in 2017 January February March On January 24 On February 15 On March 28 Shared sliced rice cake soup First blood donation event Activity to clean nearby hiking trails to celebrate the Korean New Year We held an event to donate blood for neighbors We organized an activity to clean the hiking trails The president and employees of KOGAS carried in cooperation with Gyeongbuk Red Cross Blood of Mt. Chorye located near the Head Office in out an activity to share sliced rice cake soups with Center and donated blood donor cards in the spirit Daegu. The participants collected garbage and senior citizens in Seongseo Senior Welfare Center of our employee participants’ love and warmth. participated in repairing and maintaining the in Daseo-gu, Daegu, to celebrate the Korean New The donated blood donor cards will be used to trails to keep the pathways safe and clean. The Year. They also donated the installation of air treat child patients suffering from leukemia. members of Onnuri Volunteers took the lead purifiers for the health of the elderly in the welfare in promoting a clean environment in the local center. community. April June May On April 20 On May 12 On June 13 Volunteer activities for in-patients of Silver Party of the National Family Month Joint Social Contribution Activities with a welfare institute for the disabled Public Organizations We hosted a feast for local senior citizens and We provided support for the event of National participated in voluntary activities in Ansim No. We provided 500 sets of summer blankets to Disabled Persons Day and for meal service in Daegu 1 Comprehensive Social Welfare Center in Daegu. underprivileged families in local communities as a Ansik Foundation Facility. KOGAS’ Onnuri Volunteers part of first-half-of-the-year joint social contribution continuously conducts voluntary activities based on activities with employees of other public organizations a system of one-on-one relationships between our located in the innovation city, such as Korea Appraisal divisions and local welfare facilities. Board and Korea Credit Guarantee Fund. 38 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix and performing voluntainment* to create a sharing culture where everyone lives in happiness. * Voluntainment: a newly coined word formed by combining volunteerism and entertainment to indicate the internal and external enjoyment from uniting the service of sharing and the fun of amazement, challenge, learning, and immersion. July September August On June 4 On August 30 On September 13 Voluntary Activities in Songjeong Served Free Meals in Dongdae-gu Counselling Gardening Activity at a Senior Citizen Center Senior Citizens Center Center of the Salvation Army We participated in a gardening activity at a local Onnuri Volunteers visited Songjeong Senior Citizens We participated in the free meals servicing senior citizen center of Ansim No. 1 Comprehensive Center in Dong-gu, Daegu and shared a time of activity in the Dongdae-gu Counselling Center of Social Welfare Center in Daegu. warmth with the senior citizens. We conducted the Salvation Army. KOGAS’ Onnuri Volunteers various voluntary activities including providing continuously performs volunteer activities for the nutritious meals, massages, moxa cautery for underprivileged to aid marginalized neighbors in treatment, and recreation. Onnuri Volunteers took the community. the initiative and sets an example to join together with local communities. November December October On October 31 On November 15 On December 21 Cleaning Activity at a Child Welfare Center Cleaning the Area around Sinji Lake Shared Winter Items with Underprivileged Youths We participated in voluntary activity to clean the We cleaned the area around Sinji Lake. KOGAS floor of the special activity room for small children has a huge interest and is continuously engaged We participated in a hearty event to share winter at Daegu Child Welfare Center. in preserving local environment. items with marginalized youths at Ansim No. 1 Comprehensive Social Welfare Center. 39 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Creating Economic Value 40 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Satisfaction with performance management points Natural gas import volume thousand tons Natural gas sales volume thousand tons Satisfaction with training Sales volume for bunkering points tons Labor-management communication index points Fuel cell sales volume LNG thousand tons Satisfaction with labormanagement strategy points Relevant Department in Key Issues Background and Policies from the Perspective of Sustainability Management Direction Stakeholders Charge Contract Operation • Stable operation of the business based Dept. As a public corporation involved in the entire process of the import, production, supply, and on balanced demand and supply from Production Operation of sale of natural gas, we place a huge importance on maintaining stable supply of and improving importing to selling Employees Operation Dept. a Sustainable accessibility to natural gas as this has a significant and direct impact on public benefits. To • Safe and stable production and supply Shareholders Supply Operation Energy this end, we strengthen the response to stable demand and supply and the operation of a • Expansion of the scope of involvement in The Government Dept. Business sustainable energy business through accurate demand forecasting, production management, upstream businesses such as exploration The Public Sales Planning Dept. and innovation activities. and development to secure long-term Overseas Business price competiveness Strategy Dept. R&D Dept. New Business Dept. It is very important to identify risks and opportunities for management activities and • Lay the groundwork for new businesses New Technology Identify to establish countermeasures based on predictions of future changes and mega trends of natural gas for creating future added Employees Dept. future growth for securing organizational sustainability. KOGAS coordinates and improves the existing value Shareholders LNG Direct Supply engines businesses based on analysis of the changes in business environment, and establishes future • Create demand for natural gas utilizing The Government Dept. direction by discovering new growth engines. energy conversion policy Sales Planning Dept. • Implementation of strategy for advanced We consider it desirable to accomplish the vision and objectives of the corporation through labor-management relations Labor-Management cooperation between labor and management based on various communication channels • Expansion of social responsibility through Cooperation Dept. Communiand active dialogue. In order to build an independent KOGAS’ labor-management culture, we labor-management cooperation Employees Planning & cation-Based strive to building consensus and communication in the labor-management relationship, and • Increase in capacity building and laborThe Government Coordination Dept. Management we are creating an upgraded labor-management culture based on compliance with principles management consensus Future Strategy through a rational collective agreement system. • Operation of the labor-management Dept. council for labor-management coexistence • Operation of a competency-based human Human Resource resource system without discrimination Operation Dept. We aim to create an organization where employee satisfaction with jobs and the workplace due to gender, age, academic background, Human Personnel is high and where job commitment is improved by allowing individual employees’ to freely major, or region ResourceInnovation Dept. display their abilities in order to achieve self-fulfillment and simultaneously create public • Establishment of annual training plans Employees Based Human Resource values. We regard our employees as valued partners who pursue common goals and recognize that meet company-wide goals and Management Development Dept. respect for diversity and protection of rights as key factors in human resource management. employees’ needs Innovation Culture • Support for balance between works and Dept. life 41 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 1. Supply of Natural Gas Import and transport Exploration Development Production Liquefaction Transportation Unloading Storage Gasification Piping Consumption Zero Demand and Supply Crises through a Stable System We analyze the records of daily demand and supply, and we perform monthly demand and supply forecasts based on every possible scenario in order to identify rapidly changing demand and supply situations using a comprehensive system to ensure stable demand and supply management. In 2017, we were also able to supply natural gas without cease by securing sufficient LNG volume to meet the demand forecasted through scenarios Operation of and by checking the demand and supply status of base power generation including temperature changes, coal, and nuclear energy. Sustainable Energy Business Enhancement of Supply and Demand Management System In light of growing uncertainties in future gas demand and supply due to the increase of natural disasters, such as abnormal cold waves and earthquake, and escalating LNG demand for power generation due to eco-friendly policies, we have improved our ability to respond to future uncertainties through on scenario-based demand forecast and supply plans. We have established a ‘real time demand and supply monitoring system’ together with the government and public energy organizations for joint response to demand and supply crises and improved the forecast rate of 9.1%, which is up 3% compared with the previous year. In the situation of natural Current Status of gas for city gas supply, the supply of city gas reached the saturation point in 2013 and is now showing changes Natural Gas Procurement in demand due to short-term factors. For this reason, we improved the demand forecast models for the private 2015 sector with the main variable of temperature and for the industrial sector with the main variable of relative 31,410 2016 price, reducing the error rate to 2.7% (from 10.9% of the previous model) in 2017. 31,847 2017 33,063 Stable LNG Transport KOGAS systematically manages national flag vessels to ensure transport stability. If a settlement difference (Unit: 1,000 tons) occurs between the fare paid and the fare settled when operating national flag vessels, a dispute over fare may occur with ship owners. KOGAS addresses such possible disputes by minimizing the error rate through timely and appropriate freight payment. In addition, as the possibility of safety accidents increases due to the operation of aging national flag ships, we conduct dock repair to ensure safe ship performance. Furthermore, we secure stable operations by timely resolving any issues that occur during LNG loading, unloading, and transport. In 2017, the error rate of freight fare was reduced to 0.15%, which was down 0.15% from the previous year, and achieved ‘zero fare dispute’ and ‘zero transport accident’ status in 2017. LNG Import Volume in 2017 (Amount of import (1,000 tons), data in the bracket: portion (%)) Oman Russia 4,247 1,804 (5.5) US (12.8) 1,656 Malaysia (5) 3,194 Qatar (9.7) Others* 11,720 900 (35.4) (2.7) Brunei 1,417 (4.3) Total Nigeria Australia 33,063 506 Indonesia 5,415 (100) (1.5) 2,204 (16.4) (6.7) * Other countries for import: Peru, Angola, Trinidad, Equatorial Guinea, Papua New Guinea, Algeria, Singapore 42 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Production and Supply Exploration Development Production Liquefaction Transportation Unloading Storage Gasification Piping Consumption Pre-Cooler Concept Map Efficiency Improvement by Enhancing Terminal Equipment BOG The cost of processing natural boil off gas (BOG) is continuously increasing due to constant expansion in terminal equipment. BOG is recovered through the process of mixing with delivered LNG for liquefying (rePre-Cooler liquefaction). However, when the delivered LNG is reduced during certain periods such the summer, the entire amount of BOG is not re-liquefied and the compressor is activated to inject the unprocessed BOG into a highCold (A+56 tons) (44 tons) pressure pipe, thereby resulting in costs of KRW 2.2 billion annually from operation of the compressor. For this energy Re-Liquefaction reason, KOGAS introduced a pre-cooler system, which increases the efficiency of the BOG process through the Compressor pre-cooling of BOG using the cold energy of LNG, reducing operational time of the compressor by 56% and Vaporizer power generation costs. In particular, the pre-cooler was installed in a manner to prevent any interruption to the supply of natural gas and public inconvenience. Transmission Enhancing Diagnosis and Management of Equipment Using ICT As the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution comes into force, KOGAS has upgraded and improved Supply of Natural Gas to operation of our facilities to ensure equipment stability. We expect to reduce the occurrence rate of faults by Local Governments implementing an 'Intelligent Diagnosis System' which monitors and analyzes in real-time the main power 2015 facilities, such as cable and transformer, to prevent operational malfunction. We will build up the foundation 87/200 for the system by 2018 and complete development of its automatic prediction and diagnosis algorithm by 2021 2016 90/208 by upgrading the system to expand the scope of its application. In addition, we use drones to inspect pipelines, 2017 have conducted a pilot operation in the Nakdong River, and run the drone system 2 times per day in areas 91/209 where manual inspection is difficult. We have improved the location data accuracy of underground pipelines % Places using surface-penetrating 3D radar in areas where laid pipelines are not detectable due to other facilities. In addition, we developed the positioning system of the emergency shutdown facility (ESD navigation system) to shorten the response time when an emergency incident occurs during gas supply by linking emergency stop valves and other facilities with GPS. Storage Capacity and Rate Introduction of Portable Gas Supply System Storage Capacity In order to prevent the interruption of gas supply when an emergency incident occurs or when the natural gas 2015 supply pipes need to be repaired, we replaced the pipelines in question with a ‘portable gas supply system’ 1,026 instead of bypassing. The portable gas supply system consists of an LNG pump as a production terminal, 2016 1,066 vaporization unit, deodorization unit, weighing facility as a feeding control center, and static pressure unit. 2017 KOGAS, in September of 2017, used the portable system at the construction site of national highway No. 37 1,147 between Eumsoeng and Goisan, reducing the budget by KRW 5.7 billion and the construction period by 212 days compared to the installation of bypass piping. (Unit: 10,000 ㎘) Storage Rate Incident! Portable Gas Supply System Mobile Supply Emergency 2015 System Repair! 14.9 2016 14.8 Destination Control Control 2017 Center Center 16.0 Continuous (Unit: %) Supply Securing Infrastructure in a Timely Manner Number of Discontinued Production It is crucial to secure required facilities in a timely manner to ensure stable natural gas supply. KOGAS has established a midto long-term facility construction plan for proactive response. Construction of the Samcheok 2015 0 Terminal completed its third stage in 2017 as planned, opening the area of four terminals including three 2016 terminals in Pyeongtaek, Incheon, and Tongyeong. We have started commercial operation of the super-large 0 27㎘-volume LNG storage tank constructed in Samcheok Terminal. We are also planning to increase the storage 2017 0 rate to 20% by 2029 and actively conduct the construction of an LNG terminal in Jeju Island. (Unit: cases) 43 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Sales Business Exploration Development Production Liquefaction Transportation Unloading Storage Gasification Piping Consumption Natural Gas Sales Status Expansion of the scope of supply to alienated areas and non-supply regions The demand for gas supply to areas which are excluded from using natural gas and where expensive kerosene 2015 31,456 is being used continuously increases. We have agreed to additional supply to areas including Beolgyo in Jeollanam-do requesting supply through in-depth discussions with local governments, resulting in the annual City Gas Suppliers 16,929 supply of 3,700 tons to approximately 2,200 households. In the situation where city gas suppliers are expected Power Generation Companies to suffer a loss due to the lack of mass-scale requests, we have also been able to identify large-scale customers 14,527 such as apartments for servicepersons in Goseong and welfare and care facilities in Jumunjin in cooperation 2016  32,773 with city gas suppliers, and we started to supply 5,300 tons annually to approximately 7,800 households. City Gas Suppliers 17,384 Expansion of the Supply of Gas Cooling Power Generation Companies We are expanding the scope of gas cooling supply in order to alleviate electric power peaks and reduce the 15,389 difference in natural gas demand between winter and summer time. To this end, we provide subsidies of 2017 32,162 KRW 10 thousand to KRW 350 thousand per RT depending on the performance of high-efficiency gas cooling equipment and an additional 5% support for SMEs. In addition, we contribute to building the foundation for City Gas Suppliers 18,390 supply expansion through joint marketing with related industries and technology exchange support, and we Power Generation Companies will make continuous efforts to supply gas cooling equipment to more diverse customers. 13,772 (Unit: 1,000 tons) Overseas Business Exploration Development Production Liquefaction Transportation Unloading Storage Gasification Piping Consumption Korea’s dependency rate for energy from overseas resources reaches as high as 96%. For this reason, KOGAS is actively engaged in overseas resource development projects to secure stable demand and supply of natural gas. We are continuously involved in not only upstream businesses, such as the exploration and development of natural gas and crude oil, but also the LNG liquefaction business, overseas LNG terminal operation, and construction and operation of overseas city gas pipelines and medium and infra businesses, expanding our activities to the entire breadth of the natural gas industry. Status of Overseas Business (as of the end of December 2017) Umiak Minefield Development Project, North Pole of Canada Akkas Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq Horn River/West Curbank Development Project, Canada LNG Canada Project, Canada Mansuriya Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq Surgil Gas Field Development and Production Project, Uzbekistan Sea-Based Minefields #2, 3, and 9, Cypress Badra Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq Zubair Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq Al Zour Terminal Project, Kuwait LNG Project, Oman RASGAS Project, Qata A-1/A-3 Development and Production Project, Myanmar Manzanillo LNG Terminal Project, Mexico LNG Project, Yemen Krueng Mane Sea-Based Minefield, Indonesia DSLNG Project, Indonesia Training and Design of Terminal Expansion, Singapore Senoro Toili Development and Production Project, Indonesia LNG Project, Mozambique E Sea-Based Minefield, East Timor Prelude FLNG Project, Australia Maputo Pipeline Project, Mozambique GLNG Project, Australia Exploration Projects Resource Development and Production Projects Projects Linked to LNG Introduction Overseas Downstream Infrastructure Projects 44 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Resource Development Projects Annual Production KOGAS continuously pursues overseas resource development to stabilize the supply and demand of domestic natural gas and to bolster energy security. We are raising the efficiency of overseas resource development by 2015 improving profitability through efficient project management and systematically responding to deterioration 284 in the business environment caused by uncertainty. In the case of the Jubair project in Iraq, we fully recovered 2016 476 investment costs as the production volume has already exceeded its original objective by upgrading the 2017 operational efficiency of ground facilities. In addition, in the case of the GLNG project in Australia, recovery 442 of investment costs has already begun only one year after completion of construction through thorough (Unit: 10,000 tons) production management. As a result, the total recovered amount has increased by 29% compared with the previous year and the operating profit of the LNG business turned a profit in 2017. Resource Reserve Establishment of the Foundation for LNG Trading KOGAS established a trading company in December after obtaining the government’s approval in August 2017, 2015 to prepare for a shortage in supply due to the expiration of existing overseas project contracts and due to the 260 rise of emerging markets such as the United States and Iran, thereby laying the groundwork for growing into 2016 252 a global provider. We have been able to sell LNG volume that we secured and that exceed domestic demand 2017 to third parties and to quickly supply natural gas in case of shortages by responding flexibly to demand. In 237 addition, we expect to decrease import costs by reducing the transport distance through location swaps. KOGAS expects to stabilize supply and demand and pricing by providing sufficient volume, as well as to secure (Unit: million tons) profits through sales in the global market. LNG Trading Structure KOGAS Equity investment in LNG Export of downstream infra projects technology Purchase/sale to Volume of independent LNG meet demand Emerging market development and supply Middle East, Africa, Southeast Prelude Asia, Central and South Mozambique, etc. New trading corporation America, etc. Purchase Sale Third party purchase New demand (customer) discovery, The existing market Demand and supply Traders, etc. Japan, China, etc. Downstream Infrastructure Projects Overseas downstream infra project collectively refers to the development, investment, construction, operation, LNG Development and Import Volume and technological service projects related to entire facilities including LNG terminals and pipelines to supply natural gas. KOGAS is expanding its market domination power through joint entry into overseas markets with 2015 667 private companies and horizontal integration based on our gas infra business capability accumulated over 2016 the past 30 years. In 2017, we strived to increase sales by discovering new demand sources through active 1,393 marketing activities in the city gas project of Mozambique, and we achieved ‘Penalty Zero’ in the Mexico 2017 1,536 terminal project for 6 consecutive years by lowering hazard factors through regular inspections, emergency training, and facility calibration. We have also been able to raise profitability of the cylinder/charging station (Unit: 1,000 tons) project in Uzbekistan by reducing costs through effective human resource adjustment. Maintenance of Business Capacity KOGAS approaches overseas projects from the perspective of system improvement, technological expansion, and order-taking capabilities, in order to secure the capability to independently conduct and operate overseas Technology Independence Level projects. With respect to the promotion system of overseas projects, we are establishing advanced project management system by drawing improvement issues at each promotion. We conducted independent technical 2015 analysis on the gas field in Iran, the coal seam gas field in Australia, the gas field in Myanmar, and the shale 68.0 2016 gas field in Canada with our own technology to secure core technologies, thereby establishing a foothold for 79.3 independent operation by upgrading technological capability. There has been continuous demand to enhance 2017 84.4 the order-taking rate in the area of downstream infrastructure. To this end, we established a roadmap to strengthen our order-taking and development ability and set 2017 as the first year of securing the foundation (Unit: %) of implementation. Furthermore, we are in the pursuit of securing dominating global competence by 2021. 45 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 2. Innovation Activities Current Status of R&D Investment Technological Innovation Based on Professional Research 2015 KOGAS makes continuous efforts through R&D to enhance technological competitiveness and to apply 425 developed technologies to industrial sites around the world. The KOGAS Gas Research Center, which plays a 2016 719 pivotal role in R&D, conducts comprehensive research on future energy resources such as new and renewable 2017 energy and alternative energy to secure new growth engines as well as basic yet essential technologies required 679 for the entire process of the gas industry from exploration and development of natural gas to transportation (Unit: KRW 100 million) and storage of LNG and natural gas supply. Main Business Areas Current Status of IPRs and Technology Transfers (Unit: number of cases) Exploration and Development Liquefaction and Transport of Supply of Natural Gases Clean Energies of Natural Gases Natural Gases Industrial property • E&P of Oil & Gas Fields • Design of storage tanks • Intelligent Pigs • Hydrogen fuel cell 2015 2016 2017 rights • CBM • Containment system (KC-1) • Gas quality and metering • Natural gas-powered Patent • Shale/Tight Gas • Liquefaction plant and • Risk and safety diagnosis vehicles 57 56 69 applications • GM/Polar Resources liquefaction process • Methodology and pipeline • LNG bunkering Patents soundness • Synthetic natural gas Registrations 20 48 42 • DME • GTL Programs 6 0 0 Technology transfers 16 18 19 2025 Future Solution Portfolio Current Key Technologies Key Next-Generation Tchnologies Promising Technologies for the Future • Design of LNG storage tanks and • Shale gas production technologies • Design of gas field production systems terminals • Pipeline gas importation technologies • Technologies for evaluation of oil/gas • Design of liquefaction plants • Technologies to create demand for fields and production promotion • Safety analysis and risks assessment of new natural gases • Smart Gas Grid gas facilities • Establishment of the manufacturing/ supply-based hydrogen infrastructure • Alternative natural gas technologies Korean-Style LNG Cargo Containment System (KC-1) The Korean-style LNG Cargo Containment System (KC-1) started as a national research project to ease dependency on overseas technologies and royalty burden in 2004, and we successfully and independently developed the system using domestic technology after a decade of joint research with Korea’s three shipbuilding companies (Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering, Samsung Heavy Industries, and Hyundai Heavy Industries). So far, the KC-1 cargo containment system has been installed in two out of six flag-registered LNG carriers acquired by Sabine Pass of the U.S. and the last no. 27 ship (SK Spica) was recently delivered and started commercial operation in 2018. LNG Storage Tank with the World’s Largest Capacity KOGAS has developed a next-generation ultra-large LNK storage tank touting a size of 270,000㎘ based on our localized technology and installation expertise of LNG storage tanks. A comprehensive review took place on the tank in terms of thickness of the steel sheet that can be constructed, occurrence rate of evaporation gas inside the storage tank, and seismic load-driven design possibilities. In particular, the seismic scale in the design was upgraded from 6.5 to 7.0 to secure safe and economic performance. Smart Pipeline Management, Intelligent Pigs Intelligent Pigs are cutting-edge pipeline management technology that accurately diagnoses the status of pipelines by passing through the pipeline where gas flows. The pigs are applied with the latest technologies, including data storage system, monitoring system, wireless reception/transmission system, and inertial measurement unit. The pigs do not merely remove impurities within the pipeline but also detects abnormalities by identifying pipeline thickness based on measurements of magnetic flux changes. As of June 2017, Intelligent Pigs are testing a total of 2,674km long pipelines for 50 sections, contributing to a stable and safe supply of pipelines of natural gas, and we continue to develop it as a part of our future business for entering into overseas markets. 46 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Management Innovation – Driver of Sustainable Growth KOGAS organizes an annual BP Contest to select best practices and share them among business sites, contributing to higher management efficiency. In addition, we continue to foster corporate competencies through on-site innovation activities that engage working-level employees, and we attract the interest of employees by using the brand of ‘Best & First (BnF)’. In 2017, we expanded the value of incentives for business ideas, increasing rewards for outstanding knowledge results. We also created a reward for open innovation initiatives and offered KRW 1.1 million as incentive to a total of five best cases. Best & First(BnF) Open Innovation Achieve innovation earlier than others to be top-notch Entry 2016 13 2017 Activities of ‘First’ 26 Discover excellent actions and ideas internally and externally from Best Cases KOGAS and achieve sophistication in knowledge management 2016 8 (Internal) Community of Practice – CoP (External) KOGAS’ Open Innovation Contest 2017 9 KOGAS creates excellent collective knowledge KOGAS has organized ‘Open Innovation Contest’ (Unit: case) through activities in CoP (Community of Practice), to expand knowledge management. We strive a voluntary learning community, and shares to explore new businesses and technologies performance through a knowledge management and improve inconsistent systems by acquiring system, thus seeking higher efficiency in work, technologies and ideas externally. In 2017, stronger productivity, and higher technological we were able to discover diverse, profound, Best Case CoP competitiveness. In 2017, we ensured internal and excellent ideas by expanding the scope stability even more by reflecting CoP outcomes of participants from university students to the 2015 on internal evaluations. general public. 140 2016 112 2017 134 (Unit: case) Activities of ‘Best’ Spread and share best practices derived from ‘First’ activities throughout the corporation BP Contest Financial Effects of Best Case CoP KOGAS shares performance in excellent knowledge management activities aligned with our vision and 2015 strategies at the end of each year, and also organizes a contest to discover best practices. By doing so, 2,544 we spread motivation among members on management performance with encouragement and rewards 2016 856 for strong performance. We review whether award-winning best practices are applicable to similar 2017 sites after the contest so that it does not remain a one-time event, and we apply them throughout the 1,158 corporation. (Unit: KRW 100 million) 47 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Groundwork for New Business Lay the Groundwork for LNG Bunkering Business The International Maritime Organizations (IMO) has tightened regulations on the ratio of sulfur oxides in the fuel of ships navigating the high seas to 0.5% from the current 3.5%, highlighting attention to LNG as a new replacement fuel for ships. Accordingly, global demand for LNG to be used as fuel for ships is expected to increase up to 3 million tons per year by 2030. We pave the way to establish related systems and infrastructure Discover Future so that we may create new demand for natural gases through the development of an LNG bunkering business. KOGAS has helped to secure a legal foundation for using LNG as fuel for ships by advocating for the Growth Engines improvement of related laws and regulations including the Port Act and the enforcement rules of the City Gas Business Act. In order to promote an increase in LNG-fueled vessels, we are securing ship-to-ship LNG bunkering capability by the end of 2019, and we also seek information exchange and joint projects with advanced overseas companies. As of the end of December 2017, LNG bunker sales volume increased by 1,053 tons year on year to 3,464 tons. In the future, we will continue to build infrastructure to preemptively respond to the LNG bunkering business and make efforts to revitalize projects. LNG Bunkering Sales Diversification of LNG bunkering system to prepare for supplying to medium and large ships Volume 44% The existing Fuel supply to limestone carriers, foreign national ❶ Truck to ship Up method vessels, etc. 2016 New method ❷ Ship to ship Adding LNG bunkering function to LNG carriers 2,412 (for medium and 2017 large ships) Construction of LNG loading facility in Tongyeong ❸ Shore to ship 3,464 Terminal (to be completed in 2019) (Unit: tons) Pioneering the Way of Fuel Cell Business A fuel cell is a high efficiency power generation system that produces electricity and heat through the chemical reaction between oxygen and hydrogen generated mainly by reforming natural gas. KOGAS aims to expand new demand for natural gas and fostering our future growth engines by facilitating the dissemination of fuel cells. Operation Principle of Fuel Cells Sales of natural gas for fuel cells YoY Electrochemical LNG Up 20.22% H2 reaction Electricity H2O 2016 24.4 2017 O2 Heat 29.3 (Unit: 10,000 tons) Since 2000, KOGAS has developed fuel cell technologies and performed monitoring and tests of fuel cells for household use. We now strive to secure technological competitiveness in fuel cells for buildings and hydrogen production equipment. In addition, we are preparing to propose an eco-friendly residential model by constructing a fuel cell-based new and renewable energy convergent housing complex, and we are also engaged in a pilot project to attract large-scale fuel cell-based power generation projects in our terminal site and supply BOG generated in the terminal site as fuel. In addition to these pilot projects, we make various efforts to facilitate the wide use of fuel cells such as by collecting the opinions of relevant industries and proposing various policies for fuel cell promotion. Concept of Pilot Project Linking KOGAS Terminals Site lease / BOG supply Fuel cell Electricity sale Power exchange KOGAS terminals Power generation Purchasing waste heat company (SPC) Waste heat sale Heat consumers 48 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Creation of Natural Gas Demand Expansion of CNG Buses Applying natural gas to an automobile engine significantly reduces emissions and improves fuel efficiency through lean burning as the range of combustion limit is wide. In addition, since the octane number is as high as 130, this can increase the compression ratio of the engine improving fuel consumption rate with better efficiency than other alternatives. Compressed natural gas (CNG) is a low-carbon fuel that is made by compressing and storing natural gas at 19.7MPa (200atm) or higher, featuring less greenhouse gas emissions than diesel or gasoline cars and creating almost zero fine dust. KOGAS started the development of CNG buses in 1992, and succeeded in commission in 1996. For the first time in May 1998, two buses started running in Incheon and Ansan, respectively. CNG buses have been introduced in earnest from Seoul since June 2000. KOGAS has promoted the supply of CNG buses by proposing to the government a CNG subsidy system, such as subsidies for purchasing CNC buses, fuel, and CNC charging station construction; and we are also involved in implementing the subsidy system. With these efforts, in 2017, we sold 947,000 tons of CNG bus fuel and the number of CNG route buses increased by 313 units compared to the previous year, forming a basis for consistent sales of natural gas for transportation. LNG Number of Yard Tractors Converting Yard Tractors’ Fuel into LNG Using LNG KOGAS has identified a new business opportunity in changing the type of fuel used for yard tractors that 2015 transport containers in a port from diesel to LNG. Converting the fuel into LNG for yard tractors will reduce 35 greenhouse gas emissions by 42% compared with diesel, contributing to the environmental improvement 2016 37 of the ports. If gas storage facilities and other infrastructure are built in a port, it would become possible to 2017 create a new market of container tractors between ports and compact LNG ships. Our efforts to convert the 35 fuel of yard tractors into LNG continued through agreements with Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries and Busan (Unit: vehicles) Port Authority, and we were able to convert 35 units in 2017. In addition, as a part of our program to expand the business, we promote the installation of portable charging stations in a port where fixed charging stations cannot be constructed due to low economic benefits. Efforts to Increase Demand for Industrial Natural Gas KOGAS intends to achieve low-carbon management such as reducing industrial manufacturing costs and greenhouse gas emissions through actions to increase the industrial demand for industrial natural gas, a lowcarbon industrial fuel. In 2017, we lowered gas tariffs for industrial use by 10.2% compared to the previous year, supplying gas fuel at a lower price than other types of fuel, and subsidized KRW 1.23 billion for the operation of facilities using industrial natural gas. In addition, as a result of diverse efforts such as field marketing conducted jointly with city gas suppliers focusing on large-scale customers, the volume of industrial sales in 2017 reached 6.10 million tons, up 7% from the previous year. Sales volume of natural gas for Industrial Subsidies industrial use Up 7% from the previous year Support targets Enterprises that constructed or expanded new facilities using industrial natural gas 2016 5,710 2017 Supported KRW 0.6881/MJ for volume increase (from Support 6,105 amount the previous year) of usage in June * Yearly limit of KRW 100 million for each entity (Unit: 1,000 tons) 49 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Strategy for Advanced Labor-Management Relations Forming advanced labor-management relations of win-win cooperation is critical to continuously generate favorable management performance. Aiming at maintaining a beneficial labor-management relationship, KOGAS has re-established strategies for enhanced labor-management relations by analyzing pending issues between the two sides and performing internal diagnoses based on the unique features of its labormanagement culture. Based on the goal of “achieving win-win and cooperative labor-management relations that lead to realizing social values,” we have developed strategic direction to advance labor-management Communicationrelations, attain social values, and achieve a stable labor-management relationship and win-win and Based cooperative labor-management partnership. Pursuing future values shared by labor and management based on these strategies, we will create a favorable labor-management culture and build a vibrant organizational Management culture. Strategy for Advanced Labor-Management Relations Vision NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Core Values Trust Responsibility Change Challenge Trusted KOGAS Vibrant Organizational Culture Goal Create a win-win cooperative labor-management relations that leads to realizing social values Implementation Develop and implement Expand social Operate the laborStrategies Strengthen capacity strategy for advanced responsibility through management council building and laborlabor-management labor-management for labor-management management consensus relations cooperation coexistence Number of Union Members 84.7% Implementation • Reorganization strategy • Establish a healthy • Create consensus by • Operate the laborTasks for labor-management and stable laboractivating various management council relations management culture communication • Sign a rational (3,242 people) • Upgrade the capability • Realize social values channels collective agreement to implement shared by labor and • Strengthen capabilities based on equal strategies management in regulating laborrelationship between (As of December 31, 2017) • Active conflict management relations labor and management management Highlight Issue Realize Social Values Shared by Labor and Management – The First Public Corporation Contributing to the ‘Public Workers Solidarity Foundation’. KOGAS had been initially opposed to the introduction of a performance-based annual salary system, but both labor and management have made concessions and the annual salary system was implemented early, receiving incentives from the government. However, our employees returned the entire amount of incentives received (KRW 2 billion from union members and 0.4 billion from executives) to contribute to the Public Workers Solidarity Foundation, the first time a public corporation had done so. The Public Workers Solidarity Foundation is a public foundation established by representatives of unions of the public sector in August 2017 and is committed to practicing ‘win-win cooperation’ based on funds contributed by employees of public organizations, for the purpose of eliminating social disparities by improving the labor conditions of temporary and low-wage workers and performing activities to strengthen social awareness using the contributed funds. Based on the consensus to participate in realizing social values through continuous communication between labor and management, KOGAS entered into a final labor-management agreement in August 2017. The agreement includes a statement that the government’s incentives received due to early implementation of a performance-based annual salary system will be contributed to a social win-win fund under the joint name of labor and management and that the ‘Joint Labor-Management Committee’ will be established. Both labor and management within KOGAS has made contributions to the Public Workers Solidarity Foundation based on this agreement. The KOGAS union also announced its message that ‘it hopes this contribution will pave the way for more public organizations and unions of public corporations to participate in fund contributions so that foundation can operate smoothly and expand social awareness.’ 50 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Strengthen Labor-Management Communication Labor-Management With a high rate of union participation, 84.7% of all KOGAS employees are union members. KOGAS consists Communication Index of employees from various job groups, positions, regions, and age brackets, and there are differences 2015 in working times, locations, and wages between regular and shift workers. Due to these characteristics, 68.4 communication between labor and management can be more challenging than communication among 2016 61.5 union members. In addition, workers working in outlying gas facilities scattered throughout the country 2017 face difficulty in participating in communication and group interests vary depending on shift patterns in 66.9 duties between headquarters and regional offices and among job groups. For these reasons, smooth and diverse communication channels are required. Based on our understanding of the circumstances and (Unit: point) characteristics of such labor-management communication, KOGAS has established and is effectively using a '4-way communication channel' based on role divisions among communication entities (organizationoriented / organization manager-oriented) and functions (bottom-up / field-oriented) to facilitate labormanagement communication. In 2017, KOGAS established four channels Joint Labor-Management Committee, Consensus Communication Training, Youth Committee, and day events to run multiple channels to meet the requirements of various communication targets, thereby creating consensus through multifaceted communication with the union and raising the labor-management communication index compared with the previous year. KOGAS has established deep consensus between labor and management regarding various conflicts in the organization, including management issues, promotion imbalances, wage disparities, labor-management confrontations, etc., and addresses the issues in a reasonable manner and shares the improvement process. 4-Way Communication Channels Organization-Oriented Communication Channel Main Content Labor-Management Council Increased number of meetings (6 times→16 times) and agenda items to be discussed Joint Labor-Management Established the Committee to resolve conflicts and improve the system Committee Consensus communication training Promoting understanding between groups and revitalizing organizational culture By Function Meetings with employees of each group Communication Channel Main Content Time for communication with CEO CEO-Employee conference on management issues Executives’ visit to fields Meeting to listen to complaints and communication with employees Division Director meetings Meetings with employees of each group Bottom-Up Communication Channel Main Content Improve unreasonable practices based on members’ consensus and facilitate communication Laplaza Increase the number of posts / comments by conference, campaigns, etc. Collect opinions of youth workers on system improvement, promote organizational culture, and Youth Committee deduce corrective measures By Field-Oriented Communication Entity Communication Channel Main Content Regional office manager’s Once per quarter on key management issues and future direction→From time to time when an presentation on management issues issue occurs Various meetings Address the issues of specific groups such as women, youths, shift workers, and irregular workers Training in core values Improve teamwork through sharing the core values of KOGAS Various events that suit the features of each office such as smile day, lunch meeting day, and Day events where is my dad going day 51 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Talent Management KOGAS has defined the following as human talent desirable to achieve our vision together: ‘human talent with integrity in pursuit of principles and honesty,’ ‘trusted human talent who practice consideration and cooperation,’ ‘human talent with the spirit of accepting challenge and change that leads to organizational growth,’ and ‘creative global human talent that can open up the future.’ These have become the criteria for recruitment, personnel management, evaluation, and talent development at KOGAS. Talent Ideal Human Talent Management Human talent with the Human talent with integrity Trusted human talent who spirit of accepting challenge Creative global human talent in pursuit of principles and practice consideration and and change that leads to that can open up the future honesty cooperation organizational growth Talent Recruitment We employ excellent human resources fairly without barriers due to academic background, age, major, or region. Transparent recruitment is conducted without disclosing the interviewee credentials including name, hometown, and academic background. We evaluate candidates’ job performance capabilities instead of their educational/career background and select customized human talent who are suited for the work of KOGAS by adopting National Competency Standards (NCS). Employment Principle Abolition Fairness and transparency-based employment Open of restrictions Employment In-depth competition on academic Principle interviews testing background or age Merit-based employment Work-Life Balance Employee status by gender * Flexible Working Hours (Unit: Number of employees) We run a flexible work hour system to make the forms of working more flexible to create an environment with work-life balance. We gather employee opinions through a survey on satisfaction level and a survey on the 422 Female demand for a convertible part-time system, and we improve the operation system in order to facilitate usage of employees’ flexible work hour system. 3,330 KOGAS has broadened the options through various schemes including alternative work scheduling, intensive Female work system, and smart work system, as well as a different time commuting system, and we intend to operate a flexible work hour system that moves away the stereotypical work time and space. * Regular employees, as of the end of 2017 Family-Friendly Program Employee status – by age We create an environment for maternity protection for female employees during pregnancy based on their (Unit: Number of employees) needs. Their working hours are shortened, their job can be changed, and in-house married couples are appointed to workplaces in the same area. Moreover, the duration of maternity leave has been extended to 539 three years to prevent career interruption in women due to childbirth or childcare. 815 20’s Maternity leave after childbirth is 120 days for women with multifetal pregnancy. The number of working 50’s hours on weekdays was reduced to 15 to 30 hours a week during pregnancy and childcare to guarantee work871 life balance as much as possible. Upon returning to work after using the childcare leave, their preference for 30’s job positions is fully embraced so they may continue their existing career. We boost female employees’ job 1,527 satisfaction and immersion by managing nursing rooms and in-house childcare centers in five sites and by 40’s guaranteeing lactation hours during work. Meanwhile, we create a corporate culture that strongly recommends and is considerate of male employees when they are to take paternity leave by guaranteeing the advance replacement of alternative personnel, thereby easing the burden for them to use the leave. In 2017, a total of 10 employees used the shortened working hour program for those who are pregnant or caring for infants, and there were a total of 9 male employees who took paternity leave. 52 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Strengthen the Competencies of Employees Fostering Female Leaders and Specialists KOGAS operates a training program for talented female employees and has expanded the number of female employees when selecting applicants for long-term commissioned training courses for master’s degrees to foster female leaders and specialists. We have paved the way for female employees to advance to high-ranking positions by promoting managerial positions for women and expanding positions in major departments. Female judges have been mandatorily allocated to strike a balance in making judgments for promotion review of positions in Grade 3 or higher to expand and foster female managers. In February 2018, we appointed female division heads (technology business division heads and executives) for the first time since the foundation of the corporation, and we expanded the appointment of female managers to key positions in essential businesses. Talent Development Programs In order to foster competent human talent, KOGAS has established a balanced talent development roadmap addressing organizational competencies (core values and leadership) and personal competencies (job competencies and global competencies) in each stage from joining KOGAS until departing. Dual tracks for career development were established and are up and running – KOGAS-led and self-led tracks – including a specialist track and a manager track. Basic Plan for Training Classification Courses available Training focuses in 2017 • Strengthen educational courses for social equity, and ethics and integrity education for Identify strategy Common 10 courses including core value, ethics securing a desirable and safe society -linked planning competencies and integrity education • Expand organizational synergies through structuring the Organizational education of workers under the wage-peak system process / Survey on capability education demand 17 courses including job level education, • Diversification of field-oriented training programs for practical job competency improvement by department Leadership executive education, and job conversion • Systematization and specialization of job education to Competency training improve job applicability and organizational performance A total of 535 courses including shortand long-term commissioned domestic • Establish systematic and open goal setting and a horizontal organization system by expanding and overseas training, overseas OJT, the participation of team members in decision-making Individual Job competency courses conducted by the training • Strengthen leaders’ capabilities by improving leadership Personal competency diagcenter, cyber job competency training, and leadership candidacy training competency nosis and demand and self-directed learning survey A total of 5 courses including cyber Global training, foreign language training via • Strengthen cross-disciplinary and cross-sectoral education to foster global professionals competency telephone, video lecture, and by lecturer Fair Evaluation and Remuneration KOGAS conducts a fair and transparent efficiency rating based on employees’ performance and capabilities, and the results are reflected in personnel appointment and remuneration. All employees excluding executives are, in principle, subject to goal-based performance evaluation. All employees set goals for their achievement and competencies at the beginning of the year and have them approved by their manager. They are subject to year-end performance evaluations based on their individual yearly performance. For high achievers, incentives KOGAS’ are provided to enhance their organizational immersion by differentially paying the bonus and base salary Performance-Based Salary (Unit: %) and by giving benefits in a review to select employees to be dispatched outside. Meanwhile, for low achievers, we seek higher performance by supporting competency development through training or job rotation. 2.3 Bonus Furthermore, chief officers (excluding executives), intermediary managers, and candidates to be promoted to manager level among team members are subject to multi-dimensional evaluation. Results of the evaluations are ultimately assessed in ranking based on comparative analyses among employees in the same rank who 56 are subject to evaluation. In addition, KOGAS encourages long-term performance and productivity by aligning 36 Base salary evaluation results with remuneration. All wage items are broken down into basic, job, and performancePerformancebased salary based under the pay-for-performance scheme, except for statutory benefits (paid leave). Accordingly, base salary comprising 56% of total salaries are divided into five grades depending on competency evaluations for 5.7 Job-based salary differential increases. Differential payments are made so the maximum and the minimum amounts could vary by over two times by converting 36% of total salary into a performance-based one. 53 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Creating EHSQ Value 54 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Excellent Training in responding to cyber attacks Cost of environmental activities KRW million Level of personal information management Violation of environmental regulations (supervised by Ministry of the Interior and Safety) Points (excellent institution) NO Energy usage TJ Safety culture level index GHG emissions Excellent Disaster management assessment tCO2e safety Relevant Key Issues Background and Policies from the Perspective of Sustainability Management Direction Department in Charge Stakeholders • Efforts to minimize environmental load Natural gas is getting the spotlight as an eco-friendly fuel that does not generate • Management of activities of dealing with pollutants when burned because sulfur, nitrogen, and dust are eliminated pollutants, if occurring during the liquefaction process. KOGAS established an environmental Environmental Environmental • Compliance with environmental Communities management system (in accordance with ISO 14001), in order to further Management Management regulations and stricter self-management NGO minimize the environmental impact that may arise in the supply of natural gas, Department standards and we maintain the environment-friendly management system by identifying • Environmental responsibility activities environmental risks and opportunities. that reflect local needs The entire world is focusing on the issue of climate change and maintaining a • Conducting  company-wide demand for a clean environment. KOGAS is constantly introducing renewable greenhouse gas reduction activities Response energy facilities and is building a system to respond to preemptively climate Communities Environmental • Responding to the emissions trading to Climate change. In addition, we promote energy-efficiency activities on an enterpriseNGO Management system Change wide level, and we also actively respond to the carbon emissions trade The Government Department • Continuous introduction of new and system by identifying emission reduction projects, thereby fulfilling our renewable energy facilities responsibilities for future generations. Although natural gas is safer than other fuel sources, safety is by far the most • P  revent industrial accidents through important issue for KOGAS because any incident may lead to a huge accident. workplace safety management Safety Management Employees Safety KOGAS minimizes risks on-site and improves productivity through the Safety • Enhance disaster management Department Suppliers Management Management System (OHSAS 18001). In addition, in order to improve the level system and strengthen capacities Disaster Management Communities of safety culture of our employees, we strive to achieve goals by sharing tasks • Enhance employee safety and health Department throughout the company. management system and awareness • Enhance  implementation ability by upgrading information security More sophisticated and elaborate cyberattacks, such as DDos attack, hacking, management system and disabling servers, are occurring. KOGAS preemptively prevents cyber Communities Information • Enhance information protection Security Planning infringements by establishing and operating an information security management The Government Security system including internal control Department system to stop threats and protect personal and national information, including system industrial information. • Strengthen personal information protection activities 55 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 EHSQ Management System of KOGAS What is EHSQ Management System? KOGAS has endeavored to establish a management system that integrates environment, safety, health, and quality, giving the utmost priority to ‘respecting human and nature.’ As part of these efforts, we independently developed the EHSQ (Environment, Health, Safety & Quality) system to minimize risks and improve productivity by managing issues in an integrated and efficient manner. We have acquired ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and ISO 29001 certifications for the system. The system was designed and operates to be suited to domestic and international standards. In addition, we developed and applied an objective and quantitative global evaluation system (Management & Assessment Tool for Efficient Rating, MASTER) to ensure continuous improvement of the operation of the EHSQ management system and achieve the best performance, fortifying the foundation to secure global competitiveness. Adopting the EHSQ management system as the core tool for our management activities, we strive to live up to our social responsibilities as a clean energy provider through active cooperation with stakeholders in related fields. EHSQ Management Vision and Policy EHSQ Management Vision EHSQ Management Measures Considering safety, health, environment, and quality (EHSQ) as ❶ EHSQ Management Measures Comply with related laws and our top priority, KOGAS promotes continuous improvement and regulations and domestic and international standards prevention activities based on mutual cooperation to create a safe ❷ Establish the EHSQ management system and effectively manage it and pleasant environment, and we seek to improve the health ❸ Secure top quality from production to supply of natural gases and quality of life of our employees and the public by providing ❹ Conduct training for all employees to enhance the level of EHSQ high quality and services that meet our customers' needs and ❺ Consider safety of suppliers equal to KOGAS’ expectations. ❻ Ensure that employees fulfill their roles safely, and establish a disaster response system by striving to prevent disaster causing casualties and environmental pollution ❼ I nternally and externally disclose measures, goals, and performance and gather feedback to maintain transparency of EHSQ management EHSQ Management Operation System Operation system Construction of Global EHSQ Assessment System 1. General rules of management 8. Crisis management and 2. Management policy accident investigation Action Plan 3. EHSQ management team 9. Environmental management Management and A P Gap analysis and 4. Information technology 10. Health management improvement prioritization, Continuous 5. Information technology 11. Education and training workforce and budget process allocation 6. Design, materials, construction 12. Public relations and management complaints management Check C D Do 7. Facility operation and 13. Legal management EHSQ management Document (procedure) maintenance 14. Measurement and system performance development and improvement management evaluation operation 56 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Environmental Management System KOGAS declared environmental management in 1997. Since then, we have acquired and maintained ISO 14001 certification and fulfill our social responsibilities as an eco-friendly company that contributes to the sustainable development of the nation and society. In an effort to identify the environmental impact of in-process activities from exploring to supply to power plants directly or to city gas suppliers, we strive to reduce environmental risks by providing environmental management guidelines related to the work of our partners including inhouse partners. In addition, we manage the emission of pollutants by applying more stringent standards than Environmental the legal limits, and we collect environment-related data generated on-sites on a monthly basis and disclose them via ENV-INFO SYSTEM, the national environment information disclosure system. The Incheon Terminal Management Division is designated as a green enterprise and is managed accordingly. As such, we strive to establish voluntary environmental management system on sites. Environmental Activity Cost (Unit: KRW million) Pollution prevention activities Pollution treatment activities Cost of consigned treatment of environmental pollutants Facility investment, environmental activities, environmental including water quality and waste treatment training, and R&D cost, etc. to fundamentally remove environmental impact 2015 2015 1,397 28,819 2016 2016 1,398 23,350 2017 2017 1,865 23,295 Stakeholder activities Legally responsive activities Environmental Activity Local eco-friendly projects, support for environmental organizaEnvironmental improvement charges, environmental charges, Cost per Year tions’ events, advertisements on the environment, etc. fines for violation, etc. 2015 2015 2015 88 99 30,403 2016 2016 2016 109 341 25,198 2017 2017 2017 173 221 25,555 (Unit: KRW million) Efforts to Minimize the Environmental Burden Air Pollution Management Major facilities emitting air pollutants among our production and supply facilities include the Submerged Combustion Vaporizer (SMV), the Sear Water Heater (SWH), and boilers, and key pollutants are NOx, Sox, and dust. KOGAS is also equipped with the low-concentration NOx emitting mechanism in production and supply facilities. The facilities are designed to emit less than one third of the statutory allowable level (<150ppm) as they are managed to not exceed the threshold. The amount of NOx emission is managed on a monthly basis, and when the amount of NOx is higher than that of the yearly target emission, we establish reduction plans, and take actions for improvement including checking the status of facilities and adjusting operation time. In particular, the Incheon Terminal Division and the Pyeongtaek Terminal Division as business sites in metropolitan areas are allocated with the amount of NOx on a yearly basis and classified as eligible sites for total load management to allow the emission of NOx. As such, we systematically manage the amount of NOx emission. Meanwhile, LNG produced and supplied by KOGAS emits over 90% of sulfur oxides less than fossil fuels. Sulfur oxides generated by each site can be checked on a monthly basis in the IT system for environmental management – KOGAS’ intranet – as is the case with other air pollutants. We establish measures for improvement related to usage of the annual usage amount for relevant facilities upon exceeding the annual target in order to reduce the emission amount of sulfur oxides. 57 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Water Pollution Management LNG terminal divisions are managed below the statutory level of concentration for water pollutants as they are equipped with oil treatment facilities. Moreover, seawater entering into an open rack vaporizer (ORV) in the LNG gasification process is discharged into the coast without any environmental impact after being used for heat exchange. The Pyeongtaek, Incheon, and Samcheok Terminal Divisions located on the coastal line discharge domestic sewage into a river or sea in a concentration level below the statutory level, after purifying it at sewage treatment facilities. Management of Chemicals Major chemicals used on sites include sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and hydrogen chloride (HCI). They are used to adjust the level of pH within water tanks of the submerged combustion vaporizer (SMV) which serve as LNG gasification facilities. Such substances, in particular, are used in a lower level of concentration and are not classified as hazardous. KOGAS discloses related data through the chemical substance handling information disclosure system and ensures that hazardous chemicals used are managed according to legitimate procedures without leakage. Waste Management We stringently apply treatment standards above the statutory levels prescribed in related laws regarding waste generated from sites in the middle of the production and supply process and construction work. Data on waste is recorded in the IT system for internal environmental management on a monthly basis and is reflected in the next year’s plan to lower the amount of waste generated. We proactively participate in the government policy on control and recycling of waste, and we continuously reduce the amount of waste discharge by transparently managing the entire process from discharge to delivery and final treatment. We ensure that waste treatment companies are periodically guided and inspected so waste generated from sites may be appropriately treated. Waste generated in all sites of KOGAS is registered in Allbaro system (http:// www.allbaro.or.kr) in real-time whenever it is discharged, delivered and treated, and this is disclosed through the environmental information disclosure system once a year. Protection of Bio-Diversity KOGAS conducts environmental impact assessments to seek eco-friendly and sustainable development by predicting and evaluating the impact of construction or operational projects on environmental changes in advance and by devising measures for environmental conservation. In addition, we conduct follow-up reviews on environmental impact for ex-post management and monitoring upon the completion and operation of construction works. Changes in the habitation of flora and fauna and observational review of the aquatic eco-system are discussed in the consultation council consisting of related specialists – project companies, representatives of local residents in the area of review, and organizations of environmental conservation. We also develop measures for improvement through consultation with them upon exploring points for improvement. The results of bio-diversity review are submitted to a related local government to be subject to verification of appropriateness and feasibility, and this is registered in the information support system for environmental impact assessment and disclosed accordingly. Prevention of Marine Pollution KOGAS has established a system to promptly and efficiently respond to accident sites by creating a ‘manual for on-site actions (marine pollution)’ and an ‘emergency plan for marine facility pollution’ to respond to marine disasters. In addition, we are fully equipped with more disaster control supplies than statutorily required, and we also provide continued training on preventing potential accidents, thereby minimizing secondary environmental damage resulting from accidents. Marine Environment Protection The Tongyoung Terminal Division has established a marine environment information disclosure system to disclose 11 items including water temperature, dissolved oxygen, and chlorophyll in the seas around the LNG base every single minute. The Samcheok Terminal Division plans to perform restoration work of the Wolcheon coast which eroded due to environmental changes caused by reclamation, in order to restore the natural environment and turn it into a local water-friendly facility. 58 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Low-Carbon Management Strategies KOGAS set a vision of becoming ‘a sustainable future energy company’ that continuously strives to achieve the goal of cost-effective GHG reduction and of becoming a leading company in responding to climate change. KOGAS’ low-carbon management strategies are determined and executed through a two-step deliberation process. The Climate Change/Energy Working-Level Committee consisting of heads of workinglevel departments in charge deliberate on pending issues on low-carbon management. Then the Climate Change Energy Committee as the decision-making body comprised of executives devises final strategies and Response to decides on critical matters on climate change response. We have acquired and maintained integrated ISO 50001 certifications for each of four terminal divisions and nine trunk line divisions, and we have established Climate Changes and operate an IT-based integrated management system (ECO2 View) for effective management of the total greenhouse gases and energy that all business sites discharge and use during the production and supply of natural gas. Low-Carbon Management Strategies Vision Sustainable Future Energy Company Major Goals Cost-effective GHG reduction A leading company in climate change response Core Tasks (six tasks in • Establish a system to respond to the • Respond through new and two areas) Response to emissions trading scheme Climate renewable energies the Emissions • Develop personnel for the emissions Change • Manage energy efficiently Trading trading scheme Response • Raise awareness about and • Initiate projects to reduce GHGs promoting climate change response Efforts for Climate Change Response Emissions Trading Scheme KOGAS was designated an eligible target company falling under the emission trading scheme in 2015, and makes various efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions based on our experience accumulated during the first phase of the scheme’s implementation period (2015~2017). In particular, we strive to work in line with the nation's greenhouse gas reduction policy, including preparing for implementation of cost-allocation auction system and the government’s forecasted plan to continuously reduce the allocated amount during the second phase (2018~2020). Incentives for Management of GHG Emissions We conduct semi-annual monitoring on achievement of goals by setting internal targets for GHG emissions by business site. Excellent business sites that have strived to and achieved strong results to achieve GHG reduction goals and raise awareness about energy usage are selected to receive rewards and compensation. Key items for evaluation include performance records compared to targets, basic unit management of energy, and records of exploring GHG reduction projects. Additional points are granted to business sites that have maintained the energy management system (ISO 50001) and set up the real-time energy monitoring system. In Current Status of Installing New and 2017, rewards were offered to five business sites (two prizes each for highest excellence and excellence, as well Renewable Energies (As of March 31, 2018) as one encouragement prize) out of 13 in total. The activities of KOGAS to reduce GHG emissions include the Sites identification of in-house projects and ideas to reduce GHG emissions and holding presentations to share best Capacity (number of practices. sites) Photovoltaic 1,728 kW 66 New and Renewable Energy Projects Solar energy 607 ㎡ 5 Geothermal We foster low-carbon energy projects in line with the government’s low-carbon growth policy. We are reducing 1,425 kW 2 energy (cooling) GHG emissions and energy usage by leveraging five types of new and renewable energy facilities: photovoltaic, Geothermal 1,459 kW 3 solar energy, geothermal energy, wind power and fuel cells. We internally produce and use a certain portion of energy (heating) in-house electricity by introducing various new and renewable energy facilities to the headquarters building, 13 Wind power 16 kW 5 business sites, and gas supply facilities. We can produce electricity of 3,062,367kWh and cold and heat energy of 160,440,140kcal, using the new and renewable energies facilities constructed by KOGAS in 2017, and thereby Fuel cells 301 kW 2 reducing GHG emissions of 1,428tCO2e. 59 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Safety Management Strategies Safety is the foremost issue as natural gas can lead to a major disaster in the event of an accident. KOGAS promotes safety management with the vision of creating an advanced safety culture based on voluntary safety activities by raising employee awareness of safety culture and enhancing their practical capabilities. Safety Management Promotion Strategies Vision Achieving accident-free and disaster-free status through advanced safety management activities Safety Promotion Raising Safety Awareness Strengthen consensus on safety culture Improve the execution capability of safety management Management Direction • Management leads by example • Strengthen internal • Compensate safety performance • Strengthen on-site safety mancommunication • Improve disaster response agement system • Continuous improvement of the capability • Strengthen industrial disaster safety management system • Strengthen the weight in management • Strengthen on-site safety evaluation management support On-Site Activities Settle a site-oriented autonomous safety culture Ensure Forge laborEnsure Continue to Achieve on-site voluntary management managers to carry on customizatio engagement cooperation lead Safety culture level index Mid-to-Long Term Goals of Safety Management (ISRS-C)* 2015 Disaster rate Number of 6.99 Safety Culture KOGAS disaster of partner facility accident 2016 Index rate companies cases 7.19 2017 7.4 To reduce the disaster 2021 To reduce the disaster rate below one third * ISRS-C (International Safety Rating System-CulAttainment Grade 7.8 / Grade 10 as rate below one third of of the average in the Zero cases ture): A safety culture investigation method Goals the full score the average disaster rate industry of electricity, developed by DNV and applied globally of public corporations gas, and water supply Workplace Safety Management Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate(LTIFR) Industrial Accident Prevention Activities Employees KOGAS conducts site-oriented safety management activities to prevent industrial accidents at workplaces. In order to boost workers' safety awareness, we provided special education on safety culture at construction 2015 0 sites and built safety communication channels such as the operation of a safety management Q&A system and 2016 mutual advice on safety violation behavior. In addition, for the purpose of upgrading preventive activities, we 0 conducted safety diagnosis of tower cranes at construction sites, and we also implemented safety assessment 2017 0 of two construction companies in the Jeju terminal construction site through an industrial safety agency to improve the work risk assessment method. We have identified improvement factors, including the change of alarm values, after safety and process experts performed safety diagnoses of the safety areas of four terminal Suppliers divisions. The number of industrial accidents at KOGAS worksites was consistently reduced over the years, from 2015 13 cases in 2014 to a record-low 2 cases in 2017, and we also achieved the goal of zero accidental deaths in 2017. 0.43* 2016 0.48** Risk Element Management 2017 0.24*** KOGAS conducts safety inspection activities through the year. We identify hazards that may occur in a new, expended, or changed facilities or that are related to job activities, causal analysis, and evaluation of results, (Unit: number / million working hours) and we take measures by suggesting recommendations to alleviate or remove risks and to establish relevant * 6 X 1,000,000 / 6,667 x 40 X 52 implementation plans. Through this process, we collect and analyze risk data, and we focus on managing key ** 5 X 1,000,000 / 5,000 X 40 X 52 *** 2 X 1,000,000 / 4,000 X 40 X 52 elements to enhance safety inspection efficiency, thereby fully committing ourselves to disaster management. 60 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Strengthening the Disaster Management System Strengthening the Disaster Management System KOGAS performs activities to manage prevention of natural disasters including typhoons, earthquakes, and tsunamis and emergencies including terrorism and fires outbreaks. We have raised awareness among all employees by operating an exclusive unit for disaster-related operations, and we have reinforced implementation of preventive inspections. We established alarm and disaster prevention systems for gas facilities and operate a surveillance system 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We conduct training for quick response to disasters in accordance with systematic and sophisticated manuals customized to disaster types. Disaster Management Evaluation* Disaster Safety Management Strategies Disaster Building disaster management system for a society safe from disasters 2015 2016 2017 Management Goals Exempted Strategy and Strengthen infrastructure for Maintain excelSystematic preparation for disasters Speedy response to disasters from evaluExcellent Implementation disaster response lent level ation Tasks • Manual segmentation by type • Joint disaster training through • Manual-based disaster response Evaluation of Disaster Management of National • Strengthen disaster management collaboration • Fast operation and inspection of Infrastructure System supervised by Ministry of system • Systematic improvement of gas the control center Public Administration and Security facilities to prepare for disasters Performance Goals Selection as an excellent disaster Government approval of manuals Zero damage from disasters response agency Establish Separate Manuals by Disaster Type In 2017, KOGAS revised the previous comprehensive disaster manual into separate manuals tailored to disaster types. As a result, the disaster manual is separated into the manual for earthquake response, which defines the crisis alert level according to the earthquake’s intensity and specifies criteria for stopping operation of the supply system, and the manual for gas leakage management, which defines the crisis alert level according to leakage intensity and provides for fast evacuation and notification to residents. Both manuals were approved by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. Evaluation of 2017 Disaster Response Activities for Systematic Disaster Preparedness and Safety Drill in Korea KOGAS secures stability in safety against disasters by improving preemptive disaster facilities and response Excellent(Grade A) training. Because the public’s anxiety has risen and improvement of the seismic performance of gas facilities (Received an award from the Minister of and supplementation of measurement facilities have been required since earthquakes occurred in Gyeongju Public Administration and Security) and Pohang, respectively, in 2016 and 2017, we have engaged in activities to create gas facilities that are safer from earthquake disasters. We also improved the error sensors (28 units) through performance tests of the entire seismic acceleration meters (141 units), and we significantly expanded the scope of facilities subject to seismic performance evaluation from the previous 12 locations to 576 locations. Furthermore, we selected structures that need reinforcement by performing detailed evaluation of each structure and upgraded their seismic and structural performance. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy, Korea Power Exchange, KOGAS, and five power plants jointly conducted an anti-disaster drill to prepare for the occurrence of earthquakes as a collaborative effort among public energy agencies, laying the groundwork for immediate response in the event of emergencies by building a system to share gas and power supply and demand in real-time. Disaster Situation and Quick Response 2017 Ministry of Public Administration and Security, Disaster In November 2017, an earthquake measuring 5.4 on the Richter scale occurred in Pohang. After receiving Management of National information about the earthquake, KOGAS immediately issued an alert of Serious level in accordance with Infrastructure System the Action Manual for On-site Measures to Respond to Earthquake,” and implemented countermeasures Maintaining the level of such as operating a disaster situation room and emergency safety inspections of gas facilities. As a result, no excellent organization damage to KOGAS’ gas supply facilities took place due to the earthquake, and we were able to continue gas supply without interruption. 61 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Raising Employees’ Awareness of Health and Safety Employee Health Management KOGAS has established and operates a health management system for industrial health management and prevention of occupational diseases by preventing health risks in the middle of work on sites and in offices, creating a pleasant working environment and systematically managing employee health. Furthermore, we establish and operate the Industrial Safety Health Committee to review and decide upon important matters related to industrial safety and health such as securing a safe workplace and safety and health hazards for employees. We manage the safety and health of each employee systematically and make every effort to create a pleasant and healthy workplace culture through health management, GHS MSDS, health exposure assessment, and PPE. We operate an in-house health management office to regularly manage employees' work-related illnesses, and we conduct health check-ups every year. We ensure that intensive management of health conditions, if existing, is implemented by health managers and health management agencies. In order to resolve work-related stress and psychological concerns and provide relevant supports in addition to physical health management, we operate a committee to promote employees’ mental health through regular psychological tests. We conduct athletic events and hiking events to facilitate employees’ physical fitness and cooperative spirit, and we also operate employee welfare facilities such as a physical training room, table tennis courts, and a health club to support activities that promote health in individuals. Furthermore, we ensure that our sites are free from smoking through continued efforts to wage an anti-smoking campaign throughout the corporation. Safety Training for Employees KOGAS boosts employees’ knowledge and expertise and encourages voluntary activities in the fields through ongoing training starting with a variety of on-site activities to share management's commitment to safety. We perform training to improve employee awareness of safety for all our employees in order to strengthen the safety culture level throughout the corporation, and we provide job function-specific training to foster safety specialists. We offer special training courses and in-house safety training courses in addition to providing education required by law. For executives, we operate a safety leadership enhancement program, while for team directors and above, we incorporate the weight associated with disasters. We are committed to our social responsibilities for safety from disasters through diverse training sessions: 'Safe Korea Anti-Disaster Drill' led by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security, joint anti-disaster drills among related institutions, a Disaster Control Room, and video conferencing via the communication network for national mapping. EHSQ Training System Establishing a Safety Culture, Fostering Specialized EHSQ Personnel Establish a system for enhancing the safety culture level Establish a training system by job function Early adaptation and Specialized competency EHSQ leadership competency EHSQ specialized personnel electrification improvement improvement development EHSQ site personnel EHSQ personnel development Corporation’s acquisition of Strengthen expertise capability Improve management’s development E: Environment H: Health EHSQ culture based on EHSQ culture awareness of safety S: Safety Q: Quality Type Goal Objectives Target Curriculum • EHSQ training in recruiting new Early adaptation and Learn the culture of KOGAS and EHSQ Level 6 or employees electrification culture lower • Training in EHSQ legal management • Regular safety and health training • Raise awareness about being involved • Practical course of on-site EHSQ work • Disaster response (risk Specialized competency in safety • Practical course of safety assessment Safety Culture Level Level 3~5 management) training improvement •S  trengthen specialized competency based • Practical course of quality management (SoftWare) • Cyber safety training on EHSQ culture in each field • Integrated internal auditor training course • 365-Day Safety Campaign • Gas fire drills • Safety Leadership Program (SLT) EHSQ leadership competency •E  nhance safety awareness among Level 2 or • Safety and health manager training improvement management higher • Supervisor training 62 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Strategic System for Information Security There is a trend toward strengthening the laws and regulations regarding information management activities, along with restricting the collection of unnecessary personal information. KOGAS has strengthened our policy and our technical and managerial safeguards for the security environment and established a strategic system for information security based on national policy trends to secure our crisis response capabilities. Strategic System for Information Security Information Security Secured 100% information security for stable gas production and supply vision Security Security Objectives Achieved 'ZERO' security incidents by preemptively blocking cyber threats Strategy Improve the ability to implement the Upgrade the information protection system Proactive personal information protection information security management system activities Implementation • Introduce up-to-date systems • Strengthen the personal information • Strengthen the information security management system Tasks • Upgrade the internal control system management system • Enhance the safety of personal information during its lifecycle Implementation Establish an annual plan and policy for Implement administrative and Plan information security technical information protection measures Do System • Activities to strengthen the information security management • Establish an information security education and training plan system such as education and training • Establish an information protection policy and technical protection • Introduction and operation of intrusion prevention system and measures control system Improvement and In-house analysis and Action infrastructure strengthening activities external evaluation of vulnerability Check • Improve activities of practical response teams for matters • Analysis of vulnerability in information security and privacy identified by external or internal audits management • Feedback workshops for information security to compensate for • Evaluation of external information security and privacy level weaknesses assessment Strengthen the Information Security Management System Evaluation of Information KOGAS conducts activities including training and inspection to upgrade the implementation capability of the Security Management information security management system. We performed training to achieve internalization of information 2015 protection for each target and were able to completely cut off cyber simulation attacks through tabletop 74.58 2016 exercises and simulated hacking drills. We completed six company-wide drills, which were conducted without 80.15 prior notice, to deal with malicious emails with an average of 98.8 points. We also corrected 614 cases of 2017 79.01 vulnerability by inspecting information security status using the Information Protection Management system (ISO 27001), and we built an independent cyber control center which operates 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to (Unit: point) comprehensively monitor the security observation network from basic facilities such as entry, video, firefighting, and power control to block cyber intrusions through emergency measures and fast and early responses. Installation of Up-to-Date Protection Systems Diagnosis of Personal Information Management Level KOGAS adopts the latest information protection system to prevent internal system threats. The wireless intrusion prevention system aims to prohibit the unauthorized use of wireless Internet inside the premises and blocked 1,584 2015 90.02 cases of intrusion attempts last year. We also built a data leakage prevention system to prevent external downloading 2016 and screen capture of work-related data by virtual private network users, and we introduced 33 units of a network 83.20 control and access blocking system across the company, shutting down 637 PCs that violated our security policy. 2017 92.55 Personal Information Protection Activities (Unit: point) KOGAS enhances the security of personal information through various stages of protection activities ranging from collecting, storing, using, and destroying personal information. The collection and storage of personal information contains only the minimum amount of personal information as within the legal basis. Collection and storage of personal information is performed at the minimum level within the legal basis, and the process of using the data is controlled through systems such as access rights, disclosure check, and automatic detection of personal information when sending documents. In addition, we strictly prohibit abuse of personal information by establishing management standards for access to systems containing personal information. We operate a system that searches and deletes personal information that is no longer in use using an on-demand easy search tool. As a result of these efforts to protect personal information, we recorded zero cases of personal information leakage in 2017. 63 KOGAS Sustainability Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Human Rights Management Ethical and Integrity Management KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Composition and Operation of the Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors (BOD) KOGAS’ BOD is the top decision-making body in charge of overseeing decisions made regarding major strategies and policies and the management agenda, and of supporting management. It operates pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and the Articles of Incorporation and consists of 9 members – 3 executive directors including the CEO and 9 non-executive directors, thereby ensuring establishment of a desirable corporate governance structure for keeping top management in check with a high portion of nonCorporate executive directors compared to executive directors. A non-executive director is appointed as the chairman of the BOD to ensure independence in the corporate governance structure and strives to advance stakeholders’ Governance rights in all decision making. Operation of BOD In order to fairly manage the BOD, the agenda is decided with the approval of a majority of registered directors. It is stipulated that directors with a special interest regarding decision-making at the BOD are restricted from exercising their decision-making right on the agenda item so that decisions can be made transparently. The BOD meets once a month in principle and can be organized to gather with the sole authority of the chairperson or the demand of over one third of registered directors. Non-executive directors are prohibited from holding more than one position for the purposes of reinforcing the BOD’s function to check management and improving operational efficiency. The results of BOD meetings are disclosed on the KOGAS website and the management information disclosure system for public institutions (www.alio.go.kr, Alio), except for special matters including confidentiality in management. Independence of the BOD KOGAS appoints members of the BOD who meet the qualification requirements in accordance with the Act on the Operation of Public Institutions, the Articles of Incorporation, and the management regulations of the Executive Recommendation Commission. We established screening criteria through the Executive Recommendation Commission consisting of 3 non-standing directors and 2 outside directors, and we systematically and fairly select candidates through confirmation procedures. We have secured independence in the screening process by restricting the candidacy of those who were an employee of the corporation or a company that engages in an important business relationship or in competition with the corporation within a 2 year period, and we appoint experts who have professional knowledge and experience in economics, management, law, or related technologies and, in particular, a broad range of knowledge and experience related to our business such as energy areas including gas to make reasonable decisions based on their expertise. Diversity in the BOD KOGAS respects the diversity of the members of the BOD. We impose no particular restriction in recruitment to secure diversity of members in the BOD. The BOD door is always open to candidates regardless of gender, religion, race, or nationality as long as they are qualified and capable. We make every effort to appoint female directors for the sake of BOB’s diversity. Upon recruiting them through public opening and recommendation, we have continuously requested for recommendation of female candidates by request to the Ministry of Personnel Management (database on national human talent), and yet, there has been no female applicant so far. Currently, all members of KOGAS’ BOD are male. Composition of the BOD (As of June-end, 2018) Type Name Position Type Name Position Lead Non-Executive Director (Chairman of the BOD), Professor of Public Administration, Seung-Il Cheong Executive Director, CEO Sun Woo Lee Korea National Open University Executive Sang Hoon Lee Chief Auditor Executive Kwang Sik Choi Director, Chairman of SL Innovations Co., Ltd. Director Executive Director, Vice President of Technology / Vice Young Du Kim Man Kyo Chang Director, Auditor at the Korean Construction Guarantee Cooperative President of Management Non-Executive Director Won Tak Lee Director, President of Daewon University Director, Visiting Professor of Business Administration and Management, Chungnam Jong Rae Kim National University Jun Hyung Lee Director, Chairman of GoodNET Corp 66 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Operational record of the BOD BOD attendance rate Performance of non-executive directors 2015 2015 2015 15/50 80 55/76 2016 2016 2016 17/46 82 56/79 2017 2017 2017 14/40 81 68/77 Number of board meetings (times), (Unit: %) Substance of statements made by non-executive directors(%), Number of resolutions (cases) Attendance rate of non-executive directors(%) Operation of Subcommittees Three subcommittees were launched and are in operation under the BOD to intensively deliberate on agenda items and strengthen checking and supervisory functions for corporate management through in-depth debate and discussion, leveraging the expertise of non-executive directors: Audit Committee, Sustainability Management Committee, and Overseas Project Committee. Subcommittees Type Composition Key Roles • Reporting to the BOD on directors’ acts that violate laws and the Articles of One executive director, Incorporation Audit Committee two non-executive • Matters entrusted by the BOD, and those determined to fall under the directors responsibilities of the Audit Committee according to laws and the Articles of Incorporation, etc. • Midto long-term management plans, major investment projects • Budgetary and operational plans, management evaluation, Sustainability Two or more directors promotional projects, etc. Management Committee • Safety and environmental projects and operational plans • Ethical management and social contribution activities, etc. Overseas Project Overseas Project • Overseas resource exploration and development/production Committee Committee • Review or counseling on overseas plant projects and other overseas projects Evaluation of the BOD KOGAS has established a BOD management system that manages the activities and performance of directors including BOD attendance rate, suggestions for corporate management, and substance of statements. In addition, KOGAS seeks to develop the BOD through objective evaluations following BOD management evaluation and individual director evaluation. Remuneration for executives is composed of basic salary, incentives, and severance pay. The yearly basic salary is decided in BOD meetings within the range of salary limits which is approved in a shareholders’ meeting. The president receives incentives depending on the results Composition of Shareholders of assessments of management performance after signing a management contract to achieve the corporate  (Unit: %) philosophy and vision with the head of the governing agency (Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy). The As of the end of June 2018 assessment is based on performance indicators of financial performance of management activities and external 31.10 26.15 perception, as well as environmental and social indicators. Executive directors receive incentives after making Other common Government contracts for performance with the president. shareholders Composition of Shareholders 10.30 Foreigners 20.47 KOGAS was listed on the Korea Exchange on December 15, 1999. The amount of KOGAS’ legal capital stands at KEPCO KRW 1 trillion. Shareholders of KOGAS are comprised of public shareholders and ordinary shareholders. Public 4.05 shareholders, namely the government, KEPCO, and local governments, hold approximately 54.55% of total Employee stock ownership 7.93 shares. The majority shareholder is the Korean government which holds 26.15% of total shares. There has been association Local governments no change regarding the majority shareholder for the past three years. 67 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Risk Management System Risk Management Strategy KOGAS defines risks as uncertainties and opportunity losses which hamper the achievement of strategies and business goals, encompassing both risks and crises. KOGAS takes the following actions in order to respond to such risks: identifying potential risks which block our efforts to achieve our goals in the integrated perspective of KOGAS, deciding the level of risk tolerance, searching for rational responsive measures, and establishing and managing a system for risks to be managed by specific parties in charge. Risk Management Risk Management Organization KOGAS separates the functions of establishing and managing a risk management system from day-to-day risk management operations. A supervisor of risk management, its decision-making body, and related regulations were established to ensure independence within the business area. Critical deliberation and decision-making on corporation-wide risk management are performed by the Risk Management Committee and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) oversees corporate-wide risk management operations. The Risk Management Committee meetings are, in principle, organized more than once a year, during which the Committee reviews the current status of corporation-wide risk management and decides on the agenda. KOGAS’ risk management is based on the ‘3-lines of defense’ model: the first-line supervising departments that are primarily responsible for risks as Principles of Risk Management they conduct daily risk management operations; the second-line Risk Control Management Department that manages the risk management system and supports risk management operations on the working level; and 1. Principles of Risk Management Perform independent functions in the third-line Office of the Auditors that audits the procedural adequacy of risk management activities. Each the enterprise level organization is organically configured in correlations. 2. Accurately identify, measure, and evaluate risk, and appropriately managing risk Risk Monitoring and Reporting System 3. Strike a balance between risk management and profitmaking, KOGAS monitors the current status of risk management on a quarterly basis, providing feedback to considering cost benefits 4. Sett and manage risk tolerance departments in charge so that they can make timely and effective responses by monitoring response level or management targets performance upon the issuance of risk alerts. For the reporting system, the departments in charge report on 5. Document the results of risk management operations, and designate the results of each of their risk management activities to the supervising departments, which collect them and personnel in charge report to the CRO on the current status of enterprise-wide risk management. Lastly, the CRO reports to the Risk 6. Make timely reporting and establish a reporting system thereof Management Committee. Risk Management Organization Risk Management Crisis Management CEO Risk Management Committee Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division CRO (Head of Strategic Planning Division) Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Support Risk Control Check and Manager Manager Manager Manager Audit Committee Summary Management Internal Audits Department Department Supervis(Risk Management Office of the Overseas Project Risk Department Operating Department Financial ing Departments Team) Auditor Control Risk Control Risk Control (7 Crisis Areas) Companies Operating Overseas Risk Financial Risk Crisis Management Risk 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line Check and Internal Audits 68 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Checklist on Risks Risk Management Activities Area Risk Event Spread a Culture of Risk Management Forfeiture of resources and Training nationalization, natural disasters, socio-political anxiety, inconsistency KOGAS devised measures for training in order to intensify competencies to perform risk management in policies and regulations, default of Target Country a target country, shortage of labor, operations and raise awareness about their importance, and we implement these measures by establishing shortage of infrastructure, civilian petitions, occurrence of disputes yearly training plans. For personnel exclusively in charge of risk conduct, a workshop is organized, focusing on on national borders environmental regulations practical sessions, while team directors of related departments and overseas subsidiaries are invited to periodic Regulations on money exchange and transmittance, regulations on export training to form consensus on risk management. For heads of departments/divisions and executives, training Laws/ control, regulations on local materials and corporate usage, high regulatory measures are established in the form of meetings to enable intensified communication for cooperation among Regulations levels, lack of laws/institutions, occurrence of local labor issues, departments. environmental regulations For overseas subsidiaries, global strategy meetings are organized for heads and country managers of overseas Failure to secure raw material gases, failure to secure clients, drop in subsidiaries on a yearly basis to overcome the crisis of low oil prices and achieve qualitative growth in overseas Market product prices, stagnant demand in sales areas projects. In global strategy meetings, strong performance by subsidiaries is evaluated on the risk management FX risks/Money exchange risks, PF operations of overseas subsidiaries which are dispersed on each continent, and best practices are selected to and management capabilities, issues Finance in accounting/taxation, issues in remind attendees of the importance of risk management and provide an environment for mutual training. insurance Unfavorable business contracts with Evaluation and Remuneration a government (or a company) of a Contract target country, unfavorable contract conditions among enterprises, unfair EPC contracts, unfair SPA contracts Overseas subsidiaries are evaluated once a year to improve the performance of risk management and Non-fulfilment of contractual management operations in overseas business. Risk profiles of each project and performance level of the selfobligations of operators (participating Partner companies), poor management of checklists are evaluated on a quarterly basis. The adequacy of establishing and implementing plans to manage business by operators, problematic Companies communication among business core risks are qualitatively evaluated. Evaluation of subsidiaries is conducted for entire members including the participants, payment default of customers president of each overseas subsidiary. The risk management performance of subsidiaries is measured, and the Technology Excess of capex than planned, low performance of facilities, process performance pay of their members is differentially paid based on the evaluation results. delay, insufficient technical analysis Risk Management of Overseas Projects Performance of long-term overseas projects is not generated over the short term, and they are significantly impacted by external conditions. KOGAS manages such factors as ‘emerging risks.’ We establish response strategies by scenario and make due responses based on the outlook of external institutions regarding risks of target countries. In addition, we have developed and utilize the ‘risk checklist’ for business departments to identify risks in target countries. Regulations on the obligations of local investigations upon conducting business evaluation are prescribed, thereby intensifying country risk management in the procedure to manage overseas risks. Investment Risk Committee The purpose of the Investment Risk Committee is to identify in advance risks that may occur in new or modified projects and establish a system to devise protocols. The committee is an independent organization from business units and reviews risks in 5 areas – nation, economic feasibility, technology, and operation, and the results of deliberation are important reference data for business evaluations. Investment Management System We run an investment management system to increase the efficiency of risk management and manage risks related to strategies. The investment management system enables perusing and analyzing the current status and risks of all overseas projects underway. The current status of overseas investment projects and businessspecific risks can be shared company-wide through the system. We are also equipped with a system to establish strategies in consideration of related risks upon setting long-term strategies. 69 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 System for Ethical and Integrity Management System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies KOGAS suggests four strategic directions and relevant tasks for action to realize ‘Clean KOGAS’ under the vision of ‘realizing clean and transparent global principle-based management.’ We ensure such commitment to ethics and integrity to be internalized by all employees, and we reflect them throughout corporate management. System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies Ethical and Ethical Vision Realization of Clean and Transparent Global Management with Integrity Integrity Ethical Goals Clean KOGAS Fulfilling Social Responsibilities with Ethical Management Management Goals in 2017 Creation of trusted KOGAS ethics culture through participation and communication Implementation Strategies Establish Strengthen Consensus Strengthen participatory ethical practice expansion, ethical systems ethical activities and evaluation, and and norms management education feedback system Implementation • ‌Management of various • ‌Establish an ethical • ‌Implement customized • ‌Spread CEO's Tasks regulations such as management portal ethics education commitment to ethics Code of Ethics and • ‌Integrity ethics mileage • ‌Hold a quiz contest • ‌Self-diagnosis of Code of Conduct system (1 ethical about integrity – ethical management • ‌Abolition of the behavior for each Challenge! Integrity by employees customary giftmonth campaign) Golden Bell • ‌Evaluation of the level receiving practice • ‌Integrity camp for of ethical management and running the giftintegrity leaders’ returning center training •R  einforcement of the • ‌Phone call etiquette reporting management campaign system of outside lectures and meetings • ‌Dispatch Ethics Letter (newsletter) Ethical Management Code Operational regulations on Code of Actions of Our Promise Integrity Rules for Code of Ethics the agreement of KOGAS’ Employees 30 Executives executives' integrity on work A standard of values and actions A standard of actions for employA specific code of actions for emRegularization of executives’ duty A standard of conduct for execufor employees to practice transees to abide by to form a corpoployees to abide by in engaging for integrity on work and responsitives to create a corporate culture parent principle-based managerate culture of anti-corruption and in cooperation of work with colbilities during their term of office, of integrity ment required of a clean energy integrity leagues and related departments and punishment for violation corporation and relationships with stakeholders, etc. Organization in Charge KOGAS has established a responsible organization in order to secure momentum for ethical management. The organization in charge of ethical management oversees formulates and revises the code of ethics and establishes and operates a program for actions, and it periodically evaluates and monitors ethical management to measure the implementation and improvement level. Moreover, we also develop training sessions and materials on ethics, and we provide ethics counseling for ethical decision-making and conflict resolution. 70 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Formation of a Culture of Ethics and Integrity Facilitate the Whistleblowing System KOGAS operates an internal and external system for reporting through various channels to fundamentally block illegal acts by facilitating the whistleblowing system. We adopted ‘KOGAS-Whistle,’ a system for counseling with a lawyer and whistleblowing at the same time, thereby facilitating the system by guaranteeing whistleblowers’ anonymity and position and enabling better access to whistleblowing through counseling. KOGAS’ Reporting System Number of cases reported Improper solicitation Intranet reporting channel for employees who have received improper Internal reporting reporting center solicitation 2015 channel 30 Internal reporting center Intranet reporting channel for reporting corruption and public interest 2016 51 Reporting by name Integrated operation with National Ombudsman 2017 External reporting 52 channel Anonymous reporting Integrated operation with the external reporting system (Unit: case) Ethics and Integrity Internalization Program KOGAS operates ethics and integrity education programs utilizing on-line and off-line methods to promote a Comprehensive Level of the sense of ethics in employees. We held 'Challenge! Integrity Golden Bell' a quiz contest about ethical norms Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission for all employees to participate and share consensus about ethics. In addition, we publish various ethics2015 related news items such as monthly major activities related to ethics and integrity, amendments to ethics rules, 7.44 business office activities, and CEO messages, and send them to employees every month by email. 2016 7.89 Furthermore, we built 'Cheongahan' an ethics management portal. The portal includes the CEO's 2017 commitment, introduction of ethics management activities, a campaign for 1 ethical behavior for each month, 7.49 an ethics discussion room, visits to memorial integrity sites, and activities by department/division/business office, and is used as a platform of ethics and integrity activities allowing all employees to communicate and (Unit: point) participate. Ethics and Integrity Education Program NO Anti-Corruption Initiative Targets Methods Content Assessment • Education about improper solicitation prohibition law, reporting corruption and public 2015 2016 2017 Executive staff Collective interest reporters (82%, 196 people completed) Fair Excellent Fair (Grade 3) (Grade 2) (Grade 3) Employees of overseas • Prevention of integrity blind spots and integrity training in content tailored to overseas Collective subsidiaries subsidiaries (three subsidiaries) • Case-centered cyber education (2 times, 99% completed), visiting education about Collective, integrity for business offices (15) All employees online • Challenge! Integrity Golden Bell: Company-wide quiz contest based on the Code of Conduct (reported by Yonhap News and other 24 news media) Self-Diagnosis of Ethical Levels Integrity Ethics Mileage System We encourage voluntary participation of all employees by linking various ethics activities with the mileage 2015 88.5 system. The records of 1 ethical behavior for each month campaign, visits to memorial sites, education 2016 program attendance, participation in contests, etc. are converted into ethical mileage, and the best employees 89.2 2017 and departments are rewarded at the end of the month or at the end of the year. The average mileage earned 90.2 per employee in 2017 is 54 points. (Unit: point) Semi-Auditor System For each department and division, KOGAS has selected one semi-auditor who is responsible for monitoring the overall implementation process of projects and assisting in regular audits. In 2017, a total of 53 semi-auditors were selected and assigned practical roles to perform regular audits and self-audits of business offices. 71 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Principle of Human Rights Management KOGAS formulated and declared the ‘Charter on Human Rights Management’ in April 2017 to establish a system for human rights management that fulfills international standards and to raise reliability in domestic and international markets, thereby contributing to sustainability management. We implemented internal and external promotions proactively on the ‘Charter on Human Rights Management’ to spread consensus among all employees and create a culture for human rights. These efforts were shared on KOGAS’ official website and the in-house portal, via email for all employees, SNS (Facebook), and in the newspaper. In addition, all employees signed the ‘Pledge to Comply Human Rights with the Charter on Human Rights Management.’ We established diverse communication channels, endeavored to prevent violations of human rights, diversified the grievance handling system, and continuously conducted due Management diligence in order to put the Charter into action throughout the corporation. In 2018, KOGAS designated Human Rights Management Regulations to institutionalize our human rights management, and we reviewed KOGAS’ Charter on Human Rights Management in consultation with human rights experts and by collecting internal and external stakeholder opinions. As a result of these activities, we revised the ‘Charter on Human Rights Management’ in a way to further strengthen our commitment to protecting and respecting the human rights of employees by incorporating the international human rights standards that our employees should comply with and providing provisions for remedies for human rights violations. Furthermore, KOGAS joined the UN Global Compact in 2007, an international agreement prescribing global corporate social responsibilities. We announced that we will sincerely implement the ten principles in four areas as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. We express our endorsement for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through the Sustainability Report on a yearly basis. Identification of Risks for Human Rights KOGAS evaluated 38 items in 10 areas according to the checklist of human rights management: establishment of the human rights management system; non-discrimination in employment; guarantee of freedom of association and collective bargaining; prohibition of forced labor; prohibition of child labor; guarantee of industrial safety; responsible management of the supply chain; human rights protection of local residents; guarantee of environmental rights; and human rights protection of consumers. The results were overall favorable and satisfying. The results of identification are disclosed through corporate-wide notices and posting to the e-bulletin board, etc. and include information on classes neglected by KOGAS, areas to be improved, and potential risks, etc. In addition, we preemptively introduced, in 2018, the standard manual for human rights management published by National Human Rights Commission of Korea as a part of our efforts to maintain human rights management and established our own checklists for evaluating the impact of organizational operation and major projects on human rights. The checklist, which originally evaluated 38 agencies in 10 categories, was upgraded by adding three more categories of protecting information rights, protecting women’s rights and maternity rights, and protecting employees’ human rights for 190 agencies. In addition, we established an additional checklist of 58 major projects in 4 categories based on our ‘terminal division operation’ project. We will conduct human rights impact evaluation with the enhanced checklist in the second half of 2018. Rate of identifying human rights risks in KOGAS’ management activities and Plans and Measures to Mitigate Human Rights Risks rate of taking actions Strengthen Management of the ‘Responsible Supply Chain Management’ Area 100% Total rate of evaluation for the past three years Potential risks in the area of ‘responsible supply chain management’ (suppliers) have been identified based on the evaluation results from the risk checklist. Accordingly, the ‘Special Instructions to Bidders on Integrity Agreements’ and ‘Pledge to Perform Integrity Agreement’ to be signed with suppliers were amended in December 26% Rate of risks identified among those evaluated 2015. The amendments included the following provisions. We need to strive for supply of goods that comply with related laws on human rights protection and protection of human rights for personnel that execute and perform Rate of application of complementary/imupon contracts. Furthermore, we are to follow corrective actions for human rights violations in the event that provement measures among those identified they occur, and we additionally included a provision in the documents to enable reporting to an investigative 100% risks agency, if necessary. A client (the head of a department in charge of a construction work) must take actions upon regulatory violation through due diligence of the compensation and the safety and health status of laborers as well Standard of calculating the reporting rate as of the labor environment through biannual subcontracting reviews in accordance with KOGAS’ ‘Guideline on Number of employees Subcontracting Management.’ If actions are not continuously taken, penalties will be imposed to suppliers, which (100%) might act as a disadvantage when they are to enter to bid upon another construction project. 72 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Complement the ‘Establishing a Human Rights Management System’ Area Seeking to improve the area of ‘establishing a human rights management system,, we took these actions for improvement and complementation: establishing KOGAS’ Charter on Human Rights Management and human rights management regulations, periodically disclosing results, and launching a department in charge of human rights management (Innovative Culture Team). KOGAS’ Charter on Human Rights Management KOGAS’ Charter of Human Rights Management We strive to achieve our mission to enhance benefits for people’s lives and realize welfare in energy by supplying natural gases securely and stably to the public in pursuit of ‘Better Energy, Better Tomorrow.’ We pursue ‘implementation of a non-discriminating fair society’ and ‘human rights management that places people as the top priority.’ To this end, we declare the ‘KOGAS’ Charter on Human Rights Management’ as a standard for taking proper actions and making proper value-based decisions for employees in order to enhance respect for humans and raise values in all our management activities, reflecting international human rights standards including the ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP)’ and the 10 principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNSG), and we pledge to take necessary actions as follows: We respect and support international and domestic standards which support values such as human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We do not discriminate against any stakeholder including employees for reasons of race, religion, disability, gender, place of birth, or political opinion, etc. We guarantee freedom of association and collective bargaining to protect the rights of employees. We prohibit all forms of forced labor and child labor. We enhance industrial safety and health by creating a safe and hygienic working environment. We strive for win-win development with suppliers, and we support and cooperate with them for them to practice human rights management. We respect and protect the human rights of local residents in the areas where we do business. We comply with local and overseas environmental laws and strive to prevent the occurrence of environmental damage. We strive to ensure that our business operations do not harm public safety, and we protect personal information collected for business purposes and ensure customer’s rights to access information. We provide prompt and appropriate remedies for human rights violations that occur in business activities. We pledge that we will strive to protect the human rights of all stakeholders including employees, and we do our best to establish and spread human rights management. Employees of KOGAS 73 Appendix Performance Summary Prizes and Awards/Memberships Supply Chain Management Third Party’s Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Sustainability Initiative Subsidiaries and Invested Companies Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Performance Summary Major Economic Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Performance* Revenues KRW 100 million 260,527 211,081 221,723 (Consolidated Financial Sheets) Operating income KRW 100 million 9,719 9,982 10,339 Net income (loss) KRW 100 million 2,920 △6,125 △11,917 *Certain discrepancies from data released in the Sustainability Report 2017 were due to the resettlement of accounts Major Financial Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Indicators* Increase rate in revenues % △30.13 △18.98 5.04 (Consolidated Financial Sheets) Growth potential Increase rate in net income % △34.71 △309.75 94.58 Return on Assets (ROA) % 0.65 △1.49 △3.09 Profitability Return on Equity (ROE) % 2.95 △6.31 △14.03 Current ratio % 175.40 155.82 115.05 Stability Debt ratio % 320.72 322.70 356.24 Capital ratio % 23.77 23.66 21.92 Productivity Productivity of capital % 6.47 5.64 5.15 *Certain discrepancies from data released in the Sustainability Report 2017 were due to the resettlement of accounts Summary of Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Consolidated Financial Current assets KRW 100 million 100,482 86,580 75,822 Statement* Assets Non-current assets KRW 100 million 323,707 313,840 295,572 (Consolidated Financial Sheets) Total assets KRW 100 million 424,189 400,420 371,394 Current liabilities KRW 100 million 57,287 55,562 65,904 Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW 100 million 266,078 250,127 224,086 Total liabilities KRW 100 million 323,365 305,689 289,990 Paid-in capital KRW 100 million 17,651 17,651 17,651 Others KRW 100 million 83,173 75,953 60,482 Shareholders’ Equity attributable to shareholders KRW 100 million 100,824 93,604 78,133 equity of the corporation (subtotal) Non-controlling interests KRW 100 million 1,127 3,271 Total shareholders’ equity KRW 100 million 100,824 94,731 81,404 *Certain discrepancies from data released in the Sustainability Report 2017 were due to the resettlement of accounts R&D Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 R&D investment expenses KRW 100 million 425 719 679 Technological patents (accumulated) Number of cases 307 347 378 Generation and Stakeholders Calculation Criteria Unit 2015 2016 2017 Distribution of Expenses for purchasing goods Suppliers KRW 100 million 3,569 2,983 2,705 Economic Value from SMEs Employee wages and welfare Employees KRW 100 million 3,164 3,480 3,848 benefits Government Corporate tax KRW 100 million 298 3,542 3,032 Donations and social contribution Community KRW 100 million 207 183 171 activity expenses Customers Revenues KRW 100 million 260,527 211,081 221,723 Creditors Interest KRW 100 million 7,764 8,408 8,295 75 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Greenhouse Gas Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Emissions Total GHG emissions tCO2e 502,988 525,573 623,639 Direct emissions tCO2e 150,711 166,283 263,068 Indirect emissions tCO2e 352,277 359,290 360,571 Amount of Energy Usage Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total amount of energy usage* TJ 10,189 10,651 12,624 Direct energy TJ 2,965 3,248 5,187 Indirect energy TJ 7,224 7,414 7,442 * There is a difference between the sum of direct and indirect amount of usage and the actual sum based on the standard to calculate GHG emissions by site (on decimal point handling) in the National Greenhouse Gas Management System. Total Energy Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Consumption Non-renewable energy fuel purchased and consumed for MWh 818,055 902,222 1,440,833 energy use Purchased non-renewable electricity MWh 750,701 765,337 769,532 Purchase of steam/heating/cooling and other energy MWh 16,944 18,333 13,611 Purchase or production of renewable energy MWh 2,152 2,059 3,249 Total non-renewable energy consumption MWh 1,585,545 1,686,666 2,223,976 Total energy consumption cost KRW 88,413,882,367 92,406,114,233 110,585,545,150 Amount of Water Usage* Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total amount of water usage m3 1,581,999,173 1,572,304,237 1,241,908,454 Seawater m3 1,581,500,930 1,571,859,597 1,241,441,822 Water supply m3 491,108 436,182 459,130 Underground water m 3 7,135 8,458 7,502 * Differences from figures presented in the previous report were due to errors in water supply and other water usage units. Emission of Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Environmental Pollutants Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 31,456 32,773 32,162 Amount of emissions kg 256,230 278,257 212,995 NOx Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 8.15 8.49 6.62 Amount of emissions kg 689 749 1,175 Air pollution SOx Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.02 0.02 0.04 Amount of emissions kg 2,191 2,363 3,548 Dust Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.07 0.07 0.11 Amount of emissions kg 125.3 124.2 55.9 BOD Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.004 0.004 0.002 Water Amount of emissions kg 71.8 48.6 61.3 COD pollution Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0023 0.002 0.002 Amount of emissions kg 236.3 139.5 124.5 SS Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0075 0.0043 0.0039 General tons 967 3,300 547 Designated tons 429 198 53 Waste Construction tons 411,583 290,394 83,679 Amount of emissions tons 412,979 293,892 84,279 Total Basic unit tons/1,000 tons 13.13 8.97 2.62 76 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Amount of Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Chemicals Used Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 31,456 32,773 32,162 Amount of use kg 333,427 142,358 91,620 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 10.60 4.34 2.85 Risks and Opportunities There has been a greater interest in measures to address climate change because of the continuous increase in carbon emissions – the of Climate Change cause for global warming – and due to the Paris Agreement. In Korea, directions to convert fuels for power generation (including coal) are positively reviewed, and the role of natural gas (LNG) – a low-carbon emitting fuel – is expected to play an intensified role as an intermediary fuel, which may be an opportunity for KOGAS. Furthermore, KOGAS’ initiation to diversify our business into new and renewable energy sectors including hydrogen energy and LNG bunkering business is expected to significantly contribute to higher revenues and KOGAS’ financial structure. Meanwhile, KOGAS is aware of the necessity of the CDM business, while exploring businesses for reducing emissions. Some of the businesses cover a need to procure emission credits as the amount of allocation by the government is reduced by phase (including the amount of paid allocation), and also the need to improve facilities to control procurement costs. Currently, we have established measures to respond to climate change by selecting and analyzing a list of risks for each climate impact factor (including heat waves, cold waves, heavy rain, heavy snow, strong winds, rise in sea levels, etc.) affecting gas facilities, and we prevent and prepare for risks through continuous performance evaluation. Seeking to proactively respond to climate change risks, KOGAS runs the Climate Change/Energy Committee and the Working-Level Committee for devising plans for climate change response and energy management, etc. We also respond to climate change throughout the corporation by devising indicators to evaluate the compliance of the allocated amount of GHG emission in each terminal division and regional division and their efforts to save energy. Violation of Environmental Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Laws and Regulations Violation of statutory obligations/regulations Number of times 0 0 0 Amount of penalty KRW 0 0 0 Performance in the Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 BOD Operation Number of times BOD meetings have been held Number of times 15 17 14 Number of Agenda items agreed upon 50 46 40 agenda items Pre-deliberation rate % 81 95 86 Number of Revised agreed-upon agenda items 2(4) 1(2) 0(0) agenda items (%) Number of Reported agenda items 28 29 21 agenda items BOD attendance rate % 80 82 81 Attendance rate of non-executive % 76* 79 77 Substance of statements /motions delivered by non% 55 56 68 executive directors *79% stated in the Sustainability Report 2017 is a typo and has been corrected to 76%. 77 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Status of Labor Union We provide prior written notifications on changes in corporate management: changes in the Articles of Incorporation and the Membership organization, amendment or abolition of regulations on labor conditions, shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors associated with rights of union members, and agenda items proposed to the Management Committee and their results. All these matters are stipulated in the collective agreements. Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Number of labor union members Number of employees 3,017 3,186 3,242 Labor union membership rate % 86 86.1 84.7 Occupational Health The portion of workers represented by the Joint Labor-Management Health and Safety Committee (total number as of the end of 2017: and Safety 3,742, number of employees on sites: 2,759). Topics for consultation include establishing preventive plans against industrial accidents and matters regarding safety/healthcare measures following the adoption of hazardous/risky machinery and equipment in accordance with Article 19 of Occupational Safety and Health Act and Article 25.2 of Enforcement Decree of the same law. We perform a health checkup once a year for employees to prevent occupational diseases, along with a once-a-year special health check-ups for shift workers and private police guards. 2016 2017 Type Unit Number Note Number Note 1 case of fracture due to a Injury rate* % 0.029 0 fall Rate of taking number of time% 0.1 Sick leave of 901 days 0.13 Sick leave of 1,330 days off leave** Rate of absenteeism % 0 0 Number of Number of occupational deaths 0 0 employees *Rate of the injured out of 100 **Average working hours of 40 per individual/week X 52 weeks Status of Suppliers Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Number of major partner companies Number of companies 82 85 93 Procurement Contracts Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 with Suppliers Purchases of SME products KRW 100 million 3,569 2,983 2,705 Ratio of purchases of SME products % 26.7 28.1 29.1 Support for SMEs’ Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Competitiveness Number of cases Cases 20 18 22 Joint R&D Participating companies Number of companies 20 18 21 R&D budget KRW 100 million 22.2 10.0 17 Training for technical/research Number of people 70 180 Training for personnel employees On-the-job training Number of people 8 16 in smalland medium-sized On-line training Number of people 28 37 40 suppliers Subtotal Number of people 106 37 236 Customer Satisfaction Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Public-Service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Grade (points) A(93.7) S(94.9) A(94.4) Product and Service KOGAS supplies natural gases as products, and we disclose to customers and on our website the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Information and Labeling which explains hazardousness, risks, emergency tips, and handling procedures for the materials supplied. These are supplied pursuant to Article 41 of the Industrial Safety and Health Act, Article 37.2 of its Enforcement Decree, and Article 92.2~10 of its Enforcement Rule. KOGAS did violate related rules and regulations in 2017. 78 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Status of Employees Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total Employees Number of employees 3,497 3,626 3,752 Regular (Including the executive Number of employees 3,460 3,605 3,742 Employment type director) Non-regular Number of employees 37 21 10 Under 30s Number of employees 1,205 1,347 1,410 Distribution of employees by age In 40s Number of employees 1,603 1,578 1,527 bracket Above 50s Number of employees 652 701 815 Number of employees Female employees 350(10.1) 390(10.8) 412(11.0) (%) Female employees Number of employees Female managers 5(0.14) 37(1.03) 4(0.11) (%) Persons with disabilities Number of employees 108 131 122 Distribution of High school graduates Number of employees 547.5 497 521 personnel based on social equity People of national merit Number of employees 331 356 367 Local human talent Number of employees 1,640 1,749 1,756 Persons with disabilities Number of employees 15 8 3 Female employees Number of employees 13 52 32 New recruits based High school graduates Number of employees 29 69 28 on social equity People of national merit Number of employees 18 26 11 Local human talent Number of employees 65 27.5 72 ※ Data produced based on the All Public Information In-One Status of Training for Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Employees Investment expenses for education and training KRW million 9,371 8,364 8,660 Education hours per person Number of hours 135 102 114 Education training expenses per person KRW 1,000 2,654 2,382 2,530 Employees’ Rate of Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Return to Work After Childcare applicants Number of employees 23 46 26 Parental Leave Male employees applying for paternity leave Number of employees 2 2 8 Post-parental leave return rate % 100 92 100 Employees’ Performance All employees are subject to periodic self-review and review by supervisor on job performance and career development, which is Evaluation managed in the system, except for dispatched workers or long-term trainees. Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Rate of application of performance evaluation % 96.2 96.5 96.0 Employees’ Retirement We support employees and their families to prepare for stable post-retirement life by operating a retirement pensions program. By Management offering both defined benefit (DB) plans and defined contribution (DC) plans, we give opportunities to employees to select a plan based on their preference. We run a program to offer educational subsidies to support post-retirement life for eligible applicants for wage peak system (KRW 2 million per individual). The program operates in the form of commissioned training where trainees design a course themselves and take it. Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Amount of assets under management KRW 100 million 1,664 2,566 2,494 Retirement pension Number of participants Number of employees 3,518 3,640 3,666 Retirement age Number of employees 21 0 0 Retired employees Voluntary retirement Number of employees 8 10 18 79 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Cases of Anti-Corruption We periodically monitor all sites and all business activities by establishing an internal compliance system. In addition, we operate an internal and Violations whistleblowing (reporting) system, and we prevent corruption and management risks through advisory and supervisory activities including the Integrity Ombudsman and integrity auditors. The routine inspection system operates as follows to prevent and strengthen control over cases of key corruption and management risks. Risks of collective Risks of incompetent Risks of budget waste Moral hazard risks Key management agenda selfishness control Risks of false reporting, 82 risks + 9 risks + 19 risks + 60 risks + etc. Comprehensive and Auditing system + Auditing system + special auditing + Daily auditing + Prior review of agenda Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Number of cases Cases of anti-corruption law violations 1(1) 1(22) 3(3)* (Number of employees) * 1 case of malpractice (discharge), 2 cases of receiving entertainment (discharge, dismissal) Employee Training on Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Human Rights Policies Completion of ethics training Number of employees 1,624 3,144 3,422 and Procedures Completion of on-line training on the code of conduct Number of employees 3,237 5,980 6,877 Social Contribution Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Activities Total volunteering hours Number of hours 74,593 34,711 45,093 Volunteering hours per person Number of hours 21.2 9.4 14.4 Discounts for gas fees KRW 100 million 735 768 835 Creating Jobs through Business cost Number of jobs Type Note Social Contribution (KRW 100 million) (persons) Projects (2017) Onnuri heating efficiency improvement project 19.6 30 Number of construction workers (energy assistance) participating in the project Self-Sufficiency Program for the Homeless 1.5 14 Actual number of people employed (architecture academy) Operation of social contribution buses 0.9 1 1 bus driver New operation of the toy library (2 places) 1.4 2 1 social worker/toy library Rehabilitation assistance equipment (R-BANK) 0.7 1 Actual number of people employed operating personnel Mozambique technical school 0.7 2 Actual number of people employed Personnel in charge of Onnuri projects 0.8 3 Actual number of people employed Subtotal 25.6 53 Amount of Contribution Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total contribution amount (lobby group, interest KRW 5,107,753,500 4,452,000,260 3,909,700,000 representations, or similar organizations) Top Five Sources of Type Unit 2016 2017 Contributions Corporate Partnership Foundation KRW 408,545,000 404,700,000 Foundation for Overseas Resources Development KRW 610,000,000 610,000,000 Korea Energy Agency KRW 900,000,000 700,000,000 Korea Energy Economics Institute KRW 900,000,000 700,000,000 Korea Gas Union Corp. KRW 950,000,000 700,000,000 Total KRW 3,768,545,000 3,114,700,000 * KOGAS provides contributions for the development of related associations but does not offer any direct or indirect political donations. 80 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Prizes and Awards/Memberships Awards and Certifications Titles of awards Organized by Year Prime Minister’s Award for Early Supply of Natural Gas in Saemangeum District Jeonbuk Office for Government Policy Coordination 2017 Regional Headquarters Prime Minister’s Award in Korea Energy Efficiency Award – Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Korea Energy Agency 2017 Grand Prize in Social Contribution Sector Daegu Metropolitan City 2017 Korea CSR Film Festival – Minister’s Prize Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 2016 Selection as the best contractor for construction disaster prevention Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency 2016 Ranked top in national infrastructure disaster management evaluation Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2016 1st Place in Best Companies to Work GWP KOREA 2016 Certification as an excellent company in Standard Service Quality Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 2016 Ministerial Award of Trade, Industry, and Energy in the Energy Voucher Business Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 2016 Prime Ministerial Commendation commemorating 2016 World Standards Day 2016 Prime Ministerial Award in Korea Safety Award Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs 2016 Integrated ISO certifications (ISO 8001, ISO 14001, ISO 29001, OHSAS 18001) KOGAS, British Standards Institution (BSI) 2016 Acquisition of the highest level (excellence) in Evaluation of Customer Satisfaction Level of Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2015 Public Corporations (for nine consecutive years) Designation as an excellent institution in security equipment for major national facilities – National Intelligence Service 2015 Tongyeong Terminal Division Korea Energy Environment Award – Chungcheong District Division Ministry of Environment 2015 Collective Ministerial Commendation of Trade, Industry, and Energy in energy saving and Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy 2015 efficiency improvement – Gyeonggi District Division Award for Person of Merit for Sharing in 2015 by Gyeonggi Province – Gyeonggi District Division Gyeonggi Provincial Government 2015 Korean National Sharing Award (Minister of Health and Welfare) – Jeonbuk District Division Ministry of Health and Welfare 2015 2015 Korea Energy Environment Award – Chungcheong District Division Ministry of Environment 2015 Designation as an excellent institution in integrated defense for major national facilities Ministry of National Defense 2015 (prime ministerial award) – Incheon Terminal Division Designation as an excellent institution in joint evaluation of disaster management in the Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2015 national infrastructure system List of Memberships (As of June 2018) Title of organization Year of enrollment The Korea Gas Union 1985 WEC Korean Member Committee 1985 GIIGNL (International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers) 1985 SIGTTO (the Society of International Gas Tanker and Terminal Operators) 1990 Environment Preservation Association (KOGAS Pyeongtaek Terminal Division) 1997 UN Global Compact 2007 Energy and Mineral Resources Development Association of Korea 2008 Korea-Japan Economic Association 2013 Green Company Council (KOGAS Incheon Terminal Division) 2013 2013 Korean-American Association 2014 Korea Indonesia Partnership Council 2014 IGU (International Gas Union) 2014 81 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Supply Chain Management Code of Conduct for Suppliers KOGAS formulated a code of conduct for suppliers to strengthen compliance management and create the backbone of shared growth. The code of conduct suggests standards for suppliers to abide by on the environment, human rights, safety and health, and ethics. These are for secondary and lower-tier suppliers to abide by that are in transaction with employees and agents of suppliers and the suppliers themselves. KOGAS recommends that they comply with legal requirements, through provisions in the code of conduct and requirements in transaction agreements. We expect that compliance to the code of conduct by suppliers will help both KOGAS and suppliers gain global competitiveness. Target of self-evaluation Suppliers of KOGAS rate for companies registered for major KOGAS’ suppliers are classified into two types: construction work and major equipment and materials*. The category of construction equipment and materials work is comprised of 129 companies engaged in the construction of production and supply facilities and maintenance work, and the 100% category of major equipment and materials contains 101 companies that are registered to supply components that are essential to produce and supply natural gases. (2018) *Major equipment and materials (8 types): valves, insulated joints, metering equipment, gas leakage alarms, control equipment, static pressure equipment, uninterruptible power units, and equipment such as explosion proofs Status of KOGAS’ Suppliers in 2017 Procurement ratio of core Total procurement cost of Primary suppliers Key primary suppliers* primary suppliers out of total primary suppliers procurement cost 193 companies 53 companies KRW 760,629,894,262 54.47% * Number of large-scale construction companies with more than KRW 5 billion (construction service area) + Number of companies that won contracts in 2017 among registered suppliers of major equipment (major equipment) Strategies for Supply Chain Management KOGAS establishes strategies and direction for managing the supply chain for suppliers, and we devise environmental, social, and governance (ESG) targets aligned with them. In addition, we reflect such ESG elements in the decision-making process of selecting and retaining suppliers. For construction work, we impose penalties depending on KOSHA 18001 certification, accident rate, and history of disciplinary records based on statutory decrees on the environment during pre-qualification (PQ) inspection. Candidates’ personal positions take up 1.2 points (3%) out of the total score of 40 in the performance ability evaluation in evaluating bidding. Such an evaluation is conducted as a complete survey on construction work of over KRW 5 billion. For major equipment and materials, acquisition of ISO 9001 certification is required of companies that are registered for major equipment and materials and those wishing to be newly registered. Companies that do not have the certification are eliminated from the complete survey and periodic evaluation (3 years) and routine evaluation (1 year). Strategies for Supply Chain Management Quality Technological capability Continuity Delivery Transparency in selection Confirmation of technological Mandatory clarification of capability including designing Confirmation of Confirmation of actual Acquisition of sufficient quality acquisition of ISO 9001, and manufacturing by management crises manufacturing capability, etc. by implementing competitive KOSHA 18001 certification confirming the records of (merger, integration, etc.) through due diligence bidding goods supply Key ESG Targets KOSHA 18001 Certification ISO 9001 Certification Imposition of credits on KOSHA 18001 certified companies to bolster safety and Acquisition of manufacturing capability for major equipment and materials for health activities of suppliers so that industrial accidents on construction sites may suppliers, and adequate quality by establishing a quality control system be reduced 82 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Management of Risks in the Supply Chain KOGAS is equipped with a process to distinguish potential sustainability risks within the supply chain, and suppliers with high risks, based on evaluation results, are subject to suspension of qualification and requests to make improvements. Construction Work Major Equipment and Materials Identification 1. An official process to identify potential risks when bidders participate in 1. An official process to identify potential risks of companies registered for of Risks bidding for construction work major equipment and materials Applicable standards: Specific Standard [Guideline] for Qualification Applicable standards: [EHSQI-06401 Guideline on Registration and Inspection for Construction Work Management of Manufacturers of Major Equipment and Materials] 8. Content: Identifying risks in areas of personal position (accident rate, Monitoring and Measurement legal violations in safety and environment, and certification on safety, Content: Companies registered for major equipment and materials etc.) while conducting qualification/pre-qualification inspection for may be requested to undergo inspection and submit related documents. construction projects above a predetermined threshold When issues which are critical to management occur or reasons to restrict qualifications for participating in bidding take place, a special inspection might be conducted, or bidders may be required to submit documents. 2. Method of identification 2. Method of identification Direct evaluation at KOGAS based on applicable materials in each area For document evaluation and due diligence on sites, sanctions are predetermined by government agencies and subordinate institutions implemented, e.g. bidders’ qualification for registration are terminated (accident rate, etc.) upon identification of falsification of submitted documents, suspension of production, and severe defects in materials. Such findings are reported to top management internally, e.g. decisions made at the Working Level Committee and the Plenary Committee, and are notified to relevant companies. 3. Alignment with strategies for managing the supply chain 3. Alignment with strategies for managing the supply chain The probability of industrial accidents is very high, given the nature of sites (Evaluation of applicant companies for new registration) Site reviews for construction work. Therefore, companies with high potential risk are for companies are conducted to decide on their registration, including eliminated by identifying suppliers’ safety and health management status. technological ability, management status, and pilot product test. Potential sustainability risks are periodically evaluated and managed to prevent safety risks in advance, and then suppliers are added accordingly. As such, supply chain risks are managed and implemented for effective management. (Evaluation of pre-registered companies) The valid period for registration is renewed and managed through re-evaluation of technological ability, management status, and constraints, etc. Scope and Evaluation of personal position on the intensity of sustainability risks in The intensity of sustainability risks on major equipment and materials is an Objectives of construction work is subject to items for review, and for the bidders with essential factor. Acquisition of ISO 9001 certification is identified and soundness Evaluation such high risk, the risks are defined as high sustainability risks. and technical ability (designing/manufacturing ability, and remedy of defects, etc.) of the quality management system is referred to for evaluation. 1. Integrity as construction companies: penalties 2. Construction accidents and administrative sanctions Accident rate, track records of violating the purpose of using the industrial safety and health management cost, track records of violating the duty to report on occurrence of industrial accidents, track records on punishment pursuant to environmental laws and regulations, acquisition of KOSHA 18001 certification Methods of Risk We evaluate sustainability risks of suppliers by biannually measuring For companies registered for major equipment and materials, we organize Management penalties for large construction work of KRW 5 billion or higher. The penalties the Working Level and Plenary Committees for evaluating major equipment are measured through evaluation of industrial accidents of suppliers, safety and materials to impose corporate sanctions. Once sanctions are determined, and health management methods, and track records, and the results are they are notified to companies, by requesting them to making improvement reflected in follow-up construction contracts. and reflecting the integrity in maintenance for follow-up evaluations in the evaluation of personal position. Quality inspections are performed for initial order volume after sanctions were imposed, if necessary. 83 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Third Party’s Assurance Statement Preface KFQ was engaged by Korea Gas Corporation (further ‘KOGAS’) to provide limited assurance on the ‘KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018’ (further ‘the Report’). Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted its assurance based on completeness of the data and information provided by KOGAS. KOGAS is responsible for all contents within the Report including the reporting principles and standards. Independence KFQ is not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing an assurance opinion, and there has been no interest between KOGAS and us. We have no biased opinion on stakeholders of KOGAS. Assurance Standards KFQ has designed and implemented assurance according to the following standards. • AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) • AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) • GRI Standards • UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) • UN GC(Global Compact) Assurance Scope KFQ identified the followings as its scope: • KOGAS’s sustainable management activities and performances of the headquarter and all domestic business establishment described in the Report • Compliance with the guidelines according to GRI Standards Core Option • GRI Standards compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality • Application of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA1000 APS (2008) and AA1000 AS (2008) to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information. The term ‘Moderate Assurance’ used in AA 1000 AS is designed to be consistent with ‘Limited Assurance’ as articulated in ISAE 3000. • The link between the core subjects and the UN SDGs • The link between KOGAS’s sustainable activities and the UNGC Assurance Procedures KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of the Report's critical errors or inaccurate information. We verified the reliability of the contents, processes and systems of data generation and report preparation. • Document Review We reviewed the reliability of non-financial data in respect of the ‘Sustainability’ by cross-checking the Report with GRI Standards, quantitative data of KOGAS, and internet & media research information. We also confirmed that the financial information has been appropriately extracted from the internal documents and the financial statements of the business report of the following system (http://dart.fss.or.kr). • On-site Verification We visited KOGAS headquarter and conducted on-site verification to confirm reliability of the sustainability activities and performance data contained in the Report and to evaluate the effectiveness of the reporting process. We performed verification in the accuracy topic of the aggregated data from KOGAS. These procedures included the following: Materiality assessment process, stakeholders inclusiveness, key issues, internal response procedures, and etc. Assessment of data analysis and descriptions and sustainable management performance in the Report Consistency between the financial data contained in the Report and the audited financial statements 2017 Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing information in the Report 84 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix • Resolution of Findings We confirmed that some errors, inaccurate information, and ambiguous expressions found during on-site visit were properly reflected in the final Report. • Limitations The Report has been prepared solely for KOGAS in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than KOGAS for our conclusions we have reached in the statement. Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information presented in the Report have inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Opinion Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that the Report meets the GRI Standards ‘Core Option’. According to the principles of AA1000 APS (2008) and AA1000 AS (2008), inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information were assessed and we could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: • (Stakeholders Inclusiveness) KOGAS subdivided four types and eleven stakeholders related to the major issues of sustainable management. To hear any concerns and opinions from them, KOGAS had a customized communication strategy for each stakeholder group and reflected their responses and opinions to its sustainable management activities. • (Sustainability Context) In terms of sustainability, KOGAS has established four strategic areas in accordance with KOGAS 2025 vision and has been making continuous efforts to establish a sustainable management system while considering environmental impacts. KOGAS has established a system for human rights risk assessment recently, and the evaluation results are reflected in sustainability management activities. This is an active commitment to human rights in the UNGC and ISO 26000 principles. • (Materiality) KOGAS established issue pools and reviewed by internal guidelines and external assessment criteria (GRI Standards guideline, DJSI, ISO 26000, UNGC, UN SDGs, media coverage, benchmark, and issue analysis) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. As a result, KOGAS appropriately reflected that ten key topics derived from the process along with key performance in 2017. • (Completeness) KOGAS applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. We confirm that the Report is suitable for stakeholders to assess sustainability performance. Recommendation for Improvement It is necessary to systematically report on continuous management and response to key issues raised by stakeholders for more sustainable management of KOGAS. In addition, we expect that human rights impact assessment through the newly established human rights risk checklist will be reflected in your sustainability management activities. It is recommended that future report will be systematically reported on the sustainable activities of various environmental topics related to climate change and environmental management. June 2018 Seoul, Korea CEO Nam Dae Hyun Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 85 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index GRI STANDARDS UNIVERSAL STANDARDS (GRI 100) Topic Disclosure Page/Comments 102-1 Name of the organization 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7, 8 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 102-4 Location of operations 6-7, 42-45 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8, 67 102-6 Markets served 6-7, 42-45 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 6-7, 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 8, 79 102-9 Supply chain 30-33, 82-83 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 56-62, 68-69 102-12 External initiatives 88-90 101-13 Membership of associations 81 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 70-71 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 66-67 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22-23 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 78 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22-23 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22-23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 22-23 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 91 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24-25 102-47 List of material topics 24-25 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI content index 86-87 102-56 External assurance 84-85 GRI STANDARDS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 200) Topic Disclosure Page/Comments 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 41 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16-17, 75 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 48, 59, 77 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 79 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 34-35, 49 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 34-35, 49 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 70-71 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 80 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 71 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 71 86 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix GRI STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (GRI 300) Topic Disclosure Page/Comments 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 18, 76 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 59, 77 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 18, 76 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 304-1 58 Biodiversity and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 58 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 19, 76 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 19, 76 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 19, 76 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 19, 76 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 77 GRI STANDARDS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (GRI 400) Topic Disclosure Page/Comments 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 41 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 79 401-3 Parental leave 79 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 55 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 403-1 78 safety committees Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 78 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 78 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 78 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 41 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 79 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 53 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 79 development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 66, 79 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 80 103 Management Approach(103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 27 Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 413-1 36-39 development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 82-83 Supplier Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 82-83 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 78 Marketing and Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 417-2 78 labeling Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and Customer Privacy 418-1 63 losses of customer data 87 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Initiative ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is the international guidance that standardizes the social responsibilities formulated and announced by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November 2011. It encompasses many existing guidelines on management integration as well as seven core subjects which span from ‘organizational governance,, ‘human rights,’ ‘labor practices,’ ‘environment,’ ‘fair management practices,’ and ‘consumer issues,’ to ‘local community engagement and development.’ We comply with ISO 26000 and continuously manage our implementation records. Matching Provision in ISO Core Subjects Issues Page 26000 Organizational Decision-making process and structure 6.2.3 66-67 Governance Due diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Grievance resolution 6.3.6 Human Rights 72-73 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Economic, social, and cultural rights 6.3.9 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protections 6.4.4 50-53, Labor Practices Social dialogue 6.4.5 60-62, 78 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Environment 56-59 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats 6.5.6 Anti–corruption 6.6.3 Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 70-71, Fair Management Fair competition 6.6.5 80, Practice 82-83 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information, and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Protection of consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 34-35, Consumer Issue Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.6 63 Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Access to essential services 6.7.8 Education and awareness 6.7.9 Active community involvement 6.8.3 Education and culture 6.8.4 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Local Community Engagement and Technology development and access 6.8.6 36-39 Development Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Health 6.8.8 Social investment 6.8.9 88 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs) The UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) address universal issues of humanity, environmental issues, and socio-economic issues as the largest common goals of the UN and the international community from 2016 to 2030. KOGAS maintains our corporate social responsibilities and ease of doing business by implementing strategic social contribution activities and by reviewing alignment with the UN SDGs and KOGAS’ social contribution strategies. KOGAS’ Strategies for Social Contribution UN SDGs Alignment HarOne Love Hope mony Heart Contribute to easing economic impoverishment and poverty through various forms of social contribution activities, including 1 Eradicate all forms of ○ ○ ○ providing city gas tariffs for the underprivileged at home and abroad, providing for medical fees, operating welfare facilities, poverty everywhere providing economic support for families in crisis, and supporting the underprivileged with stable housing Eradicate poverty, and promoting 2 Strive to eradicate poverty at home and abroad through continued support for Food for the Hungry International, Friend Asia, food security and sustainable ○ ○ and the Korean Red Cross agriculture Implement comprehensive and systematic health and welfare projects for various groups of people by age – children, adolescents, and the elderly – and by factors other than age – the homeless and residents of slums, etc. (guarantee healthy lives Guarantee a healthy life and 3 for the underprivileged and contribute to welfare improvement by providing for medical costs for severely ill pediatric patients promoting welfare for people of ○ ○ ○ in underprivileged households, giving assistance for rehabilitation equipment for disabled adolescents, supporting the elderly all ages by installing gas timer clocks, and running job placement programs for self-sufficiency and rehabilitation of the homeless and residents in slums) Continuously provide opportunities for high-quality comprehensive education and life-long learning through support for a Provide comprehensive high-quality educational environment by providing scholarships to children and adolescents in low-income households at 4 high-quality education and ○ ○ ○ home and abroad, improving the educational environment, and constructing the Toy Library and children’s playground; and life-long learning opportunities also through the operation of training programs on construction skills for fundamental self-sufficiency and rehabilitation of the homeless and residents in slums so they may be self-sufficient without financial support Implement activities as a part of KOGAS’ interest in gender equality by sponsoring facilities and households with single Achieve gender equality and 5 mothers (supporting their living environment through wall covering and replacement of flooring, providing emergency empower the rights of all women ○ ○ ○ living expenses for families in crisis to empower women’s rights, donating sanitary products to underprivileged women, and and girls providing for medical costs for severely ill women) Ensure the availability of water 6 Continuously perform environmental preservation activities including cleaning up rivers by running Onnuri Volunteer Groups, and sanitation and manage it ○ ○ ○ and support the project to improve a residential environment by improving the hygiene state of the underprivileged sustainably Provide modern types of energy Conduct business to stably and continuously provide cost-effective, clean, and natural gases by supporting energy cost reduction for 7 which are cost-effective, reliable, ○ the underprivileged, e.g. installation of fuel cells and gas-powered HVAC units in welfare facilities to save cooling and heating costs, and and sustainable for all implementing gas tariff reduction policies for the underprivileged Guarantee sustainable economic Perform business to generate demand to increase the usage of natural gases as clean, economical, and safe energy sources, 8 growth and high-quality jobs and ○ ○ and contribute to job creation and promotion of employment through the Architecture Academy (programs on construction employment skills and job placement) for the homeless and residents in slums Establish social infrastructure 9 Contribute to sustainable industrial development through social investment to spread distributed electricity by supporting and promote sustainable ○ the installation of inlet pipelines for city gas and fuel cells industrialization Continuously perform activities to resolve cross-national inequality through medical support and improvement of the 10 Resolve inequality within and educational environment for developing countries, and continue to strive for resolving inequality in Korea through various ○ ○ ○ across countries projects: academic sponsorship of the underprivileged, invitations to cultural and art shows, and support for housing stability and heating costs Contribute to the creation of safe and resilient cities by continuous and diverse engagement in projects: expansion of fuel cells as a distributed electricity form for clean, safe, and sustainable cities, formation of settlements by ensuring an equal 11 Create safe and resilient ○ ○ ○ ○ society through support for the destitute and impoverished, operation of the Blue Sky Project to improve the atmospheric sustainable cities and settlements environment, operation of the Cultural Property Jikimi (protection) Project, and volunteering of employees for environmental clean-up Guarantee sustainable Contribute to the stable supply and demand of natural gases and the positive structure for domestic demand by enabling the 12 consumption and production ○ ○ stable operation of facilities for storing natural gases through support for the installation of inlet pipelines for city gas, reducing gas patterns tariffs, and managing conflicts within a region 13 Prevent impact to climate change Social contribution projects for generating demand for natural gases as clean fossil fuels are categorized as efforts to prevent ○ and undertake immediate actions the impact of climate change and undertake immediate actions Engage in environmental clean-up activities by employees working in terminal divisions adjacent to the sea by contributing Have the capability to preserve 14 to the preservation of oceanic resources through projects to generate demand for natural gases, a clean form of fossil fuels, and use marine, sea, and oceanic ○ ○ ○ minimizing damage to the oceanic environment near natural gas bases, and providing support for damage recovery when resources sustainably accidents happen based on internal regulations Minimize environmental damage in areas near natural gas bases and provide support for damage recovery when accidents Preserve the inland eco-system and 15 happen. Engage in environmental clean-up activities including the Blue Sky Project and the Cultural Property Jikimi forests, prevent desertification, ○ ○ ○ ○ (protection) Project, and improve the environment through projects to increase demand for natural gases – a clean form of and maintain bio-diversity fossil fuels Contribute to promoting a peaceful and inclusive society by raising awareness of social responsibilities by facilitating an Promote a peaceful and inclusive 16 inclusive society through support to open the Rights Experience Center to empower the human rights of adolescents and society and establish effective and ○ ○ ○ social contribution projects in multiple areas for the underprivileged, running the mileage point system on social contribution accountable systems accessible to all for employees, and facilitating the employee donation program Strengthen instruments to achieve Enhance responsibilities by reflecting the mileage point system for social contribution for employees in internal job the above objectives and facilitate assessments, supporting areas near terminal divisions of natural gases by cooperating with local governments, and 17 global partnerships among ○ ○ ○ continuously striving to strengthen partnerships with domestic and international institutions and the government by companies, the National Assembly, improving the educational environment and supporting medical costs in developing countries aligned with overseas and countries businesses 89 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2018 Signatory to and Commitment to Support the UNGC Since 2007, KOGAS has joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which is an international agreement that stipulates the social responsibilities of global enterprises. We declared that we will sincerely implement the ten principles in four areas as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Principle Page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 72-73 Human Rights Principle 2 Ensure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of Principle 3 the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 50-53, 72-73, 78 Labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination regarding employment and occupation Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 56-59 Environment Encourage the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 70-71, Principle 10 and bribery. 80 Anti-Corruption 90 Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Performance KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 1. Subsidiaries Type Company Name 1 Korea Gas Technology Corporation Co., Ltd. 2 KOGAMEX Investment Manzanillo B.V. 3 KOMEX-GAS, S. de R.L. de C.V. 4 KOGAS Iraq B.V. 5 KOGAS Badra B.V. 6 KOGAS Akkas B.V. 7 KOGAS Mansuriya B.V. 8 KOGAS Canada Ltd. 9 KOGAS Canada LNG Ltd. 10 KOGAS Australia Pty. Ltd. 11 KOGAS Prelude Pty. Ltd. 12 KG Timor Leste Ltd. 13 KG Krueng Mane Ltd. 14 KG Mozambique Ltd. 15 KOGAS Mozambique Lda. 16 KOGAS Cyprus Ltd. 17 KGLNG E&P Pty Ltd. 18 KGLNG E&P Ⅱ Pty Ltd. 19 KGLNG Liquefaction Pty Ltd. 20 KCLNG Tech Ltd. 21 KG-SEAGP Company Limited 22 KG-Myanmar Corporation 23 KOGAS International Pte. Ltd. 2. Affiliates and Type Company Name Joint Ventures 1 Korea Ras Laffan LNG Ltd. 2 Korea LNG Ltd. 3 Hyundai Yemen LNG Company 4 Korea LNG Trading Co., Ltd. 5 Kor-Uz Gas Chemical Investment Ltd. 6 South-East Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited 7 Sulawesi LNG Development Limited 8 TOMORI E&P Limited 9 AMEC Partners Korea LTD 10 Coral South FLNG S.A 11 Coral South FLNG DMCC 12 Kor-Uz Cylinder Investment Co., Ltd. 13 Korea-Uz CNG Investment Co., Ltd. 14 TERMINAL KMS de GNL, S. De R.L. De C.V. 15 GLNG Operations Pty. Ltd. 16 GLNG Property Pty. Ltd. 17 ENH KOGAS, SA. 18 LNG Canada Development Inc. 19 Manzanillo Gas Tech, S. de R.L. de C.V. 91 For this report, we used an FSCⓇ (Forest Stewardship CouncilⓇ) certified paper that has been sourced and managed in a socially responsible and economically viable manner. In addition, the paper for this report was printed by a company that earned an FSCⓇ Chain-of-Custody certificate (certificate No. C005448). www.kogas.or.kr
