United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report January 2018 Contents 1 Message from Global Chair 3 2 Human Rights and Labor 4 Our People 4 Our Communities 12 3 Environment 19 Our Operations 19 Our Clients 22 Our Communities 24 4 Anti-corruption 27 Our Operations 27 Our Communities 27 Message from Global Chair On behalf of our Global CSR Board, I am pleased to share Baker McKenzie's 2018 Communication on Progress, which demonstrates many of the ways in which our Firm and our people have supported the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. Baker McKenzie is a truly global community of 60 nationalities across 77 offices in 47 countries, brought together by a culture of friendship and collaboration. Serving and supporting our communities has been deeply embedded within our Firm since it was founded and remains an important component of our stated purpose today. We are delighted to support the UNGC's Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption, which are aligned with our values and are reflected in our business strategy, culture, and day-today operations. The Ten Principles are also outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, which is publicly available and which all our people are required to read. We are also proud to leverage our talent, insight, resources and relationships to make a positive and lasting impact on critical issues affecting society. We do this in collaboration with our colleagues, clients, communities, non-profit organizations and other key stakeholders. Looking back over the past year, we are particularly grateful to the range of UN agencies who have offered us the opportunity to support their work. Highlights include our contributions to the first ever General Comment on Street Children by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child; signing the UN's Women's Empowerment Principles and embracing UN Women's HeForShe campaign; our support of the UN's newly launched Standards of Conduct for Business on tackling LGBTI discrimination; our on-going pro bono collaboration with the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR); and our role as advisors to the Fijian Government in its presidency of the 23rd Conference of Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), to name a few. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we remain committed to promoting sustainable business practices for the benefit of our people, our clients and the communities where we operate. We look forward to another year of collaboration with the UNGC and many other organizations who work tirelessly to improve the state of the world. We see our investments in these efforts as not only good business, but the right thing to do. Paul Rawlinson Global Chair Baker McKenzie GLOBAL CSR BOARD OF BAKER MCKENZIE Paul John Michael Ai Ai Constanze Jason Christie Rawlinson Conroy Wagner Wong Ulmer-Eilfort Marty Constantine Global Chair Head of Global EC Chair of EC Chair of EC Chair of Global Chief Director of and EC Liaison Strategic Global Pro Bono Global Diversity & Operating Global on CSR Initiatives & Community Sustainability Inclusion Officer Corporate Service Social Responsibility United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  3 Human Rights and Labor Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Baker McKenzie is committed to respecting and supporting human rights, including fair labor practices, throughout our global operations and in our sphere of influence. Our People Baker McKenzie believes that all our people deserve respect, support and equal treatment. We support human rights and fair labor practices, including through the promotion of diversity and inclusion in our policies, culture and hiring practices; by supporting the professional growth and development of our people; and through policies that promote dignity and safety in our workplaces. Diversity and Inclusion Baker McKenzie was founded on the idea of diversity. From our earliest days, we have strived to nurture a respectful, inclusive environment that encourages diverse individuals to thrive personally and professionally as full contributors to the success of the Firm and the clients we serve. Our global community includes people of diverse creeds, colors, ethnicities, religions, sexual orientations, gender identities and expressions, socio-economic backgrounds, disabilities, and a range of other human differences. Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace is top of our agenda we have been named as The Most Innovative Lawyers in Diversity by the Financial Times, and we understand that fostering a culture of respect and inclusion creates a dynamic and happy workforce. To ensure we maintain a focused agenda, we have a Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee comprised of members from all four of our geographic regions that is chaired by a member of our Executive Committee. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  4 As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not permit or tolerate discrimination in our workplaces. This means:  All personnel decisions must be: a) respectful of differences among employees and potential employees, b) based on factors relevant to their ability to perform the work they are, or would be expected to do, and c) in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.  This includes decisions related to the recruiting, hiring, assignment, compensation, training and development, promotion and dismissal of personnel, as well as other terms and conditions of employment.  Applicable local laws, which we follow, vary, but differences that we strive to overlook in personnel decisions include race, color, creed, religion, citizenship, national origin, ethnicity and/or cultural background, age, sex, gender, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy and disability. While our approach to diversity and inclusion is multi-faceted, three areas where we have specific policies are with respect to Ethnicity and Culture; LGBT, and Gender. Ethnic & Cultural Diversity Ethnicity means different things in different countries, so a single approach to ethnic and cultural diversity is ill-advised. This is why we build practices from the They are taking a ground up, taking local cultural sensitivities into consideration wherever we comprehensive and practice law. Despite the challenges, we have a strong desire to address a lack of equity around the world and encourage each of our offices to define strategic approach to race/ethnic diversity in a way that suits their local culture, politics, clients and tackling racial business environment. inequalities within their organization and have Examples of our efforts to promote ethnic and cultural diversity and inclusion in our Firm include: shown their strong commitment and  Earlier this year Baker McKenzie launched the Colour Brave campaign in its leadership on this London office, which seeks to create an environment where people feel comfortable talking openly about race and ethnicity. It is one of a number of issue. initiatives led by BakerEthnicity which focuses on increasing the representation of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic talent in the office. Baker McKenzie was the first law firm, for example, to introduce name blind – Sandra Kerr OBE recruitment removing the potential for discrimination based on name. In Race Equality Director 2015, Baker McKenzie partnered with Rare Recruitment to hardwire social Business in the Community mobility metrics into the existing graduate recruitment applicant tracking systems, enabling the Firm to take the economic background and personal circumstances of a candidate into account for the first time. The Firm has also partnered with a number of key organizations, including Race for Opportunity, NOTICED, the BLD Foundation and the Black British Business Awards.  The Baker McKenzie Diversity Fellowship Program in North America furthers our commitment to recruit, retain, and develop talented lawyers who will contribute to the advancement of diversity within the Firm as well as the creation of a more inclusive legal profession. Fellowships are awarded to qualified second-year law students who show promise of contributing meaningfully to the diversity of the legal community. Each recipient receives $10,000 and a summer associate position at one of Baker McKenzie's NA offices the summer following the completion of his or her second year of law school. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  5  We are members of the Leadership Council on Legal Diversity (LCLD), including participation in the LCLD Fellows Program. This program promotes attorneys from diverse backgrounds and assists in guiding them on the path to be leaders in their organizations.  We continue to strongly support the work of the Institute for Inclusion in the Legal Profession (IILP), which is dedicated to creating a more diverse and inclusive legal profession. Michael J. Wagner, a member of the Executive Committee, serves on the Board of Directors of the organization.  We continue to support affiliate networks for African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, women, working parents, and the LGBT community. Open to all, our networks work to address the unique areas of concern related to their constituents  This year, we began piloting a Cultural Navigator platform, which helps our people who lead or contribute to worldwide teams work effectively with colleagues and clients from diverse backgrounds. Awards & Recognition  Baker McKenzie received the 2017 Starbucks Law & Corporate Affairs Excellence in Diversity & Inclusion Award, recognizing the Firm's commitment to advancing an inclusive workplace, both within the Firm and throughout the legal profession. The Excellence in Diversity & Inclusion Award annually recognizes one law firm that demonstrates true leadership in diversity and inclusion. Submissions are reviewed by Starbucks' Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which highlighted Baker McKenzie's efforts to support workplace equality for all its employees, including those who are women, minorities and openly LGBTQ. Baker McKenzie is the only firm to win this award three times, having previously been honored in 2009 and 2010.  Baker McKenzie has been named as one of the UK's Best Employers for Race by the charity Business in the Community. The Firm was also shortlisted for the Business in the Community Race Equality Awards 2017. Earlier this year the Firm was the recipient of LawCareers.Net's Commendation for Diversity, the only firm to have been awarded this accolade twice. Gender Diversity At Baker McKenzie We believe women must be leaders at all levels of the Firm. We seek to foster we don't see gender women leaders in our senior global roles but we are also focusing on ensuring equality as a that women are leaders of our most significant client relationships. Since 2012, women's issue. It is we have adopted a gender policy designed to encourage the recruitment and a business issue, and retention of more women, and provide greater opportunities and support for women to assume leadership roles. one that both men and women must In 2017, Baker McKenzie signed the UN Women's Empowerment Principles champion. (WEP), which are designed to guide businesses on promoting gender equality and women's empowerment. In signing the WEP, we re-affirmed our commitment to: – Paul Rawlinson Global Chair 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality Baker McKenzie 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work respect and support human rights and non-discrimination 3. Ensure health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers; United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  6 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women; 5. Implement enterprise developing, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women; 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy; and 7. Measure and publically report on progress to achieve gender equality. We have set gender diversity aspirational targets to ensure that women comprise at least 40% of local/national partners and at least 30% of principals and those in leadership positions. Aspirational Targets for Gender 45% 40% 40% 35% 30% 30% 30% 25% 20% 32% 32,2% 29% 29% 30% 15% 26,7% 19% 10% 16% 16% 16,9% 17% 17% 17% 14% 15% 5% 0% Local Partner Principal Leadership FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Goal We have made significant progress in terms of women in leadership roles, and continue to make progress toward our other gender targets. This year, the Firm has implemented a range of strategic initiatives at the global and regional level aimed to support this. We anticipate that the programs, infrastructure and awareness that we have developed will help us to see continued progress going forward. Some examples include:  This year we launched our first Firm-wide people survey for women within the Firm. As a result of the survey our senior leaders have created detailed action plans to promote and measure gender balance globally, regionally and locally, raise awareness, and offer a range of support for local offices to set goals and improve outcomes.  Launched this year, LIFT is a sponsorship program intended to support and invest in the Firm's key talent, specifically targeting high-potential women. LIFT provides an accelerated learning experience through a one-to-one, highly focused twelve month program. LIFT sponsorship contributes directly to the Firm's commitments to support a robust talent pipeline.  We provide unconscious bias training seminars to our staff to help address unconscious bias in evaluations, work allocation and promotion discussions, as well as day-to-day professional relationships. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  7  This year we launched our Be Role Models Program a series of videos of colleagues from around the Firm who are role models and share their personal stories to promote our inclusive workplace culture. The program will continue into next year as we recognize and applaud the women and men who champion diversity and inclusion across our pillars of Culture & Ethnicity, Gender, and LGBT+. EMEA  Introduced to identify high-potential women within the EMEA region, the Career Guidance Scheme has contributed to the retention and loyalty of our best people. The scheme has been designed specifically to provide access to role models, mentoring and coaching, and international exposure, with the overall aim of helping participants to crystalize their career goals and realize their potential. Since its introduction the scheme has had a significant impact on the participants who have “returned to the office fully energized, with objectives, plans and targets and benefitted from the greater insight into myself, as well as clarity and structure for the next steps of my career. Piloted within the EMEA region, the Career Guidance Scheme, in the coming year, will be launched globally to include our high-potential women firm-wide.  In 2017 our London office launched its own HeForShe campaign to place gender issues at the forefront of mind for all and to break down the false perceptions that gender issues matter only to women. Over 65% of men in London have become HeForShe ambassadors and many have shared personal journeys and perspectives including how they have actively engaged clients around gender diversity and supported our BakerWomen networks. Our Global Chair was invited by UN Women to serve alongside a cohort of pioneering Fortune 500 CEOs as an official HeForShe Thematic Champion for Women's Economic Empowerment. We are also members of UN Women's UK Corporate Advisory Group. North America  The NA region has continued to support its female lawyers through coaching and development programs, such as The Women's Initiative which focuses on the advancement of women to leadership roles within the Firm, as well as programs and policies to aid in the retention of our lawyers.  We are fully supportive of recent legislative changes that prohibit employers asking about salary history during the recruitment and selection process in the United States. We are proactively reviewing our hiring practices regardless of whether or not a state has adopted such laws and have modified our employment applications. Asia Pacific  Our Hong Kong office has developed a mentoring program wherein women junior associates are paired with senior lawyers practicing in different areas of law, and ensure that our women lawyers have the same opportunities to advance in the Firm as men.  The Career Alternative Program in Indonesia provides women lawyers who decide not to further pursue their legal careers in the Firm with alternative career paths, such as the shift to a business professional role in the Firm.  Work Life Balance Sabbaticals in Kuala Lumpur provide employees who are undergoing stressful life events the option to remain in the workforce and the Firm while helping them maintain a degree of continuity in their careers. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  8  Our Australia offices’ BakerWomen continues to support women’s progression and foster networks among women at all stages in their professional careers. Alongside BakerWomen is Male Agents of Change (MAC). MAC proactively encourages male colleagues to join BakerWomen's gender equality efforts. Latin America  Many of our LA offices have created local diversity and inclusion committees to develop and implement initiatives to ensure true inclusion and promote a prejudice-free workplace with equal and fair working conditions. These committees are attended by partners, associates and business services professionals. Unconscious Bias Workshops were facilitated by a diversity & inclusion responsible partner to all attorneys and staff.  The Mexico offices are active members of Abogadas MX, a professional network for women lawyers, and one of their activities is to develop mentoring programs aiming to upskill women attorneys to succeed in their careers. Some of our women partners are mentors, while some associates are mentees of the program. Gender Awards & Recognition  Earlier this year, Baker McKenzie's Global Chair Paul Rawlinson, was ranked as the leading lawyer in the Male Champion of Women in Business report by The Financial Times and HERoes, a gender equality initiative. In this inaugural ranking, Paul was named as one of 30 Male Champions of Women in Business, for helping to effect the greatest changes in women's careers in the UK and beyond. Global Chair Paul Rawlinson speaks on closing the Gender Pay Gap at a UN Women event in New York  We have been recognized by Working Mother magazine and the Flex-Time Lawyers organization as one of the top law firms for women, and the Best International Firm for Women in Business Law by the Euromoney Legal Media Group.  In April, our Toronto office hosted the UN Gender Equality Forum and we were presented with the Principle 1 Award in recognition of the great initiatives and efforts that businesses are taking to help advance gender equality. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  9  Baker McKenzie Australia has been named as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality by the Federal Workplace Gender Equality Agency. The citation recognizes our active commitment to gender equality in the workplace with a focus on removing the structural and cultural barriers that prevent the full participation of women at work. LGBT+ Everyone should feel comfortable in the workplace, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. We are committed to creating and maintaining an open and supportive working environment. This includes equal opportunity for advancement and development within the Firm regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and the equal provision of benefits to same and opposite sex partners or spouses. Baker McKenzie supports the United Nations' Corporate Standards of Conduct on Tackling Discrimination against LGBTI People (which outline steps that companies can take to ensure respect for the rights of LGBTI people as well as guidance on how companies can contribute to positive social change) and we were members of a corporate working group to provide feedback during the development of the Standards. UN Corporate Standards of Conduct on Tackling Discrimination against LGBTI People This year, Baker McKenzie began implementation of its Gender Transition and Identity Guidelines in North America and the UK, to address the needs of transgender, gender non-conforming and non-binary gender identity employees. The guidelines reflect best practices shared by organizations such as the Human Rights Campaign and the Transgender Law Center. This year we also established a global LGBT+ Business Resource Group (BRG) composed of partners and senior Firm leaders. The group is responsible for supporting, directing and developing our global LGBT+ strategy and coordinating local LGBT+ and Ally networks. Over the past year, the group has launched an LGBT Global Client Program designed to engage our clients on a range of issues related to LGBT+ equality both within and outside the workplace. Our BRG has also developed a range of resources, made available globally, to support offices set up local LGBT+ and Ally networks. These include how-to guides and case studies. Throughout the Firm, a range of local LGBT and Allies Networks exist to promote an inclusive workplace. This year our Global Services Manila Center launched its United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  10 first LGBT & Allies Circle. The launch event was joined by local corporate leaders and the President of the Rainbow Rights Project, a leading LGBT nonprofit in the Philippines. BakerWay a global onboarding and orientation program which takes new LGBT Awards & Recognition joiners on a journey as they learn and discover more  For the eighth consecutive year, Baker McKenzie has received a perfect about the Firm and its values score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation 2018 Corporate Equality and commitments to diversity Index, earning the distinction as a Best Place to Work in the US for lesbian, and inclusion, sustainable gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) equality. and ethical business, pro  We have been named one of Stonewall's Top Global Employers for 2017 bono and the environment. the definitive list showcasing the best multinational employers for lesbian, gay, bi and trans staff. The Firm has been ranked for the second consecutive year and is one of twelve elite organizations to make the list. In addition to the Top Global Employer ranking, Chair of Baker McKenzie's Global LGBT initiative and London IT/Commercial partner Harry Small has been awarded Our Partner Leadership Stonewall's highly prestigious Global Senior Champion Award in recognition Program provides Principal of his exemplary practice in this area. Partners with a comfortable,  We achieved bronze level recognition for 2017 in the Australian Workplace secure environment where Equality Index (AWEI). Employers that receive this recognition are they can work together to considered active in LGBTI inclusion as compared to the national benchmark evaluate their leadership for the assessed year. styles and effectiveness and focus on the high level  Baker McKenzie was one of four companies featured in a video produced challenges they face as earlier this year by Viet Pride and the LGBT advocacy organization, ICS leaders. Centre, as part of the 'Work with Pride' campaign highlighting LGBTsupportive workplaces in Vietnam.  In November 2017, we were honored to be named by The Advocate among Ten Companies Leading the Way on Global LGBTI Rights .  Baker McKenzie was recognized as the LGBT Chamber of Commerce of Illinois' Corporate Partner of the Year for 2017. Harassment Healthy and Safe Work Environment As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not tolerate harassment in the workplace. We are committed to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment in all offices. Dangerous, abusive or violent behavior, or the threat of such behavior, is prohibited and will not be tolerated. Professional Support and Development We are committed to developing the talents and skills of our people, and we actively promote a culture of learning within the Firm. Employees are encouraged to expand their knowledge and expertise throughout their careers this culture of learning is underpinned by our comprehensive Development Framework, one of the first of its kind adopted by a law firm and selected by Harvard Business School as one of its best practice case studies on talent management. The Framework outlines the skills and personal qualities employees need to be successful when working here, and offers a clear roadmap to success to help employees fulfil their potential. In the past year we have made available nearly 200 development courses and programs, designed specifically to engage, nurture and support our people throughout their careers. A Belfast recruitment campaign focused on A Day in the Life highlighting both CSR initiatives and work/life balance. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  11 We are launching Baker McKenzie University, our holistic and aligned approach to learning at the Firm. From global on-boarding and orientation through the “BakerWay” platform to investing and unlocking the potential of our senior leaders at the Partner Leadership Program, we are committed to the ongoing development of our people. Wellness and Agile Working We are committed to a holistic approach to the development and support of our people and their performance. Our recently launched bWell site, available globally, is designed to provide our people with access to a range of resources and tools that support their resilience, as well as mental and physical wellbeing. The legal environment can be pressured and demanding. By raising awareness of this and providing ideas for maintaining physical and mental wellbeing, we can create a positive and supportive environment that helps everyone to operate healthily and successfully. This year our Global Services Manila Center received the Wellness Company of the Year award in the Asia-CEO Awards, highlighting their efforts to embrace a local culture of wellness. In London we joined the Lord Mayor's This is Me campaign which aims to reduce stigma associated with mental health through the sharing of personal experiences. Agile or flexible working arrangements have been in place in many of our offices over the years. However, following employee feedback we have now developed one holistic approach which has been rolled out globally to all employees. Our bAgile program focuses on remote working; reduced working hours; alternative hours; and time out of the office. We anticipate that these measures will increase productivity and efficiency; reduce absenteeism; improve the health and wellbeing and improve morale. Our Communities In addition to respecting human rights and fair labor practices in our own operations, we believe that one of the most significant contributions we can make is through the provision pro bono legal services as well as our engagement in community service and support of civil society organizations globally. Some highlights of our efforts include: Gender  Our London office has worked with CyberReady Girls to hold three outreach days for girls in years 8 & 9, providing first hand experience of coding, exposure to senior female role models in the tech industry and encouraging greater engagement in cyber and tech.  Our Sydney and Melbourne lawyers have assisted Women's Legal Services Victoria with research and submissions to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Inquiry to support and protect those affected by family and domestic violence.  Lawyers from our Sydney and Melbourne offices partner with specialist community legal centres, Women's Legal Service New South Wales and Women's Legal Service Victoria, to assist survivors of domestic violence apply for compensation to the relevant tribunals and schemes for the harm and loss they have suffered. Our volunteers also provide legal information United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  12 sessions to young mothers who benefit from the mentoring services provided by the Raise Foundation. Topics for our informative half-day sessions have included social security, employment, debt and tenancies.  We are co-sponsoring with Apple, Inc., Equal Justice Works Felllow Lilliana Paratore who is working with UnCommon Law in Oakland, California, as an advocate for women in California prisons. Lilliana is providing genderappropriate parole representation and promoting policy change that recognizes experiences of gendered trauma and abuse. Current parole law does not adequately consider gendered trauma in determining suitability for parole. Without legal recognition of gendered trauma, women lifers will continue to be imprisoned, despite the fact that they no longer pose a risk to society. While time, self-reflection, and maturity allow women to understand the traumas that contributed to their crimes, under current law, they are unable to transform their understandings into meaningful opportunities for release. Thank you for what  We have provided individual representation to mothers and other women you and victims of gender-based violence through visas, VAWA (Violence against Baker McKenzie do Women applications) and other forms of relief in New York, Texas, and California for many years, as well as policy advocacy in the US and other for LGBTIQ rights countries. and equality. It is only by respected  We are active members of the 30% Club's Professional Services Group, and prestigious contributing to their annual Leadership Forum. firms standing up that real progress LGBT Equality will be made.  A team of volunteer attorneys from 40 offices is supporting a global pro bono legal research project to assist OutRight Action International. OutRight – The Honorable Action International is a leading human rights organization dedicated to Michael Kirby improving the lives of people who experience discrimination or abuse on the AC CMG, former justice basis of their sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. Our research of the High Court of will inform a broader study underway by OutRight and the London School of Australia. Economics concerning freedom of association, assembly and speech for LGBT) civil society organizations globally.  In Australia, Baker McKenzie was party to a letter to Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull advocating against the plebiscite on anti-discrimination and human rights grounds. The Firm was also a signatory to the Australian Marriage Equality open letter supporting marriage equality. Lawyers from our Sydney and Melbourne offices are providing of pro bono legal advice to the Australian Human Rights Law Centre regarding regulation in Australia to prevent sexual orientation change efforts (SOCE) and to assist the Centre advocate for better regulation in this area. (SOCE are methods used to attempt to change the sexual orientation of persons to heterosexuality).  Working with ICS, an organization promoting LGBTIQ rights in Vietnam, volunteers in our Hanoi office contributed pro bono support to a project which aims to introduce LGBT rights into the revised labor code of Vietnam, including anti-discrimination in the workplace in terms of sexual orientation and gender identity.  In the US, along with Salesforce.org we are co-sponsoring Equal Justice Works Fellow Alexander Chen, who is working with the National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR) in San Francisco, California. Alexander is pioneering the use of federal civil rights laws for transgender and gender nonconforming Baker McKenzie Istanbul United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  13 youth through litigation and policy advocacy in schools, families, health care, and juvenile facilities at NCLR in California.  Our Belfast office supports Cara-Friend's LGBTQ+ Awareness Teacher Training Programme, which aims to encourage teachers to be more inclusive of, and responsive to, the needs of LGBTQ+ young people within the school community.  Our Toronto office has actively supported the 'You Can Play' campaign that aims to ensure the safety and inclusion of LGBTQ athletes and fans within sport.  A wide range of our offices take part in Pride celebrations globally. We were the first law firm to take part in Belfast Pride, and our Istanbul office is the first Turkish law firm to display a rainbow flag to show support for LGBTI rights. Human Trafficking  We supported the development of the Stop Slavery Award, an initiative by the Thomson Reuters Foundation to recognize companies that are leading the fight against slavery in their supply chains. The Award aims to create a virtuous cycle, demonstrating that businesses can play a critical role in stopping the tragedy of modern day slavery and forced labor worldwide. A team of lawyers from Baker McKenzie provided legal advice in the development of the methodology underpinning the award, based on our expertise in advising companies about supply chain issues.  We are working with Canada's largest homeless youth agency, Covenant House Toronto, to support a special residence opened by Covenant House in 2016, Rogers House, to assist female victims of sexual exploitation and human trafficking. Our lawyers are providing pro bono legal services to victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation so that their legal rights are protected and they do not become re-victimized through the criminal justice system. Our lawyers recently provided pro bono legal advice to a victim of human trafficking, in which we opposed the release of $80,000 to an accused trafficker seized by police. The court agreed that the victim had a valid claim to the funds and dismissed the accused's request to access the money to pay for his legal defense.  We are assisting the Mekong Club, a leading anti-slavery organization on human trafficking and forced labor risks, to create resources for companies who discover forced labor or poor working conditions in their supply chain, focusing on Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, China, Malaysia, and Hong Kong.  With Merck, we co-sponsored an Equal Justice Works Fellow working at Sanctuary for Families in New York to provide comprehensive legal services tailored to trafficking victims with physical and psychological health concerns through direct representation, outreach to health providers and policy advocacy.  Our Sydney lawyers partner with the Salvation Army's Trafficking & Slavery Safe House to assist victims of human trafficking, slavery and violence to claim compensation for the injury and harm they have suffered.  We are partnering with Anti-Slavery Australia to undertake and complete significant research on the issues of forced marriage and modern slavery in supply chains. This has included authoring research papers, fact sheets and United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  14 submissions to government inquiries such as the Commonwealth Government's Inquiry into Establishing a Modern Slavery Act in Australia.  Via the Baker McKenzie Foundation, we established an endowed scholarship at Columbia Law School, which annually awards $ 50,000 to an LL.M. student who demonstrates academic success and a need for significant financial aid. Priority is given to international students from outside of the United States and Western Europe, in line with efforts the Law School has made to welcome students from emerging countries, an underrepresented demographic with little access to funding. LL.M. Human Rights Fellow Dounia Hattabi was named the 2017 scholarship recipient . Among other activities, Hattabi is conducting intake interviews with potential victims of human trafficking who have been arrested for prostitution-related offenses, and whose cases are before the Brooklyn Human Trafficking Intervention Court in order to identify whether potential victims have trafficking-based or immigration relief available to them. Children  This year in the US, we organized the 4th Annual Children's Rights Summit in collaboration with HPE, Google and Salesforce.org, bringing together inhouse counsel, children's rights advocates, technologists and youth themselves to discuss the legal needs of children, to trigger new ideas and new solutions inspired by local and national leaders in children's rights.  As part of Baker McKenzie's ongoing efforts to give a voice to street children around the world, the Firm partnered with the American Bar Association to host the International Summit on the Legal Rights of Street-Connected Children and Youth in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The Summit was held at the offices of Trench, Rossi e Watanabe Advogados, a Brazilian law firm with a cooperation agreement with Baker McKenzie, bringing together more than 100 international academics, advocates, lawyers and government officials. The gathering focused on developing strategies to implement the UN's General Comment on Children in Street Situations. The General Comment provides legal advice to governments around the world on how to ensure that street connected children have access to the same rights as all children. The ABA Summit will build on legislative advocacy efforts begun at the first International Summit convened in June 2015. Hosting the International Summit on the Legal Rights of Street-Connected Children and Youth United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  15  In 2017, the UN's General Comment on Children in Street Situations was published by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child marking the first time in history that street children have received this level of recognition. The General Comment is the UN's legal advice to governments to ensure that the 100 million street-connected children around the world have access to the same rights as all children. Our Firm has contributed to the development of the General Comment through our work with the Consortium for Street Children (CSC) and several of our clients, including:  Partnering with in-house counsel from Cargill, Regeneron, Merck and Salesforce to arrange a series of consultations between the UN and more than 1,000 street-connected youth, providing a unique opportunity for these children to have their voices heard.  Collaborating with clients to contribute pro bono legal research and analysis in advance of the consultation events, helping to inform the General Comment.  Taking the UN General Comment from paper to practice through the development of the Legal Atlas for Street Children, an online resource that will be the go to home of law, policy and practice for street children.  Our attorneys will continue to collaborate with the CSC and other partners as countries begin to implement the UN's advice. The Government of Uruguay has already committed to implement the General Comment in full.  We partnered with Mondelēz International, Covenant House New York, and youth development organization The Door in a joint pro bono effort to create the New York Homeless Youth Handbook, a guide to help homeless youth better understand their legal rights, responsibilities and resources. A team of more than 75 lawyers and staff dedicated over 1,000 hours to research, write and edit the handbook, which covers critical topics such as education, healthcare, housing, parenting and consumer credit issues.  Baker McKenzie provides pro bono support to Save the Children, an international NGO that promotes children's rights in more than 120 countries, including on employment, intellectual property, tax and international law matters, and our lawyers from around the world advised on the major restructuring of the organization to streamline its global operations and better position the charity to save even more lives. Our Taipei colleagues are working with Save the Children to establish a foundation in Taiwan.  Our North America Pro Bono Practice recently partnered with Facebook and the National Institute for Trial Advocacy (NITA) to host a three-day training session in San Francisco for a group of 40 attorneys, including in-house counsel from 10 of our Firm's clients, interested in helping vulnerable youth navigate the legal system. The first-of-its-kind trial advocacy program leveraged NITA's learn-by-doing methodology to teach advocacy skills for system-involved children, including direct and cross examination, motion argument, interviewing child clients, use of expert witnesses and professional responsibility.  For a number of years, lawyers from our Brisbane office have worked with LawRight, to assist disadvantaged and marginalized youth exiting the child protection system. We partnered with each youth, providing them with United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  16 ongoing support and legal assistance as they navigated issues which they confronted as they became independent adults. Those issues included fines, tenancy, social security and debt. Justice Crossing Borders  As immigrants continue to face threats to their safety and security, attorneys in the North America Pro Bono Practice have been working with clients of the Heartland Alliance's National Immigrant Justice Center (NIJC), a legal aid organization that advocates for human rights and immigration reform.  We support unaccompanied immigrant children entering the US in a variety of ways including individual representation as well as policy advocacy.  In response to a hold on refugee resettlement in the US and a fear that many refugees who had been accepted for resettlement would be turned away at airports, our lawyers across the US worked with the International Refugee Assistance Project (IRAP) to coordinate volunteer lawyers at airports where refugees were arriving. Your pro bono  Over the past year, our Sydney colleagues have assisted unrepresented commitment asylum seekers who are seeking judicial review of tribunal decisions refusing upholds due them refugee status or protection visas before Australia's Federal Circuit Court. Working with court-appointed interpreters, our lawyers provided process and human procedural advice to asylum seekers at their first court date, working to attain rights principles for consent orders from the Court. all. Thank you for your leadership and  We provide pro bono support to Migraflix, an NGO that assists with the dedication. integration of refugees and immigrants in Brazil. We have provided legal advice in regard to organizational documents, contracts with their sponsors and also some tax-related aspects. Mary Meg McCarthy  On behalf of the Public International Law and Policy Group (PILPG), we Executive Director conducted legal research to address possible mechanisms and options for National Immigrant the resettlement of Syrian refugees displaced over the last five years. The Justice Center research included a review of the specific direct actions that have taken place to date involving Syrian and United Nations representatives, comparative state practices, the role of the international community in facilitating the return of refugees, and international standards and their application within the Syrian context.  The Firm has a longstanding relationship with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), and has provided litigation support in significant cases, before national and international courts, which have had important implications for the protection of refugees and asylum seekers worldwide. We have developed a pilot project in partnership with the UNHCR and the University of Milan Law School, which aims to involve businesses in promoting the integration of refugees into the Italian labor market. Our London office and Global Services Belfast center have assisted the UNHCR with a long-term project to update their global refugee case law database, which is used by judges, lawyers, academics and those interested in refugee law. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  17 Sustainable Development & Humanitarian  Our lawyers in Colombia have helped to structure a Social Impact Bond (SIB) project backed by the Inter-American Development Bank and the Swiss Government. The project plans to stimulate employment in Colombia and represents the first SIB implemented in a developing country.  We have worked with local associations in Mexico to provide legal advice following a massive earthquake in Mexico City and other states. We also participated in a review of current laws regarding property damage due to earthquakes. Human Rights and Technology The chair of the Firm's Global Information Technology Media and Telecommunications Industry and Practice group, Sydney-based partner AnneMarie Allgrove, has served her first year on the World Economic Forum Council on the Future of Human Rights. The Council has prepared two reports one on internet platforms and the management of harmful content and another on machine learning and human rights and how to prevent discriminatory outcomes in machine learning. In addition the Council contributed an expert piece on human rights in the 4th Industrial Revolution to the soon to be published ‘Handbook on the 4IR.’ The Council is considering the projects it will focus on this year to highlight the importance of human rights considerations in the context of technological development and the 4IR. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  18 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We recognize the importance of environmental sustainability to our people, our clients and to the communities in which we live and work. We contribute to sustainability not only through the practice of law in our environmental practice, but also through our efforts to monitor and mitigate the environmental impact and risk of our operations. We seek to reduce, reuse and recycle the energy and natural resources necessary for our business, and we strive to integrate sustainability meaningfully into our business strategies, operating models and critical processes. We also engage in pro bono and community service initiatives to support sustainability. Our Operations We have a global environmental policy in place and we expect all partners and employees to contribute to efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle the energy and natural resources required to operate our business, and to integrate sustainability into the Firm's business strategies, operating models and critical processes. In April 2017, we launched B-Green, our internal global environmental management program, designed to help our 77 offices around the world to green their operations. The program provides a road map for each office to follow, along with tools and guidance to help them measure, evaluate and incrementally improve environmental performance. The program provides training, guidance, best practice materials, and a bespoke software platform that allows each office to assess its performance, record carbon emissions data, and set goals for improvement year on year. In designing the program, we undertook a consultation of fifteen diverse offices, which included interviews as well as a carbon foot printing exercise, in order to identify opportunities for engagement and improvement. In the program's first year, we have focused on carbon accounting and paper management. Next year, we will add modules pertaining to waste management, meetings, and business travel. We have hired a dedicated B-Green Coordinator to provide each office with technical support and advice to ensure successful implementation of the program. Each office has appointed a Green Team to drive the initiative locally. Members of Green Teams across the Firm are able to connect with one another and share learnings through our online B-Green community, created using the Facebook Workplace platform. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  19 Yangon Green Committee Baker McKenzie's Greener Meetings Initiative As part of the Firm's global sustainability strategy to reduce our environmental footprint, the Global Sustainability Committee and the Global Meetings Team have been working together to reduce the environmental impact of the wide range of global, regional and local meetings that we hold throughout the year. As a first step, we have begun measuring the carbon footprint of our annual partners meeting, allowing us to establish a baseline of environmental performance and to assess the effectiveness of our ongoing actions. Second, we have developed tools to enable the Meetings Teams to apply a sustainability lens in the planning of Firm events. These include a green meetings checklist and action plan template, which guide meeting planners on best sustainability practices and help them make sustainable choices, and a questionnaire for venues to help meetings planners assess the green credentials of hotels as part of the overall venue assessment. To further reduce the impact of our large firm meetings, we have begin offsetting unavoidable business air travel associated with these events. In collaboration with our experts in the Climate Change Practice, we have selected three leading carbon offset providers, all of whom are verified and monitored by leading certification standards such as The Gold Standard or the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). In addition to an environmental benefit, the offsets support other social objectives such as reducing poverty, improving health, empowering women, creating jobs, and other benefits to local communities. Proyecto Mirador, whose carbon credits derive from providing clean cook stoves that improve the health and environment for Honduras' rural poor, while also delivering poverty alleviation benefits. WithOneSeed, a social enterprise working with subsistence farming communities in Timor-Leste to reforest degraded land and generate income through a community forestry initiative. Wildlife Works, a Kenya-based initiative and the world's leading provider of REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) credits. Wildlife Works' ground-breaking REDD+ initiative protects over 500,000 acres of highly threatened Kenyan forest, securing the entire wildlife migration corridor between Tsavo East and Tsavo West National Parks, and brings the benefits of direct carbon financing to more than 100,000 people in the surrounding communities. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  20 Some examples of Best Practice at Baker McKenzie  Our Belfast office is situated in one of the city's first certified BREEAM buildings, which has received a score of 72.4% and is graded as Excellent. The Green Team in Belfast continues to engage with building management and the landlord to ensure certification through the regular submission of environmental impact data, including energy use, air travel, and commuter information. The office has had a continued focus on paper management in 2016 their efforts led to a saving of over 300,000 printed pages and 1,500 resource hours. The office has also achieved a Silver certificate in the Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey.  Our Stockholm office, which has been certified under the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2004 environmental management system, has been monitoring energy use, waste, hazardous chemicals (from disposable batteries and e-waste), indoor air emissions, and travel since 2009. As a result of monitoring and reduction efforts, they have completely eliminated aluminum waste, reduced paper for recycling by 71%, reduced printing per employee by 39%, and electricity consumption by 21%. Since moving into a LEED-certified building, the office has also stopped paying for parking space, and instead started encouraging staff to cycle to work by installing change lockers and subsidizing bike helmets.  Our Australia offices, which are members of the Australian Legal Sector Alliance (AusLSA), an alliance of law firms promoting sustainable practices, have been tracking their carbon footprint since 2007 and are almost carbon neutral. Part of the offices' carbon neutral strategy is moving to more sustainable buildings. The Melbourne office is located in a five-star NABERS building, and the Sydney office is currently finalizing a relocation to a new building which will be among the first entirely carbon-neutral buildings in the country.  Our Caracas office continues to engage with local non-government organizations for its recycling program, and has also embarked on a number of initiatives to reduce paper consumption. Besides tracking printer and paper consumption, standardizing printer settings, and creating special recycling containers for the disposal of shredded documents, they also now recycle paper through a partnership with a local company Reciclaje Palo Verde CA. These efforts have resulted in a 30% reduction in paper use since 2015-2016 and a 16% reduction in plastic cup use in the same year.  Our Hong Kong office was the recipient of the Hong Kong Awards for Environmental Excellence Sectoral Awards in 2012 and 2013, and the Hong Kong Award for Environmental Excellence in 2015 and in 2016. They also obtained the Class of Excellence in the Hong Kong Wastewi$e label in 2016, a government initiative that aims to encourage local businesses and organizations to reduce the amount of waste generated in their establishments and in the services and products they provide. The office is also known for its Green Monday initiative, where vegetarian meals are offered every Monday not only to help reduce GHG emissions but also to promote a healthier lifestyle. Finally, the office facilitates regular Green Trading Campaigns, where employees exchange used or unwanted items.  Our London office leads the Firm in addressing food waste in its cafeteria, with an ambitious target of achieving zero waste. They have partnered with Winnow Solutions to introduce a new food waste tracking system into their canteen that allows them not only to monitor consumption, but measure and calculate the monetary value of each category of food waste accrued. The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  21 system tracks and compiles data so that management can identify areas where they can adjust production and re-allocate costs. Besides having significantly reduced food waste, the office also composts 100% of its food waste, sources fair trade products, and offers healthy, vegetarian options. Our Clients Our Environmental Practice, with more than 300 lawyers around the world, has a longstanding commitment to helping companies respond to the risks and opportunities of environmental law and regulation. Ranked among the best environmental teams in the world's league tables and directories, our lawyers collaborate on international efforts to promote and uphold sustainable business practices. Our services to clients include providing expert advice on traditional environmental law and planning matters, as well as clean and renewable energy markets, waste and biodiversity, and related issues in the agricultural, forestry and fishing industries. Our world-leading Climate Change Practice, with a dedicated team of over 60 lawyers, has worked on many pioneering deals, including writing the first carbon contracts, setting up the first carbon funds and advising on the first structured carbon derivative transactions. Working with governments, financial institutions and global organizations including the World Bank and United Nations, we combine our capabilities in securities, finance, tax, M&A and public law to execute effective carbon transactions. Our Climate Change Practice also advises on developing and financing carbon projects, creating and purchasing voluntary emissions reductions, and other innovative transactions. The Practice also has a long history of counseling national and state governments including Australia, New Zealand and Norway on Carbon Capture Storage (CCS) legislative and policy development, technologies and projects. Our global Renewable Energy and Clean Technology Practice provides expert advice on structuring and financing a wide range of renewable energy projects including wind, solar and biogas helping to promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We were named Environmental, Energy and Natural Resources Team of the Year at the 2017 African Legal Awards for our role advising BHP Billiton on a first-of-its-kind Forests Bond to support forest protection and community development activities associated with Wildlife Work's Kasigau Corridor REDD Project in East Kenya. We have a long history of participation in international climate change meetings. We regularly attend COP and COP/MOP meetings and closely follow the development of negotiating issues arising out of those meetings. We are acting as advisors to the Fijian Government in its role as the President of the 23rd Conference of Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Our role has involved assisting with international negotiations and climate action agenda with the UNFCCC; the development and implementation of Fiji's climate change plan; the development of laws and policies to assist with COP 23 such as the establishment of a National Trust Fund. Fiji is the first small island developing state to host a COP. Additional highlights from our Climate Change Practice's work in 2017 include:  Assisted to establish a joint FijiPacific-Australia $6m partnership on Protecting Pacific Blue Carbon (Mangroves, Reefs, Sea grasses) and bringing in Qantas and ANZ as corporate partners;  Conceptualizing and advising on a new Rural Electrification Fund program whereby the Fijian Government is joining forces with the Leonardo DiCaprio United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  22 Foundation (LDF), Sunergise, Fiji Locally Managed Marine Area (FLMMA) network, and Fiji Electricity Authority (FEA) to establish a new public private partnership that will bring solar power to rural communities across Fiji;  Advising an environmental organization and a sustainable investment firm on the creation of an innovative financing vehicle--the REDD+ Acceleration Fund--to promote investment in forest conservation in developing countries.  Through the Global NDC Implementation Partners consortium (GNIplus), Baker is supporting governments to mobilize private investment at scale that can deliver impact on climate change and sustainable development within the context of the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. In our first pilot project, Baker is advising Kenya on options to address water shortages in the Nairobi water basin that are exacerbated due to the effects of climate change. In particular, Baker is conceptualizing and undertaking a feasibility analysis for a pilot water trading programs as a potential policy option to address water shortages. Thought Leadership We provide dedicated guidance on sustainability, to help companies make informed decisions and guide policy makers on future legislation.  To support practical implementation of the Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)'s recommendations, we, together with the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) have produced a series of market reviews in October 2017. Our publication, Relevance of recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures in particular jurisdictions examines how the TCFD's voluntary recommendations integrate into existing material risk disclosure regulation and soft law in specific markets, and how investors and companies in those markets can apply them.  We have prepared Green Hedging: A Guide to Structuring Corporate Renewable PPAs with support from WWF Australia and the New South Wales Office on Environment and Heritage. Aimed at decision makers, the report outlines the fundamentals of Corporate PPAs and unpacks the type of structures available in the Australian market. It also considers both the opportunities these arrangements can offer, as well as current challenges in Global Sustainable Buildings Index bringing them to fruition.  We contributed to Global 250 Greenhouse Gas Emitters: A New Business Logic published by Thomson Reuters in collaboration with CDP. The report looks at best practices across the economy and aims to demonstrate the relationships between de-carbonization and long-term financial performance. This information is critical to investors and policymakers, alongside the demands for increased transparency and accurate and comparable performance metrics.  Our Argentina office collaborated with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development to co-author a report on Corporate Renewable PPAs in Argentina. The report was developed as part of WBCSD's broad efforts to accelerate the deployment of renewables and the transition to a low-carbon electricity system.  The Firm's Real Estate Practice Group has established a Global Sustainability Subcommittee to focus solely on the challenges, drivers and opportunities for sustainable building. In 2015, we began publishing our Global Sustainable Buildings Index which is now in its 2nd edition. The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  23 Group is also supporting World Business Council for Sustainable Development Sustainable Cities Program, which aims to help cities to address critical issues such as energy use reduction and low carbon development strategies and linking city action plans with private sector expertise and implementation capacity. Our Communities Baker McKenzie also supports the UNGC's Environment Principles in our communities, through membership in leadership groups and through the provision of pro bono legal services to leading environmental organizations around the world. Some highlights include:  In 2017 we became the first law firm member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led organization of over 200 leading businesses working together to accelerate the transition to a sustainable world. We are working to support a range of work streams and projects of the WBCSD on a pro bono basis. Christie Constantine, Director of Global CSR, moderates a panel on Valuing Water at the WBCSD annual meeting in Mexico City.  We are members of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a private-public partnership among the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, governments, non-profits, and private sector companies that aims to develop a global network for sharing best practice. CPLC members agree to work collaboratively with the long term objective of a carbon price applied throughout the global economy.  In the US, we are a founding member of the Professional Services Sustainability Roundtable (PSSR), which enables members to participate in an ongoing platform to exchange ideas and best practices with peers. Members represent a range of sectors including law, consulting, communications and advertising, accounting, engineering, management, real estate services, research, and executive search firms, among others. We are members of the UK's Legal Sustainability Alliance, an inclusive movement of law firms and related organizations committed to working collaboratively to take action to improve the environmental sustainability of their operations and activities. We also belong to the Australian Legal Sector Alliance. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  24  Earlier this year, Daniel Goelzer, Senior Counsel in the Firm's Banking, Finance and Major Projects Practice and former General Counsel of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was appointed to the inaugural Standards Board of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and independent standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the efficiency of capital markets. SASB's mission is to maintain sustainability accounting standards that help public corporations disclose material, decision-useful information to investors in SEC filings.  For the past year, we have been functioning as pro bono outside counsel to the UNGC US Network, advising the Board as to all legal matters pertaining to their operation, from regulatory filings and agreements, to general governance advice and compliance.  In the US, we served as pro bono outside counsel to the Board of Chicago Wilderness, a non-profit, regional alliance of some 200 organizations working together to preserve, improve and expand nature and quality of life across Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. We provided pro bono advice in relation to their restructuring, re-establishment, and with respect to a range of governance matters. Global Sustainability Chair Ai Ai Wong and Sustainability Committee member Kevin  We provide ongoing pro bono support to the World Resources Institute Coon at the UN Private Sector Forum (WRI) on a range of issues (from commercial agreements to employment matters to governance issues). This year, we also provided pro bono data protection, data security, and IP advice in relation to WRI's Global Forest Watch initiative, which uses the most advanced satellite data and crowdsourced information to track deforestation throughout the world in near-realtime.  We provide pro bono support on an on-going basis to The Nature Conservancy, on a wide range of issues from advice on creating water funds in Chile, to employment issues in Australia.  We provided pro bono legal advice to the Alliance of the Great Lakes in relation to processes and procedures under the Great Lakes Compact, including the review and evaluation of a proposed water withdrawal project in the Great Lakes.  We provided pro bono legal advice to the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA), an independent, nonpartisan membership organization devoted exclusively to advocacy on behalf of the National Parks System, in relation to defending against challenges to the designation and operation of the Pullman national monument, the first National Park Service monument in Chicago.  Our Lima office provided pro bono legal support to SINBA SURA S.A.C., an entity based on the idea of a world without trash. SINBA is implementing the Gastronomía Sin Basura (Gastronomy Without Trash) program in restaurants in Peru to promote segregation of organic waste and its reuse as high quality food for livestock. We provided legal advice on solid waste regulations, specifically related to permits and authorizations required for the development of the program. Further, we have been consulted about key issues and solutions to be implemented by the Ministry of Environment as part of its New Regulations of Solid Wastes.  In Australia, our lawyers regularly provide pro bono advice to a number of charities and not-for-profit organizations that advocate for the environment. These organizations include WWF Australia, The Climate Council, ClimateUnited Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  25 KIC, Wentworth Group of Concerned Scientists, Legal Response Initiative, Australian Youth Climate Coalition, and the Oceans Institute.  Our Johannesburg office has provided pro bono legal support to the 'Global Solar Energy Standardisation Initiative' a joint undertaking of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) together with Terrawatt Initiative (TWI). The initiative aims to standardize contracts to streamline and scale up the global development and financing of solar projects, to contribute to meeting the objectives of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. We have been working with the Initiative to standardize several key documentations required in solar projects, including PPA, O&M Agreements, Supply Agreements, Fit & Commissioning Agreements, Finance Facility Agreement, Project Development and Implementation Guidelines.  Our Johannesburg office also participated in a project cataloguing water laws, at the request of Advocates for International Development (A4ID), for the Centre for Water Security and Cooperation. The purpose was to establish a database of water laws made publicly available at no cost, beginning with South Africa, Mozambique, Morocco, Ethiopia, Mauritius, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Ghana and the DRC. The database is intended to assist the achievement of water security by providing a clear understanding of water law frameworks, including the identification of water management and governance in these jurisdictions.  Baker McKenzie Stockholm provides pro bono legal assistance to Solvatten, an organization that has invented a combined portable water treatment and solar water heater system that has been designed for use at the household level in the developing world. Solvatten protects the lives of children when they are most susceptible to waterborne diseases and other dangers. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  26 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Operations As a global enterprise, we comply with a variety of anti-corruption laws. These laws apply to our interactions with governments and government officials. They also cover our dealings with clients and suppliers, as well as the dealings of third parties acting on our behalf. Our Firm, its lawyers, its employees and its clients have important obligations under various anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA), which covers, among other things, the corrupt payment of bribes to foreign government officials. The UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions also apply to us and may apply to our clients. We comply, and we must counsel our clients to comply with those laws wherever applicable. Our Code of Business Conduct, which is publicly available and is often provided to our clients, sets out the behavior we expect from our employees in relation to issues such as compliance with anticorruption laws, dealing with sanctions, money laundering prevention, and avoiding conflicts of interest, among other topics. It spells out our policies and also provides guidance on how to act when specific, clear policies are not available. It also reflects our commitment as a At signatory to the UN Global Compact to align our policies and operations with the Baker McKenzie, Compact's Ten Principles. We have mandatory and regular training of all our our reputation is our personnel with respect to our code of conduct, including anti-corruption laws. most valuable This year, Baker McKenzie launched the Code of Business Conduct Hotline to asset. We earn it provide an additional tool to help ensure that everyone complies with the Code. every day with the The Hotline allows anyone in the Firm to ask questions, seek guidance or report concerns confidentially, and where permissible, anonymously, by phone or choices we make – through a dedicated web portal, EthicsPoint. for our clients, our Firm, our communities and Our Communities ourselves.” In alignment with Sustainable Development Goal 16, Baker McKenzie supports -Code of Business efforts aimed at strengthening the rule of law, promoting effective, accountable Conduct institutions at the national and international levels, and to ensuring equal access to justice for all. Some examples include:  We drafted and support the UN Global Compact's Business for the Rule of Law (B4ROL) Framework an initiative that aims to engage the business community and legal profession globally in advancing the rule of law, good governance and corporate sustainability.  We are members of the World Economic Forum's Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, which works with business leaders, international organizations and governments to address corruption, transparency and emerging-market risks.  Our Johannesburg office is participating in a working group convened by the International Bar Association on the issue of sextortion in the context of anti-corruption frameworks within South Africa. Sextortion refers to United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  27 requesting sexual favors as a form of abuse of power and corruption. The working group hopes to create awareness of the criminal nature of sextortion, educate the public and public officials and encourage reporting and prosecution. In particular, we have supported the working group in undertaking research for purposes of establishing whether anti-corruption legal frameworks were broad enough to allow for sextortion claims, identifying barriers to pursing sextortion claims, formulating recommendations on how to address sextortion within the legal frameworks and raising awareness.  A team of Baker McKenzie lawyers joined the Public International Law & Policy Group (PILPG) in designing and leading two trainings in Kenya to assist local NGOs, Kenyan police, community leaders, traditional leaders, paralegals, lawyers and prosecutors with necessary legal skills training in relation to the documentation of human rights violations and the use of strategic litigation to achieve social justice. The Firm received the African Legal Awards CSR, Diversity, Transformation and Economic Empowerment Award in connection with this project.  The Firm was recently engaged by the International Senior Lawyers Project (ISLP), an organization that provides legal advice to governments in developing countries throughout the world, to advise the Gambian government on how it could implement a Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) in the wake of former President Yahya Jammeh's 22year dictatorial regime. Our Melbourne and London offices have collaborated to produce a comparative report on TRCs in South Africa and Sierra Leone. Our team conducted in-depth research into these case studies, identifying the key weaknesses and strengths of each TRC and drawing upon these findings to provide best practice recommendations on the scope and structure for the proposed TRC in Gambia. Supporting PILPG with legal skills trainings in Kenya  Following a request from Advocates for International Development (A4ID), colleagues from our EU Competition and Trade Practice delivered sanctions and anti-money laundering training for non-governmental organizations. The program aimed to help finance and operations managers at NGOs with a UK presence to understand sanctions, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing laws; how financial institutions approach financial crime compliance; and how NGOs can address financial crime compliance and ensure efficient operation. The training is now available as an e-learning module on A4ID's website. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  28  During the past year, lawyers in our Lima office have participated in a project with the Asociación Civil Transparencia, a non-profit organization that works to strengthen democracy and the quality of political representation in Peru. In this project, called Plan 32, we were asked to participate in proposals for institutional and legal reform to strengthen democracy. Our partners led several of the proposals, including:  Designing a law and bylaws that would recognize and regulate the management of interests as a democratic and valid mechanism of communication between citizens and authorities.  Development of a national committee that enables authorities to prioritize the development of a comprehensive reform strategy for the justice system.  Modification of the bylaws of the Peruvian Congress, including accountability of political parties on the basis of minimum standards; limits on trustworthy personnel; and predictability in parliamentary activity, among other changes.  To strengthen civil society, we have supported the Cyrus R. Vance Center for International Justice, a non-profit program of the New York City Bar Association, to create a first-of-its-kind toolkit for public service leaders in Latin America. The resource is designed for leaders who want to formalize their organizations and improve their opportunities to receive grants, donations and other funding. It is country specific and contains best practices an organization should follow to excel in its mission and attract support for sustainability. The resource will cover a range of topics, including corporate organization and governance, employment, fundraising, IP, tax and insurance, among other matters.  We provided project management training and support and pro bono legal research to Oxfam to assist in their development of Action for Justice (A4J), an online platform to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and experience related to public interest litigation. A4J aims to support communities to strengthen access to justice and rule of law, protect human rights and the environment, eradicate poverty, and promote sustainable development and conflict resolution. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  29 www.bakermckenzie.com Baker McKenzie helps clients overcome the challenges of competing in the global economy. We solve complex legal problems across borders and practice areas. Our unique culture, developed over 65 years, enables our 13,000 people to understand local markets and navigate multiple jurisdictions, working together as trusted colleagues and friends to instil confidence in our clients. Baker & McKenzie International is a global law firm with member law firms around the world. In accordance with the common terminology used in professional service organizations, reference to a partner means a person who is a partner or equivalent in such a law firm. Similarly, reference to an office means an office of any such law firm. This may qualify as Attorney Advertising requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. © 2018 Baker McKenzie. All rights reserved. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Baker McKenzie  30
