JUNCKERS 1 CSR REPORT 2017 JUNCKERS.COM 2 CONTENT 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE 3 2. GENERAL 4 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.2 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work 2.4 Relationship to existing structures at Junckers 3. STATUS FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES 9 3.1 PRINCIPLE 2 3.2 PRINCIPLE 6 3.3 PRINCIPLE 7 3.4 PRINCIPLE 8 3.5 PRINCIPLE 9 3.6 PRINCIPLE 10 4. SUMMARY 2017 20 3 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE At Junckers Industries A/S, we are working on implementing Committing to the UN Global Compact principles is also well environmentally and socially responsible business practices in line with the company’s other work within the environment, as part of our daily operations. working environment and energy management (ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 Therefore, in 2011, Junckers entered as a signatory to UN Global Compact to support the 10 principles in the 4 main certified), as well as with its track record of using sustainable areas of: Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment wood (PEFC™ and FSC® certified). and Anti-corruption. Since then, the company has described the progress of its work with the individual principles in the In addition to continuing to safeguard the progress of the company’s annual CSR report. Global Compact principles that have already been implemented, 2017 has been a year with focus on updating the underlying As a signatory to the Global Compact, Junckers support the environmental management systems to secure requirements work of the organisation and strengthen its own work within in the new FSC CoC and FSC CW standards are met. The new corporate social responsibility. Junckers has been a workplace FSC standards are fully implemented and audit has been for many people with different backgrounds and education for successfully conducted by 3rd party certification body. more than 80 years and is still one of the largest companies in the timber industry in Denmark. Junckers has a responIn 2016 Junckers became ISO 50001 certified, as well as sibility to society and its employees, both as a company and as entered into an agreement with the Danish Energy Agency on an employer. Junckers’ aim is to be a company that society can energy efficiency. be proud of and to have a workplace where employees look forward to coming to work. Work on reducing energy consumption was therefore also highly prioritised in 2017 and focus has been placed on heat The responsibility for implementing the principles into the recovery in order to reduce Juncker’s environmental impact everyday life of the company’s will be defined and delegated on energy consumption. Consequently a larger project was by the organisation, and the employees will be informed about implemented in connection with the kiln drying system. the agreement and its significance. The annual CSR report (the COP) will be published on Some of the principles have been integrated into the www.junckers.com and will also be used when communicating company’s operations in advance, as Junckers has already with external stakeholders, among these, customers. worked systematically with these areas for many years, following the implementation of its environmental and working environment certifications. Junckers envisage obvious benefits in adopting the Global Compact, as the company will become structured and made F. Junckers Industries A/S, Koege, visible by the numerously good initiatives that have already Denmark May 2018 been taken within CSR. This means that the company will be stronger on the market among the customers who emphasis Carsten Chabert that their suppliers are also serious and trustworthy within Chief Executive Officer CSR. 4 2. GENERAL 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.1.1 History Flemming Juncker was a young Danish graduate in forestry with foresight. The young forestry graduate knew that the economic viability of the Danish forests was in a bad condition. It was necessary to find new fields of application for the wood that had up until then, been used as firewood or simply left in the forests. Flemming Juncker started the sawmill in 1930 to produce an order of 40,000 railway sleepers from beechwood for DSB (The Danish State Railways). In order to do this, he rented 7,000 m² of ground from Køge Shipyard in Denmark and bought a frame saw in Sweden. The production of the railway sleepers was thought to be a one-off assignment. The remaining wood was sold to the Køge Timber Factory. When the collaboration ended, Juncker had to find other ways to dispose of the remaining wood. This was the beginning of the 2-strip beech parquet board. Two rows of staves assembled into one board on a “Lindermann machine”. The idea of the beech parquet floors was to drive the Swedish pinewood floors out of the Danish housing market. It worked, and the foundations for Junckers’ solid hardwood flooring were now in place. 2.1.2 Key figures, end of 2017 Number of employees, Køge:............................................... 280 Number of employees, Nørre Alslev:..................................... 18 Number of employees, foreign sales companies:................. 36 Annual turnover:.................................................... DKK 413 m. (International sales account for approx. 70%). Logs for parquet consumption, Køge: ................... . 131,000 m³ Consumption of raw planks, Nørre Alslev:................................................................2,914 m3 Production of oil and lacquered products: ...... 1.314,000 litres. 5 2.1.3 Production flow Junckers operates its production from two factories in Denmark: The factory in Køge produces the solid hardwood parquet flooring and the lacquered/oil products. Administration, technology, development, packaging and shipping operations etc. are also located here. The factory in Nørre Alslev produces solid hardwood plank flooring and subconstructions that are shipped via Køge. Parquet production is approx. 10 times greater than plank production, both in terms of production and resource consumption. Here is a short description of the parquet flooring production process: The process starts with the logs from the forest arriving at the log yard. The wood is transported to Junckers by lorry, train or ship. The logs are stored at the log yard until they are ready to be cut. The logs are sorted at the sawmill and cut into staves, which are subsequently dried in the chamber drying plant or pressure drying plant. Once dry, the staves are planed, sorted, labelled and assembled into floorboards. The floorboards are then polished and shaped. Grooves are cut on the back for the brackets used when the floor is laid. The last stage of the process is when the floorboards are treated with lacquer or oil. Besides being a manufacturer of solid hardwood flooring, Junckers is also the supplier of the Junckers Wood Care system. The system consists of lacquer, oil, lye and soap products for the treatment and maintenance of, e.g. floors, ceilings, furniture and wooden terraces. Junckers Wood Care system is available for both the retail and professional market, and is also used in-house for the treatment of Juncker’s wide range of wooden floors, which are finished at the factory before being delivered to the customers. Junckers Industrier A/S has sales companies in Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United States. Junckers floors and Wood Care systems are sold worldwide through their wide network of distributors. The lacquer and oil products have been developed in Junckers own laboratory and are therefore specifically produced for the treatment of high quality wooden flooring. KNIGHTSBRIDGE, UNITED KINGDOM 6 2.1.4 CSR challenges in Junckers’ history Junckers has undergone considerable development over the course of time, despite the fact that products and raw materials have basically been the same for the past many decades. Although some conditions haven’t changed much since the beginning, in spite of developments. The following significant changes and conditions can be singled out: —— Environment: Up until the mid-1990s, the company would receive many complaints regarding dust, smell, noise, sewage etc. In addition to flooring, Junckers also produced pulp and MDFs (Medium density fibreboards), and these productions gave rise to a number of local environmental problems. The closure of pulp and MDF production resulted in a significant reduction of emissions from the company, and the introduction of environmental management, along with a number of technical improvements meant that the number of annual complaints from neighbours for approx. the past 5 years, are now in the region of 0-1. —— Working environment: Despite the introduction of robotics, visual systems, automatic sorting, etc., many manual functions are still used in the production of the flooring. The main problem, in terms of pure ergonomics, is the monotonous repetitive work (MRW), which, despite technological improvements, continues to occur, and in the long-term can cause muscle and joint injury. Rotational systems, where employees change workplace several times a day, have reduced the risk of health injuries significantly however. Junckers are trying to reduce the amount of MRW jobs on a constant basis, and the progress for this is positive. —— Tropical wood: Junckers has previously experienced significant sales of market goods, such as Merbau and Jatoba. Despite meticulous purchasing work, it was not always possible to check the legality or sustainability of the wood, but Junckers sought to guide its suppliers in the right direction, which was more than many other companies were doing at that time. The sale of tropical wood today, only accounts for a very small part of Juncker’s revenue, and through certifications within the PEFC™ and FSC® and most recently with the introduction of the “European Union Timber Regulation” in 2013, all the wood purchased is legally harvested. —— Employee conditions: Historically, Junckers has always employed a large proportion of unskilled labour, and that is also true today. Reading difficulties or dyslexia are common in some areas of production, but are generally on the fall due to the increasing use of IT technology in production. In general, the employees are, professionally organised. The social commitment of the company is reflected in, e.g. Junckers Welfare Fund, which provides financial support to current or former employees in cases of illness, death or other areas of need. 2.2 THE SILO, DENMARK 7 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers Junckers supports all 10 principles within the Global Compact, and through its compliance with Danish legal requirements, the company also works with the principles every single day, albeit “subconsciously”. For simple reasons of resource, Junckers has chosen to thoroughly prepare and describe the ten principles separately in detail and gradually incorporate the principles so that the systematic work with CSR and the documentation of the work is built up gradually with the inclusion of the experiences gained along the way. Up until now, Junckers has therefore decided to concentrate on 6 of the principles: Area Principle Human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Workers’ rights Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Relevance, progress, etc. of each principle is described in section 3. Matters relating to CSR are communicated internally to employees through the company’s intranet, at meetings, etc., and externally via sellers, subsidiaries and marketing material. A section on CSR and a link to the COP report can be found at www.junckers.com 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work The CEO has the overall responsibility for implementing the principles of the Global Compact into the company. The dayto-day work of implementation, information, coordination, reporting, etc., is carried out in a collaboration consisting of: —— The purchasing manager, who coordinates the literacy relating to CSR and manages contact with suppliers, e.g. risk screening and acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct. The purchasing manager is also responsible for describing the progress of the CSR work in the annual CSR report. —— The technical manager, who as “system man”, is responsible for written documentation, reports and internal communication. —— The marketing manager, who manages external communication for commercial purposes. 8 2.4 Reference to existing structures at SUSTAINABLE BUILD: Junckers As a resource partner, Junckers Industries A/S supports Junckers Industries in Denmark are certified in Sustainable Build, which was initiated by the Danish accordance with: Industry Foundation, the Danish Architecture Centre and Leaderlab. Sustainable Build promotes growth in —— ISO 14001:2015 (environment) sustainable construction and is actualised in partnership —— OHSAS 18001 (working environment) with suppliers, companies and organisations of the building industry, as well as the Green business —— ISO 50001 (energy management) development fund. —— PEFC™ and FSC® (legal and sustainable wood) There is no production within the foreign sales companies THE EU TIMBER REGULATION: and they are therefore not covered by the productionrelated certifications. In connection with the implementation of the EU Timber Regulation of 3 March 2013, Junckers has incorporated Junckers Industries A/S has been approved and granted the use of a Supplier Code of Conduct as a part of Due labelling authorisation in accordance with Dansk Diligence. Suppliers of wood-based products considered Indeklimamærkning (Danish Indoor Climate Labelling). to be at risk of not complying with these legal requirements This agreement ensures that there are no chemical must sign Junckers Supplier COC in order to minimise substances in the flooring and that the products cannot the risk of Junckers inadvertently buying wood-based adversely affect the air quality in the room. products of controversial or illegal origin. A comprehensive management system has been organised to cover all standards. The contents of the management THE LABELLING INCLUDES: system are freely available for all employees. The overall responsibility for the system lies with the head —— Junckers Wooden Flooring of production. Compliance with the individual standards is audited by internal and external audits on an annual —— Junckers Water-based care, Furniture and basis. Floor Lacquer —— Junckers Furniture, Table tops and Floor Oil Procedures, registrations, documentation, policies, etc. related to CSR are implemented in the environmental management system on a constant basis and follow its overall methodology SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION: In co-operation with Rambøll, the ways in which Junckers positively contributes to focus areas have been identified, such as overall economics, indoor climate and materials within the certification agreements: —— LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) —— BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) —— DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen (German Sustainable Building Council)) 3. STATUS FOR THE 10 9 PRINCIPLES As a signatory to the Global Compact agreement, Junckers expresses its support for all 10 principles of the organisation. Junckers’ implementations of the principles are being phased in gradually (see section 2.2). Therefore, below described are only the work and results for the principles, that the company has approached in details until now. 3.1 are consolidated in Junckers’ “CSR Performance Evaluation Principle 2: Businesses should make sure Procedure.” Initially, it is currently suppliers from Asia and that they are not complicit in human rights Eastern Europe, who are considered to be relevant in terms of abuses signing our Supplier Code of Conduct. A program has been set in motion to audit whether the standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. 3.1.1 An audit form, letter of intent and accompanying list of Relevance for Junckers documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared Junckers and its sales companies are located in countries and will be updated at least once a year. Initially, the audits that have adopted agreements regarding the compliance will be conducted by Junckers themselves at the suppliers. of international human rights, and where human rights are The results of these audits will form the basis for assessing included as a fixed part of national legislation. Junckers whether it subsequently will be relevant to involve an external thus considers the risk of violating human rights within the auditing company in the process. company to be insignificant. Junckers has therefore chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation that can occur through trade with suppliers who have 3.1.3 little respect for human rights. Junckers has less than 10 What did Junckers do last year? suppliers from countries outside the EU and North America. The planned review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure, as well as the planned follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia was rescheduled for the third quarter of 2018. 3.1.2 How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? As mentioned in section 3.1.1, Junckers considers the risk of 3.1.4 violating human rights within the company to be insignificant due Results achieved, incl. description of to their compliance with international rules and conventions in measurement/ calculation method, data this area. The principal is therefore “informally” implemented at sources and potential uncertainty the present time. The actions were re-scheduled for 2018 – see point 3.1.3. The company has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC), which specifies a specific number of requirements made by the company 3.1.5 to its suppliers. The requirements encompass a Plans for next year combination of the 10 principles contained in the A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and Global Compact. the associated evaluation procedure, as well as a followup audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for the third The SCOC has been approved by Junckers’ board of Directors and quarter of 2018. is distributed to those who are considered to be at risk in relation to the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Workers’ Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption”, which 10 3.2 3.2.2 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the How has the principle been implemented in elimination of discrimination in respect of Junckers? employment and occupation Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy: “It is Junckers Industries aim to hire the applicant best qualified for any job within the given financial framework. 3.2.1 Relevance for Junckers The company’s core value is to aim for diversity at work so that Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy that all applicants are guaranteed equal opportunities; regardless ensures principle 6 is complied with in the actual period of of sex, age or ethnic background. employment. It is therefore a primary objective for Junckers to ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a dayA newly appointed employee must possess the qualifications to-day basis. that reflect the demands required for the job, as well as those of Junckers’ current standards of conduct and values. In addition to an applicant possessing professional and human requirements, basic language skills that are necessary for daily communication and compliance with the environmental management concept may be required. The company will encourage a potential applicant to acquire these attributes or actively contribute to a qualified applicant in gaining these qualifications. In addition to normal employment, Junckers also engages employees for short-term jobs, and has a positive attitude for engaging employees in job training if this is compatible with actual circumstances.” As the risk of discrimination in the period of employment is considered to be very small, especially in view of the company’s employment policy (as mentioned above), the primary focus is to ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a day-today basis. Part of the common framework is also an overall consequence policy. This should be exerted in cases where an employee feels harassed or bullied to an extent that cannot be accepted by the company. The company has decided to train a number of employees as “job satisfaction agents” to run in parallel with the proposal for a job satisfaction policy. The work areas, tasks and competencies of the job satisfaction agents are described in a separate document. 11 The departments’ common framework for the implementation of job satisfaction work has been organised under four headings: Junckers’ job satisfaction policy: 3. Communication All employees at Junckers Industries in Denmark must —— Communication should always be open and direct contribute to create and maintain a workplace where —— Avoid irony and insinuations, especially if you are the tone and behaviour towards fellow colleagues is a leader. both positive and respectful. Bullying, harassment and any other behaviour that can cause harm to others will —— Avoid misunderstandings by adapting the not be tolerated.” communication to fit the recipient. —— Conduct regular departmental meetings – this also provides a sense of security! 1. Acknowledgement —— Acknowledge the experience and knowledge of 4. Good tone your colleagues. —— Greet your colleague (this shows that —— Praise your colleagues when they deserve it. you acknowledge them). —— Appreciate extraordinary effort it’s not to be —— Politeness (always gratifying, never damaging!). taken for granted! —— Adapt your language and tone to avoid —— Simply say thank you. upsetting others. —— Believe that your colleagues are doing their best. —— It is your rightful duty to put your foot down if you are offended by someone’s tone and behaviour. 2. Security —— Listen and try to understand the other person’s point of view. —— Respect agreements and confidentiality. —— Respect each other’s personalities and —— Be visible, accessible and present as a leader. work. —— Friendly nicknames are OK but “nasty” —— The work should, as far as possible, be planned so nicknames are bullying! that it is predictable and transparent. —— Think before you speak! —— Provide adequate instruction for new tasks. —— A good atmosphere provides a sense of security. —— Take responsibility and make sure that everyone is happy. 12 3.2.3 3.2.4 What did Junckers do last year? Results achieved, incl. description of During the course of the year, Junckers personnel measurement/calculation method, data association arranged a number of events that contributed sources and potential uncertainty to the team spirit and happiness of the workplace. In 2017, an examination of the psychological working environment was carried out and the table below illustrates the progress of some of the most important parameters. Parameter/question 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of responses 178 195 165 178 195 178 Response rate 67% 75% 67% 64% 70% 61% General satisfaction with workplace (“satisfied”/“very satisfied”) 96 % 98 % 98% 90% 96% 92% Work-related absenteeism Back, shoulders and neck pains were given as the primary cause, stress as the second. 9 14 10 20 28 18 Workload (red) 24 22 19 20 16 12 Bullying (“daily” or “weekly”) 4 4 3 4 2 6 Stress (“infrequent” or “frequent”) 19 15 15 18 19 19 Burnouts (“infrequent” or “frequent”) 35 28 21 33 36 25 Insecurity related to terms of employment (“Are you worried about losing your job?”) 72 56 48 41 33 28 “To what extent would you make use of a job satisfaction agent if the need arose?” (“To a very large extent” or “to a large extent”) 25% 30% 28% 28% The conclusion of this year’s psychological work place assessment showed no major changes. MULTIFORM, DENMARK 13 3.2.5 3.3.2 Plans for next year How has the principle been implemented in The results of this year’s examination of the psychological Junckers? working environment will be addressed by the departments' The company’s environmental policy (which also includes the environmental groups and at information meetings. The main working environment and energy) has been implemented as environmental committee at a meeting in December discussed follows (excerpts): the results and the steps to be taken were deliberated at undertaking level. It was assessed that there has been a slight —— Junckers complies with current Danish legislation, improvement in the psychological working environment and as well as other requirements relating to company therefore no major steps will be taken. Steps will be taken on certifications, environmental approvals and binding an on-going basis, as and when the need arises. obligations. Discrepancies that occur will be corrected. —— Implementation of prevention and improvement in the areas of environmental policy; including prevention of pollution, prevention of occupational injury and illness 3.3 and the reduction of energy consumption, is carried Principle 7: Businesses should support a out by Junckers on an ongoing basis. This work is precautionary approach to environmental documented. challenges —— Junckers is part of an open and positive dialogue with relevant stakeholders in the areas of environmental policy, and wishes to influence 3.3.1 developments in these areas in a positive direction. Relevance for Junckers Environmental legislation in Denmark imposes great demands on businesses in terms of environmental and resource consumption in a company’s activities. The environmental authorities issue industry companies of Junckers’ type and size with a detailed environmental approval containing the terms and conditions to be observed. The company is regularly monitored by environmental authority (Køge Municipality for Junckers) inspections, and may be issued with an injunction and ban if conditions are not observed. When establishing new facilities or buildings, an application seeking permission must be sent to the authorities. Part of the application must contain a description and reference to environmental issues and challenges, including in some cases, issues regarding the best use of available technology, risk assessment if facilities or new buildings are deemed to give rise to a specific risk, e.g. pollution or fire hazard, or a description of the anticipated consumption of resources (incl. energy). Junckers has a healthy and positive dialogue with the environmental authorities, and the cooperation is characterised by openness and transparency. The company’s certified environmental management system focuses on environment, resource consumption, responsible waste treatment and more, which today, is a natural part of the daily operation and planning. Junckers therefore unreservedly support the Global Compact’s principle of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 14 3.3.3 3.3.4 What did Junckers do last year? Results achieved, incl. description of Junckers’ emission of saw dust, fine particles and noise measurement/calculation method, data has met with the authority’s requirements for many years sources and potential uncertainty and as such, is no longer a direct focus area for significant The graphs below illustrate the progress in energy improvements. Junckers has begun to further reduce noise consumption. impact in compliance with environmental approval, as Køge’s port area is under expansion and will bring neighbours closer. Electricity consumption (kWh/m2) Junckers Køge Attempts to further reduce the impact of exterior noise towards 14,00 the city of Køge were made in 2016, and a plan for further 12,00 action, “Noise Action Plan 2017”, was prepared in 2017. 10,00 8,00 Electricity consumption (kWh/m2) Junckers Køge The company’s energy consumption is still a focus area, due 6,00 13,00 4,00 to CO2 emission and the major economic costs of energy. 12,50 2,00 In 2016, a major project was launched for the renovation of 12,00 energy in the kiln drying facility, as well as for the recycling 11,50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of waste heat from the kiln drying process. Additional trucks 11,00 were replaced in 2016 and the conversion to electric trucks 10,50 Steam consumption (kg/m2) Junckers Køge from diesel and gas trucks continued. It makes good sense 10,00 100 90 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to replace diesel and gas trucks in a production environment, 80 70 as the trucks must perform many hours of work and electric 60 trucks can then be charged at night. As an example, several 50 40 diesel vehicles should be replaced in order to attain the same 30 effect on CO2 emission. 20 10 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Junckers implemented a major restructuring for rain water and waste water in 2015, which meant that Junckers’ waste water treatment plant could be closed down at the end of February Diesel and LPG consumption 250000 2016. This not only means increased operating efficiency, but also increased energy saving, as the cleaning was very taxing 200000 on energy. Following this restructuring, there has been focus 150000 on the handling of chemicals throughout Junckers, in order to 100000 safeguard against accidents and ensure safe procedures for 50000 dealing with the situation if an accident should occur. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Focus has been placed on heat recovery in order to reduce Gas for trucks, kg Diesel, litres Juncker’s environmental impact on energy consumption. A larger project has therefore been implemented in connection The company’s energy performance in general is considered with the kiln drying system. to be satisfactory. Work on reducing energy consumption was highly prioritised in 2016. Junckers has therefore become ISO 50001 certified, as well as entering into an agreement with the Danish Energy Agency on energy efficiency. 3.3.5 Plans for next year There will be continued focus on reducing heat and electricity consumption in 2018. Several major projects, which are expected to reduce energy consumption significantly, are being worked on. 15 Brushed oak parquet The Biological House CAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, DENMARK 16 3.4 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3.4.1 Relevance for Junckers Junckers has been environmentally certified according to the ISO14001 standard, since the end of the 1990s. An external audit company follows up on the progress of the environmental objectives every 12 months. Environmental consideration and environmental responsibility are therefore included as a fully integrated principle in the company’s operations together with the legal requirements. A new standard of ISO14001 was introduced in 2015, and Junckers is therefore in the process of integrating this into the management system. 3.4.2 3.4.4 How has the principle been implemented in Results achieved, incl. description of Junckers? measurement/calculation method, data sources and potential uncertainty The company has an environmental policy with associated Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can environmental objectives. The management evaluates the be downloaded at www.junckers.com operation and proficiency of the environmental management system in relation to the policy on an annual basis. All employees in the company are informed of environmental objectives and 3.4.5 action plans. The administrative procedures are carried out Plans for next year by the environmental protection organisation. Work with the Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can environmental objectives is in progress on an ongoing basis be downloaded at www.junckers.com throughout the year. Suppliers trading with Junckers for more than DKK 250.000 annually are being screened as part of the procedures in the environmental management system. A questionnaire containing questions about the suppliers’ environmental and health and safety policies, certifications, objectives, etc., is issued. Based on the answers given, the suppliers are categorised in an internal database as “very good”, “good” and “less good”. A supplier can also be categorised as “non approved” and trade with such suppliers shall be limited to exceptional cases and be given special attention. 3.4.3 What did Junckers do last year? Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can be downloaded at www.junckers.com 17 3.5 The risk assessment used in connection with PEFC™ and Principle 9: Businesses should encourage FSC® standards has been added to the requirements of the the development and diffusion of EU Timber Regulation. This means that we use only one risk environmentally friendly technologies assessment for the purchase of raw wood, which is therefore included in Junckers Due Diligence system. Raw wood suppliers based outside the EU must sign Junckers’ “Supplier 3.5.1 Code of Conduct” as part of the risk mitigation. Relevance for Junckers Junckers produces solid hardwood parquet and plank flooring. The four main wood species used for the floors are beech, oak, maple and ash. The wood is purchased from neighbouring 3.5.2 regions, i.e. Denmark, South Sweden, Germany and Poland. How has the principle been implemented in A lesser amount is purchased in the USA and Canada, who Junckers? are able to supply planks in specific dimensions and quality. The company’s purchase policy includes that all raw wood, Junckers also sells flooring manufactured from tropical wood semi-finished goods (wood) and goods for resale (wood) species. purchased, must comply with the requirements of the EU Timber Regulation as a minimum and therefore be of legal Junckers had a natural interest in having a good relationship origin. Junckers procurement strategy also urges its suppliers with forest management since its inception, so the factory’s to certify themselves according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards, raw material (logs and raw planks) can still be delivered in to be able to purchase the highest possible amount of purchased the right quality at a competitive price. The company has raw wood as being from sustainably managed forests. The been certified according to the internationally used PEFC™ company therefore continues to pay a premium for certified standard since 2006, as well as the FSC® standard since 2010. wood. The certifications document the traceability of the flooring the company sells as certified, so the customers are sure that Junckers actively participates in the dissemination of PEFC™ the wood used for the flooring has been legally harvested and certification and has, inter alia: been represented on the board sustainably managed (PEFC™ and FSC®). of PEFC™ in Denmark since 1999. As Junckers Industrier A/S is based in the EU, it must comply with the EU Timber Regulation, which was implemented on 3 3.5.3 March 2013. As a part of this regulation, it must have a Due What did Junckers do last year? Diligence system, which, e.g. must cover these areas: The total amount of certified raw wood purchased in 2017 has been increased compared to the 2016 level. The increase can Information: The operator must have access to information be attributed to minor changes in the purchasing pattern and describing the timber and timber products, country of harvest, geographical origin. (see paragraph 3.5.4). species, quantity, details of the supplier and information on compliance with national legislation. PEFC™/FSC® audits: Risk assessment: The operator should assess the risk of illegal The external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance audit No. 2 was timber in his supply chain, based on the information identified carried out by 3rd party certification body in August 2017. above and taking into account criteria set out in the regulation. 2 minor non-conformances were recorded in relation to the Risk mitigation: When the assessment shows that there is a risk FSC® standards and no non-conformances were recorded in of illegal timber in the supply chain that risk can be mitigated relation to the PEFC™ standard. by requiring additional information and verification from the supplier. The auditor emphasised that we have well-implemented procedures in general and that we continuously improve our routines to reflect changes in the standards. 18 An internal audit was conducted at our office/administration 3.5.5 and external storage facility in the USA west coast Plans for next year warehouse in May. No nonconformances were recorded The internal PEFC™/FSC® audit for the headquarters in and communication between office and storage facility were, Køge is scheduled for the 2nd quarter of 2018 and the annual based on samples, assessed as being followed as described in internal PEFC™/FSC® audit in the USA is scheduled for 2nd procedure I.5.8a. quarter of 2018. An internal PEFC™/FSC® audit was conducted at the head An external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance audit is planned for office in Køge in August and no non-conformances were the end of August 2018. recorded. Circular and new guide on ensuring the use of sustainable Sale of wood-based waste products: wood in the public sector in Denmark: Junckers Industries A/S sells all of its waste from wood A circular and guide on ensuring the use of sustainable production to its neighbour, VEKS. VEKS has signed wood in the public sector in Denmark came into force on 1 an industry agreement that commits them to fulfill a July 2014. The circular commits the state (administration requirement for a proportion of their procurement of biomass and directorates) to ensure that sustainable wood is used for to be documented as being sustainable (PEFC™, FSC® or construction, furniture and paper. This was phased in between SBP certified). The requirement is valid from 1 August 2016 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2016. The circular came into and the requirement for the proportion of biomass to be force with regard to flooring on 1 January 2016. documented as sustainable will be increased gradually as follows: The purchase of PEFC™ and FSC® certified products is recognized by the Danish authorities as a method for public 2016: 40% purchasers to document they comply with the rules in the 2017: 60% circular, as they are recognized by the authorities as being 2018: 75% sustainable. 2019: Fully implemented A number of EU countries have already implemented similar As from 1 August 1 2016, Junckers has been using rules for public procurement, and on this basis, a growing “alternative” documentation and has, after and including the demand for PEFC™ and FSC ® certified products must be invoicing of waste products delivered in February 2017, sell expected. these products as sustainably certified via PEFC™ and FSC® claims. Junckers therefore wish to continue to increase the amount of purchased certified felled timber and pay, e.g. a higher price for certified raw wood in order to influence forest owners to 3.5.4 become certified according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards. Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data sources and potential uncertainty Amount of raw wood purchased as PEFC™ FSC® Total certified 2010 24 % 41 % 65 % 2011 37 % 28 % 65 % 2012 52 % 13 % 65 % 2013 52 % 29 % 81 % 2014 53 % 21 % 74 % 2015 44% 21% 65% 2016 40% 26% 66% 2017 44% 29% 73% 19 3.6 Junckers has prepared and implemented Due Diligence in Principle 10: Businesses should work accordance with the EU Timber Regulation applicable from 3 against corruption in all its forms, March 2013. A risk assessment for suppliers of wood-based including extortion and bribery products must be made as part of Due Diligence. Junckers uses the criteria from the FSC CW standard to assess the risk. Criteria related to illegal logging are used as primary 3.6.1 indicators and sources of conclusion. The supplier must Relevance for Junckers sign Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct if they are based in Sales companies in Europe and the USA represent Junckers a country where there is a potential risk of, e.g. corruption. outside of Denmark. The company collaborates with By signing Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers commercial agents in Eastern Europe/Russia, the Middle we consider to be “at risk” in relation to corruption confirm, East, Asia and Oceania. Overall, this means that the company’s among other things, the following: sellers operate in different cultures with major differences and tolerance to corruption and corruption-like transactions “Suppliers shall not engage in any form of bribery, corruption, among them. Junckers has once and for all made it clear that extortion or embezzlement in any business practices and the company is against corruption, extortion and bribery, and transactions carried out by them or on their behalf by business that it is unacceptable for an employee to participate in this partners. They will not offer, accept or countenance any payments, type of behaviour, be it as a giver or receiver. gifts in kind, hospitality, expenses or promises as such that may compromise the principles of fair competition or constitute an attempt to obtain or retain business from any person or to influence the course of the business or governmental decision3.6.2 making process. How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? The Supplier shall also refrain from offering funding, donations, Junckers stance on corruption was published on their lavish gifts and extravagant entertainment to any employee homepage with the following wording: “We are against of Junckers Industries A/S or any other counterparts in Junckers corruption, extortion and bribery and it is not permitted for this Industries A/S in an attempt to influence business decisions.” to be offered, promised, given, accepted, tolerated, required or deliberately benefitted from.” 3.6.3 Junckers has chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation What did Junckers do last year? that can occur through trade with suppliers who have no The planned review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of respect for human rights. Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure, as well as the planned follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia was Junckers has prepared a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is re-scheduled for the third quarter of 2018. sent to the suppliers that the company considers having the highest risk of failing to comply with Juncker’s requirements for, e.g. anti-corruption (see also section 3.1). 3.6.4 Results achieved, incl. description of A program has been set in motion to audit whether the measurement/calculation method, data standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. sources and potential uncertainty An audit schema, letter of intent and accompanying list of The actions were re-scheduled for 2018 – see point 3.1.3. documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared. Initially, the audits will be conducted by Junckers themselves at the suppliers. The results of these audits will form the 3.6.5 basis for assessing whether it will subsequently be relevant to Plans for next year involve an external auditing company in the process. A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure, as well as a follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for the third quarter of 2018. 20 Anti-corrupHuman rights Workers’ rights Environment tion Principle Principle Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 1 2 Separately + + + + + formulated policy Relevance for Junckers described + + + + + + in COP Direct financial benefit + + + + for the company Principle informal formal informal informal informal formal formal formal formal formal 4. SUMMARY 2017 implemented into daily operation Significant progress + + + + in 2017 Part of Supplier Code + + + + + + + + + + of Conduct Priority in 2018 + ++ + + + ++ ++ ++ + ++ Partnerships Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery JUNCKERS INDUSTRIES A/S · Værftsvej 4, 4600 Køge, Denmark · Tel. +45 70 80 30 00 · www.junckers.com
