UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 Turner & Townsend is an independent professional services company specialising in programme management, project management, cost and commercial management and advisory across the real estate, infrastructure and natural resources sectors. With 108 offices in 45 countries, we draw on our extensive global and industry experience to manage risk while maximising value and performance for our clients’ assets. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s statement “We have built strong foundations in corporate responsibility and by working closely with industry and community partners we will make a significant contribution to society while continuing to grow our business impact at pace.” I am proud to say that our corporate responsibility programme has matured significantly in the last five years and I am delighted to reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact ten principles. The UN Sustainable Development Goals guide our corporate responsibility strategy and wider business growth. This year, we are focusing on four goals where we can have the greatest impact: quality education; gender equality; sustainable cities and communities; and industry, innovation and infrastructure. Our corporate responsibility strategy is designed to ensure we are a responsible business in everything we do; from our environmental impact to the advice and support we provide clients. We have built strong foundations and by working closely with industry and community partners we will make a significant contribution to society while continuing to grow our business impact at pace. Vincent Clancy, This report demonstrates our progress against our corporate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, responsibility commitments and sets out our ambitious Turner & Townsend agenda to help build a fair society and sustainable future. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 1 Our commitment to corporate responsibility Turner & Townsend’s UN Sustainable UN Global CSR pillars Development Goals Compact principles Prioritised Additional Great place to work Human rights •• Empower our people to •• Principle 1 – businesses should support realise their potential. and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and •• Promote a diverse and inclusive workplace. •• Principle 2 – make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. •• Support our people’s wellbeing. Labour rights •• Principle 3 – businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; •• Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of Community value forced and compulsory labour; •• Deliver projects and •• Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child programmes that build labour; and a prosperous society. •• Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination •• Create opportunities for in respect of employment and occupation. children and young people to achieve their potential. Environmental Environment stewardship •• Principle 7 – businesses should •• Improve our environmental support a precautionary approach impact and promote to environmental challenges; climate action. •• Principle 8 – undertake initiatives •• Support our clients to enable to promote greater environmental more sustainable communities. responsibility; and •• Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Integrity in industry Anti-corruption •• Maintain a strong •• Principle 10 – businesses should ethical culture. work against corruption in all its forms, •• Advance our industry including extortion and bribery. to contribute to a more prosperous society. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 2 2017–2018 corporate responsibility highlights Great place to work 5,209 90 85% 220 88% people nationalities of our people are graduates and of our people satisfied with the apprentices feel comfortable actions we take on bringing their whole social responsibility self to work Community value £443k 7,629 1,888 249 91 corporate and community education fund primary school students work experience employee donations volunteer hours grants supported with literacy placements and STEM activities Environmental stewardship 33 9% 550+ 90.57% offices certified to ISO 14001 reduction in carbon buildings supported with BREEAM rating and regional Environmental Management emissions per employee energy retrofit though award achieved for AFI System RE:FIT programme Europe’s V.Offices Integrity in industry Vincent Clancy Export and Trade Lead 42% 8.2 /10 57 for the Construction Leadership Council Lucy Howard Chair of the ICE Project 13 Future Leaders Panel net promoter score average client industry leadership care score positions David Whysall Co-Chair of Constructing Excellence UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 3 Progress on the Global Compact principles Fair society Labour rights Turner & Townsend prohibits employment of anyone who does not meet legal minimum age requirements. In addition, we ensure we meet all child labour laws across our global markets and prohibit the use of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Our Modern Slavery Act statement clearly states our commitment to eradicating any form of forced labour or human trafficking, both in our business and supply chain. We recognise that all of our people have the right to freedom of association subject to local laws and regulations and also ensure that our people are compensated competitively and fairly relative to our industry and local labour markets. We follow all applicable laws with respect to salary, benefits and work hours. Finally, we actively ensure that discrimination is eliminated in respect of employment and occupation through clear recruitment guidelines and policies. We are expanding our Human rights unconscious bias training to help our people to be aware Turner & Townsend is committed to the highest ethical of and counteract their inherent preconceptions of others. standards and requires all employees to be aware of and comply with its policies and guidelines on corporate conduct. Links to policies and further information Our leadership ensures a culture where strong ethics are –– Annual review: Managing risk embedded in the way we work, while policies and guidelines are updated regularly to ensure we respect the protection of human –– Modern Slavery Act statement rights. We work against any complicity in human rights abuses. The local presence of our risk management teams worldwide ensures the provision of hands-on support and guidance if and where needed. In 2017–2018, the team proactively engaged with our people on this agenda through a global communications campaign. Links to policies and further information –– Annual review: Managing risk –– Ethics policy and code of conduct –– CR report: Quality education –– CR report: Gender equality UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 4 Quality education SDG 4 Gender equality SDG 5 Across our global business, we have established new We welcome the increasing transparency on gender education and employability programmes from pre-school representation in industry. As a business we are going in the to school leaver to increase opportunities for disadvantaged right direction, but we must attract and promote more women children and young people. at every level to be truly representative of society and enable true equality. We know that by becoming increasingly diverse This year, we launched our partnership with the National and inclusive we will bring immense business value and Literacy Trust in the UK and expanded community partnerships opportunity. across our regions to increase our impact. For example, we are growing our involvement in JINC in the Netherlands, where In the UK, we reported on our gender pay gap of 26 percent, together we run employability workshops and mentoring demonstrating we have work to do. To address this we have opportunities for disadvantaged young people. set up programmes on inclusive leadership, flexible working and mentoring. In addition, we are shaping our community In the year ahead, we have committed to reaching 5,000 young work in schools to promote careers in construction by leading people and children through these initiatives. This is critical in STEM activities and promoting positive female role models. helping us address the prominent skills gap in our industry and support greater social mobility in the communities where we Our South Africa team has delivered an equal proportion of operate. men and women through an employee life-cycle approach to gender equality, which includes setting up student bursary schemes, internships and recruitment targets. Links to policies and more information –– CR report: Quality education In the year ahead, USA and Canada are preparing to report –– Case study: Inspiring a love of reading on the gender pay gap in their region on a voluntary basis. –– Case study: Driving social mobility through The report is one element of our wider strategy that includes unconscious bias training and developing diversity networks. employability programmes –– News: #TT5000futures Links to policies and further information –– CR report: Gender equality –– Case study: Supporting female talent at every level –– Case study: Transparency on gender equality UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 5 Anti-corruption Turner & Townsend has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. As a global business, we ensure all of our people are clear on what this means and the actions they must take to prevent collusion. Our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policy and associated guidelines have been translated into 10 global languages and clearly set out our position and subsequent approaches to risk mitigation and whistleblowing. Each employee is required to sign a declaration of complicity to our standards on an annual basis. In addition, every employee is required to undertake an ABC training course when they join the company and a refresher module each year. Our e-learning system will continue to help our people around the world maintain current knowledge on procedures, while our ABC hotline will help them to raise concerns quickly. Links to policies and further information ––Annual review: Managing risk ––Anti-bribery and corruption policy ––Ethics policy and code of conduct Great place to work We now have a team of over 5,000 people and are an exciting prospect for talent. Our localisation strategy ensures we recruit from local markets while our graduate and apprenticeship programmes ensure we support entry-level talent for the long-term growth of our business. This year, we launched Advance, our new global learning platform, making our training and development more accessible. The health, safety and wellbeing of our people has always been of upmost importance to us and this year we launched an app to give our people easy access to the most up-to-date policies and guidance. Our safety, health and quality services help our clients embed strategies and cultures that support effective operations while maintaining safe and healthy environments. Our employee engagement score has increased every year since 2014 and this year 89 percent of our people confirmed they are “proud to work for Turner & Townsend”. We want to make sure we remain an inclusive environment for everyone and aim to continually review and improve this through our employee networks and leadership development. Links to policies and further information –– Annual review: Our people –– Health and safety policy –– News: Shortlist for health and safety awards 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 6 Progress on the Global Compact principles Sustainable future Environment Sustainable cities and communities SDG 9 Greenhouse gas emissions are now more than 50 percent We help our clients achieve internationally recognised higher than their 1990 levels and continue to rise. The built sustainability standards, including BREEAM, LEED and ISO 14001. environment is one of the largest contributors of greenhouse We’re committed to delivering more than just accreditations gases and as a result, the construction industry has an however. Through procurement, project management and obligation to act. building information modelling (BIM), we provide our clients with We support a precautionary approach to environmental systems that will generate ongoing value from sustainability, for challenges, both in our work with clients and through our their business and society. operations, capitalising on technologies that are environmentally In addition, our Sustainability and Environmental Management friendly. Thirty-three of our offices are certified to the ISO services support clients to reduce their carbon emissions and 14001 Environmental Management System and when we overall environmental footprint across the full asset life cycle. relocate we select offices with sustainability credentials. This year, we focused on reducing non-essential business travel, removing single-use plastics and introducing water Links to find out more conservation measures. ––CR report: Sustainable cities and communities Awareness raising is a key element of our environmental ––Case study: Delivering award-winning sustainable projects ––Case study: Building up education stewardship strategy. Earth Day was an opportunity to remind our people of the role they play in our environmental performance. Links to policies and further information ––CR report: Sustainable cities and communities ––CR report: Industry, innovation and infrastructure UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 7 Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG 11 To increase productivity and reduce environmental impact, our industry must embrace technological innovation, address the skills gap, and maximise efficiency throughout the life cycle of projects. We are using cutting-edge BIM, drawing on multiple data sets to enable better decision-making from the initial design of a project through to assets being fully operational. Leading the Exports and Trade work stream of the UK’s Construction Leadership Council (CLC) is putting us at the heart of activity to drive fundamental improvements in the industry. We know that collaboration is key to achieve greater productivity and efficiency across our sectors. As a result, we are active contributors to industry bodies, including the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Constructing Excellence, the Association for Consultancy and Engineering and the Institution of Civil Engineers. Links to find out more ––CR report: Industry, innovation and infrastructure –– Case study: Improving UK productivity by enhancing infrastructure –– Case study: Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s digitised asset management system UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 8 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals The four UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) focused on We know that through our corporate responsibility programme, this year are those that are the most material to our business. operations and work with clients, we are impacting both society They represent the issues that we can have the largest impact and the environment beyond these prioritised SDGs. As a result, on in the year ahead and those that have impacted our industry we have identified additional SDGs that we know we have a and business the most to date. direct effect on. Our contribution to these goals is briefly outlined below. UN Sustainable Development Goals Description SDG 1: Our education and employment programmes target young people and children from some of the most disadvantaged communities near our offices and No poverty operations. By providing opportunities to those who need it most, we can support social mobility in the short term and reduce poverty in the long term. SDG 3: Whether in our offices or out on site, the health, safety and wellbeing of our people is of the upmost importance. Our HR policies, guidance and awareness Good health raising campaigns ensure we take care of our people while our safety, health and wellbeing and quality services help our clients embed strategies and cultures which support effective operations that maintain safe and healthy environments. SDG 8: We ensure our people are compensated fairly for the industry and market they are in. We also have a robust training and development programme and a clear Decent work and review process helping people reach their full potential with us. Working with economic growth our clients, we help deliver much needed public services and commercial assets on time and on budget, supporting long term economic growth. SDG 10: As a business, we take a holistic approach to diversity and inclusion, ensuring that equal opportunities are available to all regardless of gender, ethnicity, Reduced disability, age, sexual orientation, religion or social-economic background. Our inequalities localisation programme means we actively recruit for talent within the local communities in which we operate, helping to make sure that nobody is left behind. SDG 12: Through our work with clients, we look for innovative and sustainable solutions that reduce the resource intake of built assets over their entire life cycle. Responsible We are already using Building Information Modelling (BIM) to increase consumption project sustainability and are working with others to explore the environmental and production benefits of off-site construction. SDG 13: Our efforts to reduce carbon emissions begin in our own offices and operations. Many of our offices are certified through the ISO 14001 Environmental Climate action Management System and when relocating we select offices with strong sustainability credentials. We also work with our people to improve our carbon footprint by reducing business travel and waste. SDG 17: We are collaborating across our industry to achieve greater productivity and efficiency through our involvement in industry bodies like the Royal Institution Partnerships of Chartered Surveyors, Association for Consultancy and Engineering or the UK for the goals government’s Construction Leadership Council (CLC). We also actively work in partnership with our clients, supply chains and community organisations to build a legacy that contributes to a fair society and sustainable future. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017–2018 9 © Turner & Townsend. All rights reserved July 2018. This content is for general information purposes only and does not purport to constitute professional advice. We do not make any representation or give any warranty and shall not be liable for any losses or damages whatsoever, arising from reliance on information contained in this document. We welcome your feedback contactus@turntown.com linkedin.com/company/turner-&-townsend @turnertownsend @turnerandtownsend Read more online: www.turnerandtownsend.com/CR1718
