SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 © Patara Excavations Archives, İşbank – Patara Excavations Administration SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENTS ABOUT THE REPORT 6 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 50 Innovative Products and Services 52 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 8 Infrastructure Investments and Innovation 54 CEO’S MESSAGE 10 WORKING LIFE 56 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 57 ABOUT İŞBANK 12 Employee Rights and Satisfaction 58 İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values, and Strategy 13 Investment in Talent 58 Financial Performance and Profitability 14 Communication with Employees 61 Sustainability Milestones 16 Occupational Health and Safety 61 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 18 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 62 Environment-friendly Buildings 62 Efficient Branches 63 ETHICAL AND TRANSPARENT BANKING 20 Paper-free Banking 64 Corporate Governance 20 Risk Management and Compliance 20 Business Ethics 22 SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMS 66 Education 67 Culture-Arts 69 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 24 Environment 73 Sustainability Management 24 Material Issues 26 How Was It Determined? 28 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 74 Dialogue with Stakeholders 29 Environmental Data 74 Sustainable Development Goals and İşbank 30 Social Data 75 RESPONSIBLE BANKING 32 ANNEXES 78 Responsible Finance 33 Corporate Memberships 78 Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans 33 Stakeholder Dialogue 80 Financing Renewable Energy 35 Loans Granted by International Financial Institutions 81 Responsible Products and Services 37 Reporting Guidance 82 Responsible Marketing 44 GHG Emissions Statement 89 Limited Assurance Report 90 CUSTOMER FOCUS 46 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 93 Customer Experience and Satisfaction 46 Data Security and Privacy 48 GRI CONTENT INDEX 94 4 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT THE REPORT 2017 Sustainability Report presents The report also serves as the İşbank’s environmental, social and Communication on Progress for corporate governance performance United Nations Global Compact, of over the period between January 1 st , which İşbank is a signatory. 2017 and December 31 st , 2017. The data disclosed in the report covers the operations of İşbank in Turkey; its subsidiaries and overseas operations are out of scope. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. While preparing the report, the Financial Services Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative, and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Provisional Standard for Commercial Banks guideline are consulted. © Patara Excavations Archives, İşbank – Patara Excavations Administration Any questions or suggestions regarding the content of the report can be sent to sustainability@isbank.com.tr 6 7 102-45 / 102-46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE This year, we determined material tool; and for the investments we By maintaining our mission summed sustainability issues we will focus on provide financing, we ensure that up in the motto “Turkey’s Bank” we by performing a stakeholder analysis appropriate actions are undertaken believe that we have an important which is more comprehensive to minimize the potential responsibility for developing not than ever. In doing so, we have environmental and social risks. only the banking industry but also blended the international trends every industry we contact. We will and standards that are essential Within the framework of our keep relying on the guidance of for our industry with the views of responsible banking notion, our science and wisdom in line with the our stakeholders, and carried out sustainable products and services way that our founder Mustafa Kemal a comprehensive study that will as well as customer base we reach Atatürk indicated, as we have been move İşbank’s sustainability efforts with these products expand every doing from past to present. forward with a strategic approach. passing year. This was an important step in I would like to thank all of our aligning our business strategy with We attach great importance to stakeholders, especially our our sustainability approach. renewable energy financing colleagues, for their great work considering its multiplier effects which contributed to İşbank’s Esteemed stakeholders of İşbank, In 2015, the United Nations and contribution to development. efforts maintained steadfastly announced Sustainable Development In 2017, like in the previous years, in line with İşbank’s vision of İşbank has a prestigious and Goals which was determined to we financed mega infrastructure creating permanent value for the deep-rooted corporate history serve as a road map for the business projects which are essential for economy of Turkey and for all of its associated with the history of the world until 2030. To achieve these the country’s development while stakeholders, and to bringing our Republic of Turkey and sustainability Sustainable Development Goals, we continued to support SMEs and Bank where it is today, on behalf of is the foundation of İşbank’s we believe that the most important women entrepreneurs as well. our Board of Directors and myself. business structure. As İşbank, while duty of the finance institutions is we are continuously developing to act with a responsible financing As a bank whose mission has Yours sincerely, our products and services through approach. With the Environmental always been to be innovative our customer focused approach and Social Risk Evaluation Tool that and pioneering, and who has and investments in digital we have been using at İşbank since accomplished many firsts, our goal is transformation, we also create 2012, we include the environmental to design tomorrow’s banking today. added value in the economic, social and social risks as a part of the In this regard, we continue to work and environmental areas. risk analysis regarding all new to expand our products and services H. Ersin Özince investment loans over USD 10 through digital service channels to Chairman of the Board of We have regularly shared our million. In line with our responsible make our customers’ lives easier. Directors sustainability performance through banking approach, we do not finance reports that we have prepared in the projects that fall into certain accordance with Global Reporting risk categories as a result of the Initiative (GRI) standards since 2012. evaluation made by using this 8 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO’S MESSAGE As part of our sustainable, profitable impacts that have the potential to Finance Corporation (IFC) and constantly improving customer Established to support the economic growth strategy based on our improve. In accordance with this Clean Technology Fund in order to experience. We continued our development of our country, İşbank philosophy of being the bank closest approach, İşbank was among the provide housing loans, especially intensive digital transformation continued its banking activities and to its customers, we develop our first signatories of Declaration of for the houses in line with the IFC efforts aimed at meeting personal financially supporting production business model in a way which Sustainable Finance, an initiative criteria and sensitive about energy demands, carrying customer sectors, but hasn’t neglected its enables to create value for our of Global Compact Turkey that efficiency (Green Mortgages). experiences to new horizons and social responsibility efforts to country and all our stakeholders, undertook to evaluate the making a difference by focusing contribute to social development especially customers. Thanks to the environmental and social impacts in In 2017, our total loan portfolio on customer expectations. In as well. Based on this perception, commitment of our approximately loan processes. We believe that such increased by 17.9% and reached a this regard, we continued to today we carry out widespread, 25,000 employees and our extensive collaborations are important for the total of TL 239.4 billion while the make our customers’ lives easier long-lasting and sustainable service network, in 2017 our total expansion of responsible investment loans we extended to SMEs reached with innovative products shaped projects in the fields of education, assets grew to TL 362.4 billion at notion in the banking industry. TL 55.1 billion with 24.3% growth. by digital service channels and environment, and culture-arts that a 16.3% increase compared to the We support SMEs and entrepreneurs technology. In 2017, the rate of serve wide segments of society. previous year. The total funds we Another important tool at the center who play important roles in the transactions performed through our extended to the real sector through of our sustainability approach national economy in a multifaceted digital service channels exceeded We will continue our efforts with cash and non-cash loans reached TL that contributes to low carbon way including the consultancy we 86%, and the number of users of the perspective of creating longEsteemed stakeholders, 320.8 billion with a 20.3% increase. economy is to enable access to provide. our İşCep application reached 5.2 term value for the national economy renewable energy resources. As million by year’s end. We continued and society. On the occasion of this New approaches in business Thanks to the trust generated by our İşbank, we benefit from funds of We believe that facilitating women’s to work for the creation of an report, I would like to thank all our models became inevitable thanks financial capacity and experience, international financial organizations access to financial products and innovation bridge between İşbank stakeholders who contributed to our to the trends closely related to the we carry our responsible banking when we finance renewable services plays an important role in and Silicon Valley through Maxitech, activities and 2017 sustainability banking industry; the economic, notion based on our deep-rooted energy and energy efficiency supporting economic development our subsidiary established in Silicon performance. social and environmental risks the corporate culture into the future projects. We completed the 1 st and and gender equality. In this Valley, to support technological industry faces; and the increasing every passing year. In 2017, we 2 nd package uses of the Turkish regard we continue our financial innovation in financial services. Yours sincerely, transparency expectations of continued to support sustainable Sustainable Energy Financing support to women entrepreneurs. Our innovative products and the stakeholders, especially of development and the transition to Facility (TurSEFF) provided by the While doing this, we also utilize services offered as part of the the customers. Thanks to our a low carbon economy by financing European Bank for Reconstruction the contributions made through digital transformation in 2017 were deep-rooted history and our power feasible projects that create social and Development (EBRD) for the collaborations we have developed granted many international awards. generated by society’s trust, as benefits. We evaluated various financing of renewable energy and with international financial the largest private bank of Turkey, projects using the Environmental energy efficiency investments, and institutions. Furthermore this year, our new Adnan Bali we see our activities in the field and Social Risk Evaluation Tool received new resources worth USD data center Atlas, which is designed Chief Executive Officer of sustainability as an important that enables us to evaluate the 55 million to use in this field. In We have identified digitalization through nature and human friendly element in our continuing support potential environmental and social 2017, we financed 232 renewable as one of the most important solutions by adopting the principle for the economy, employment and impacts and risks arising from energy projects with a total installed areas that provide competitive to create a healthy and ecologic development. On this occasion, I projects. We financed these projects capacity of 1,355 MW. In addition, we advantages in the banking industry, living environment became am delighted to share our 2017 by guaranteeing improvement in received a new fund amounting to and regard it as an important operational. Sustainability Report with you. their environmental and social USD 125 million from International means of developing high valueadded products and services and 10 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT İŞBANK Having turned 93 in 2017, İşbank Alongside its widespread branch İşbank Group is an integrated İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, has been committed to supporting network, İşbank expands its digital services group with its subsidiaries development by producing service channels day to day, works operating domestically and overseas Values, and Strategy permanent value for its stakeholders steadily towards realizing its in many fields. As of 2017 year-end, and the Turkish economy since 1924. vision of becoming “Turkey’s Best İşbank has direct participations in Focusing on profitable, healthy Digital Bank” and strengthens its 23 companies, while the Bank has Our Vision For our employees; Our values •to be a preferred employer and and sustainable growth with its competitive position. Achieving direct or indirect control over 105 To be the most preferred bank in to offer our employees programs Our values that represent our solid financial structure is the most countless “firsts” in many areas such companies. Turkey by customers, shareholders and training opportunities that corporate identity, guide us to reach important element supporting the as Bankamatik, the internet branch and employees by maintaining our will foster their personal and our vision and objectives, and that operations of İşbank, which is the and mobile banking applications, leading, pioneering and trusted professional development are internalized by our employees largest private bank in Turkey with İşbank has taken a leading role in Detailed information regarding position as the regional financial • to propagate our customer focused as their way of work and life are total assets worth TL 362.4 billion the sector since its establishment, İşbank’s subsidiaries is available at power. approach among all our personnel “Leadership, that is powered by as of 2017 year-end. Aiming to be and it continues its uninterrupted the website and on page 56 of the • to support and encourage loyalty, a Shared Mindset generated in the “the bank closest to customers”, technology investments, making a 2017 Annual Report. İşbank leads the banking sector difference in new generation digital Our Objectives responsibility and creativity Solidarity, and that is Trusted under • to deploy an employee hiring, all conditions with a strong Service in Turkey with its products and banking applications. For our customers; evaluation, appointment and orientation.” services offered in the corporate, • to be the bank that is the most advancement system that is based commercial, SME, retail and private 39.95% of the Bank’s capital banking segments. belongs to the İşbank Members’ preferred service provider in all the on competencies and performance Our strategy sectors and customer groups that and that is fair and trustworthy Supplementary Pension Fund, we target Our strategy is achieving sustainable Representing trust, prestige and whose members include nearly 45 • to provide our customers In summary, and profitable growth based on respectability in the eyes of the thousand current and retired bank İşbank Members’ comprehensive, reliable and high İşbank’s goal is “to consistently “the bank closest to customers” Turkish people, İşbank’s 24,868 employees. Its broad shareholder Supplementary quality service with our competent increase the value it creates philosophy in an effort to fulfill our employees serve approximately base consisting of more than Pension Fund employees, extensive branch for shareholders, as a bank that vision and objectives. 15 million customers as of 2017 160 thousand shareholders and network and non-branch banking responds to customer needs quickly, year-end. İşbank has the largest institutional investor partners, is channels effectively and with high-quality branch and ATM network among one of the most important 39 .95% • to abide by our high business solutions and that encourages its private banks in Turkey, with 1,342 assets of İşbank. ethics and principles without employees to achieve a high level of domestic branches and with a total compromise performance in their jobs.” of 6,545 Bankamatiks (ATMs). Free Float For our shareholders; İşbank also offers its services at • to consistently increase the value a total of 22 overseas branches, including 15 in TRNC, 2 each in 31 .96% Atatürk Shares of our shares 28 .09% • to operate with an effective risk England, Iraq and Kosovo, and 1 in (Republican management approach Bahrain. People’s Party) Shareholding structure is provided as at December 31 st , 2017. 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 İşbank is the Financial Performance Key Financial Highlights (TL Million) largest private and Profitability 12.31.2017 12.31.2016 Change(%) İşbank has maintained its leadership control its costs. As at year-end bank in Turkey among the private banks in terms 2017, the ratio of non-deposit Total Assets 362,353 311,626 16.3 of total loans, total deposits and funds, which comprised of repo with total assets shareholders’ equity. transactions, funds borrowed, Loans 239,409 203,144 17.9 worth TL 362.4 İşbank has continued to implement securities issued in domestic and overseas markets, and subordinated Deposits 203,752 177,360 14.9 billion as of 2017 its sustainable and problem-free growth strategy successfully in loans, to total liabilities was 25.5%. Shareholder’s Equity 43,093 35,961 19.8 year-end. 2017. The Bank’s total loans grew Reaching to TL 43.1 billion with a by 17.9% year-over-year and came 19.8% increase compared to the to TL 239.4 billion as at year-end previous year, İşbank’s shareholders’ 2017 and the ratio of loans to total equity provides the leverage and Key Financial Ratios (%) assets reached 66.1%. The ratio power required for healthy and of non-performing loans to total profitable growth. The capital 12.31.2017 12.31.2016 loans continued to remain below adequacy ratio of the Bank was the sector average similar to the 16.7% as of 2017 year end, above Interest Earning Assets (*) / Total Assets 91.5 91.5 previous year, and stood at 2.2% at the legal requirement. year-end 2017. Total assets grew Loans / Total Assets 66.1 65.2 16.3% compared to the previous In 2017, İşbank has once again been year, while total deposits reached the highest-ranked Turkish bank in NPL Ratio 2.2 2.4 TL 203.8 billion at a 14.9% increase The Banker Magazine’s list of “Top compared to the previous year-end. 1000 World Banks”. NPL Coverage Ratio 86.0 77.5 The share of deposits to total Demand Deposits / Total Deposits 26.3 24.6 liabilities stood at 56.2% as of 2017 year-end. In addition, the Bank Shareholders’ Equity / Total Liabilities 11.9 11.5 continued using its non-deposit resources effectively in order to Capital Adequacy Ratio 16.7 15.2 diversify its fund resources and * Interest earning assets include TL and FC legal reserves. 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability Milestones 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 İşbank became a signatory of the İşbank became a constituent of Processes within the scope of the The sustainability management Maximum TEMA Card was issued. İşbank became a signatory of the Global Compact Turkey Declaration of FTSE4Good Emerging Markets Index. Sustainability Management System infrastructure was formed. United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Finance. were adopted. (UNGC). The Exclusion List was updated. The Sustainability Policy was put The ATLAS Data Center, Turkey’s first The Bank was included in the BIST into effect. The first Sustainability Report of data center with a Tier IV certificate, Sustainability Index for the first İşbank was published. which is the highest level of rating time. The Exclusion List was issued. issued by international data center The pre-application of the rating agency Uptime Institute Environmental and Social Risk according to its “uninterrupted Evaluation Tool (ERET) was put into working” criteria, was put into use. operation. The Tuzla Technology and Operation Center (TUTOM) was awarded 2001 2008 with the LEED Gold green building certificate. Code of Banking Ethics The Environment-friendly was adopted. New Generation Housing Loan was issued. The TEMA Environmental Variable Fund, Turkey’s first social responsibility focused investment fund, was established. 16 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2017 HIGHLIGHTS • İşbank’s 24,868 employees serve • Launched in cooperation with • As at year-end 2017, total lending almost 15 million customers. The Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University, the commitment (cash + non-cash) Bank has the largest branch and ATM undergraduate program of Artwork of İşbank for the financing of network of all the private banks with Conservation and Restoration had its healthcare facilities based on the 1,342 domestic branches and with a first graduates at the end of 2016public-private partnership model total of 6,545 Bankamatiks (ATMs). 2017 academic year. that contributes to Turkey’s social and economic welfare reached USD • İşbank’s total assets grew 16.3% • Continued its archeology 1 billion. against the previous year, reaching sponsorships for the Zeugma TL 362.4 billion. It maintained its Ancient City “House of the Muses” • İşbank financed 232 renewable leadership among the private banks and Patara Ancient City excavations energy projects with a total installed in terms of total assets, loans, that are themes of the current capacity of 1,355 MW. deposits and shareholders’ equity report. volume. • Average training per employee was • For its İşville application, the Bank raised to 21.3 hours with an increase • İşbank signed the Global Compact won the silver award in the “Best of 34%. Turkey Declaration of Sustainable Product/Employee Development Finance. Solutions of the Year” category at • İşbank was deemed worthy of 21 the Stevie International Business different international awards with • ATLAS Data Center, Turkey’s first Awards, and the gold award in the its innovative products and services Tier-IV data center was launched. “Best Use of Games and Simulations that are provided within the context for Learning Purposes” category at of digital transformation and retail •Tuzla Technology and Operation the Brandon Hall Group Excellence banking. Center (TUTOM) is awarded with the Awards. LEED Gold green building certificate. © Gücügür Görkay, İşbank – Zeugma Excavations Administration • The Bank maintained its support for chess training, opening more than 2.500 chess classes in 2017. 18 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ETHICAL AND TRANSPARENT BANKING İşbank has adopted the Code of Banking Ethics published The Risk Management Division carries out its work related to risk, business and products practices risk, transaction and process risk, and within this framework, continuously ensuring that the by the Banks Association of Turkey and carries out all internal and legal capital adequacy information technology risk, and execution and management of the as part of the Basel regulations in human resource risk are monitored Bank’s operations are in compliance operations in compliance with these principles. line with international best practices under Operational Risk. Impactwith the relevant legislation, and works to develop and verify risk probability analysis, lost event data regulation and standards in terms of measurement methodologies and analysis, scenario analysis and risk structure and operation. Conducting İşbank is a bank identified with trust and policies, monitoring compliance monthly to the Risk Committee, to optimize the capital adequacy indicators are used for measuring all Bank operations in accordance and respect thanks to the many with action plans, conducting Audit Committee and the Board of management process. The level Operational Risks. and compliance with the Bank’s firsts it has achieved in the banking performance evaluations and so Directors respectively. of risk the Bank is exposed to is objectives and policies, and the sector since the establishment of forth. At İşbank, the Executive measured, assessed and monitored Reputational risk is defined as loss relevant legislation, regulation and the Republic and its deep-rooted Committee, Audit Committee, The Risk Committee carries systematically in line with written of trust to the Bank or reputation standards is the most important institutional history. While carrying TRNC Internal Systems Committee, out the activities of preparing risk policies and practices. Within impairment as a result of nonfundamental duty and responsibility this position into the future, the Credit Committee, Credit Revision risk management policies to this scope, the Bank manages risks compliance with existing legal of the Bank’s employees. The Head Bank has adopted a fair, transparent, Committee, Corporate Social be monitored by the Bank on a in line with internal regulations regulations or negative view of of Corporate Compliance Division and accountable management Responsibility Committee, consolidated and unconsolidated approved by the Board of Directors parties such as current or potential also acts as the legal “Compliance structure in line with its reputable Corporate Governance Committee, basis, presenting these for such as Capital Adequacy, customers, partners, opponents Officer” and fulfills the duties and and principled banking philosophy. Risk Committee, Remuneration the approval of the Board of Credit Risk, Asset and Liability and supervisory authorities. The responsibilities under the Law Committee and other miscellaneous Directors, and for monitoring their Management Risk, Operational Risk, factors that can influence the Bank’s on the Prevention of Laundering committees operate in this respect. applications. The Risk Committee Stress Tests, Reputational Risk, reputation are evaluated separately Proceeds of Crime and the relevant Corporate Governance operates in collaboration with the Consolidated Risk and Information and as a whole. legislation as part of the Bank’s Detailed information about the executive systems of the Bank to The Board of Directors, İşbank’s Systems Management Policy. Risks Policy and the Compliance Program. corporate governance structure of determine, measure/evaluate the highest governing body which that the Bank might be exposed to Considering the rapidly changing İşbank is available on pages 78-82 risks the Bank may be exposed directs the Bank’s strategies and during operations are identified banking regulations, compliance of the 2017 Annual Report and the to, and to make suggestions on policies, consists of 11 members, and classified through the Risk with these regulations closely Corporate Governance Principles measures to be taken and methods 2 of whom are women. The Board Catalogue. Risk Policies and Risk concerns the whole sector. The Compliance Report. to be followed. Risk management of Directors is made up of nonCatalogue are updated in line with monitoring of compliance of İşbank’s activities of the Bank are based on executive members except for the changing risk management practices duties and activities is carried the regulations and implementation Chief Executive Officer, including and regulations. out by the Corporate Compliance 3 independent members. The Risk Management and guidelines published by the Banking Division, which operates under the positions of the General Manager Compliance Regulation and Supervision Agency The financial risks identified in Board of Directors through the Audit (BRSA). In addition to complying and the Chairman of the Board Risk management activities, one the Risk Catalogue are Credit Committee. The basic objective of with regulations, the capital and of Directors are held by different of the most material issues for Risk, Asset-Liability Risk, and the corporate compliance activities liquidity adequacy for the entire individuals. İşbank, are performed by the Risk Business Risk. Non-financial risks carried out by the Corporate risks that the Bank is exposed to is Management Division operating are identified as Operational Risk, Compliance Division is to provide ensured within the scope of Internal İşbank establishes governance under the Board of Directors. Risk Strategy Risk, Reputational maximum input for managing and Capital Adequacy Evaluation Process committees as required for the Management Division reports Risk and Other Risks. Business controlling the Bank’s compliance (ISEDES). purpose of formulating strategies financial and non-financial risks environment risk, abuse and fraud risk purposefully and effectively, 20 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business Ethics Sustainable Procurement the company, compliance with local İşbank’s ethical banking notion and international standards and the Banks play a fundamental role in Proceeds of Crime and Fighting the As a part of the Branch Managers guides supply chain management environmental impacts. the economy, therefore it is very Financing of Terrorism Policy. Development Program, which is and procurement principles as well. important that they operate in a an orientation and development The Bank’s Procurement Policy The procurement rate from local fair competition environment as The anti-bribery and anti-corruption program that supports the career identifies the basic principles and suppliers for support services is reputable institutions that create principle which is among the 10 development of new branch guidelines for the procurement of 99%. trust. Ethical principles guide the articles of the United Nations managers and prepares them for goods and services. It is essential banking sector in this direction. Global Compact, of which İşbank is a the work and processes at their that goods and services are not İşbank has adopted the Code signatory, is also taken into account new positions, branch managers procured from suppliers who have Details on how the Bank’s ethical banking of Banking Ethics published by in all processes. are given information regarding problems about morality and/ notion is applied in the supply chain are the Banks Association of Turkey the detection and prevention of or in providing quality goods and available on the website under İşbank and carries out all operations in By ensuring full compliance with the irregularities and misconduct. services, who have been realized Procurement Policy. accordance with these principles. policies at the Bank and regarding to be engaged in legal proceedings them in all business processes, Similar subjects are also studied involving bribery and corruption. Along with the Code of Banking employees are supported to as part of the Rising in My Career Social conditions covering human Ethics the following policies form internalize these policies. Newly trainings which are designed rights, occupational health the basis of the business activities recruited employees receive for managers. Also, trainings and safety and environmental of İşbank: Anti-Bribery and information on discipline provisions for detection and prevention of impacts are taken into account Anti-Corruption Policy, Gifts and and ethical principles as part of their irregularities and misconduct are when selecting suppliers, and Hospitality Policy, Human Rights and I Start My Career trainings. organized for members of the Board their impacts in these areas are Human Resources Policy, Laundering of Inspectors of İşbank. evaluated. The evaluation criteria in the procurement processes are based on whether the purchased Subject of Training Number of Total Training Duration Trainees (person*hour) goods and/or services are the company’s main field of activity, Anti-corruption 1,214 3,854 whether it is supplied directly by Ethical Principles 673 337 Human Rights 673 2,019 The Board of Inspectors addresses Code of Banking Ethics, Anti-Bribery corruption as part of their audit and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gifts activities, which evaluate corruption and Hospitality Policy and other risks and report the results. In supplementary policies constituting case of violation of anti-corruption the business ethics of İşbank are principles, action is taken within the available on the corporate website. framework of internal disciplinary provisions and legal regulations, and administrative and legal processes are initiated for detected cases. 22 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH İşbank develops The sustainability approach adopted by İşbank has a great impact on the İşbank’s Sustainability Management System ensures that operations such The Sustainability Management System, structured with processes The Corporate Governance Committee consists of a chairman The details on the policies reflecting İşbank’s sustainability approach are products and multidimensional value creation as managing environmental impacts, and terms of reference, is regularly and three members. The Vice available on the website. in its activities. İşbank develops evaluating the environmental audited, and the audit results Chairman of the Board Ms. Füsun services that products and services that make and social impacts originating are presented to the Corporate Tümsavaş was elected as the Head make the lives of the lives of its stakeholders easier, from loans, performing control Governance committee. of the Committee, the Member of contributing to the increase of social and audit activities smoothly, and the Board Mr. Ersin Önder Çiftçioğlu, its stakeholders welfare and development of the continuously developing human In this regard, a Sustainability the Member of the Board Mr. Özcal country. The approach adopted by resource potential are put into Management System Handbook has Korkmaz and the Head of the easier, at the the Bank is based on a long-term and practice in an integrated manner. been prepared as a guide to inform Investor Relations Division Mr. integrated management philosophy. İşbank’s Sustainability Policy and its employees on the issues regarding Süleyman H. Özcan were elected as same time the Keeping the sustainability approach other supplementary policies form the functioning of the Sustainability the Members of the Committee, Bank contributes atstrategy, the center of its business İşbank performs its the basis of this system. Management System. by the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 04.04.2017 and No. to the increase of activities with an integrated and The Corporate Governance 41732. long-term perspective. Committee, operating under the social welfare and Board of Directors, is the Bank’s Sustainability development of Management highest authority responsible for sustainability. The Head of İşbank’s the country. İşbank aims to integrate Investor Relations Division serves as Sustainability Coordinator sustainability into all business to ensure coordination of work processes from operations to daily within the executive organs. The activities. İşbank’s sustainability Sustainability Working Group, which philosophy comprises managing consists of members from different its productive capital made up of Productive units, ensures the management of Capital product and service development sustainability operations and the Social Human processes; its financial capital Capital Capital flow of information. including its own financial resources; Financial its social capital made up of its Capital relationships to society and to all its stakeholders; its human capital including the Bank’s talents; and its natural capital covering resource management, all in an integrated manner. Natural Capital 24 25 102-44 / 102-47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT EXTREMELY IMPORTANT Extremely Important Approach of İşbank Relevant Section of Issues the Report Importance for stakeholders İşbank believes that it can increase its corporate performance and Employee rights and customer satisfaction only with employees who enjoy their work. With Working Life satisfaction the goal of being the most preferred bank for their employees, İşbank offers a working environment that takes employees’ rights into account. Responsible finance integrating İşbank takes the environmental, social and governance criteria into Stakeholder environmental, social and Responsible finance Responsible products governance (ESG) criteria consideration while offering its products and services. The environmental dialogue integrating environmental, and services portfolio and social impacts of financed projects are evaluated meticulously, Responsible Banking social and governance Financial Risk and measures are taken to minimize/eliminate risks resulting from the performance (ESG) criteria management projects. Transparency and and reporting profitability Financial Business Focusing on the expectations of different customer groups, İşbank literacy ethics operates with the objectives of giving its customers a better banking Financial experience and designing tomorrow’s banking today. To this end, the inclusion Employee rights and satisfaction Digital transformation Bank continuously invests in digital transformation to offer opportunities Digital Transformation in many areas such as effective customer relations, personalized products Digital and services, operational effectiveness, and extension of banking transformation Talent management activities. Thanks to its widespread branch network and digital banking applications Social investment Equal opportunity and programs Customer orientation as well as its products and services developed for disadvantaged Financial inclusion Responsible Banking diversity customer groups, İşbank supports access to financial services and contributes to social welfare. Compliance with Data safety and changing regulations customer confidentiality İşbank produces permanent value for the Turkish economy and all Financial performance and stakeholders. Focusing on profitable, healthy and sustainable growth About İşbank Responsible marketing profitability through its strong capital structure, İşbank considers this the most important element supporting its operations. Responsible procurement İşbank carries out all operations abiding by standards of business ethics without compromising its reputable and principled banking philosophy. Ethical and Transparent Business Ethics Environmental This philosophy maintains İşbank’s position as a respected, trustworthy, Banking footprint of the Bank and reputable institution. İşbank’s risk management approach included in the scope of its transparent, fair and accountable corporate governance structure Ethical and Transparent Risk management enables the Bank to evaluate and manage operations-induced risks in a Banking comprehensive and integrated manner. 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Importance for İşbank İşbank diversifies its financial products and services, which it offers to contribute to inclusive and sustainable growth. The Bank offers various products, which create social benefits, give disadvantaged groups Material Issues Responsible product and access to finance, and contribute to a low carbon economy. The Bank’s Responsible Banking service portfolio long-lasting collaborations with international financial institutions are The sustainability topics of İşbank, How Was It Determined? section Integrating the outcomes of the also important in terms of providing resources to finance operations that provide a strategic direction for include responsible finance analysis that determined the supporting sustainable development. its work, have been formed by bringing integrating environmental, social and primary issues with the business the opinions of the stakeholders governance (ESG) criteria, financial strategies of İşbank is important for Transparency and The Bank regards briefing its stakeholders on its performance in a fair and Ethical and Transparent reporting transparent manner as an institutional responsibility. Banking and the prospective strategies performance and profitability, risk a holistic perspective and effective of the Bank together on common management, business ethics, digital management of these issues. Employees constitute the most valuable capital that contributes to the ground. The issues identified have transformation, employee rights and long-term success of the Bank. Retaining good, qualified employees at Talent management Working Life been categorized in a triple scale; the Bank, contributing to their occupational development and attracting satisfaction, talent management, new talent to the Bank are some of the very high priority issues of İşbank. important, very important, extremely responsible product and service important. The extremely important portfolio, transparency and reporting, issues explained in the and financial inclusion. 26 27 102-44 / 102-47 102-44 / 102-47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 İşbank determined How Was It Determined? As part of this year’s priority Opinions from stakeholders were evaluated keeping in mind the the sustainability analysis, a versatile approach was external trends that give a direction Importance for Stakeholder External adopted in compliance with the to the sector. In this regard, trend analysis issues that AA1000SE standard where both such guidelines, principles and Stakeholders analysis provide a strategic the expectations of the internal stakeholders consisting of a wide publications as the Sustainable Development Goals, the United direction for its sample of employees of the Bank Nations Responsible Investment How Did We and the opinions of the external Principles, Global Compact Turkey’s work through a stakeholders were received. Thus, Declaration of Sustainable Finance Determine and the Tenth Development Plan Our Shared comprehensive as each prominent sustainability issue in the banking industry was were utilized. Besides these, the Material stakeholder evaluated, opinions from all the Bank’s stakeholder groups were outcomes of studies of pioneering sustainability institutions such as Four Factor Issues? Opinions of the Senior analysis which included in the analysis. the United Nations Environmental Impact Management Programme Finance Initiative, and Analysis took international In this regard, İşbank consulted the Global Alliance for Banking on Importance for standards into with stakeholder groups including employees, customers, investors, Values, Shared Value Initiative were taken into account. İşbank İşbank’s vision, account and nongovernmental organizations, objectives, values and associations, international As the priority of each issue was was based on organizations, financial institutions, evaluated, how it would fit into strategy İşbank’s strategy was considered an integrated subsidiaries, business partners, public institutions, suppliers, media together with the opinions of methodology. and universities. Through online surveys sent to these stakeholders, Senior Management consisting of the Board of Directors and the the Bank learned their views on Executive Committee. Each issue material issues, and beyond that, was evaluated according to the through open-ended questions, their financial, legal, innovative and Dialogue with expectations of the Bank regarding competitive risks, opportunities, Stakeholders sustainability were also discovered. and impact it posed by using the Holding to its belief in the Ideas, opinions and suggestions The details on the Bank’s dialogue 53% of the 437 stakeholders who Four Factor Impact Analysis which importance of establishing delivered to the Bank through with different stakeholder groups were contacted during this process allows the Bank to consider every open, transparent, and honest various communication channels are available in the annexes of the contributed to the study to share subject within the context of communication with its that facilitate stakeholder dialogue Report. their opinions. different effects and opportunities stakeholders, İşbank regards are evaluated meticulously, and used as suggested by SASB. conducting its activities according to develop processes and services. “Due to its share in the banking to stakeholders’ opinions and industry, every study conducted expectations among its core by İşbank has a very high priorities. transformative impact for Turkey. For this reason, I think the consistency of your work is important.” Stakeholder Opinion Non-governmental Organization 28 29 102-41 / 102/42/ 102-44 / 102-47 / 102-49 102-43 / 102-44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Extremely Important Sustainable Development Goals Issues Employee Rights and Satisfaction Sustainable Development Goals and İşbank Responsible Finance The private sector plays an these objectives is important for energy which plays an important Integrating Environmental, important role in finding solutions to the Bank in terms of increasing role in decreasing the impact of Social and Governance (ESG) all of the social and environmental its business potential as well as climate change (SDG 7, 13). The Criteria problems. The Banking industry offering opportunities to create Bank provides funding for the occupies an important position environmental and social values for development of large and durable and has the resources to offer society. infrastructure projects (SDG 6, both direct and indirect solutions 9) that facilitates improvement for the global and regional Along with this macro approach, in daily life and industry. The problems encountered today. In the relationship of the Sustainable Environmental and Social Risk Digital Transformation the stakeholder analysis study, Development Goals with the Evaluation Tool and the Exclusion the details of which were given high priority issues of İşbank List, which are used by the Bank in the How Was It Determined? is summarized in the following as the basis of sustainability section, İşbank’s stakeholders were table. İşbank, thanks to its criteria for financing decisions, Financial Inclusion asked how the banking industry customer oriented approach as ensures that projects using İşbank contributed to sustainability, well as the products and services resources will be developed through and 83% of stakeholders stated it has developed as a result securing sustainable production and that the industry contributed of its investments into digital consumption models (SDG 12). Financial Performance and to sustainability through the transformation and responsible Profitability transformative power of banks, and banking, has increased financial As this risk evaluation approach by offering sustainable products access of not only overall country assesses environmental and social and services. This expectation population’s (SDG 1, 3, 10), but impacts in an integrated manner, it Business Ethics also points out the importance also the entrepreneurs’ and SMEs’ encourages companies that require of following the guidance of the that are the base of the national finance to prioritize combating Sustainable Development Goals economy (SDG 8). These products climate change, protecting life in (SDGs). and services contribute to the water and on land (SDG 13, 14, 15). Risk Management welfare of society, secure healthy Operating with the aim of creating lives for individuals, decrease In brief, İşbank’s responsible finance permanent value for all of its inequalities in society, and make approach enables it to finance stakeholders, İşbank adopts and comprehensive sustainable projects that fulfill the requirements Responsible Products and supports the United Nations economic growth possible. of a low carbon economy and Services Portfolio Sustainable Development Goals manage their ethical and social which were agreed in 2015 in Benefiting from international impacts. order to guide investments and collaborations (SDG 17), İşbank initiatives related with sustainable enables finance for sustainable Transparency and Reporting development, globally. Supporting energy and access to modern Talent Management 30 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE Responsible Finance İşbank is aware of the transformative power of financing. At İşbank, the potential environmental and social risks of The investments which are in the scope of evaluation are evaluated BANKING The Bank contributes to sustainable development, directly and indirectly, through various projects financed all new investment projects worth more than USD 10 million and the investors demanding loans are referring to national legislation and international best practices such as IFC (International Finance and supports the national economy. evaluated by the Environmental Corporation) Performance İşbank’s banking operations cover areas from financing renewable İşbank’s responsible financing and Social Risk Evaluation Tool Standards, EBRD Performance a wide scope from developing energy projects supporting approach enables it to both protect (ERET). The Environmental and Requirements, and Equator products and services that create a low carbon economy to the the reputation of the Bank and its Social Management Team makes Principles. A Project Environmental value for the lives of its stakeholders strengthening of SMEs that form the credit risks and to support high evaluations through 26 different and Social Evaluation Certificate is to the evaluation, mitigation or foundation of the economy. These feasibility projects that create social criterias included in the ERET. issued for each investment. elimination of the impact resulting initiatives contribute to the solution benefits. from investments it finances. The of problems whose importance is The ERET evaluates the investments comprehensive perspective resulting also emphasized in the global goals. Environmental and Social Risk in topics such as use of natural from this responsible banking Evaluation in Loans resources, waste management, approach requires developing In the process of loan evaluation, air, soil and water quality, noise, products and services in various the traditional economic and dust, occupational health and project feasibility evaluations safety, social health and safety, Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and are very important, but so are resettlement and stakeholder modern energy for all the environmental and social engagement, classifying them impacts. In the sector, the systems according to risk levels in 4 that comprise the identification categories: high (Category A), medium high (Category B+), medium A Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable of environmental and social industrialization and foster innovation impacts originating from loan (Category B-), and low (Category C). operations, their analysis in the Category High evaluation processes, determining Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns the dimensions of the possible impact and risk, determining the obligations and practices required Me to limit the risk and impacts, diu Category and the consideration of these m High Categ Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts determinations in the decision making processes have become C ERET B+ prominent. Low Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies or y Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development B32 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 For projects evaluated to be high impacts of the projects financed by both existing and investment Financing Renewable Energy such as solar, biomass, hydroelectric change by financing renewable risk (Category A), İşbank works it: activities, to increase occupational Low carbon growth and the and wind, in 2016, 9.8 million jobs energy. By 2017, the Bank financed with independent environmental • Carry out forestation efforts to health and safety practices, and to reduction of the carbon footprints were created as renewable energy 232 renewable energy projects with consultancies that act on behalf reduce and offset carbon emissions develop emergency action plans. of all industries can be made throughout the world increased by a total installed capacity of 1.355 of the Bank, and an Environmental and, use of indigenous species for The compliance of investing possible by promoting alternative 1.1%. In the 2017 report, it is noted MW, which were developed in the and Social Impact Assessment forestation, trees are planted in companies with these commitments energy resources. Investments in that the clean energy industry fields of biomass, solar energy, (ESIA) is conducted following appropriate spaces on the project is guaranteed through loan renewable energy form a basis not created 94,400 jobs in Turkey. hydroelectric, wind and geothermal field visits to evaluate the site as much as possible and endemic agreements. only for the fight with the impacts İşbank attaches great attention to areas. environmental and social impacts species are protected, of climate change but also for social the finance of renewable energy of the project. An Environmental • Taking necessary precautions to In 2017, 10 projects were subjected development. According to the 2017 with the awareness that its and Social Management Plan and protect biodiversity in specific and to ERET evaluation. 10% of the report on Renewable Energy and contribution to development creates Environmental and Social Action protected areas, projects were classified as A, 40% Employment by the International multiplier effects. By the end of Plan (ESAP) is issued, if necessary, in • To prioritize the purchases of land as B+, and 50% as B-. Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), 2017, the renewable energy projects order to manage the environmental through agreements, to prepare one of the most important areas account for 46% of its total energy and social impacts of investments in resettlement plans and restructuring According to its responsible banking stopping the uptrend in global projects portfolio and 25% of its areas such as waste management, the source of income plans in the approach, İşbank does not finance unemployment is the employment project financing portfolio. Having emission measurements, earth and projects involving physical and operations including hydroelectric increase in the renewable energy a greater role in the transition to water analyses, socio-economic economic displacement in context of power plant projects under 25 MW industry. According to the report the low carbon economy, İşbank impacts, impacts on ecosystems expropriation, of installed capacity, investments which was prepared by taking into supports the decrease of the risk and habitat, compensation • To develop social responsibility involving forced child labor, the account clean energy industries and impacts stemming from climate mechanisms, occupational projects with the aim to create production of weapons of mass health and safety practices and compensating and new income for destruction and land mines, the compliance with environmental locals within the impact area of the production and commerce of legislation. Environmental and project, to prioritize local community internationally prohibited chemicals, social monitoring practices are in the requirements of investments drugs or substances that are harmful 2017 Renewable Energy Finance Portfolio conducted by the participation of on labor force and procurement, to the ozone layer, and operations İşbank Environmental and Social • To establish “Stakeholder that result in the significant Energy Type Number of Loan Amount Risk (Cash and Non-cash) Commitment Installed (USD million) (USD million) (USD million) Power (MW) Management Team at maximum Engagement Plan” within the scope alteration, damage, or removal of projects level. of investments, by developing cultural assets included on the Biomass Power Plant 5 70.5 19.5 51.0 44.9 internal and external complaint UNESCO World Heritage List and the İşbank is one of the first signatories mechanisms in order to take UNESCO World Heritage Tentative Solar Power Plant 213 265.5 242.2 16.1 287.4 of Turkey’s Declaration of into consideration opinions of List. Sustainable Finance which was put employees, locals and other Hydroelectric Power 5 264.1 186.7 77.4 683.5 into practice by Global Compact stakeholders concerning the project The Exclusion List is in the annex of Plant Turkey and undertakes the and, eliminating their disturbances, İşbank’s Enviromental and Social Wind Power Plant 6 170.8 135.3 35.5 236.0 evaluation of the environmental and • To take additional measures to this Impacts Policy which is available at social impacts in the loan processes. end in environmental management the website. Geothermal Power Plant 3 122.0 69.7 52.3 103.5 plans through additional work, such İşbank requires the following as cumulative impact analyses and Total 232 892.9 653.4 232.3 1,355.5 commitments from investing ecological impact assessment, companies in order to eliminate/ • To ensure the compliance of decrease or compensate for the investor with the Occupational negative environmental and social Health and Safety legislation for 34 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 İşbank benefits İşbank benefits from the funds which are obtained through the In 2017, for the financing of İşbank’s housing loans, primarily Responsible Products development and employment as well as fulfilling the objective of • Refinancing for the current loans and financing new investments of from the funds cooperation with international for those that are extended for and Services creating a quality, efficient and Kazancı Holding-Aksa Doğalgaz: financial institutions as well, while energy efficient housing (İşbank’s The products and services offered by sustainable health model that is “Best Syndicated Loan Deal in which are it finances renewable energy. In Green Mortgage) that conformed to İşbank meet the needs of customers accessible to everyone. The cash and Central and Eastern Europe”, from different socio-economic obtained through this regard, renewable energy and the criteria established by the IFC non-cash finance amount provided • Financing of the 3rd Bosphorus energy efficiency projects of small (International Finance Corporation), backgrounds. With its inclusive by İşbank for these projects reached Bridge and Odayeri-Paşaköy Section the cooperation and medium sized businesses are USD 125 million worth of resources approach, the Bank aims to ensure that all segments of society have USD 1 billion in total as of 2017 yearof the North Marmara Highway: financed through various loans were provided by the related end. “Best Infrastructure Deal in Europe, with international provided by international financial institution. access to banking services and to Middle East and Africa” and “Best institutions. In the last quarter make its services more widespread. In relation to financing of mega Transport Infrastructure Deal in the financial of 2016, an amount of USD 111.2 USD 20 million of the relevant The Bank also contributes to the infrastructure projects based on Central and Eastern Europe”. improvement of social welfare institutions million worth of new resources were provided by the European resources was provided by the Clean Technology Fund through by reaching different segments build-operate-transfer model, İşbank continued negotiations with the while it finances Investment Bank (EIB) within the the IFC. In addition to this, in order through the special products and services it provides for different investor groups and national/foreign scope of the Turkish Mid-size to increase demand for green and potential creditors who undertook renewable Sustainable Energy Financing energy efficient buildings, and to customer groups. the construction of KurtköyAkyazı (Asia) and Kınalı-Odayeri energy. Facility (MidSEFF). At the same year, as part of the same program, USD promote efficiency technologies, financing opportunities are offered İşbank ensures that all segments (Europe) Sections of North Marmara 55 million worth of resources were to the customers that are interested of society that add value to the Highway, construction of Ankaraprovided by the European Building in residential buildings with high Turkish economy, ranging from Niğde Highway, and construction of and Development Bank (EBRD). energy efficiency as part of a total renewable energy to housing loans Malkara-Çanakkale section (including resource of USD 75 million provided and from SMEs to farmers, benefit Çanakkale 1915 Bridge) of KınalıThe 1st and 2nd phase uses of by the EBRD, the Clean Technology from banking services. The Bank Tekirdağ-Çanakkale-Savaştepe the Turkish Sustainable Energy Fund and the Turkish Residential aims to raise customer awareness Highway. Financing Facility (TurSEFF) Building Energy Efficiency Financing on savings, help them save for the provided by the EBRD for the Facility (TuREEFF) in 2015. future and increase their financial Some projects financed by a financing of renewable energy and literacy. consortium of banks including İşbank energy efficiency investments were You can access the list of received awards in the following completed, and in 2017, USD 55 loans provided by İşbank from Infrastructure Loans categories from EMEA Finance, a million worth of new resources were international financial institutions in The funds transferred to the leading finance magazine in Europe, provided as part of TurSEFF’s 3rd the Annexes section of the Report. infrastructure projects support the Middle East and Africa: phase. development of the economy. İşbank continued to finance the investment • Akfen Eskişehir City Hospital projects in 2017 as well. Project: “Best Healthcare Deal in Europe, Middle East and Africa” and In 2017, İşbank extended loans “Best Healthcare Deal in Central and to city hospital and integrated Eastern Europe”, health campus projects based on • Refinancing of Kadıncık I-II HEPP public-private participation (PPP) Privatization and HEPP Portfolio: model, which are believed to make “Best Project Finance Deal in Central great contributions for economic and Eastern Europe”, 36 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 In order to TEMA Çevre Değişken Fon (TEMA Environmental Variable Support for SMEs İşbank considers the value created İşbank became one of the banks financing SMEs within the Another service that is offered in the web site of İŞ’TE KOBİ and allows Workup by İşbank İşbank is the main sponsor of help SMEs get Fund) by SMEs as one of the most framework of the protocols signed thousands of companies operating in multipartner Workup program which TEMA Çevre Değişken Fon, a first important milestones of the Turkish with KOSGEB in 2017, namely the different sectors to meet under the supports technology startups with stronger and in Turkey, is a product that was economy. In order to help SMEs get 2017 Interest-Free Working Capital same roof is the SME Market. high potential. At Kolektif House, contribute more developed to give environmentfriendly investors the opportunity stronger and contribute more to the economy, loans and service packages Loan Interest Support, the 2017 Emergency Support Loan and the The number of SMEs which promote a collaborative workplace in which entrepreneurs develop innovative to the economy, to support environmental activities specially designed for SMEs’ Trabzon Beşikdüzü and Vakfıkebir their companies and advertise their ideas, they receive training on with their savings. Resources needs are offered and financial Districts Emergency Support Loan. products and services in the SME business idea development, loans and allocated from the fund to the TEMA consultancy services are provided The amount of loans extended to Market has reached approximately entrepreneurship, team building SMEs in 2017 reached TL 55.1 billion 11,000. Deemed worthy of a total service packages Foundation provide sustainable through strong collaborations. and management, law, finance and financial support to environmental During 2017, activities continued at a 24.3% increase. of 34 national and international accounting areas. They gain the specially designed projects. The fund, which invests in companies with effective for extending the fund worth USD 47.6 million received from the EIB The İŞ’LE BULUŞMALAR (Meeting awards so far, İŞ’TE KOBİ shares different content such as thousands opportunity to develop themselves and expand their customer portfolio for SMEs’ needs environmental management systems last year for financing the SMEs with İşbank) event, which was of current news, articles, industrial with the support of İşbank. The with part of its portfolio, emphasizes satisfying the EIB defined criteria organized for İşbank to get to know reports, video interviews, and expert Workup Startup Program had its first are offered that companies overseeing their and for businesses with 250 to SMEs more closely and to develop comments with members and other 9 graduates in 2017. and financial environmental impacts will achieve more successful financial results in 3,000 employees for financing the customers’ investments. products to meet their needs, was held in 2017 as well. Also, İŞ’TE users. consultancy the long term. KOBİ (SMEs at İşbank), İşbank’s web Technology Startup Package Within the framework of the portal open to the SMEs, offers them As part of the Technology Startup services are Maximum TEMA Card agreement with Japan Bank for the opportunity to benefit from Package, businesses which are free consultancy services in many established maximum three provided The Maximum TEMA Card is a credit International Cooperation (JBIC), card developed to support the solutions have been provided for fields such as business law, taxes, years ago, which are innovative, through strong activities of the Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for the financing needs of companies importing goods from Japan and of entrepreneurship, farming, and livestock. The SMEs can also access technology based and have rapid growth potential, can benefit from collaborations. Reforestation, and the Protection energy projects covering turnkey current news, articles, and expert basic banking services for a certain of Natural Habitats (TEMA) for contractors of Japanese origin comments through the same portal period of time, free of charge or at a customers who want to support in 2017. Besides, based on the which gives them the opportunity to discount. 193 companies have been the protection of natural assets. agreement between the Bank and develop. The number of subscribers included in the Technology Startup Maximum TEMA Card has all the the Export Import Bank of Korea to İŞ’TE KOBİ website exceeded 82 Package, which was put into practice features of Maximum Card and the (KEXIM), financing opportunities thousand in 2017. Thanks to the by İşbank at the end of 2017. margin of contribution calculated were provided to customers for SUNUMATİK application exclusively based on the amount of transaction working capital needs of firms linked available to members of İŞ’TE KOBİ, using the card is transferred to Korea and investment financing SMEs can prepare their promotional to TEMA Foundation from the needs of companies doing business presentations in Turkish or in resources of İşbank. Maximum TEMA with firms linked to Korea. English to easily and effectively Cards have been specially designed promote their products. from bio-degradable card plastic In addition to these international materials. In the printed materials collaborations, the Bank continued of Card, the materials that are to contribute to support and manufactured by producers without promote businesses through KOSGEB harming ecological life with an (Small and Medium Enterprises FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Development Organization). certificate are used. 38 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Support for Agricultural and the Livestock Industry and make their payments in the harvest periods. Support for Tradesmen İşbank supports tradesmen, one of İşbank uses the Support for Disadvantaged Groups Another new target is to introduce a subtitle feature on all promotional İşbank contributes to society and the professional groups that makes advantages In order to help disadvantaged videos for hearing-impaired the local production economy İşbank also continued to develop a significant contribution to the groups actively participate in the customers. through the support and loans it the services offered in the Turkish economy, in order to protect of digital economy by using financial services extends to the agriculture and livestock industries, which it regards agricultural banking field in 2017. In addition to the proliferation of their business areas as well as to sustain local cultures and values. transformation and products, İşbank continuously improves its banking services and After the renovation work scheduled to be conducted until the end of as one of the most significant agricultural services established in With the Tradesman Loan, developed of banking products beyond its legal liabilities. next year, İşbank is planning to industries in Turkey. İşbank has certain branches to provide service for the needs of tradesmen, In this regard, İşbank uses the put this feature into practice on plenty of products for its customers to customers in the agriculture small enterprises are given the operations advantages of digital transformation its official website. In 2018, the industry, İşbank formed Agricultural Bank also aims to complete and put to implement in the agriculture and livestock opportunity to develop themselves of banking operations to implement industries such as its Tractor Loan, Direct Sales Teams to support by offering low interest loans up to new projects that create value for into practice a project that makes Agricultural Equipment Loan, Agricultural Business Loan, Pickagricultural banking operations with mobile teams on site. TL 100,000. projects that disadvantaged customer groups. it possible for hearing-impaired customers to communicate with Up Type Land Vehicle Loan, Cattle By the end of 2017, Tradesman create value for The number of ATMs (Bankamatik) a call center representative that Livestock Business Loan, Cattle Milk The Bank started to organize Support Loan amounting to where visually impaired customers knows sign language. Livestock Business Loan and Cattle regional agriculture meetings, called TL 883.3 million has been extended. disadvantaged can make audio transactions through Procurement Loans, Greenhouse Business and Investment Loan, Tarım Sohbetleri (Agriculture Talks) to increase the effectiveness of the customer groups. voice commands is being increased. In these ATMs, when the audio In order for disabled customers to perform transactions in the branches Apiculture Business Loan, wide service network it established transaction starts, the ATM screen more quickly, the Banks continues to Agricultural Land Loan, Poultry and to provide more focused service goes blank to provide customer work on prioritizing them in ordering Business Loan, Agricultural Products for the agriculture sector. In these privacy. After the transactions of transactions. In addition, within Office Warehouse Receipt Loan and meetings, the needs, development are completed, visually impaired the context of the Regulation on the Contracted Production Loan. potential and branding issues of the customers can also check their Accessibility of Banking Services, regional production are addressed. transactions with audio messages e-training has been designed in Cash loans that were extended In meetings held in Mersin, İzmir sent to their smartphones. The order to raise awareness about in the agriculture and livestock and Aksaray in 2017, producers number of audio ATMs reached the issues to be considered when industries in 2017 exceeded TL 3 were given information about the 3,346 at a 37% increase in 2017. serving disabled customers by the billion. food industry, quality in production Banks Association of Turkey in and creation of added value, and The number of ATMs suitable for the cooperation with the Alternative The Bank offers producers a nonopinions regarding the industry were use of visually impaired customers Living Association (AYDER) and payment period for the first 6 collected from relevant actors. constitutes 51% of all ATMs. these trainings are being provided months with its İmece Card, which it by the Bank to both the Head Office developed to promote its customers The Bank is increasing the number and branch employees. in the agriculture and livestock of ATMs suitable for orthopedically industries. This way, producers can disabled individuals as well as comfortably plan their production visually impaired customers. In this regard, as of 2017, over 600 ATMs were put into service throughout Turkey, distributed according to the number of disabled individuals residing in the regions. İşbank also continues to increase its number of wheelchair accessible branches regularly every year. 40 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The main goal of these two and Advice for Women in Business, Kumbara Karma Fon (Money In 2017, 643 customers were earn interest in an investment e-classes, titled Right Approach maintained jointly with the EBRD, Box Hybrid Fund) and Dijital provided with Urban Transformation account. As part of this practice, to Disability and Sign Language, is the European Union Delegation to Kumbara (Digital Money Box) Project financing amounting to TL 64.4 million in total savings to ensure correct communication Turkey, the Ministry of Labor and İşbank money box, which has approximately TL 84.4 million. has been achieved in 2017 at a 6% with disabled customers, to learn Social Security and the Turkish Labor become a symbol of saving in Turkey, increase against the previous year. sign language, and to increase the Inspection Agency. contributes to form a habit of saving Under the agreement signed with solution development capacity in children since 1928. In addition to the European Investment Bank Yuvarla (Round Up) for special needs. In 2017, 206 While banking services to be money box, with the Kumbara Karma (EIB) in May 2014 for the financing With Yuvarla application, which employees were given Right implemented as part of this support Fon, a savings plan that secures the of Urban Transformation Projects, makes donation as easy as it fits into Approach to Disability training, while program for women entrepreneurs future of their children is presented allocations of funds worth EUR daily lives, İşbank customers round 169 employees were given Sign were determined, women to the parents. 200 million to right owners are up their fractional expenditures Language training. entrepreneurs who used loans from in progress. Disbursement of while using their individual bank the Bank in İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir In 2017, the classic İşbank money loans for energy efficiency in and credit cards and they are able Support for Women and Muğla were given training in box was developed to give the residential units within the frame to donate the rounded amount in Entrepreneurs cooperation with the Frankfurt opportunity to save money digitally of the “Turkish Residential Energy social and environmental issues Women need to participate in the School on leadership, marketing to children under 18 and the Dijital Efficiency Financing Facility” by choosing institutions among work force by establishing their own and communication skills. By this Kumbara was presented to the new (TuREEFF) program under the approximately 20 institutions such business to contribute to social and means, women entrepreneurs also generation. Money can easily be agreement with the European as the associations, foundations or economic welfare, therefore women had the opportunity to develop transferred to Dijital Kumbara via Bank for Reconstruction and non-governmental organizations. entrepreneurs need to be supported. their business networking by İşcep and is deposited in the Vadeli Development (EBRD) for funds worth İşbank not only acts as a financial communicating with each other. Kumbara Hesabı (Money Box Savings USD 60 million and with the Clean Müzekart (Museum Card) partner of women entrepreneurs, İşbank also organized Women Account). As of 2017 year-end, the Technology Fund (CTF) for funds Müzekart is an important project for but also as a solution partner that Entrepreneurs Relationship number of İşbank’s Kumbara Karma worth USD 15 million is in progress İşbank in terms of the promotion shares experience and knowledge. Management Training for customer Fon users exceeded 219 thousand, as well. of cultural assets which allows the In addition to transferring resources representatives and customer and the total funds reached TL 436 holder visit more than 300 museums from its own funds and international relations managers working in million. A new contract with the IFC was and archeological sites that are funds to women entrepreneurs, Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Kocaeli ve signed in December 2017 within the operated by the Ministry of Culture İşbank establishes cooperations and Adana. In order to create awareness Urban Transformation Project securitization program based on and Tourism of the Republic of organizes training, seminars and about women entrepreneurs, an The Urban Transformation Project, the remittance flows to be used on Turkey. All of İşbank’s Maximum workshops for women entrepreneurs e-training was organized for all which started with the protocol housing loans. Under the agreement credit cards are equipped with the and also supports them with employees in the Bank and the signed between the Ministry of of which the investors are the IFC Müzekart feature. This allows İşbank mentoring. training was completed by more than Environment and Urbanization and and the CTF, a total of USD 125 credit card holders to visit more than 500 employees in 2017. İşbank for the purpose of renewing million has been obtained. USD 300 museums and archeological Funds worth USD 220 million, which buildings which are risky in terms of 20 million of the total funds was sites free of charge, for a period of was provided by the Overseas Women entrepreneurs are given the natural disasters, completed their obtained from the CTF while the IFC one month each year. Private Investment Corporation opportunity to submit questions economic life and insensitive to the provided USD 105 million. (OPIC) for the financing needs of and receive free consultancy environment. The Project provides small and medium sized enterprises, through a special area reserved on loans with supportive interest to Üstü Kalsın (Keep the Change) including women entrepreneurs the İŞ’TE KOBİ website. This area the right owners and aims to build The application of Üstü Kalsın, which and those operating in prioritized also includes actual news about reliable buildings that are equipped helps customers acquire savings development regions, have been women entrepreneurs, articles on with social areas and comply with habits, encourages customers to extended. entrepreneurship, videos of success legal regulations in terms of energy round up their periodic credit card stories, and informative interviews efficiency. The project is important payments, so the difference can İşbank allocated funds worth USD on products and services offered to as it provides reliable housing for 55 million to women entrepreneurs women entrepreneurs. society and increases the quality of in line with the Program on Finance housing stock of the country. 42 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Responsible Marketing Today, the success of companies puts emphasis on providing effective and the private sector comes from guidance and asking correct effective, healthy relationships that questions so that customers can are based on trust with customers. select the products and services that As options increase, making a best meet their needs. difference in customer focus is İşbank invests in developing the possible by investing in this trust skills of its employees who provide relationship. Accurate and effective this information to customers briefing by the finance industry directly or indirectly. 17 newly regarding its products and services recruited İşbank call center is just one of the increasing number employees were provided with a of demands and expectations total of 238 hours of training on customers have, especially the new Professional Communication and generation. Diction on the Phone, as part of the “I Start My Career-Call Center” As a deeply-rooted bank, İşbank is training program. Trainings aiming to associated with a sense of trust increase the communication skills of in the eyes of its customers. An employees with different customer important factor of this prestigious groups from different segments are position relying on trust is the organized. Bank’s adoption of its responsibility of always informing customers about its products and services in a correct, reliable, open and transparent manner. Through a customer-focused approach, the Bank provides information that does not mislead customers, that facilitates customers’ decision making © Patara Excavations Archives, İşbank – Patara Excavations Administration processes and responds to their needs. It is important that customers understand the risks of the products and services they will benefit from, and how their choices will change their lives. In this regard, the Bank 44 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CUSTOMER İşbank is aware that being the most preferred bank is closely related to ensuring high customer satisfaction. FOCUS While developing its products and details of İşbank’s activities in this products and services by ensuring thinking, in a way that includes development. Customer complaints, given above and meeting customers’ services, İşbank works to provide field are available in the Digital easy interaction and understandable the whole process and emotional suggestions and opinions gathered needs. Customer feedback is a better banking experience in line Transformation section of the communication. reactions from the perspective of through branches, the phone branch, regularly assessed, categorized and with customer expectations and Report. the customer. Customer journey is the corporate website, the internet reported, and this insight, generated needs. Since its establishment, the In line with its mission of becoming designed as a map because customer branch, social media accounts and from customer feedback is used Bank has facilitated and continues Customer Experience the closest bank to the customer, experience is a combination of e-mail are evaluated as part of the as input during product or service to facilitate its customers’ lives İşbank updates its business experiences of the customers at all Customer Relations Program, and development processes with the through its customer focus, one of and Satisfaction processes in a way to improve the points of contact. In this way, all continuous improvements are made related departments of the product its material sustainability issues. İşbank is aware that being the most banking experience of customers. compelling points for customers are to the Bank’s processes. Customer and service. With its goal of being the most preferred bank is closely related to Adapting the traditional banking identified and researched together expectations are analyzed and preferred bank, İşbank seeks to ensuring high customer satisfaction. methods to today’s conditions and with their main reasons. The reported regularly, according to the In addition, comments addressing provide a better and higher quality Today, İşbank works to provide an customer needs and redesigning compelling points are used as input information recorded. In addition, the Bank’s social media accounts banking experience every day, to experience that will ensure high them as part of its digital to improve products, services and customer satisfaction and feedback are constantly monitored through a establish effective communication satisfaction for its approximately transformation, İşbank ensures high processes, and to develop them in a as measured through surveys go special application; these channels with customers and to preserve the 15 million banking customers in customer satisfaction by offering way to make a difference. directly to the agenda of the Board serve to assist by communicating trust of customers at all times. total from individual, commercial, a more enjoyable and fast banking of Directors. In 2017, the overall with the people expecting an In doing so, it aims to provide all corporate and private segments experience to its customers. The details of the products and satisfaction score of commercial immediate solution or an answer segments of society with access to from every region of Turkey. services developed by the Bank customers and of individual in the most appropriate way. Since responsible financial products and Employees are trained to understand In addition, İşbank examines through its customer focused customers were measured to be February 2017 comments written in services. In this regard, the digital customer expectations and provide communication processes, and approach are available in the %84 and 76%, respectively by an the Mobile App Store’s products are transformation program is being a better experience in order to designs applications to improve Responsible Banking and Digital independent research company. also included to this scope. applied throughout the Bank. improve satisfaction. them in line with customers’ Transformation sections. As part of the Digital Transformation needs and expectations. In this İşbank has the EN ISO 15838 Call Program launched in 2015 in The Bank has determined its process, İşbank uses Design İşbank continues to develop the Communication Centers Standard line with its customer focused Customer Experience Principles Oriented Thinking and Customer phone branch in order to provide Certificate since 2011 to determine approach, the Bank started the in order to understand customers’ Journey methods. Through Design that once there is an available and increase the quality of service work of transferring its banking needs and expectations; the moment Oriented Thinking, customers’ representative for service the provided by its Call Center. processes to digital platforms. a need emerges, to meet it in real needs and problems are determined system calls customers back in the İşbank continues its investments time in a personalized, suitable and by empathizing with them, their order they called, instead of holding İşbank has received 371,714, in digitalization to provide its easily accessible manner and to problems are solved using innovative them on the line until they can be 394,651 and 317,117 customer customers with a faster and more provide a consistent and integrated solutions, and success is measured connected to a representative. This complaints in the years 2015, 2016 enjoyable banking experience. The customer experience. by testing the solutions with the structure will ensure high customer and 2017 respectively. The division bank also regards digitalization as an The Customer Experience Principles customers. satisfaction by avoiding loss of time that handles the requests and opportunity enabling İşbank to offer set out İşbank’s vision for customer Customer Journeys refer to from holding them on the line. complaints works in order to collect personalized products and services experience by being the Bank that the illustration of all customer insights from the inputs, in addition to different customer groups. The works for its customers and provides interactions using design-oriented The Bank considers customer to just responding the customer its customers with the most relevant feedback very important and regards messages which are delivered to their views as an opportunity for its the bank through the channels 46 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Data Security and Privacy İşbank continues to earn the trust of its regular announcements and training customers with its meticulous work on are provided to raise the knowledge data confidentiality. In addition to the level and awareness of employees and banking legislation and other legislative all subcontractors about cyber security. acts, there is a high degree of sensitivity In this regard, a total of 5,240 hours to the fulfillment of the obligations of training were provided to 2,063 imposed by the Law on the Protection of employees from the Head Office and Personal Data, which entered into force branches in 2017. on 7 April 2016. The Bank continues to work to ensure that the security In any case of suspicious circumstances, of information assets is maintained İşbank initiates a fast information within the framework of international sharing process with the customer. standards, with a holistic viewpoint, and Decisions on measures are made and that awareness is created throughout deployed immediately in line with the organization in this regard. internal protocols and legal regulations. As part of the designed digital transformation process, all banking Details of the Bank’s privacy policy transactions are transferred to digital and information on the processing of platforms. In connection with the personal data are available on İşbank’s digitalization process, continuous website. improvements are conducted in the field of data security and privacy, and the Bank’s rapid decision-making capacity is improved by increasing its resistance to possible threats. In order to take the necessary measures regarding data security, İşbank goes beyond simply following the legal regulations, by continuously improving © Gücügür Görkay, İşbank Zeugma Excavations Administration its business processes. Members of the Board of Inspectors regularly inspect the adequacy and effectiveness of the measures taken throughout the Bank. All employees are regularly informed about process improvements. In addition, 48 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Technologies that become popular The goal of İşbank is to keep Improvements are made in branches İşbank has 5.8 million customers recently; such as cloud technologies, the expectations of different and digital service channels to using internet and mobile banking big data, the internet of things (IoT), customer groups in its focal enable both retail and commercial channels. This number reaches and artificial intelligence affect point to give customers a better customers to perform their to the level of 10 million when the banking sector as well. The banking experience, and to transactions faster and more the customers who take service digitalization of banking operations design tomorrow’s banking from practically. In this way, customers from Bankamatik, the first ATM of offers opportunities in many areas today. Through its investments are able to perform their banking Turkey, are also taken into account. such as efficient customer relations, in digital transformation, the activities with pleasure in a short The share of transactions provided personalized products and services, Bank contributes to the creation time, moving service satisfaction to through the digital service channels high-efficient operations, and the of decent work and productive the highest level. within the total transactions has expansion of banking operations. employment as part of the reached 86% as of 2017. Digital transformation efforts that Sustainable Development Goals as have accelerated over the last two well as the development of a durable years, take a place among the Bank’s and modern infrastructure that will high material issues and significant increase comprehensiveness. 100% investments are made in this area. 86.2% 82.3% 83.8% 80% Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 60% employment and decent work for all 40% 38.7% Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable 31.9% industrialization and foster innovation 28.0% 26.3% 25.1% 24.3% 20% 22.9% 22.6% 21.1% 0% 2015 2016 2017 Mobile Banking ATM Internet Branch Total Non-Branch Transactions Percentage of Transactions Conducted via Digital Service Channels 50 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovative Products İşCepMatik with the modernization of the Bank’s enables customers to authenticate İşbank’s share of monetary software, learns from customers’ agreements digitally and use the and Services transactions conducted in its wide responses and reactions through loan in case loan applications Innovative products and services Due to proliferation of internet ATM network throughout Turkey has intelligent decision mechanism initiated from branches are approved are developed as part of digital use and the increase in the number exceeded 50%. Customers can easily models and responds to subsequent was put into practice in April. transformation in order to improve of individuals with access to the perform withdrawals and deposit questions based on this information. Anında Alışveriş Kredisi (Instant customers’ banking experiences, internet, the number of customers transactions via Bluetooth without Due to the infrastructure of the Shopping Loan), another innovative and to offer products that are using İşbank’s internet branch having bank cards with them through Bank that analyzes big data, digital credit product initiated more comprehensive, accessible has also increased. In 2017, the the İşCepMatik application, which customers are ensured to see considering the increasing volume and responsive to customer number of customers using the is an integrated operation of İşCep instant campaigns that are of e-commerce and the needs in this expectations. The products offered internet branch of the Bank has and Bankamatik. The Bank aims to personalized for them, through real area, went live in September 2017. by İşbank facilitate the lives of reached 2.8 million. Based on this provide customers with a faster time transaction data. In this way, customers and ensure uninterrupted increase, regular improvement and and better banking experience by İşbank responds to its customers The share of digital loans extended service. development work regarding the expanding the use of İşCepMatik, more quickly as well as achieving as part of Anında Kredi, Kredim internet branch continues in line which is a result of the integration operational efficiency and savings. Hazır and Anında Alışveriş Kredisi İşCep & Internet Branch with customer expectations. of different digital service channels. within the newly extended general The increasing use of mobile In addition to this, İşbank has consumer loans reached 40% on devices through digitalization Artificial Intelligence determined the customers’ context the basis of number, and 20% on has enhanced the importance of Investments both through an identifier for the basis of amount, as of December mobile banking and applications. In Artificial intelligence has become customer identification, and an 2017. line with its mission of becoming prominent in banking transactions in estimation model that identifies the closest bank to the customer, 24.28% 31.85% 38.66% terms of giving the fastest response customers’ current and future needs. Sosyal Hesap (Social Account) İşbank constantly improves its İşCep to the variable demands of different Artificial intelligence studies have One of the applications developed in application, which it considers very customers. In this regard, İşbank been carried out which offers the line with the demands and needs of important in terms of contacting its presented its customers the use right product to the right customer the customers is the Sosyal Hesap. customers in the fastest manner. 2015 2016 2017 through the right channel at the Customers can send money from of an artificial intelligence-based The number of active customers chatbot on its website. right price within the said context. their accounts to their common using İşCep, Turkey’s first In this way, a contribution is made to Sosyal Hesap shared via İşCep Percentage of Transactions via İşCep application based mobile banking The chatbot was developed using sustainable profitability as a result with a touch, and easily collect the application, exceeded 5 million in Machine Learning and Natural of the positive effect on customer funds they need for their event 2017, with a 42% increase compared Maximum Mobil Language Processing technologies satisfaction and sales activities. organization. to the previous year. A new era in the field of mobile the credit card holders, providing and offers an innovative banking payments has begun with instant and easy access to several experience. Being able to respond Digital Loans Maximum Mobil application, card services and campaigns. to users’ questions about banking, In 2015, through Anında Kredi which focuses on customers’ The number of downloads of the the chatbot started to operate on (Instant Loan) İşbank started daily lives and is designed with Maximum Mobil application, which isbank.com.tr in September 2017. offering customers loans via an ecosystem point of view. With was launched in March 2017 and The scope of the chatbot that is digital channels without visiting retail business partners from has many functions ranging from able to give responses related to branches. The Bank added new different sectors, Maximum Mobil purchasing Cinemaximum tickets over 800 subjects continues to be products to its digital credit provides end-to-end buying to paying invoices, following improved. The chatbot, which is one product range in 2017. Kredim Hazır experience regarding İşbank campaigns and enabling card of the innovations performed in line (Credit Ready) application, which customers’ daily lives. Besides, management campaigns, reached the application offers solutions 1.5 million by the end of 2017. that will facilitate the life of not only the Bank’s customers but all 52 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovative products and services that İşbank offered in the scope of digital conversion and retail banking in 2017 were awarded with 21 international awards; At Effie Turkey Advertising Effectiveness Competition 2017; Gold Effie in Bank and Card Payment Systems category Üstü Kalsın (Keep the Change) The application of Üstü Kalsın, which Infrastructure At İşbank, At Global Finance World’s Best Digital Banks in 2017; Investments and Digital Bank of Distinction helps customers acquire savings technological habits, encourages customers to Innovation Stevie International Business Awards 2017; round up their periodic credit card In line with increasing customer infrastructure With Maximum Mobile expectations and big data Gold in Digital Payment Solution Best Product / Service category payments, depositing the difference into an investment account where management brought about by investments Silver in Banking Financial Services category With İşCep Innovative Money Transfer Services it earns interest. In 2017 through digitalization, increasing the speed of banking transactions and being constitute Silver in Financial Services Best Product / Service category this practice, TL 64.4 million of total With Instant Home Loan savings has been reached at a 6% able to carry out these transactions an important Bronze in Financial Services Best Product / Service category increase compared to the previous continuously becomes more year. important with each passing day. pillar of digital At the MarCom Awards 2017; With From Maximum Card Director social media communication project Other Innovative Applications In this regard, ATLAS, Turkey’s first Tier IV data center, was constructed transformation. Platinum in Social Media-Social Engagement category With Maximum Card 2017 Euroleague Final Four social media communication project Execution of money transactions and brought online as an investment Platinum in Social Media-Social Video category through Western Union over İşCep, that will differentiate the Bank in With Social Media Poststicker Competitions social media communication work; overview of instant stock market terms of technology. The ATLAS data Gold in Social Media Social Media Campaign category values on İşCep, making stock and center, the largest infrastructure transformation project in the history At Communicator Awards 2017; warrant transactions, realization With İşCep Social Account; of stocks and futures transactions of İşbank, earned the grand prize Award of Distinction in the Integrated Campaign category in 26 stock exchanges operating in the category of “Infrastructure in Europe, America and Asia with Scale-Out” in a contest organized The Smarties at MMA 2017; İşCep, pointing out the locations by Data Center Dynamics. In With Maximum Mobile; of the nearest branches and ATMs addition, studies continue on the Gold in the Mobile App category technological transformation Gold in the Mobile Payment category and displaying exchange rates via Bronze in the Product / Services Launch category widgets in IOS and Android operating program called KARINCA, in the field With new features added to İşCep; systems, sending money through of banking software modernization. Silver in the Mobile App category the Siri application and imessage on Meanwhile, the Innovation Unit, Bronze in Innovation category Apple brand phones, bill payment which was established last year with the Siri application, and playing within the Digital Banking Division, At EFMA DMI Awards 2017; acts as a bridge that brings together With our CRM infrastructure; advertisement videos on İşbank’s Silver in Big Data, Analytics & AI category logo in various media through the relevant units of the Bank with augmented reality features are entrepreneurs working in the field of At Social Media Awards 2017 SocialBrands at the Data Analysis Awards; other innovative applications İşbank technology. With Maximum Card; has launched. Gold in Credit Card category With İşCep; Gold in Online Banking category With Maximiles; Bronze in the Credit Card category International Data Corporation (IDC) in Turkey Finance Technology Awards; With Digital Money Box; First place in customer experience category Second place in the digital channels category 54 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 WORKING LIFE İşbank offers a work environment Achieve gender equality and empower all women and Equal Opportunity that respects people, is fair, equal, reliable, and enables girls and Diversity personal and professional Equal opportunity and diversity form The Bank believes that social gender development in line with its vision the foundation of İşbank’s corporate equality plays an important role in of being the most preferred bank Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, culture. This foundation is based ensuring equality of opportunity, among employees. employment and decent work for all on non-discrimination towards and supports the participation of employees regarding factors such women in business life. 49% of Developing applications as gender, religion, political views, the Bank’s workforce consists of that provide satisfaction for Reduce inequality within and among countries race, culture or social origins from male employees and 51% is female employees while taking their the recruitment process to human employees. rights into account and being a resources applications. Bank that talented young people shows interest in are among the material issues for İşbank. 51% The Bank invests in new talents in line with the need for sustainable growth, and supports the Sustainable Development Goals. 49% Percentage of female and male empoyees (%) 18% 41% 82% 59% Percentage of female and Percentage of female and male male directors in the Board (%) employees at senior level *Excluding the Board and the Executive Committee 56 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Employee Rights and proficiency allowance, dividend İşbank. In addition, male employees “İşbank serves as a model in the Training opportunities are offered School, one of the most reputable payout as defined by the Articles whose wives give birth are granted a sector, especially the finance both within the Bank and at business schools in the world. Satisfaction of Incorporation of İşbank, and 5-day parental leave. sector, thanks to its structure which reputable institutions to managers İşbank believes that employees other fringe payments depending values its employees, cares about and managerial candidates who are In parallel with the Bank’s who enjoy their job and work in a on seniority and/or job scope. In The Bank regularly measures their rights and provides equality very important for the Bank’s future digitalization process, the fair environment will make positive addition, there are applications in employee engagement and of opportunity. I think İşbank is and sustainability. Innovation Academy was launched contributions to the financial line with the individual performance satisfaction as well as employees’ the leader as far as developing the this year to raise awareness on the performance of the Bank as well of employees such as performance satisfaction with management since qualified employees the industry Employees who are promoted to concept of innovation and to ensure as to the customer satisfaction. premium, sales premiums and 2009. The results of the surveys needs.” managerial positions participate that the decision-makers expected İşbank offers a working environment managerial bonus. Union of Banking, with 90% participation in the last Stakeholder Opinion Supplier in career training regarding their to manage this innovation process where the rights of employees are Finance and Insurance Workers three years have helped spread fields of specialization such as Got reach the same level of knowledge respected, with opportunities for (BASİSEN) and İşbank sign Collective existing good practices, while Newly recruited employees at Promotion in My Career, My Career together. The training provided at long-term employment in order to Bargaining Agreements every two providing guidance for improvement the Bank take part in the I Start as a Specialist and My Career the Academy focuses on the culture become the most preferred bank of years. As part of the Collective in areas where deficiencies are My Career training as part of the as a Manager, Branch Managers of innovation, the importance of new talents. Bargaining Agreement signed with identified. job orientation program. Through Development Program and innovation for institutions, the BASİSEN, employees receive health the Sales Academy, the Marketing Submanager Development Program, creation of innovation strategy, Employees’ compensation and benefits as per the guidelines Academy and Data Analytics which are designed to support the and the construction of in-house benefits are determined according included in the Türkiye İş Bankası Investment in Talent Academy programs, employees in competency and information needs entrepreneurship models to manage to the Remuneration Policy issued A.Ş. Health Benefits Governing As one of Turkey’s leading banks, the field and in Headquarters are in their roles through their career innovation. within the framework of the Regulation. İşbank provides its employees supported in different roles and at paths. The Bank organizes the Collective Bargaining Agreement with training opportunities to different levels. In addition to these Management Development Program Management development programs and relevant regulations. The Over the last three years, 99% of develop their skills and improve programs, employees can also take for the Future, which focuses on contribute to the leadership and Remuneration Policy of the Bank İşbank’s female employees using their knowledge and abilities over advantage of the training offered managerial competencies such as management skills of managers covering executives and employees maternity leave have returned to the course of their careers, in line in the Training Catalogue, in line effective communication, team and managerial candidates, and at at all levels is executed by the work. When female employees of with its philosophy of lifelong with their needs and preferences. management, problem solving, the same time, form a foundation Remuneration Committee under the Bank take maternity leave, their learning, and in order to guide Also, employees are provided with decision-making and other abilities for participants acting in different the Board of Directors. İşbank positions are preserved, and they human resources and perpetuate training such as the Capital Markets that are considered to be critically branches, even in different remunerates employees according can continue to work in the same the development of this resource. Licensing Exam Preparation Training important for managerial candidates, provinces and markets, to create a to their seniority and performance position upon their return. The Executives at İşbank are rising and First Aid Certification Training that raise awareness of participants communication network between based on a transparent and most important reasons why the through the ranks within the leading to certificates that are and include different learning tools each other. Thanks to these shared measurable system. Senior executive rate of return from maternity leave company. This tradition gives all required by the law and regulations. to improve performance. There is platforms, knowledge of the sector compensation is determined in is so high are that the positions of employees the opportunity of also Management Development circulates throughout the institution a manner that complies with the employees giving birth are retained, promoting to managerial positions İşbank organizes seminars that Academy practice designed to give over different channels. Bank’s strategies, long-term targets they can have a breastfeeding leave based on their performance. support employees in their work and Head Office managers a branch and risk management structure, of up to 2 hours per day, beyond social life and offer development perspective, and increase the quality prevents excessive risk-taking, and the legal regulation, they can opportunities that give them of service offered to branches. conforms with ethical values. benefit from maternal employment different perspectives with the Selected managers are offered the options such as part-time or partial participation of keynote speakers opportunity to participate in the The Bank’s remuneration package working, and both the mother and who are subject matter experts in Advanced Management Program consists of salary, bonus, lunch the child benefit from the Bank’s their fields. organized by Harvard Business allowance, foreign language comprehensive health insurance of 58 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Communication with Occupational Health Employees and Safety In addition to in-class training, learning experience. In 2017, critical competencies for all roles The basic goal of İşbank is to provide Banking and finance sector has The Human Resources Management employees have access to a variety with the İşVille application that in the branches. A training catalog full communication at all levels various physical, environmental and Division Manager is the highest of learning tools such as video, is accessible via computers and will be introduced for Branch with a respectful attitude towards psychological stress factors and authorized person in charge of games and e-learning through mobile devices, the Bank won the Managers, which will include its employees. In this context, the difficulties in terms of employees. OHS, and works two reporting Learning World, a digital learning silver award in the “Best Product/ training focusing on themes such as Bank attaches great importance to İşbank’s priorities include providing levels below the General Manager. platform. In 2017, employees were Employee Development Solutions relationship management, employee communication with its employees, a healthy work environment both The entirety of the Bank’s human offered 88 different e-learning of the Year” category at the Stevie management and changing the respects its employees’ freedom of physically and psychologically to resources is represented on OHS courses and a total of 56,845 International Business Awards, and customer experience in the digital expression, and provides feedback its employees in order to eliminate Committees. e-learnings were completed. The the gold award for the “Best Use of world. opportunities by creating grievance the negative factors that may be number of videos presented via Games and Simulations for Learning and notification mechanisms. exemplified by non-ergonomic The average OHS training rate İştube on the platform of Learning Practice” category at the Brandon Average learning hours per working conditions, fear of per employee is approximately World for employees of the Bank, Hall Group Excellence Awards. employee was enhanced to 21.3 One of the most important channels unemployment, and the stress 22%, and OHS training constitutes increased to 197, and these videos hours at a 34% increase against the of trust-based communication caused by sales and marketing around 4% of all training provided reached around 22 thousand İşbank will also launch its previous year. between employees and the Bank goals. In this respect, the Bank for employees. The OHS training employees in 2017. Gamification Project in 2018, to is the Negative Feedback Line. takes utmost care to create the duration per employee is 0.82 hours. increase its investments in digital The Negative Feedback Line is ideal working environment for its In 2018, İşbank plans to exceed The İşVille game, the first learning, training and development accessible via the corporate intranet employees with its activities beyond the legal obligations through OHS gamification project designed activities that strategically that allows employees to report legal obligations in the field of programs in relation to health and to support employees’ banking support its digital transformation violations and/or flaws on any issue occupational health and safety. safety issues for all employees, knowledge with new generation program. Training will be enriched they identify at the Bank, and to videos on ergonomic working learning tools, was used by 4,210 with digital applications (such as make suggestions on correcting Considering employee health, wellconditions, information videos for employees in the second half of mobile learning, video, and virtual these flaws. Matters communicated being and job satisfaction among its security officers, and emergency 2017, and created a 46,704-hour reality technology) that support by employees on the Negative priority issues, İşbank’s Occupational drills to be applied in all Bank Feedback Line are seen only by a Health and Safety (OHS) practices buildings. limited number of system recognized are managed by the Occupational senior managers. The confidentiality Health and Safety Unit established of employees who make reports under the Human Resources to the Negative Feedback Line Division. is protected at the highest level, and they are never subjected to mistreatment because of their reporting. 60 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT İşbank monitors its environmental impacts caused Through the use of efficient cooling systems in this building, the PUE • Emissions caused by transportation are reduced by the usage of systems from its operations and aims to improve its (Power Usage Effectiveness) values, such as WebEx and Telepresence a data center efficiency indicator, is for in-house meetings. In this way performance in that context. improved and energy consumption is approximately 148 tons* of carbon reduced by 25%. emissions were prevented in 2017. At all operation points, İşbank both Ensure sustainable consumption and At Head Office and TUTOM buildings, optimizes resource consumption production patterns Efficient Branches and implements efficiency projects • Waste oil is collected by oil slingers As part of the efficiency efforts that will increase employee and located between the kitchen and at branch buildings, LED lighting customer comfort. wastewater line and sent for fixtures, water efficient batteries, The Bank adopts responsible Take urgent action to combat climate change and recycling. and high efficiency climate control production and consumption models its impacts • Photocell batteries are used to systems that are not harmful to the and contributes to the fight against achieve water savings. ozone are preferred in all renovated global climate change. • Rainwater is collected and used for or new branches. In addition, branches are designed to ensure The Bank evaluates the Environment-friendly creating a healthy and ecological landscape irrigation. maximum use of daylight. Thanks to environmental impacts of its living environment. ATLAS, certified • The treatment infrastructure operations and works to improve its Buildings with LEED Gold and Uptime Institute installed for drinking water the efficient systems used, energy performance in this area. With that İşbank Head Office building, located Tier IV Design in 2016, and with eliminates greenhouse gas consumption of an average branch purpose different environmental in Levent, Istanbul, holds a BREEAM Tier IV Facility and Tier IV Gold emissions generated from the use was reduced by 10% compared with indicators are monitored in the In-use ‘Excellent’ certificate. The Operational Sustainability in 2017 is of plastic water bottles and their 2009. main impact areas such as waste Tuzla Technology and Operations the first and only data center with transportation. generation, water and energy Center (TUTOM), which was these standards in Turkey. • Environment-friendly refrigerant The electricity consumption of consumption and carbon emissions designed as an office complex with gases that are not harmful to the branches is followed up by a remote in the Head Office buildings. smart building systems and started The implementation of ozone layer are used in cooling monitoring system. Generators were The Bank plans to include its operations in 2015 with the environmental efficiency projects systems. included into the remote monitoring branch offices in the scope of transfer of information technologies in the Bank’s service buildings are • Recyclable waste is collected in system, and other indicators are environmental calculation context. and operational units of the Bank, spread over time with a continuous recycling boxes and sent to licensed planned to be included in the was awarded with LEED Gold improvement perspective. In this companies. system as well. In this way, the Bank certification in 2017. regard, ATLAS Data Center uses analyzes its consumption data with the energy generated during the aim of identifying reduction ATLAS, İşbank’s new data center cooling operations to heat office points. constructed in Tuzla, is designed areas, thereby reduces energy * Calculated by using a 90 hp car. with nature and human friendly consumption. solutions adopting the principle of 62 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Paper-free Banking Paper constitutes a significant In addition to paper savings, Contracts and forms for the amount in the resources consumed İşbank also attaches importance to products used by retail customers during banking operations. recycling of papers used. Besides can be digitally displayed and Through digitalization projects, recycling 245,570 kg of paper in approved through Digital Approval İşbank continues to reduce the 2017, as part of the collaboration Application, which started to paper consumption and waste project with TEMA Foundation, be used in the second half of it generates. By this means a documents to be disposed are sent 2017 in pilot branches. With this significant amount of paper savings to the TEMA. The Foundation plants application, 42 thousand pages both during operational processes a sapling for every 100 kg of papers were saved in 2017. The aim in and banking services are ensured. donated. This year 500 tonnes 2018 is to make this application Paper savings are achieved of papers were sent to TEMA and available in at least 180 branches through practices such as receiving 5,000 saplings were planted within of the Bank and by this means approvals by İşCep or SMS, reducing that context. Since the project was 1.7 million page savings will be receipt printouts and increasing initiated in 2012, 1,735 tonnes of achieved. double-sided printouts. With the paper were delivered to the TEMA change in the receipt printout Foundation, and 17,355 saplings Also with the use of Kredim Hazır, codes in July 2017, 11.9 million were planted in different regions of one of the Bank’s digital credit receipt printouts were prevented in Turkey. products, a total of 2,353,120 the remaining 5 months of the year. pages of paper were saved. By the With the papers donated within ongoing process improvements In addition, thanks to the default the collaboration with TEMA, five and infrastructure changes, a double-sided printouts setting forests were formed in Balıkesir, significant increase in operational in laser printers, approximately Çanakkale, Manisa and Lefkoşa on efficiency is planned in 2018. 190 million pages of paper were behalf of the Bank. saved. The Bank’s customers’ awareness about reducing paper consumption is raised as well. Encouragement practices have been carried out for customers to take their account statements Number of trees in forests located in different cities by year electronically. As a result of these efforts, 67% of customers 2013 Manisa/Salihli 3,800 © Gücügür Görkay, İşbank – Zeugma Excavations Administration who are provided with account 2014 KKTC/Lefkoşa 2,664 summaries prefer e-statements. For printed summaries, FSC (Forest 2015 Çanakkale/Ulupınar 2,504 Stewardship Council) certified paper is used, which supplies paper 2016 Balıkesir/Balya 3,387 only from industrial forests. 2017 Çanakkale/Lapseki 5,000 64 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMS İşbank undertakes a leading and Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and Education guiding role on advancement of the from 2,000 to 85,050, promote lifelong learning İşbank’s support for bringing up in schools with limited opportunities. society and development. In line • the number of chess tournaments generations who espouse the In this regard, it donates chess sets, with its sustainability principle, increased from 400 to 5,260, principles of Atatürk and will play a boards and the Chess Text Book İşbank implements comprehensive • the number of chess clubs rose role in advancing the society to the from Kültür Yayınları to schools. In and long-term social investment Take urgent action to combat climate change and its from 600 to 1,926, level of contemporary civilization • the number of titled players rose 2017, over 2,500 chess classes were programs. impacts has been increasing since the first from 6 to 162. opened, including one in every public day of its inception, to the present primary school in TRNC, bringing Targeting to deliver the added day. Aware of education’s effective 17 world titles, 26 world runnersthe total number of chess classes in value it produces in its main field Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt role in ensuring the permanence of up, 32 world third places, 47 schools to more than 20 thousand. of operation to the society’s and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss social development and progress, European titles, 51 European broadest segments possible, İşbank the Bank carries out inclusive and runners-up, 45 European third One Move for a New Life focuses on projects in the fields of long-term projects in this field. places, and 4 Country European “One Move for a New Life” project education, environment, culture Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable titles have been won to this day. initiated in collaboration with the and arts. İşbank’s social investment development Chess 393 medals have been received at Directorate General of Prisons and programs, including initiatives such İşbank contributes to the international tournaments. Detention Houses aims to bring as corporate social responsibility transformation of chess into an a new perspective to the lives projects, along with donations and easily accessible and popular sport Main Sponsor of the Northern of juveniles dragged to crime by sponsorships, are conducted under especially among children, and to Cyprus Chess Federation introducing them to chess. The the supervision of the Corporate the elimination of issues regarding As an extension of the TCF’s project includes opening chess Social Responsibility Committee, chess training. The Bank forms activities, İşbank has sponsored the classes in children and youth prisons which works directly under the collaborations to transform chess Northern Cyprus Chess Federation which are supplied with chess sets, Board of Directors. İşbank ensures into a popular and requested sport (NCCF) since 2013. Since starting chess training boards and pieces and effective stakeholder engagement across the country, and to improve its sponsorship, chess classes have reference books. In addition, the in social investment programs by international success in the field by been included one day a week as employees in charge were provided developing collaborations with offering opportunities to talented elective in primary schools in the with coaching training by the TCF. different stakeholder groups, children. TRNC. The number of students who particularly with non-governmental have selected the chess elective has organizations. These initiatives are Main Sponsor of the Turkish reached 1,500. designed within a framework that Chess Federation complies with the Bank’s Corporate The Bank has been the main sponsor Establishment of İşbank Chess Social Responsibility principles, of the Turkish Chess Federation Classes contributes to the Sustainable (TCF) since 2015. Since its İşbank opens chess classes in primary Development Goals, and meets the sponsorship, and secondary schools in order to current needs of the society. • the number of licensed chess make chess a more accessible sport, players increased from 30,000 to to encourage children to play chess, 801,139, and to eliminate any lack of materials • the number of chess coaches rose 66 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Playchess.com Every year, İşbank covers all the students. Furthermore, books Culture-Arts As part of the collaboration with education expenses of 81 students, are donated to students studying City of Patara. Ongoing since The events held by İş Sanat in its İşbank contributes to advancement Playchess.com, one of the world’s starting from fifth grade until their in Regional Boarding Secondary 1988 in the Ancient City of Patara, 17th season were attended by over of the country’s arts landscape, largest online chess platforms, high school graduation, each of Schools and children living in Homes located in Antalya’s Kaş district and 23,000 people. and to bringing international art the content on this website was whom placed first in their city on of Affection affiliated with the one of Turkey’s most important and culture events to Turkey. The Presidential Symphony translated into Turkish. Now, the the exam given by the Darüşşafaka Directorate General of Services archaeological sites, İşbank decided The Bank also sponsors projects Orchestra directed by Norwegian licensed chess players are able to Education Institution, and brings for Children. Visits were paid to to contribute to the excavations aimed at bringing the country’s conductor Eivind Gullberg Jensen, log on to Playchess.com from Turkey the students together at social students who study at private for a five-year period together with rich archaeological heritage to featuring Umut Sağlan and Yiğit to play online chess via the website, and cultural events. As part of education centers and did not have its affiliates, Turkish Industrial light, introducing them to new Karataş from Sparkling Stars and free-of-charge. the project, 618 students were the chance to visit İşbank branches Development Bank and Şişecam, in generations, and preserving it for Norwegian soprano Mari Eriksmoen supported for the 2017-2018 as well as students who had to 2016. the future. performed at the opening concert of The Turkish content of the academic year. take breaks from school to receive the 18th season of İş Sanat Concert Playchess platform is available at medical treatment. Kültür Yayınları Sponsorships on Archeological Hall. www.tsf.org.tr 6 students who started studying at Projects Established in 1956 by former Darüşşafaka in the first year of the The “One Million Books, One Million Minister of Education Hasan Âli Conserving cultural heritage and İş Sanat Art Galleries Communication Support for project and skipped the preparatory Children” campaign has been supporting the archaeological Yücel, Kültür Yayınları, an affiliate As part of İşbank’s art gallery Chess Tournaments year, graduated from Darüşşafaka at expanded beyond Turkey through excavations, as marked by the theme of İşbank, continues its publishing activities, the works of master İşbank contributes to the Turkish the end of the 2016-2017 academic İşbank affiliates in the TRNC, Iraq, activities, providing rich content and of this year’s İşbank sustainability artists in plastic arts are exhibited Youth Chess Championship and the year. Students who earned entrance England, Kosovo, Germany, Russia high quality work. Bringing over 6.6 report, is one of the Bank’s at the Kibele Art Gallery in four Turkish Stars Chess Championship into university continued to receive and Georgia. In 10 years, 12 million million books to readers this year, important culture-arts investments. exhibitions each season. The tournaments, organized by the TCF, support through the Bachelor’s books have been distributed to the long standing publisher aims The Zeugma Ancient City “House exhibitions include retrospectives of that include age groups 7-12 and Degree Scholarship Holders program primary school children through the to contribute to science, culture of the Muses” is one of Turkey’s distinguished and well-known artists 13-18, respectively, through its according to the conditions of campaign. and arts publications and to help important historical and cultural in plastic arts. In addition, the Bank communication activities. Similarly, the Darüşşafaka Society Higher form reading habits at an early age places. Excavations that started in also documents these exhibitions İşbank supports the School Sports Education Scholarship and Reward Golden Youth Awards 1987 continue at the Ancient City of through its publications for readers with extensive catalogs. Turkish Chess Championship Regulation. In addition, the Bank Every year since 1971, the “Golden from all age groups. Zeugma, located on the banks of the Last season İş Sanat Kibele Art organization, which is organized in covers the education expenses of Youth” program awards students Birecik Dam in the Nizip district of Gallery opened with the Exhibition of collaboration with the TCF and the two students who graduate from who are successful on the university İş Sanat Concert Hall Gaziantep. Archaeological finds from 60 Years on the occasion of the 60th School Sports Branch Directorate Darüşşafaka each year, under the entrance exam with a plaque of İş Sanat is an important art platform, the excavations are exhibited in the Anniversary of Kültür Yayınları, while affiliated with the Ministry of Youth Anatolian Scholars program of Koç success, a monetary prize and an where leading artists from Turkey Zeugma Open Air Museum. continuing with the exhibitions of and Sports Directorate General University. InterRail Global Pass ticket that and the world perform, children’s Erol Deneç, Muhsin Kut and Seyyit of Sports Department of Sports enables them to travel across For the last five years, İşbank plays are staged, and poetry Bozdoğan. The 2017-2018 season Activities. One Million Books, One Million Europe by train. To date, more than has sponsored the excavation at readings as well as exhibitions started with an exhibition by Children 3 thousand students have received the “House of Muses”, one of the are held. Celebrating its 17th Hanefi Yeter. The exhibitions were The Turkish Youth and Stars İşbank has organized the “One Golden Youth awards. anniversary last season, İş Sanat excavation sites at the Ancient attended by close to 15 thousand Chess Championships were held Million Books, One Million Children” held 27 concerts and dance shows, City of Zeugma, each of which is a visitors. simultaneously in 2017 and were campaign, one of the most Book Donations to Schools and separate project site. Three new 6 children’s events and 6 poetry attended by 2,390 players. The significant book campaigns ever Public Libraries mosaics have been discovered readings, while 12 young artists School Sports Turkish Chess created in Turkey, since the end As part of the Bank’s corporate performed at Milli Reasürans, as part during the Bank’s sponsorship period Championship finals were attended of the 2007-2008 academic year. social responsibility initiatives of the “Rising Stars” series. to add to the cultural heritage of the by 121 teams and 594 players from The campaign contributes to the in education, İşbank continued country. 51 cities as well as the TRNC. development of children’s cognitive to donate books published by İş Another archaeological sponsorship and cultural skills, and supports the Bankası Kültür Yayınları publishing is for the excavation at the Ancient 81 Students from 81 Cities emergence of a generation that house to schools and public libraries İşbank, in collaboration with loves reading books. Some of the around Turkey. In 2017, more than Darüşşafaka, launched one of the books distributed as part of the 41 thousand books were donated to most comprehensive educational campaign were printed in Braille and 2,381 schools and libraries. projects in the country with the “81 sent to the libraries of schools that Students from 81 Cities” project in educate visually handicapped 2008. 68 69 © Patara Excavations Archives, İşbank – Patara Excavations Administration 70 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Mimar Sinan Fine Arts systematically archived using a The exhibition İşbank Proudly Environment University Laboratory of management system that monitors Presents that presented its Assuming a pioneering role in provinces and 35,200 saplings were Support for Earth Hour Artwork Conservation and and assesses them according to a advertisement activities since the protecting the environment and planted on a land with a size of 22 Campaign Restoration protection philosophy that adheres Bank was established was opened raising environmental awareness hectares in the TRNC. Maintenance As in previous years, the Bank The İşbank Artwork Collection began to international museum norms, and to visitors on October 19, 2017. The among the public is an integral efforts, which were expected to participated in the Earth Hour to be gathered in the 1940s. Today, mostly consist of objects reflecting exhibition was curated by writer part of İşbank’s environmental continue for a five-year period campaign supporting global action the collection includes around the transformative stages of İzzeddin Çalışlar, and provided a responsibility approach. following the planting, were also organized by the World Wildlife 2,500 works by over 900 artists. banking during the Republic Period rich interactive visitor experience proceeded in 2017. As part of Foundation (WWF) to draw attention Restoration efforts required for from the establishment of the Bank through 450 ads, nearly 400 prints In this regard, the Bank aims to maintenance efforts, approximately to climate change. On March 25th pieces from the İşbank collection to the present. and some 60 original work. reduce its environmental impacts, 950 thousand completion plantings between 20:30-21:30, the Bank are carried out at the Mimar Sinan contribute to the protection of were performed to date. The contributed by turning off the Fine Arts University Laboratory Furthermore, various workshops Sponsorship for the İstanbul Turkey’s biodiversity and raise total number of planted saplings lights at all its buildings including of Artwork Conservation and for children, such as Budget Foundation for Culture and awareness by collaborating with has thereby exceeded 3 million, İş Towers, where the Head Office Restoration. Economy and Savings, World of Arts International İstanbul non-governmental organizations. including completion plantings. The is located, and its organizations Money, My Memory of a Museum, Music Festival success rate of the forest areas as abroad, to raise awareness of As part of the cooperation, and the Price Discovery Lab as well İşbank sponsored the London 81 Forests in 81 Cities of 2017 year-end was 82%. climate change. the Artwork Conservation and as Financial Literacy training for Chamber Orchestra & Alina “81 Forests in 81 Cities” Project was Restoration Laboratory Bachelor of adults are offered at the museum. Pogostkina concert performed on launched in 2008 in collaboration The project is also important in Arts (BA) program was established In the Financial Literacy training June 1, 2017 at the Hagia Irene with TEMA (Turkish Foundation terms of volunteering. Every year, at the university in the 2013program, which is basically aimed Museum during the 45th Istanbul for Combating Soil Erosion, for branch employees monitor the 2014 academic year in order to at acquainting people with the Foundation for Culture and Arts Reforestation and the Protection planting areas and provide photo train specialists in this field. The economic phenomena affecting all Istanbul Music Festival, of which of Natural Habitats) and Ministry of feedbacks to ensure that the project department produced its first areas of life, participants also learn İşbank is a member of the Board of Forestry and Water Affairs. in progress and the forests are well graduates at the end of the 2016about how the banking system Trustees. taken care of. The Bank evaluates 2017 academic year. functions and the place of banks As part of the project, which aims to the feedback of employees in line in today’s world. In this way, the protect the environment and raise with the reports sent by the TEMA Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi impacts of the bank’s many products environmental awareness among Foundation, and monitors the (İşbank Museum) on the real economy, which we the public, primarily the children, progress against estimates. The İşbank Museum was established benefit from in daily life, become 2,205,000 saplings were planted in 2007 to hand down the Bank’s more visible. on a land of 1,500 hectares in all deep-rooted corporate history as well as the story of the economic The İşbank Museum was visited by development of Turkey through close to 170 thousand people on its various mediums such as documents, 10th anniversary, thus exceeding banking instruments, communication 850 thousand visitors since its tools, photos, advertisements, establishment. Over 13 thousand promotion materials and films to the students attended the workshops next generations. The information, held in the Museum over the 2016documents and objects preserved 2017 academic year. in the Museum’s collection are 72 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE Social Data 2015 2016 2017 INDICATORS Number of Employees Female Male Female Male Female Male Total Number of 12,864 12,293 12,669 12,087 12,755 12,113 Employees Environmental Data Environmental data includes the Number of Full Time 25,157 24,719 24,806 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 2015 2016 2017 Head Office buildings in İstanbul. Employees Number of Part Time Scope 1 3,431 4,455 4,886 The data per employee are 0 37 62 Employees calculated by using the number of Scope 2 19,799 17,663 21,248 İşbank employees in the related 2015 2016 2017 Head Office Buildings that are Employees by Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions 23,230 22,118 26,134 included in the environmental data. Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male 5.11 4.61 5.59 Emissions per employee Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in accordance with GHG Over 50 63 190 56 172 60 175 Scope 3 1,431 2,461 Protocol standards. 30-50 10,272 9,978 10,651 10,291 10,924 10,484 Energy Consumption (Gj) 2015 2016 2017 Scope 3 emissions data for the year 2016 comprises of employee Electricity 125,687 143,047 136,662 Under 30 2,529 2,125 1,962 1,624 1,771 1,454 shuttles. In 2017, the impact of the Natural Gas 45,778 59,243 66,681.35 use of taxi, bus, plane and paper consumption by employees is also 2015 2016 2017 Number of Employees Total Energy Consumption 171,465 202,290 203,343 included. by Educational Background Female Male Female Male Female Male Water Consumption (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Secondary School 2 93 2 83 2 75 Mains Water (Blue) 112,466 119,980 105,559 Waste Water (Grey) 4,028 0 0 High School 1,655 2,755 1,562 2,686 1,476 2,607 Spring Water (Green) 12,271 1,839.71 7,148 Graduate School (2and 3233 322 219 319 213 341 year college) Water consumption per employee 27 25 24 University (4-year college) 10,444 8,656 10,339 8,512 10,510 8,586 Waste (ton) 2015 2016 2017 Post Graduate 527 461 544 478 550 493 Recycled hazardous waste 3,126 Recycled non-hazardous waste 1,285 2,659.3 PhD Degree 3 6 3 9 4 11 74 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Employees Covered by 2015 2016 2017 Employees subjected 2015 2016 2017 Collective Bargaining to regular performance and career development Agreements Female Male Female Male Female Male evaluation Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Unionized Number of employees 12,096 12,613 12,490 11,947 12,504 11,927 11,270 11,187 11,591 11,345 11,707 11,346 Employees subjected to regular performance and career development evaluation Total 24,709 24,437 24,431 Board of Directors and 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Executive Committee by Employee Turnover Rate gender and age Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under the age of 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employee Turnover 2.24 2.19 1.75 30-50 0 2 1 2 0 1 2015 2016 2017 Number of Employees by Over 50 2 7 1 7 2 8 Seniority Female Male Female Male Female Male 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees 2,464 2,615 2,011 1,907 2,101 1,900 Occupational Health and working 0-5 years Safety Number of employees Female Male Female Male Female Male working 5-10 years 3,684 4,413 3,413 4,076 3,026 3,528 Number of incidents 11 7 75 28 25 10 Number of employees 6,716 5,265 7,245 6,104 7,628 6,685 working 10 years and more Number of work related 0 1 0 0 0 1 fatalities 2015 2016 2017 Employees benefiting from Number of occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 parental leave Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees Absenteeism 2 5 133 40 550 246 benefiting from parental 1,141 998 970 leave Injury Frequency Rate 0.086 0.057 0.59 0.23 0.196 0.083 (Injury Rate IR) Number of employees returning after parental 1,139 996 969 Occupational Disease Rate leave (ODR) 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 Lost Day Rate (LDR) 0.016 0.041 1.050 0.331 4.312 2.031 Training hours per employee Female Male Female Male Female Male Absenteeism Rate (AR) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Average annual training Calculations are based on the formulas below: 22.9 26.4 13.59 18.73 19.0 24.2 hours per employee Injury Frequency Rate (IR): Total number of injuries / (Total working hours Lost hours) * 200,000 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases * 200,000 / Total working hours Total 24.6 15.83 21.3 Lost Day Rate (LDR): Total number of lost days * 200,000 / Total working hours Absenteeism Rate (AR): Lost working hours / Total working hours 76 77 102-41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ANNEXES Corporate Memberships AKUT Search and Rescue Association International Chamber of Commerce Turkey Commission on Banking Techniques and Practices European Association for Banking and Financial History (EABH) National Education Foundation European Financial Management and Marketing Association (EFMA) Advertisers’ Association of Turkey European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) Association of Risk Managers The Research Institute of Banking and Commercial Law Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) The Interbank Card Center (BKM) Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Call Centers Association Habitats (TEMA) Darüşşafaka Society Turkish Historical Society Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (TURMEPA) The Banks Association of Turkey Ethics Commission Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK) Ethics and Reputation Society Elginkan Community Working Group of the Banks Association of Turkey on the Role of the Finance Sector in The Bankers’ Association for Finance and Trade (BAFT-IFSA) Sustainable Growth Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association (FODER) The Institute of Internal Auditing Turkey Financial Managers Association (Finans Kulüp) Quality Association of Turkey (KalDer) Global Relations Forum Turkish Institutional Investment Managers’ Association Global Compact Turkey Sustainable Banking and Finance Working Group Turkish Human Resources Management Association (PERYÖN) Economic Development Foundation Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) Institute of International Finance (IIF) Association of Corporate Communicators Vehbi Koç Foundation 78 79 102-40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder Dialogue Loans Granted by International Financial Institutions Communication Communication International Date of Amount Maturity Purpose of Stakeholder Group Frequency Method Financial Signature (years) Extending Institution Loans Branches, ATM, Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and mobile banking channels, customer relations 04.13.2009 € 250,000,000 12 Financing SMEs Customers Continuous representatives, meetings, customer satisfaction 10 Financing SMEs European Investment Bank (EIB) 12.09.2011 € 150,000,000 surveys, social media 06. 28.2012 € 75,000,000 12 Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of the MidSEFF Program General Assembly and investor meetings, investor presentations, analyst/investor days, introductory 12.04.2013 € 150,000,000 8 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees meetings, teleconferences, daily communications by the Investor Relations Division, İşbank Investor Financing the loans to be extended to residential buildings that fall under the scope of Law 05.09.2014 € 200,000,000 10 No. 6306 and conform to the EIB criteria, in order to improve earthquake safety and energy Shareholders and investors Continuous Relations web page, Public Disclosure Platform, efficiency in residential buildings Information Society Services Platform established as per the Turkish Code of Commerce, Annual Report, 10.30.2015 $ 221,200,000 10 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees Sustainability Report $ 111,200,000 13 Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Analysts Annually and Analyst days, Investor Relations Division 12.01.2016 quarterly communication, Annual Report, Sustainability Report $ 47,600,000 10 Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 employees 10.27.2011 $ 6,660,000 15 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program Employee satisfaction surveys, stakeholder Employees analysis as part of sustainability, training activities, € 50,000,000 12 Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of the MidSEFF Program European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Continuous performance assessment, internal communication 06.28.2012 platforms, regular executive meetings € 25,000,000 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB Program € 15,000,000 7 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program Subsidiaries Continuous Joint projects 05.09.2013 € 10,000,000 Financing of agricultural investments as part of the TuRAFF Program Public institutions and regulatory Minimum four times € 50,000,000 12 agencies Reporting processes, consultation meetings Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of the MidSEFF Program a year 12.18.2013 $ 12,500,000 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB Program Nongovernmental organizations Minimum four times Informative or press conferences, special meetings, and sector unions a year answering written questions, joint projects $ 90,000,000 5 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program 12.19.2014 $ 25,000,000 Financing of agricultural investments as part of the TuRAFF Program Assessment and information meetings, Annual Financial institutions and Rating Agencies Minimum once a year Report, Sustainability Report, answering written $ 60,000,000 7 Financing of energy efficiency in residences as part of the TurEEFF program questions 03.30.2015 $ 15,000,000 15 International organizations and Minimum four times Conferences, seminars, congresses, workshops, $ 55,000,000 5 Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the TuRWiB Program Initiatives a year answering written questions 10.21.2016 $55,000,000 12 Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Information communication, press conferences, 12.06.2017 $ 55,000,000 7 Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the TurSEFF Program Media Continuous special meetings, answering written questions OPIC ROPARCO 12.09.2010 € 50,000,000 12 Financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects Daily communication with goods and service Financing of loans extended to residential buildings conforming to domestic energy efficiency Suppliers Continuous 03.01.2013 € 50,000,000 10 suppliers, initiatives aiming at raising sustainability criteria in Turkey awareness among suppliers 12.10.2014 $ 220,000,000 14 Financing of SMEs, prioritized regions in development, and female entrepreneurs Financing of housing loans, especially green mortgages conforming to IFC energy efficiency IFC 9 criteria. (USD 20 million of the resource was provided for use in financing green mortgage loans 12.28.2017 $ 125,000,000 ensuring energy efficiency, by the Clean Technology Fund through IFC) 80 81 102-40 / 102-42 / 102-43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Reporting Guidance 1. General Principles and Scope 3. Principles Related to the Preparation Process of Indicators and Data This reporting guide provides information on the data collection and calculation methodologies of indicators within Ethical and Transparent Banking the scope of the independent audit in the 2017 İşbank Sustainability Report. In PwC Turkey’s reporting guide, data The training hours per employee, that are classified by sex, on Human Rights, Fight Against Bribery and Corruption, are prepared on the basis of consistency and reliability principles. In the process of reporting the data, the principles and Ethical Principles included in the Ethical and Transparent Banking section are checked against the independent of understandability, comparability with data from previous years and transparency are taken into consideration. audit for 2016 and 2017. While there is no course specifically directly towards these subjects within the body of the Bank, they are included in certain training programs at certain periods. For example, under the 8-hour Getting The data and indicators included in the scope of the independent audit are stated in the Independent Audit Report to Know Our Bank (Bankamızı Tanıyalım) training included in the I Start My Career (Kariyerime Başlarken) training on pages 90-92 of the Sustainability Report. Each heading in the Reporting Guide also contains detailed information series, bank officers are provided with 3-hours of Human Rights training, 1-hour of Fight Against Bribery and about the data and indicators included in the scope of the audit. Corruption training and half an hour of Ethical Principles training. Therefore, in the calculation of training hours per employee, time allocated to the related subject in the training programs is taken into account. At the same time, the duration of training in these areas given in the training programs organized by the Board of Inspectors for the 2. Audit Scope Members of the Board of Inspectors is not included in the calculation of the training periods. The security staff is Within the scope of the limited assurance carried out by PwC Turkey, the following data have been checked. not included in the calculation of the number of employees. Human rights are covered within the Law on Private Data controlled as of 2016 and 2017: Security Services and Individual Rights course provided under the refresher training to the private security staff. • Number of renewable energy projects financed during the year, the capacity of installed power and the loan This issue is not taken into account in the calculation of duration since it is a subject covered in a 10-hour course amount provided to these projects, within the refresher training delivered by different suppliers in different cities. • Total size of installed power of financed renewable energy projects as of year-end, • Total amount of cash commercial loans extended to the agriculture sector, Responsible Banking • Total amount of loans extended to SMEs, The number of projects evaluated using the evaluation model of Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation Tool • Total amount of sustainability related credit agreements signed with international financial institutions during (ERET) under the heading of Responsible Finance in the Responsible Banking section, the number of projects the year, financed after the evaluation and the risk categories of these projects obtained within the frame of this evaluation • Environmental and social risk management in loans, are checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. Projects that enter into the ERET evaluation • Total number of saplings planted in cooperation with TEMA Foundation, process are evaluated with reference to national and international legislation such as the International Finance • Total number of employees, Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Performance • Employee training number of participants and information on total hours Requirements, and Equator Principles, and a Project Environmental and Social Evaluation Certificate is issued for • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) The number of Established OHS Committees and the total number of each project. The risk categories of the projects are determined after these documents are checked. members and employee representatives on the committees • Injury rate The number of projects, installed power and the amount of loans provided under the renewable energy projects • Lost day rate stated under the Financing of Renewable Energy heading, another sub-heading under the Responsible Finance • Number of work related deaths heading, are checked under independent audit for 2016 and 2017. In this context, the amount of loans extended Data controlled as of 2015, 2016 and 2017: to Hydroelectric Power Plant (HPP), Geothermal Power Plant (GPP), Biomass Power Plant (BPP), Solar Energy Plant • Carbon footprint Scope 1 (SEP) and Wind Power Plant (WPP) renewable energy projects by the Corporate Loans Underwriting and Commercial • Carbon footprint Scope 2 Loans Underwriting sections of the Bank is determined on the basis of total limit information by calculating the sum • Electricity (kWh) of cash and non-cash loans. In this process, project loan allocation files are taken as reference in determining both • Natural gas (m³) the total loan amounts provided for projects and the installed power of projects. • Total energy consumed (GJ) The resources provided by the co-operation of international financial institutions such as the European • City water Blue (m³) Investment Bank (EIB), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the International • Spring water Green (m³) Finance Corporation (IFC) for financing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects under the same heading • Waste water Gray (m³) are checked under independent audit for 2016 and 2017. In this regard, issues such as the amount of resources • Total water consumption (m³) provided by international institutions and the scope of the projects financed are determined using the information in the contracts signed between the Bank and the international organizations mentioned. 82 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The resource amount provided for financing SMEs by the European Investment Bank (EIB), which is under the Performance Indicators heading Support for SMEs, and the loan amount extended to SMEs by the bank are checked under the independent The data on the articles of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope -1, Scope -2 and Emissions per Employee), Energy audit for 2016 and 2017. In this regard, issues such as the amount of resources provided by international Consumption (Electricity and Natural Gas and Total Energy Consumption) and Water Consumption (City Water, institutions and the scope of the projects financed are determined using the information in the contracts signed Surface Water, Rain Water and Water consumption per employee) under the Environmental Performance Data are between the Bank and the international organizations mentioned. The loans extended to SMEs by the Bank are checked under the independent audit for 2015, 2016 and 2017. At the same time, the tables of Employees by Sex calculated on the KR207 (AS) forms and reported to the BRSA in particular. and Age, Employees by State of Education, Employee Turnover Rate, Employees by Working Hours and Employees Taking Maternity Leave under the Social Performance Data heading and the Occupational Health and Safety table The amount of cash loans extended by the Bank to the agriculture and livestock industries under the Support for are checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. Agriculture and the Livestock Industry heading is checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. The amount of cash loans extended to the agriculture and livestock industries has been determined through sectoral The following definitions, limits and calculation methodologies apply to the terms in the performance indicators breakdown using A-B financing codes corresponding to the agriculture and livestock industries after separating tables. performing loans in KR 202 (AS) forms and reported to the BRSA. Environmental Data Working life There have been changes in the calculation methodologies and the scope of limitations of environmental In the report, information about the distribution by sex of employees and upper management employees under performance data over the years. İşbank offices included within the scope for the calculation of data are as the Equality and Diversity of Opportunity heading and the Social Performance Data in the Performance Indicators follows: section are checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. In this regard, employee numbers and female/ male percentages included in the report are calculated without including 25 employees in 2016 and 23 employees in 2017, who had been assigned to subsidiaries and returned to the bank. 2015 2016 2017 The average number of training hours per employee under the Investment in Talents heading is divided by sex and checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. In this regard, calculations are made by dividing the total Head Office Head Office Head Office number of training hours given to employees during the year by the number of employees, not including security officers. Although security officers have equal status with Bank employees, they are not included in the training Auditorium Auditorium Auditorium indicators as the scope and provider of the training they receive are different. TUTOM TUTOM TUTOM The information on OHS indicators under the Social Performance Data heading are checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. In this regard, data is determined according to the Bank’s OHS policies and legislation. Sefaköy Sefaköy Also, calculations of OHS indicators are made taking into consideration the occupational accident forms filled out by employees and hospital reports. Yaşamkent Yaşamkent Environmental Impact The data on the number of saplings planted during the year within the scope of the joint project carried out with İkitelli Buildings the TEMA Foundation under the Paper-free Banking heading are checked under the independent audit for 2016 and 2017. Records of the amount of paper sent to the TEMA Foundation from branches in Turkey, archive warehouses in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir and other centers are kept monthly on the basis of kg by both the bank and the TEMA As stated in the 2015 at İşbank Sustainability Report, Head Office units located at different points in Istanbul Foundation. The number of saplings is determined by the tonnage of these lists after they are checked and agreed carrying out operational activities have gradually been transferred to the Tuzla Technology and Operation Center upon by both sides. (TUTOM) building since the last quarter of 2015. During this process, activity and resource consumption at the leaving operation points and the TUTOM building continued simultaneously. As buildings were shut down and their activities were transferred to TUTOM, they were not included in the scope, which was why the number of the buildings within the scope decreased from 2015 to 2017. 84 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO 2 ): Emissions per employee (ton CO 2 ): Greenhouse gas emissions refer to carbon emissions arising from energy consumption during the reporting year (January Emissions per employee is calculated by dividing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by the total number of employees. 1st – December 31st). The greenhouse gas emissions resulting from İşbank activities are calculated by Ecometrica Ltd., The number of employees used in this calculation is accepted as the employees working in İşbank buildings where which provides software services for calculating sustainability data in accordance with the GHG Protocol. This is also energy consumption measurements are made. Scope 3 emissions are not included in the emissions per employee indicated in the statement prepared by Ecometrica Ltd. on pages 89-92 of the sustainability report. of the bank as it, by definition, represents greenhouse gas emissions arising from energy resources owned or controlled by other institutions as a result of bank activities. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in three different scopes: Scope 1 (Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions), Scope 2 (Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions) and Scope 3 (Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions). Energy Consumption (GJ): Electricity and natural gas consumption are included in total energy consumption calculations. Electricity In the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, the limits of the energy resources causing carbon emissions has consumption was first calculated in kWh and then converted to GJ. A conversion factor of 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ was changed over the years and the energy consuming items included in the scope has been expanded. The table below gives used. For natural gas consumption, the monthly consumption values for 2017 were calculated in m³ and converted information on which energy sources have been included over the years while calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 to kWh using the monthly lower calorific values on the invoice. Total annual consumption, the total of these monthly emissions. consumption values, was converted to GJ by using the above conversion factor. However, in the conversion from m³ value to kWh values in 2016 and 2015, the average lower calorific value expressed by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was used instead of the monthly lower calorific values. According to Ministry of Energy Resources Included in Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Years and Natural Resources data, at least 9.59 kWh of heat energy is created from burning 1 m³ of natural gas. For this 2015 2016 2017 reason, a conversion factor of 9.59 was used when converting m³ to kWh for natural gas consumption in 2016 and 2015. Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas Consumption Water Consumption (m 3 ): Fuel used in generators Fuel used in generators Fuel used in generators Water consumption is evaluated in three different categories: City water (Blue), Waste water (Gray) and Spring (Diesel fuel) Scope 1 (Diesel fuel) water (Green). City water (Blue) includes water received from municipalities or other suppliers such as İSKİ (Istanbul (Diesel fuel) Fuel Consumption of Fuel Consumption of Fuel Consumption of Water and Sewerage Administration), while Waste water (Gray) includes water previously used for any reason and Company Vehicles (Diesel Company Vehicles (Diesel Company Vehicles (Diesel then reused. Spring water (Green) includes naturally formed surface and underground water. and Gasoline) and Gasoline) and Gasoline) Refrigerant Gases Water consumption per employee (m 3 ): Water consumption per employee is calculated by dividing the total consumption of Green and Blue water by the Scope 2 Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption number of Bank employees. The number of employees used in this calculation is accepted as the employees working in İşbank buildings where energy consumption measurements are made. Personnel Service Vehicles Scope 3 Personnel Service Business Travel – Airplane Calculation not made. Vehicles Business Travel – Bus Business Travel – Taxi When comparing 2016 with 2017, although there is a decrease in electricity consumption, there is an increase in Scope 2 emissions. As Ecometrica Ltd. stated in its calculation methodology, the factors used for emission calculations vary from year to year depending on the resources used for energy production. The emission factor identified for Turkey was 0.557716 CO2/kWh in 2017, while this factor was 0.442482 CO2/kWh in 2016. For this reason, while the Bank’s electricity consumption in 2017 declined, this increase in the emission factor led to an increase in Scope 2 emissions. 86 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Social Data GHG Emissions Statement Number of employees: Calculated taking all İşbank employees into account including those such as security staff. Employee numbers are Ecometrica Ltd also categorized by sex, full and part-time, specific age groups and state of education. However, 25 employees in Orchard Brae House 2016 and 23 employees in 2017, who had been assigned to Subsidiaries and returned to the Bank, are not included 30 Queensferry Road in these numbers. Edinburgh EH4 2HS United Kingdom Employee turnover rate: 31st May 2018 This is the ratio of the total number of employees who leave work over the year to the average number of employees. Türkiye İş Bankası GHG Statement for annual submission of Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 1st January 2017 to 31st December 2017 Hours of training per employee: Calculated considering all trainings given to employees during the year. In this regard, calculations are made by Ecometrica conducted a quality assurance exercise to review the scope, methodology, dividing the total number of hours of training given to employees during the year by the number of employees emission factors and calculations used by Türkiye İş Bankası to report greenhouse gas (Security staff is not included). emissions for the period 1st January 2017 to 31st December 2017. As well as being compliant with the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Türkiye İş Bankası Greenhouse Absence due to Accident: gas emissions have been reported in accordance with the requirements of United Kingdom legislation The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations Calculated considering the days of absence due to accidents counting as work accidents. In this regard, calculations 2013, Part 7. are made according to the period as stated in the doctor/hospital reports the employees reporting work accidents presented to Human Resources Management Division. This assessment has been carried out in accordance with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute's (WBCSD/WRI) Greenhouse Gas Total Injury Frequency Rate (IR – Injury Rate): Protocol; a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. This protocol is considered The ratio of accidents during the year to total working time is calculated. In this regard, calculations are made by the current best practice for corporate or organisational greenhouse gas emissions reporting. formula of “Total number of accidents / (Total working hours Lost hours) * 200.000”. The number of accidents in Note that this assessment is in compliance with the revised Scope 2 Guidance, which acts as this form is reported according to the accident report forms filled out by employees. Total human working hours are an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. The subject of this assessment has calculated based on 250 work days in 1 year and 1 work day equals 8 hours. Lost hour data is reported by calculating not declared any product or supplier-specific Scope 2 data in the form of contractual how many work hours were lost per the number of daily absences due to accident. instruments and operates in a geographical location where residual mix emission factors are not available. As a result, all Scope 2 emissions are calculated using default location gridOccupational Disease Rate (ODR): average emission factors, per the Protocol hierarchy. Calculated according to the ratio of employees who have experienced temporary or permanent illness because of Ecometrica conducted this quality assurance exercise based on the data, calculations, a recurring cause due to the nature of the work or the conditions involved in carrying out their work to the total emission factors and results contained in Türkiye İş Bankası’ Sustainability Platform webnumber of work hours. This calculation uses the formula “(Number of occupational diseases *200.000) / Total based software accessed at https://ecometrica.ourimpacts.com (v3.4.7). working hours”. On the basis of the quality assurance exercise and the review of activities undertaken, Lost Day Rate (LDR): nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Türkiye İş Bankası’ stated Calculated according to the ratio of the number of days lost due to work accidents to total work hours. This greenhouse gas emissions results are not compliant with the requirements of WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ calculation uses the formula “(Total number of lost days * 200.000) / Total work hours”. The lost days in the formula Report) Regulations 2013, Part 7. reference absences due to accident. Absentee Rate (AR): Calculated according to the ratio of lost work hours to total work hours. This calculation uses the formula “Lost work hours / Total human work hours”. Dr Richard Tipper Chairman Ecometrica 88 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Limited Assurance Report 90 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Principles Report Section Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Working Life rights. Working Life Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Ethical and Transparent Banking Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Working Life right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Working Life Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Working Life Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Working Life occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Ethical and Transparent Banking; Responsible Banking Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environmental Impact; Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Annex (Corporate Memberships) technologies Responsible Banking Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Ethical and Transparent Banking bribery 92 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI CONTENT Stakeholder engagement 102-40 78-80 102-41 76 102-42 28,80 102-43 29,80 INDEX 102-44 25-29 Reporting practice 102-45 6 102-46 6 102-47 25-28 102-48 There were no restatements. GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission 102-49 28 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-50 6 General Disclosures 102-51 January 1 st , 2016 and December 31 st , 2016 (2016 Sustainability Report) Organizational Profile 102-52 6 102-53 6 102-1 6 102-54 94-98 102-2 12 102-55 89-92 İşbank website (https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/iletisim/Sayfalar/iletisim. 102-56 102-3 aspx) 102-4 12 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission 102-5 12 GRI 200 Economic Standard Series 102-6 12 Economic Performance 102-7 12 GRI 103: 103-1 26-27 102-8 75-77 Management 103-2 12, 26-37 102-9 12 Approach 2016 103-3 26-27 102-10 There are no significant changes in reporting period. p. 12 201-1 14, 15 102-11 GRI 201: 20-21 201-2 33, 62-63 Economic 102-12 78 Performance 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annu102-13 78 2016 201-3 al-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 126-127 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Strategy 102-14 8 -11 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annu102-15 20-21 201-4 al-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 128 Ethics and integrity In 2017, 5,297 thousand TL R&D discount is achieved in line with the 102-16 13 announcement in Official Gazette, dated 10.08.2016, titled “The Regulation on Supporting R&D and Design Activities”. 102-17 22-23 Market Presence Governance 103-1 56-61 GRI 103: 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiManagement 103-2 26-27 102-18 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 76-82 Approach 2016 103-3 26-27 102-19 24-25 There is no gender or location based discrimination in renumaration. Human 102-20 24-25 GRI 202: Rights and Human Resources Policy (http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/our-policies/Docu102-21 24-29 Market 202-1 ments/Human_rights.pdf) Presence 2016 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati202-2 All İşbank executives are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. 102-22 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 76-82 Indirect Economic Impacts 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiGRI 103: 103-1 32 102-23 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 76-82 Management 103-2 26-27 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiApproach 2016 103-3 26-27 102-24 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 90-92 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Economic Impacts 66-73 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati203-2 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 91-92 2016 66-73 102-25 Procurement Practices 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiGRI 103: 103-1 23 102-26 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 93 Management 103-2 İşbank website Investor Relations page (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/in26-27 Approach 2016 vestor-relations/corporate-overview/corporate-information/board-of-directors/Pages/bo103-3 26-27 102-27 ard-of-directors.aspx) GRI 204: 23 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiProcurement 102-28 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 94-95 Practices 2016 Procurement Policy of İşbank (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/our-policies/Documents/ 204-1 ProcurementPolicy.pdf) 102-29 24-25; 28-29 102-30 20-21 Anti-corruption 102-31 24-25 GRI 103: 103-1 22 102-32 24-25 Management 103-2 26-27 102-33 26-29 Approach 2016 103-3 26-27 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati22 GRI 205: 205-1 102-34 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 89-90 Anti-corruption 205-2 20-21 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati2016 20-21 205-3 102-35 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 92-93, 174 Anti-competitive Behavior 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati102-36 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 92-93, 174 GRI 103: 103-1 22 Management 103-2 26-27 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiApproach 2016 102-37 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 92-93, 174 103-3 26-27 GRI 206: 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicatiThere are no cases of anti-trust and anti-competitive behaviour in the Anti-competitive 206-1 102-38 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 92-93, 174 Behavior 2016 reporting period. 2017 Annual Report (https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publicati102-39 ons-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/Isbank2017.PDF), p. 92-93, 174 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Energy GRI 103: 103-1 62-64 Management 103-2 62-64 Approach 2016 103-3 62-64 302-1 74 302-2 74 94 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 74 95 302-4 74 302-5 74 Yaklaşımı 2016 103-3 26 GRI 417: 417-1 46 Pazarlama ve Raporlama döneminde ürün ve hizmet bilgileri ve etiketlemeyle ilgili yönetmeliklere ve kurallara 417-2 Etiketleme uyumsuzluk vakası bulunmamaktadır. 2016 417-3 Raporlama döneminde iletişimde ilgili yönetmeliklere ve kurallara uyumsuzluk vakası bulunmamaktadır. Müşteri Gizliliği SUSTAINABILITY GRI 103: 103-1 50 Yönetim 103-2 26 REPORT Yaklaşımı 2016 26 103-3 2017 GRI 418: Müşteri Gizliliği 2016 418-1 Şikayet adedi veri gizliliği nedeniyle paylaşılmamaktadır. Water Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 57 GRI 103: 103-1 62-64 Management 103-2 26-27 Management 103-2 62-64 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-3 26-27 103-3 62-64 GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 57 303-1 74 and Equal GRI 303: 405-2 This ratio is one since there is no gender-based wage discrimination in İşbank. Water 2016 303-2 There are no significant affected resources due to İşbank operations Opportunity 2016 303-3 74 Non-discrimination Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 56-57 GRI 103: 103-1 62-64 Management 103-2 56-57 Management 103-2 62-64 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-3 56-57 103-3 62-64 305-1 74 GRI 406: İşbank takes all decisions about its employees independently of race, religion, language, GRI 305: 305-2 Non-discrimination sect or any belief, gender, mental or physical disability, age, cultural or social class Emissions 2016 74 2016 305-3 74 differences; it refuses any discrimination against or among the employees and managers. 305-4 74 406-1 305-5 74 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Effluents and Waste 103-1 62-64 GRI 103: 103-1 58 GRI 103: 62-64 Management 103-2 58 103-2 Management Approach 2016 103-3 62-64 103-3 58 Approach 2016 306-1 GRI 407: Freedom 74 of Association and GRI 306: Collective BargaiEffluents and ning 2016 407-1 76 Waste 2016 306-2 62-64; 74 Child Labor Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 56-57 GRI 103: 103-1 62-64 Management 103-2 56-57 Management 103-2 62-64 Approach 2016 103-3 56-57 Approach 2016 103-3 62-64 GRI 307: EnvironGRI 408: Child 408-1 İşbank operations do not have the risk for incidents of child labor. mental Compliance 307-1 There are no significant fines or sanctions in the reporting period. Labor 2016 2016 Forced or Compulsory Labor Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 56-57 GRI 103: 103-1 23 Management 103-2 56-57 Management 103-2 Approach 2016 23 103-3 56-57 Approach 2016 103-3 23 GRI 409: Forced or GRI 308: Supplier Compulsory 409-1 İşbank operations do not have the risk for incidents of forced labor. Environmental While suppliers are expected to consider their environmental impact, there are no Labor 2016 Assessment 308-1 suppliers subject to environmental inspection. Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 32-33 Management 103-2 26-37 GRI 400 Social Standards Series Approach 2016 103-3 26-37 Employment GRI 412: GRI 103: 103-1 56-57 Human Rights Assessment Management 103-2 26-27 Approach 2016 2016 103-3 26-27 412-3 33-34 401-1 75-77 Local Communities GRI 401: 401-2 56-61 Employment 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 66 401-3 58 Management 103-2 Approach 2016 66 Labor/Management Relations 103-3 66 GRI 103: 103-1 GRI 413: Local 56-57 413-1 32-34; 66 Management Communities Approach 2016 103-2 26-27 2016 413-2 32-34; 66 103-3 26-27 GRI 402: Labor/ Management Rela402-1 Minimum legal notice periods are applied regarding operational changes. tions 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 61 Management 103-2 61 Approach 2016 103-3 61 GRI 403: 403-1 61 Occupational 403-2 77 Health and Safety 403-3 77 2016 403-4 58 Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 58-60 Management Approach 2016 103-2 26-27 103-3 26-27 GRI 404: 404-1 58-60 Training and Education 2016 404-2 58-60 404-3 77 96 97 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 23 Management 103-2 23 Approach 2016 103-3 23 GRI 414: Supplier Social While suppliers are expected to consider their social impact, 414-1 Assessment there are no suppliers subject to social inspection. 2016 Public Policy GRI 103: 103-1 22 Management 103-2 24 Approach 2016 103-3 24 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 İşbank does not provide aids to political parties. Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: 103-1 44 Management 103-2 27 Approach 2016 27 103-3 GRI 417: 417-1 44 Marketing and Labeling 417-2 There is no such case in the reporting period. 2016 417-3 There is no such case in reporting period. Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 48 Management 103-2 27, 48 Approach 2016 103-3 27 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Number of complaints is not disclosed due to data privacy. 2016 418-1 Material Topics That Are Not Covered by the GRI Standards Responsible Finance Integrating Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Criteria GRI 103: 103-1 32-34 Management 103-2 24-27 Approach 2016 24-27 103-3 Digital Transformation GRI 103: 103-1 50 Management 103-2 24-27 Approach 2016 103-3 24-27 Financial Inclusion GRI 103: 103-1 36-44 Management 103-2 24-27 Approach 2016 103-3 24-27 Responsible Products and Services Portfolio GRI 103: 103-1 36-44 Management 103-2 24-27 Approach 2016 103-3 24-27 Financial Services Supplement Financial Services FS13 36-44 Supplement FS14 36-44 98 99
