REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 1 CONTENTS Director word ........................................................3 About the review ...............................................4 Company overview............................................5 Human rights ........................................................7 Employment relationships ...........................8 Environment...........................................................14 Interlux in the society.......................................16 Corruption prevention.....................................19 Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 2 DIRECTOR WORD 2017 were truly extraordinary for Interlux – as we provided wings to several subsidiaries, we acquired the structure of Holding company. We paid a lot of attention to the sustainable genesis of subsidiaries, further development and strengthening of values and socially responsible business culture across a whole corporate group. In 2017 our efforts to create sustainable value and to take care of the environment and people, as well as Interlux contribution to the development of the sustainable business A sustainable and socially responsible company is like a culture in Lithuania were noticed and evaluated – Internest in which human and environmentally-friendly ideas lux has won honorable nomination „Responsible business are born, and its organizational culture helps to develop 2017“ from the main business newsletter „Verslo žinios“ in these ideas safely and become a standard for collective Lithuania. behavior and a part of work ethics. The social environment accepts and appreciates this. As the other,,Verslo žinios‘‘ candidates for the „Responsible Business“ nomination, we were evaluated by company‘s Six years ago, as Interlux joined the United Nations Global social responsibility questionnaire developed by PROBE Compact, it flawlessly complies with ten principles of the Network LLP, Swedish and UK experts, which was adapted Global Compact on human and workers‘ rights, environin Lithuania. In the second selection stage, we participated mental protection and the fight against corruption. in a memorable interview with our country‘s sustainability And this year, we are making a responsible declaration that experts dedicated that were dedicated by the organizers. we will continue to firmly comply with our provisions and The interview ended in an inspirational discussion about commitments of the 10 World Compact principles in the the perspectives of sustainable business in Lithuania. areas of human and workers‘ rights, environmental protecThe „responsible business“ nomination was announced tion and fight against corruption, and support the initiatifor the first time last year and became part of the annual ves of the United Nations Global Compact Network. project „Lithuanian Business Leaders“. This nomination was As we approach the 25th anniversary of the company‘s foalready pleasant by itself it‘s great that attention is paid to undation, we value sustainable business as a strategic fothe sustainable business in Lithuania. We hope that this beundation for our development. We do not restrict ourselves autiful initiative will help to grow the number of companies solely to the contractual obligations of sustainability impethat have chosen a sustainable business model in Lithuania ratives in daily activities we try to minimize the negative as well as help them from the ground up. impact on the environment, to choose sustainable busi„Sustainable Business 2017“ is an extremely important asness partners and suppliers, to be responsible employers sessment that encourages us to focus even more on the and to annually raise our bar of sustainability indicators. implementation of sustainable initiatives, share good experience and encourage more colleagues to choose this business practice. Sincerely, dr. A. Matuzevičius lnterlux Director Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 3 ABOUT THE REPORT WE KINDLY INVITE YOU TO GET ACQUAINTED WITH 6TH MAIN AREAS OF INTERLUX SOCIAL report of development of social responsibility of Interlux, that overviews achievements of 2017 in the fields of huRESPONSIBILITY man rights, employment relationships, environmental TRANSPARENT and responsible activity protection, corruption prevention and contribution to the SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE employment development of social initiatives in Lithuania. REDUCTION OF NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON In the context of sustainability we evaluate and develop environment our social responsibility reports from 2012, when Interlux joined the United Nations Global Compact. PROMOTION OF SOCIAL INITIATIVES in areas such as healthy lifestyle, sports, art, safe The reports are presented in Lithuanian and English. Elecmedicine, scientific advancement, education tronic report documents are published on www.interlux.lt of young scientists, ecology, human rights and on the Global Compact website at www.globalcomprotection, corruption prevention, ethical and pact.org. responsible business education. This social responsibility progress report is dedicated not only to the audiences interested in company‘s activities partners, employees, shareholders, community, institutions, but also to anyone who wants to know more about Interlux. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 4 ABOUT THE COMPANY INTERLUX – INTERNATIONAL COMPANY, that provides Baltic States region with innovative technology and solutions for medicine, education and biotechnology market. The main segments of the solutions provided by the Interlux corporate group are conservative medicine, surgery and laboratory approach technologies, the company has many years of experience in its implementation and INTERLUX IN NUMBERS: has earned the trust of its customers and partners. The company ensures not only the smooth delivery of top FOUNDED in 1994. quality, certified, environmentally friendly products, but STAFF: >100 employees also provides professional 24/7 technical maintenance and service. INCOME: >16 million EURO PRODUCTS ASSORTMENT: >1 million of different INTERLUX STRENGHTS: products • responsible, under sustainable business principles CLIENTS: >1000 health care, veterinary, science and working staff industry enterprises and institutions in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia • A sustainable supply chain guaranteeing a competitive advantage over 300 partners of socially responsiPARTNERS: >300 business partners around the ble, top quality innovative solutions, global medical, world surgical and laboratory technology creating companies; • Long term exeperience that enabled offering of solutions that are most suited to clients‘ needs;24 years of successful fundamental values and a socially responsible business culture. Interlux has begun strategic development in 2017 by opFollowing the strategic restructuring, Interlux corporate timizing its activities and focusing on strengthening indigroup consists of UAB Interlux, UAB Sormedica, UAB Lavidual businesses by developing their dedicated compaborama, UAB Medita. nies. In that way Medita and Laborama joined the Interlux In the other Baltic States Latvia and Estonia, operates the corporate group, and in 2010 subsidiaries Sormedica were local companies Interlux SIA and Interlux OU, which work founded – these companies are suppliers of oncology, raclosely with the Interlux corporate group and help to endiotherapy and surgical solutions the areas of therapeusure efficient customer service in the Baltic region. tics and image diagnostics technologies were added. MISSION VISSION To improve human health, create value for patients and To be the first choice for clients and partners in the immedicine staff, meet their needs with the new generatiplementation of medical and scientific research technoon of advanced, safe and efficient technologies. logies in the Baltic States. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 5 1 image. Structure of Interlux group UAB Interlux not only develops marketing of in vitro diagnostics and analytical and industrial diagnostic technology segments, but also organizes and ensures the activities of Supply, Service, Customer Support, Finance departments that serve clients of the corporate group. We invite you to know more in our website www.interlux.lt . Medita Company (www.medita.lt) obtains its experience in the field of medical products since 1992 and has a wide assortment of products for the primary health care units, physiotherapy and rehabilitation. As Interlux corporate group acquired Medita and in 2017 successfully integrated the former Interlux Family medicine and Healthy lifestyle technology unit into the structure of this company, the new Medita product assortment has become even wider and more suitable for the very diverse needs of the primary health care or rehabilitation specialists. Sormedica specializes in visual and functional diagnostics; radiology, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine; minimally in interventional medicine, surgery and therapy, providing innovative, top-notch technologies and implementing sophisticated patient care and treatment solutions. More information – www.sormedica.lt . The Interlux subsidiary Laborama (www.laborama.lt) was established in the end of2017. It specializes in the science and laboratory research segment. Laborama introduces innovative flow cytometry, cell biology, industrial and clinical microbiology, molecular biology solutions, supplies various supplies to researchers and users of laboratory technology. The Interlux corporate group also owns Labdata LT (www.labdata.lt), a specialist in the development and implementation of laboratory information technology solutions, specializing in IT integration and process automation and quality assurance, software application in the medical and industrial fields. The operating standards of the Interlux corporate group meet the highest standards of world-wide standards of quality, ethics and sustainability one of the main reasons why the world‘s medical and scientific technology and diagnostic systems manufacturers choose Interlux as their representative in the Baltic region. lnterlux is also certified according to the quality management system LST EN ISO 9001: 2008 standard, which proves that the company‘s services meet the highest standards. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 6 HUMAN RIGHTS The INTERLUX CORPORATE GROUP and its staff are against any human rights violations, discrimination, violence, harassment, forced and child labor, intolerance to views, lifestyles and health conditions. The provisions and principles of these internal and external activities are enshrined in the Code of Conduct of There were no observed manifestations of discrimination Interlux and the Code of Conduct of subsidiaries, which in Interlux corporate group in 2017 and any form of discriare respected by all employees of the Interlux corporate mination is intolerable. In 2017, there were also no discregroup. Human rights are also enshrined in the company‘s pancies regarding the principles of the Global Compact. staff policy documents. Human rights are respected in the collective and in dealing with clients. Human rights are respected in the internal and external communication of the Interlux corporate group. The As Interlux takes care of human rights, it has designated informational, promotional, and other communicative the person responsible for the prevention of human rimaterial distributed by Interlux is strictly controlled and ghts violations. The Company‘s Personnel Manager has cannot be associated with any form of visual or audible the right to coordinate preventive actions and to inform discrimination, violence, or the promotion of discriminatinew employees about the company‘s values. on or intolerance, lifestyles and health conditions. The Interlux corporate group has an email where any employee can notify the management about any manifestation of any form of discrimination or human rights violations. There is a confirmed and publicly communicated Complaints management procedure, which states the period of time over which complaints about potential human rights violations have to be investigated. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 7 WORK RELATIONS STAFF OVERVIEW In 2017 in Interlux corporate group worked 109 employeIn terms of education, in Interlux corporate group worked es, of which UAB Interlux – 55 %, UAB Medita – 12 %, UAB 91 % staff with higher university education, 2% with hiSormedica – 16 %, UAB Laborama – 12 %, UAB Labdata – gher non-university education, 6% with post-secondary 5 % employees. education and 1% employees with secondary or specialist secondary education. In terms of functional areas of activity, there were 17 administration staff, 64 sales staff, 12 service staff, 6 finance staff and 10 supply staff the Interlux corporate group. Higher university education Higher non-university education Administration Staff Post-secondary education Sales Staff Secondary education Service Staff Finance Staff Supply Staff 3 image. The staff distribution of the Interlux company group in terms of education 2 image. Staff of the Interlux corporate group in terms of functional areas of activity Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 8 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT Interlux pays special attention to its employees, responEvery employee who signed an employment contract sible employment is one of our main values. We believe with a company belonging to the Interlux corporate grothat by choosing people responsibly and enabling them up was briefed on: to grow and helping them to achieve their goals, we build • Job safety and Health introductory coaching and a strong, trustworthy and responsible relationship betweCoaching at workplace log; en the company and the employee. • Rules of procedures; The combination of overlapping values of staff and company is one of the essential conditions for the sustainable • Code of Ethics; development of a company. • Filled „Public Private interests declaration“ to ensure transparency of activities. Our staff policy priorities: As every year, all new employees received the „Beginner • Values and knowledge-based selection; Book“, which introduces not only the structure of the • Absolute rights assurance of workers; company, staff policy, but also organizational culture, values and traditions. An experienced employee – mentor • Effective motivational system; was appointed to help with easier integration. • Growth of employee loyalty and job satisfaction • Responsible employment 2In 2017 as part of the strategic development and reorganization, part of the employees from one legal entity transferred employment to other units within corporate group. The smooth transferred employment process and proper staff communication last year were the key aspects of staff challenges. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 9 REGULAR DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEES Interlux is committed to ensuring that employees have every chance of continuous improvement. Main areas of career development: • professional development; • team building; • Deeper knowledge of sustainability. As every year, in 2017, all Interlux employees were given the opportunity to improve their field of expertise by ATTENTION TO participating in various professional seminars and conferences in Lithuania and in trainings organized by foreign partners as well as in international conferences. INNER-COMMUNICATION All corporate group employees also participated in anInformation about the company‘s activities, achieveti-corruption training organized by Transparency Interments, and staff news all of this must be delivered at the national, an internationally accredited anti-corruption same time and as expeditiously as possible throughout company. the corporate group. Internal communication takes place The sales staff took part in training on Competition Law in electronic space, by emails or company accounts on the and Public Procurement. LinkedIn.com platform, the company tells about: In 2017, there were also two annual events organized by • structural, management-related, financial, other inthe Interlux company group and partners from Latvia and ternal changes and regulations of the company; Estonia. The so-called „team-building“ events were also newly issued policies and procedures; organized by separate Interlux structural units and companies. • staff news announcements about new employees and those who leave the company; Sustainability knowledge is also being developed at Interlux, for example, Sustainability Policy Communications • Internal communication, event impressions, etc. and Marketing Manager shares knowledge gained in conThe aforementioned information is also distributed ferences with departmental executives, and the Sustainaduring the internal meetings of the company’s departbility Report also became part of a semi-annual general ments. meeting last year. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 10 EMPLOYEES ARE A PART OF DECISION MAKING Interlux operates a Labor Council, an independent body whose objective is to strengthen communication between staff and management. The Work Council meets at least once a month or when there are issues to be solved. The Work Council encourages the members of the team to communicate with the management, to report significant violations of the Code of Conduct, possible human rights violations or other issues. The Work Council‘s mission OBJECTIVE, PERSONAL is to propose changes in the company, mediate, represent employees in negotiations with management. GROWTH-ORIENTED The members of the Work Council communicate with the employees and during the meetings, issues the concerns EVALUATION and questions, suggest changes to the management. The company carry out various surveys in order to find As every year, in 2017, all employees were evaluated at out the needs of employees and to incorporate them into the end of the calendar year when an Interlux company decision-making. organizes employees’ assessment, that is carried out in Employees are also encouraged to express their opinions interview between the employees and their direct superand make suggestions in developing various internal ruvisor. les of the company, assessment and promotion systems. In this private conversation, based on clear and pre-agreed criteria, the achievements of the goals of the previous period and the competencies and personal qualities of the evaluated employee that influence the performance of the work are evaluated. It also sets out the challenges and areas of improvement for the upcoming period. The annual interview also seeks to find out how the employee feels in the company, whether his needs are met, whether the employee is discriminated or his rights are restricted in other ways in the organization. The evaluation of employees‘ performance is carried out in UAB Interlux and Interlux corporate group: UAB Sormedica, UAB Medita, UAB Laborama, UAB LabdataLT. . Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 11 MOTIVATION Realizing that material motivation promotes better work Like every year in 2017 Interlux also organized an annual only temporarily, we also aim to motivate the team with prophylactic medical examination of all workers, before organizational, educational, internal cultural and value the beginning of active flu season, all staff members that forms in order for our employees to develop and internal desired were vaccinated against influenza, and for womotivation to work better. men, Interlux made it possible to anonymously test for cervical cancer through the most sensitive liquid cytology Internal motivation is the desire of the employee to make study in BD SurePath. efforts to do their job as best as possible, the desire to create value together with the company. We strengthen the inner motivation first and foremost by creating safe, sincere, ergonomic working conditions. We strive for every employee to feel appreciated, listened, able to contribute to the task creation and growth of the organization. Every year, the company pays tribute and encourages employees who have done their very best: the best-selling sales managers, the most initiative employees, or in other way outstanding members of the team. WE HEAR AND CARRY One of the most important priorities of Interlux corporate group – THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF EMPLOYEES OUT THE NEEDS OF Sport, a nutritious vitamin enriched diet, the ability to carry out the most innovative diagnostic tests, or to obEMPLOYEE tain the necessary non-state-funded medical services all this is guaranteed by additional health insurance, which is Interlux makes it possible for employees to combine work provided to employees who work for the company in the and family responsibilities. Here you can choose flexible Interlux corporate group for 3 months. work schedules, combining work and personal, family resAll corporate group are constantly supplied with healthy ponsibilities. natural fruit juices to enhance the body. Students have the opportunity to combine studies and work. The company provides additional social benefits to employees, for example, to pay one-time benefits when a employees child is born, on the death of a family member or on the occasion of the first wedding. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 12 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES MONITORING Gender distribution in the company: in 2017 The Interlux There is an equal provision of sick leave for women and corporate group employed 109 people, including: men. • 61 men; It should be noted that women spend more days on ill• 48 women ness or caring for a sick person, which is usually related to the responsibilities of the mother for the child: • Men in 2017 spent 107 days off, women 56; • Men spent 13 days off for nursing a patient, women – 70. PROMOTION OF SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE 4 image. Staff distribution in Interlux corporate group by gender ACTIVITY Interlux employees also engage in various social activities Division of managing staff by gender: 4 women, 14 men. on their own initiative, such as charitable sports events, healthy lifestyles, gender equality promoting events, and No employee worked under fixed-term contracts. the company promotes such initiative and, if possible, Both women and men in the Interlux corporate group can supports it. enjoy unlimited additional rest days, such as the so-called „mother days“ and „father days“. In 2017 the total number of used mother and father days was 163. Interlux also ensures free and unrestricted use of maternity and parental leave for parents, for example, in 2017 the Interlux corporate group provided 923 days of parental leave and 42 days of parents‘ vacation. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 13 ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS AND SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT By working transparently and responsibly in partnering In pursuit of a sustainable relationship with the social enand communicating with clients, we are only trying to vironment, as every year in production of visual, audio, positively influence the country‘s business and social enelectronic and other forms of advertising, we have environment. sured that the outsourcing of our products and services or other disseminated information is scientifically valid, In cooperation with healthcare professionals, we aim to non-adventitious, complete and professional. promote the advancement of medical science, improvement of treatment and care for patients, and follow the We also ensure that medical, scientific and other institufollowing principles: tions get only high-quality technologies and tools, and encourage the development of personalized medicine in • Separation: : we ensure that cooperation with healthLithuania. care specialists is not misused to obtain unfair or unreasonable benefit; such cooperation cannot depend We are actively involved not only in the activities of the on whether the client chooses, uses, recommends United Nations Global Compact, but also we are members the use of the products offered by the Company of other sustainable organizations based on the principles of transparency, reduction of harmful environmental im• Transparency: We instruct our staff to ensure that pact, resource conservation, equal opportunities, and corthe form and content of the communication with reruption prevention: presentatives of healthcare or other institutions are transparent and ethical; • MIGA (Lithuanian Association of Medical Equipment Manufacturers) membership from 2013; • Equivalence: in case of need to hire a healthcare specialist to perform services, the Company must pay • LAVA (Lithuanian Responsible Business Association) them remuneration proportionate to the work permembership from 2013; formed, evaluating the services in good faith, accor• LVK (Lithuanian Business Confederation) memding to the market value; bership from 2016; • Justification documents: any cooperation with the • MPGA (Association of Food Additives Manufacturers) authorities is based on documents that are stored membership since 2016. and archived. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 14 WORK IN THE FIELD OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION We care about the environment therefore we contribute The batteries, electrical and electronic equipment that to reducing the negative impact on the environment, Interlux use, are safely collected and handled to the Elecand we seek to reduce air and environmental pollution, tronics Manufacturers, Importers and Distributors Assoslow down climate change, and preserve a healthier enciation (EPA). vironment for future generations. The company only selects cars that meet the highest Direct environmental impacts from the work of our comenvironmental pollution prevention standards, with the pany arise from the use of Interlux goods and the utilileast fuel consumption. zation of them, also when employees need to use cars Interlux continues to participate in an electronic, rather while working. than paper-based procurement process, in order to save Sustainable use of natural resources remains a priority for the company’s paper. In addition, the company often the Interlux. Interlux ensures that all packages of goods chooses to buy the products from recycled paper, ratiosold by the company are recycled. We have signed an nally use paper and, whenever possible, switch to elecagreement with the PTO (Packaging Organization) and tronic documentation. pay for as many packages as we sell to our customers. In 2017 was paid for (figures in tons): • Glass – 2,8 t; • Plastic – 4 t; • Paper – 28,8 t; • Wooden pack – 4,5 t; • Combined (mainly paper) – 4,6 t; • Combined (without paper) – 4,5 t. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 15 INTERLUX IN THE SOCIETY EFFECTIVE ILNESS PROPHYLAXIS AND EARLY DIAGNOSIS – A FOUNDATION FOR A HEALTHIER SOCIETY – INTERLUX SOCIAL INITIATIVES PRIORITY Strengthening of awareness of the benefits and impliThis project was initiated by the women’s movement cations of preventive health checks in society is a very “Women speak“. During the project, not only informaimportant area of social responsibility that Interlux pays tion materials were prepared or articles with gynecolospecial attention to every year. gist comments from doctors published, but also 4 videos In 2017 we have contributed to the “Knowing is Brave” of cervical cancer, pathways, symptoms and preventive social initiative, which aims to encourage women to studies, and their significance were created. check for cervical cancer in a preventive way. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 16 Not only the doctors, but ordinary women on the street in preventive checks for cervical cancer in Lithuania. Sevwere asked what they knew about this death-related illeral opinion leaders in Lithuania have also received inness. Also, the famous women of Lithuania -from culturformation packages containing information on prevenal, artistic, scientific and entertainment world-respondtion of cervical cancer, and these, in turn, have spoken ed to the same questions. about the information in their Facebook accounts. Later, this series of films was shared online, in the social network Facebook, and received a particularly high interest and, we believe, contributed to a significant increase Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 17 WE SUPPORT HEALTH-STRENGHTENING INITIATIVES In 2017 We have also contributed to prophylactic of EDUCATED, VERY PROFESSIONAL, FREE AND many other diseases, healthy lifestyles and innovative INDEPENDENT – GENERATION OF HEALTHY treatment-oriented initiatives. TOMORROW For several years now, Interlux has contributed to the In 2017, in order to contribute to the improvement of the prevention of diabetes and helping people with this disfeelings and emotions of the young sick people, we supease become valuable members of the community. ported the establishment of the Children’s Diseases ClinLast year, in the run “DiAthlete“, we made it possible for ic, Children’s Diseases Unit in Žibutė sector (Kačerginė) participants to test blood sugar levels. and a leisure area for small patients in Šiauliai. Also, as sponsors of the Women and Diabetes conferInterlux also supports various initiatives that raise the ence, we helped organizers educate women who have professional knowledge of professionals in the medical dealt with this serious illness. sector. Interlux contributed to the organization of diabetes camps, training sessions and seminars last year. Interlux is also socially responsible for helping to contribute to the educational activities of associations creSPORT HEALTH ated by patients who are infected with other illnesses. SPORTY, ACTIVE SOCIETY – HEALTHY SOCIETY For example, in order to contribute to dissemination of information on the possibilities of modern rehabilitaInterlux also supports federations and clubs of various tion, we supported the creation of a video film for spesports. The company contributes to the development of cialists and the general public on the rehabilitation of biathlon, rowing, basketball, tennis and squash. cardiologic and neurological patients. The support provided by Interlux to the Vilnius Youth Basketball Club has enabled young people to participate in international tournaments. SUPPORT FOR IMPROVEMENT OF THE QUALITY OF EDUCATION AND STUDIES Interlux has supported various educational institutions and university initiatives to encourage students to deepen their knowledge, develop curiosity and contribute to improving the quality of the younger generation. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 18 CORRUPTION PREVENTION We are glad that in 2017, as in previous years, there was no violation of the Code of Conduct in the Interlux corporate group. However, the company continues to consistently encourage employees to detect and report cases of potential Code Violations. TRANSPARENT BUSINESS RELATIONS AND Another Interlux lever is a declaration of working and private interests each new employee must fill in a declaration of public and private interests. The company’s values and the models and principles of COMPETITION transparent, anti-corruption behavior are set out in our Code of Conduct, for example: “We act transparently, reliably and honestly, separating public and private interIn 2017, as in previous years, lnterlux’s had no corrupests. We avoid conflicts of interest “. tion cases. Interlux 2017 worked ethically, transparently, without violation of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Agreement and will strive to maintain the highest levels of responsibility, reliability, sustainability and anti-corruption in the long term. ANTI-CORRUPTION The concept of transparency in the Interlux corporate TRAINING group includes a transparent and ethical business culture, transparent relationships with business partners and customers, transparent procurement, transparent In 2017 anti-corruption training “Transparency Internapayroll, tax policy, transparent and fair competition, and tional“ were organized for all Interlux corporate group compliance with competition laws employees, providing new information for further raising of the sustainability bar. These trainings and the subsequent discussion led to the appointment of a staff member responsible for the prevention of corruption in the corporate group this has been accomplished and, we believe, will bring great results in the long run. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 19 Thank you for your time and attention, while reading the Interlux Group Social Responsibility Report! Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2017 20
