Surface Logging Services Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2018 Guide to Contents Sustainability Report: Communication on Progress 2018 2 05 Message from the CEO 12 Human Right Principles Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities 06 Mission Statement Safe work conditions and incidents prevention HSE Initiative 2018 GEOLOG 7X7 Life Saving Rules 07 Company Overview 17 Labour Principles 08 Company History 18 Environmental Principles 09 Client References 20 Anticorruption Principles 10 HSE & Quality HSE Capabilities 22 GEOLOG in the world QUALITY Capabilities 3 Message from the CEO “GEOLOG supports the principles of the UN Global Compact and recognizes the importance of a sustainable and responsible growth. In 2018, we will continue to embrace the universal principles whilst implementing our business objectives and goals.” GEOLOG has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2009 and is Despite the ongoing crisis of our industry, GEOLOG is committed proud of positively contributing to make a more prosperous to continue and even increase its investments in promoting world by investing in sustainable development and by operating good practices and charitable initiatives to guarantee better its business in a responsible manner. solutions to solve global challenges with higher standards of integrity, quality, safety and transparency. We support the ten universally guiding principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption across the countries where we operate and we are committed to make Antonio Calleri President & CEO them part of our strategy and culture. GEOLOG March 2018 GEOLOG’s continued commitment to the principles is demonstrated in actions which we have been taking during the past years. Working together with local organizations, in 2017 GEOLOG supported charitable initiatives and participate in projects to benefit communities worldwide. 05 Mission Statement Our Mission To help our clients make quantified, To constantly build a leading edge To respect and improve the highest informed, substantial improvements service company that attracts, safety and environmental standards in their drilling efficiency, develops and retains exceptional whilst actively participating in the hydrocarbon detection and reservoir people. development and know-how of the characterization. countries in which we operate. 06 Company Overview The leading independent surface logging company GEOLOG International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield and interpretation from drilling mud thanks to its advanced services company that provides surface logging services to a technologies in integrated rock and fluid characterization. substantial and diversified client base. Founded in 1982 in Milan, Italy, the firm maintains offices in most major oil producing GEOLOG´s products and services are focused on 3 key industry countries. GEOLOG operates at the forefront of technology and requirements: its services are focused on the optimization of the overall drilling process and reduction in costs of each well in addition to the • To reduce overall drilling costs acquisition of quality data for formation characterization. • To improve rig safety • To characterize reservoirs GEOLOG services national and international oil companies and integrated service providers, both onshore and offshore across GEOLOG is the largest independent international surface logging more than 45 countries and is presently involved in exploration, company in the world and presents itself as the only solution to development, deep and ultra deep water offshore, HP/HT, clients seeking an independent surface logging company versus geothermal and unconventional reservoir wells. GEOLOG’ s one of the integrated service providers. significant growth since its inception 35 years ago is to be attributed to, amongst others, its technological leadership in GEOLOG’s surface logging services provide answers which surface logging and its strong focus on proprietary research are critical for the drilling, geology and reservoir teams of our and development. As such, GEOLOG invests heavily in R&D clients. GEOLOG delivers services which include the acquisition, (up to 5% of annual turnover) with a target to produce a new analysis and interpretation of (i) Geological data obtained by patent, on average, every six months. In line with its strategy physical evaluation of cuttings; (ii) hydrocarbons data obtained to be the leading global supplier of choice, GEOLOG is already from analysis of gases in and out and (iii) drilling data (including a leading supplier for highly technological surface logging mechanical, hydraulic and engineering variables) obtained using services to the energy industry, where its leadership and technologically advanced sensors and enhanced real time innovation is recognized to bring value and reduce drilling analysis. GEOLOG provides key information to evaluate the well costs. These projects typically include deep-water, HP-HT in terms of hydrocarbon content and origin, pressure balances operations, horizontal/extended reach and / or extensive and relative positions of its lithological layers. GEOLOG’s services development drilling as well as drilling in areas with complex also provide early notification and analysis of events to ensure reservoirs. In particular, GEOLOG is now a world leader in well integrity, safety and to prevent formation damage for hydrocarbon characterization through its gas extraction, analysis optimum data acquisition and field productivity. 07 Company History Thirty five years of field experience Milan R&D Center GEOLOG was founded in Italy in 1982 to provide mud logging national oil companies worldwide. Whilst retaining its R&D services to AGIP on geothermal, oil and gas wells. From its early and production facilities in Milan, Italy, in 2016 the company years, GEOLOG´s strong technological and R&D culture led to reorganized its corporate structure under GEOLOG Surface the development of a number of innovative solutions and highly Logging DMCC, based in Dubai, UAE. technological patents in the mud logging arena. The Italian crisis of 1994, during which the company moved abroad, Under current management, GEOLOG has consistently grown opening bases in Tunisia, Congo and Venezuela, servicing AGIP’s organically by delivering value, expanding its operations from international operations, acted as a catalyst for the company’s its established footholds in Europe, North and West Africa and international expansion. Current management acquired the Central America and by opening new bases in the Middle and Far company in 2001 and has been able to develop its innovative East, South America, the North Sea, USA and Australasia. Today, solutions and technological patents into commercial products GEOLOG remains privately owned and has grown to become and services, thereby significantly growing the customer base the largest international independent mud logging company across not only international oil companies but also across in the world. 08 Client International Oil Companies include: References GEOLOG’s experience covers over 5,000 wells globally and includes national and international oil companies across multiple continents. Our services are in demand with traditional oil & gas operators and extend to small and large integrated service providers. Our services have been performed both onshore and offshore for: • Exploration Wells • Development Wells • Geothermal Wells • Unconventional Reservoirs • Extended Reach Drilling • Narrow Mud Weight Windows • Underbalanced-Managed Pressure Drilling GEOLOG has logged over 500 wells in Deep and Ultra-Deep Water operations in: • Angola • Mauritania • Australia • Mozambique • Brazil • Namibia • Congo • Sri Lanka National Oil Companies include: • Egypt • Tanzania • Ghana • Timor Leste • Gulf of Mexico • Togo • Guyana • Trinidad • India • Tunisia • Italy • Turkey PERTAMINA • Malaysia • Venezuela HP/HT Well Experience includes: • Argentina • Kuwait • Austria • Mexico • Bolivia • Mozambique • Brazil • Netherlands • China • Norway • Ghana • Romania • Italy • Sri Lanka Integrated Service Providers include: • Kurdistan • Turkey Extreme Weather Environments: North Africa +55°C Arctic -50°C 09 HSE & Quality Health, safety, the environment and quality are fundamental to everything we do. HSE Capabilities GEOLOG’s vision on Health, Safety and Environment is to make locations of Amsterdam and Dubai (headquarters), Luanda measurable improvements in all HSE aspects of the services (main operational base of Sub-Saharan Africa) and Ijmuiden provided and to do so continuously. (operational base for North Sea region). GEOLOG main HSE goals are: • No personal injuries These certifications are integrated with the ISO 9001:2015 • No accidents (Quality Management System) both for office/base and rig site • No environmental damages activities. To ensure the achievement of these Some of the major benefits of having an integrated certified objectives and expectations, GEOLOG has system are: in place a complete HSE Management • To provide effective and consistent operational service to System which sets out GEOLOG’s our clients approach in identifying and managing • To provide efficient and consistent support to our rig site Health, Safety and Environmental aspects operations related to the service provided. • To have standardized planning and procedures worldwide, GEOLOG HSE Management System is certified under the enabling GEOLOG to work with the highest standards international standards ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental • To involve and encourage the participation of both office Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational and rig site personnel Health and Safety Management System) by DNV-GL at its main • To have an active system for continuous improvement Executive management is fully committed to HSE vision through constant personal involvement, including HSE review meetings, audits and allocation of resources for the improvement of the Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy HSE Management System. Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging company in the world. Furthermore, GEOLOG corporate HSE Policy statement is issued directly by the President, Mr Antonio Calleri. The policy states GEOLOG recognises the importance of protecting all aspects of Health & Safety and the Environment in which it operates. GEOLOG therefore pro-actively works with employees, clients, contractors, public and government agencies in order to achieve the highest possible standards of Health, Safety and Environmental protection. GEOLOG is committed to implement sustainable development principles in its activities, knowing that sustainable development is GEOLOG’s main HSE objectives and the guidance for their achievement. the responsibility of all individuals of the company. GEOLOG’s HSE objectives: • To comply with client’s HSE standards, policies and procedures • To comply with relevant legislation, codes, guidelines and standards provided by international organizations, as well as to apply more stringent standards where considered appropriate • To attain international Health, Safety and Environment Management System certiﬁcations GEOLOG constantly monitors and evaluates the effectiveness • To protect the health and safety of its employees and of those who may be aﬀected by its operations • To continuously improve the prevention of possible damage to the environment • To prevent risk exposure in all areas of its operations considering that all incidents are preventable of its HSE Management System in order to comply with • To prevent absences from work due to accidents and illnesses • To maintain a valid HSE Management System at all times international standards and clients’ requirements. For this reason, GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s training in relation to HSE protection in all areas of operations several KPIs are evaluated and regularly reported to senior • Supporting and implementing incident prevention, including implementation of the Stop Work Authority program • Assessing HSE risks and taking appropriate and timely actions to control these risks management, such as the man-hours worked, the number of • Using an eﬀective communication system for all HSE issues • Providing adequate human, technical and ﬁnancial investments in HSE • Clearly deﬁning the HSE roles and responsibilities of all employees Lost Time Injuries (LTI), the LTI Frequency Rate (LTIFR), the Total • Setting objectives and targets for measuring and improving HSE performance. • Continually reviewing and improving its HSE Management System in line with industry and international standards Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and all statistics related to minor GEOLOG Management is committed to continuosly maintain the highest possible HSE standards and improve the Health, Safety and Environmental performance of the company. incidents and environmental spills. The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as all GEOLOG employees. In 2017, GEOLOG worked almost 2 million man-hours with zero fatalities, zero lost time injuries, and zero environmental Antonio Calleri President spills. January 2018 Document Ref: G-45-008-PHU-18 Version: 01.00 Date: 01-Jan-2018 The leading independent surface logging company [1] A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is a work-related injury occurred to an employee in which a physician or licensed health care professional recommends day(s) away from work. [2] The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as the number of Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked in the period analyzed. 010 [3] The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is calculated as the number of Fatalities, Lost Time Injuries and Medical Treatment Cases per million hours worked in the period analyzed. GEOLOG’s Quality Management System, certified ISO 9001:2015, confirmation of GEOLOG’s commitment and adherence to and is founded on the belief that continuous improvement of relevant industry standards. the quality of our services shall be pursued. GEOLOG involves all its employees in this process, from field staff to senior Maintaining outstanding QHSE performances and complying management. with international QHSE standards are a core value for GEOLOG. Our successful QHSE performance and the continuous The integrated certification of the QHSE Management System improvement of our QHSE Management System have been (ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007) guides made possible through strong leadership and teamwork of all the company in achieving excellence in QHSE performance employees and managers of the company. and ensures that GEOLOG’s operations are managed efficiently and responsibly, providing reliable, safe and environmentally respectful services to its clients. To ensure the QHSE Management System is in place, GEOLOG Quality Policy uses a team of internal auditors trained in the ISO & OHSAS standards in which GEOLOG is certified. Geolog International (“GEOLOG”) is a leading global oilfield services company, the largest independent international surface logging company in the world. GEOLOG is committed to adopt a worldwide Quality Management System represented by an organized structure with responsibilities, GEOLOG Quality Policy, also issued by GEOLOG President, procedures, processes and resources for quality management. defines the main quality objectives of the company and gives GEOLOG encourages participation and promotion amongst all employees to continuously improve the company’s performance and the quality of service provided to its clients. the guidelines about how to achieve them. GEOLOG’s quality objectives: • To improve client’s satisfaction and exceed client’s expectations • To provide clients with accurate quantiﬁed data and interpretation • To attain international Quality Management System certiﬁcations • To maintain a valid Quality Management System at all times In addition to its ISO & OHSAS certificates, GEOLOG QHSE • To ensure the application of the quality procedures and implement additional procedures when required • To increase the eﬃciency of the company’s organization through clearly assigned responsibilities Management System is also verified and approved as per Achilles GEOLOG seeks to achieve these objectives by: • Ensuring activities are compliant with client’s expectations and requirements requirements, a system used by major organisations to qualify • Ensuring an appropriate level of employee’s competencies • Promoting technological innovation suppliers and consequently reduce the risks in the supply chain. • Increasing eﬃciency and productivity • Establishing and reviewing on a yearly basis its corporate objectives • Continually reviewing and improving its Quality Management System in line with industry and international standards GEOLOG is registered in several Achilles communities, such as FPAL, Connexio Achilles JQS, and Repro. This is a further GEOLOG Management constantly strives for success through client’s satisfaction and the continuous improvement of its internal eﬃciency. The application of this policy is the direct responsibility of both GEOLOG Management as well as of all GEOLOG employees. Antonio Calleri President January 2018 Document Ref: G-50-008-PHU-18 Version: 01.00 Date: 01-Jan-2018 The leading independent surface logging company PL AN Plan Implement • QHSE goals and • Training awareness and IM P objectives competence LEMENT • Hazard analysis and Risk • Document control Continuous R E V IE W assessment • Emergency planning Improvement • Client requirements • Operational control Verify Review • Audits • Management review • Records • Recommendations VERIFY • Incident investigation and analysis 011 Human Rights Principles Ethical and responsible actions in the areas where we operate Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GEOLOG is devoted to the protection of Human Rights. For this reason, we strive to conduct our business based on ethical and responsible actions in the areas where we operate. We encourage our local representatives to sponsor, support and actively participate in projects that positively affect communities. In this way, we look forward to support and improve local conditions. Charity Contributions and Social Responsibilities In line with our strategic vision, we continue to support remarkable charity initiatives worldwide. The GEOLOG Foundation actively supports and promotes local charities, focusing on the education and quality of life of young children. GEOLOG managers and personnel are directly involved in all local charity and social activities, such as organizing entertainment for children in hospitals and orphanages and visiting elderly people in hospices. We pride ourselves on engaging and working together with local communities in the countries where we operate. 12 Argentina “Fiesta de Primavera” This year GEOLOG Argentina decided to welcome spring in a different way and organised a “fiesta de primavera” in Neuquén by distributing food, clothes and some providing entertainment to kids living in “Barrio 2 de Mayo”, a poor suburb of Neuquén. Around 50 kids from the surrounding suburbs attended the program. Morning started with the distribution of warm milk and chocolate to all kids. Afternoon was mixed with a comic and a mime show with kids actively participating and enjoying the performance. Later in the day there was a lottery where every kids won a prize. Event was concluded with the distribution of bags of food to families (rice, flour, sugar, sweets). Mexico Food donation to the earthquake victims On September 7th, an earthquake with epicenter occurred in the State of Chiapas, Mexico, with a magnitude of 8.2 degrees leaving many homes, buildings, hospitals and schools destroyed. GEOLOG Mexico joined Cruz Roja to support the victims donating meals. 13 Russia Okhotsk beach clean-up On 29th September, GEOLOG partnered with KCA DEUTAG/Sakhalin Energy and other service companies to perform a beach cleanup activity on the coast of Okhotsk sea. All subcontractors were divided into groups and were asked to clean the shore and collect rubbish as a part of a competition. The group that came with highest amount of rubbish was declared as winner. Guyana A day in the role of Santa Claus Our Operations Manager in Guyana, Davide Del Bò, was honored to be the Santa Claus of St. Ann’s House, an orphanage with 34 kids, within the age of 3 and 15, situated in Georgetown. Davide had the pleasure to distribute gifts received from the local community. It was a touching and emotional experience! Funding UNICEF We believe that investing in initiatives that advocate for education, health conditions and respect of children rights is a key element to building a better society in the future. Therefore, GEOLOG also funds programs that contribute to giving better opportunities for children. In line with this, GEOLOG made a monetary contribution to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). 14 Safe work conditions and incidents prevention GEOLOG’s QHSE Management System is built on the belief that most workplace injuries, illnesses and incidents are preventable. Hazards leading to these events are often known prior to their occurrence, making prevention the most effective tool to safeguard our personnel and third party people. In order to properly manage the risks related to the activities performed, GEOLOG has in place a proper risk assessment procedure that helps to identify and assess the risks associated with our operations, considering the likelihood and the magnitude of potential hazards. . This helps us to identify the mitigation and control measures needed to ensure the activities are safely executed. GEOLOG focus its attention not only on occupational safety (conventional safety risks, e.g. slips or trips), but also on process safety (major hazards risks). The interaction between the two safety levels has led GEOLOG to achieve its great HSE performance. Below some GEOLOG’s key performance indicators for the year 2017, followed by the graphic overview of the trends man-hours worked versus Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR). Total Lost Time LTI Frequency Man-Hours Recordable Environmental Year Fatalities Injuries Rate Gravity Rate Worked Incidents Rate Spills (LTI) (LTIFR) (TRIR) 2017 1,807,308 0 0 0.00 0.00 3.3 0 Hours Worked LTI Frequency Thousand Manhours Vs. LTI Frequency Rate Rate 3,000 2,792 3 2,454 2,481 2,500 2,5 2,000 1,933 2 1,797 1,593 1,500 1,5 1,315 1.358 1,000 1 500 0,5 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hours Worked LTI Frequency Rate GEOLOG achieved a safety milestone of “Three Years Zero Loss Time Incident” in November 2017. This is the best result in the last 10 years, and this is the indicator of our commitment in achieving excellence in risk management and prevention system. 15 HSE Initiative 2018 GEOLOG 7X7 Life Saving Rules As a HSE initiative, GEOLOG has introduced a 7X7 Life Saving Rules identifying 7 keys GEOLOG operation related and globally recognised oil field hazards. The main objective of the initiative is to improve HSE culture and enhance safety in the workplace. It also aims to raise awareness among GEOLOG employees and improve safety performance striving to make continuous improvement in our HSE Management System. Authority to Proceed: Obtain and follow a permit to work procedure (confined space, working at height, hot work, maintenance work with high risks). Driving: Respect laws and road speed limit, do not use mobile phones and hand held devices and always wear seat belts while driving. Follow journey management plan. Safe Positioning: Do not walk under a suspended load. Always position yourself in a safe zone in relation to moving equipment. Avoid line of fire. PPE: Use correct life saving PPE where required. Fall arrest system and personal respiratory protection equipment are classified as the life saving PPE. Drugs and Alcohol: No alcohol or drugs before and during working and driving. LOTO: Verify energy is isolated before starting a work. No Smoking: Do not smoke outside designated areas. 16 Labour Principles Guarantee gender equality to all its employees GEOLOG, through its internal policies and procedures, is committed and strives to respect the labour rights and to guarantee gender equality to all its employees with the objective to ensure no discrimination. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The employment of children, underage youths or any type of empowerment as a crucial element in its social responsibility abuse and forced labour is not acceptable to GEOLOG under any commitment. At the moment, 18% of GEOLOG employees in circumstances and is viewed as being a serious infringement of office services are women and 17 management positions are our Code of Conduct. All GEOLOG employees are older than 22 held by women. years and over 46% are university graduated. Flexible work arrangement is provided by GEOLOG for its GEOLOG does not tolerate illegal or unethical behaviour or employees, especially for women with families and young any kind of discrimination among others, race, religion, colour, children in order fit work and family needs. GEOLOG gives gender, for its employees. We conduct our services according special attention to pregnant women, allowing them to work to the principles of respect and dignity, always providing a from home in the final stage of pregnancy and making work fair working environments. GEOLOG embraces diversity in the arrangements for the post-delivery. workplace. In order to promote social and economic development by For example, there are 73 different nationalities among the total creating more job opportunities, involving local stakeholders of GEOLOG employees. and minimizing indirect environmental aspects of our business, We are also committed to support the development in the GEOLOG, whenever possible, acquires services and materials areas where we provide services by local empowerment and from local suppliers that comply with its standards. In this way, use of local providers. For instance, 65% of GEOLOG’s employees we extend our scope of influence and our commitment to our are local. Next to this, GEOLOG acknowledges women’s business community. 17 Environmental Principles We encourage our employees to develop the business in an environmentally responsible manner Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. One of the keystones of GEOLOG’s HSE Management System is our HSE Policy. Through the commitment of achieving remarkable performance regarding Health, Safety and Environment, we encourage our employees to develop the business in an environmentally responsible manner. GEOLOG, in line with ISO 14001:2015 standard, tries wherever possible to use environmentally friendly products and to avoid environmental incidents. To do so, we identified all our potential environmental impacts in order to define all measures and actions needed to prevent, minimize and control them. 18 Environment-friendly solutions for GEOLOG Milan Home production with about 3 KWH. Of course this depends on weather Office and seasonal conditions, but in general overall production is slightly better than expectation. GEOLOG main office and production facility in Milan, Italy, has been designed considering environmentally friendly solutions, such as These initiatives reinforce the commitment of GEOLOG towards the use of renewable energy sources. The thermal station of the solutions that help to reduce our carbon footprint and the impact new building is powered by two geothermal wells, one for water on the environment. production at a depth of 50 meters, and one for water reinjection at a depth of 40 meters. At the end of 2015, GEOLOG installed photovoltaic panels (680 modules) in order to produce electric energy needed for the daily activities by using solar energy. The photovoltaic plant is an important investment made by GEOLOG in renewable energy. The system is working since March 2016. In these last months the system produced about 169,000 KWH, corresponding to more than the 22% of the entire power request of the site. Production peaks have occurred in June and July when we produced about 25,000 KWH. December is the bottom of 19 Anticorruption Principles Highest ethical and legal standards Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery GEOLOG is strongly committed to the highest ethical and legal standards. Each company within GEOLOG has been provided with the internal Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy both aimed at raising awareness of the relevant national and international laws, standards and principles in order to ensure compliance by GEOLOG as a whole, and all directors, officers and employees with the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption business principles accepted worldwide. In particular, GEOLOG fully adhered and implemented all AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption principles set forth in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, UK’s Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). 20 In light of the above, GEOLOG developed and implemented a • Recruitment procedures have been updated to be fully compliant specific Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption plan through the actions with relevant Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption principles and described below: regulations. • Set up of whistleblowing facilities and compliance helpline and • Conducted a risk assessment to identify potential exposure to other reporting procedures. bribery and corruption. • All GEOLOG personnel at risk of bribery and/or corruption behaviors • Involved its top management and Board members to (i) clearly and practices is being trained either via face-to-face individual communicate the core values of the Group and (ii) devote meetings or online seminars, e-learning tools etc. to understand appropriate time and internal resources to anti-bribery compliance how bribery and corruption situations can arise and which are the issues and to monitor the effectiveness of anti-bribery programs procedures and/or remedies to avoid that. and controls. • GEOLOG is also starting to apply risk-based compliance due • Issued a detailed Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Bribery and diligence checks on third parties the company works with such Anti-Corruption Policy covering all anti-bribery and corruption as agents, sales representatives, external counsels, etc. to ensure aspects and explaining which procedures each department should their compliance. put in place and which rules should be followed, both at a Group level and locally, to avoid forbidden and/or unethical behaviours and business practices. 21 GEOLOG in the World NORTH SEA AMERICAS EASTERN EUROPE & CIS &MEDITERRANEAN ARGENTINA (Buenos Aires & Neuquén) ALGERIA (Algiers & Hassi Messaoud) AZERBAIJAN (Baku) geolog.argentina@geolog.com geolog.algeria@geolog.com geolog.azerbaijan@geolog.com BOLIVIA (Santa Cruz de la Sierra) DENMARK (Esbjerg) KAZAKHSTAN (Almaty) geolog.bolivia@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com geolog.kazakhstan@geolog.com BRAZIL (Río de Janeiro & Macaé) FRANCE (La Défense) KURDISTAN (Erbil) geolog.brazil@geolog.com geolog.france@geolog.com geolog.kurdistan@geolog.com COLOMBIA (Bogotá) ITALY (Milan) ROMANIA (Bucharest) geolog.colombia@geolog.com geolog.italy@geolog.com geolog.romania@geolog.com CHILE (Punta Arenas) LIBYA (Tripoli) RUSSIA (Moscow & Sakhalin) geolog.chile@geolog.com geolog.libya@geolog.com geolog.russia@geolog.com GUYANA (Georgetown) NETHERLANDS (Ijmuiden) TURKEY (Ankara) geolog.guyana@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com geolog.turkey@geolog.com MEXICO (México City & Villahermosa) NORWAY (Stavanger) UKRAINE (Kiev) geolog.mexico@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com geolog.ukraine@geolog.com PERU (Lima) TUNISIA (Tunis) geolog.peru@geolog.com geolog.tunisia@geolog.com USA (Houston & Odessa) UNITED KINGDOM (Aberdeen) geolog.usa@geolog.com geolog.north-sea@geolog.com VENEZUELA (Maturín) geolog.venezuela@geolog.com 22 Head Office Office Suite 21B, Gold Tower Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai PO Box 336 542 United Arab Emirates Manufacturing and R&D Center Via Monte Nero 30 San Giuliano Milanese (Milano) 20098 Italy SUB-SAHARA AFRICA MIDDLE EAST FA R E A S T ANGOLA (Luanda) INDIA (Mumbai) AUSTRALIA (Perth) geolog.angola@geolog.com geolog.india@geolog.com geolog.australia@geolog.com CAMEROON (Douala) KUWAIT (Mangaf ) CHINA (Beijing) geolog.west-africa@geolog.com geolog.kuwait@geolog.com geolog.china@geolog.com CONGO (Pointe Noire) QATAR (Doha) INDONESIA (Jakarta & Balikpapan) geolog.congo@geolog.com geoperations.qatar@geolog.com geolog.indonesia@geolog.com GABON (Port Gentil) SAUDI ARABIA (Al Khobar) MALAYSIA (Kuala Lumpur) geolog.gabon@geolog.com geolog.middle-east@geolog.com geolog.malaysia@geolog.com GHANA (Accra) SRI LANKA (Narahenpita) PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Port Moresby) geolog.west-africa@geolog.com geolog.sri-lanka@geolog.com geolog.png@geolog.com KENYA (Nairobi) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Abu Dhabi) THAILAND (Bangkok) geolog.kenya@geolog.com geolog.uae@geolog.com geolog.thailand@geolog.com MOZAMBIQUE (Pemba) geolog.east-africa@geolog.com SENEGAL (Dakar) geolog.senegal@geolog.com SOUTH AFRICA (Cape Town) geolog.south-africa@geolog.com 23 www.geolog.com
