THE LEADING NORDIC HOTEL COMPANY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTENTS One strong proprietary brand 12 Administration Report 62 This is Scandic Insert Market-leading position 14 Risks and risk management 68 The leading hotel company Commercial platform 22 Corporate governance 72 in the Nordics Insert Variable leases 30 Board of Directors 80 Sustainable footprint 34 Executive Committee 82 Our Nordic DNA 1 Engaged & motivated team 42 Financial reports 84 CEO statement 2 More in-depth sustainability Notes 92 2017 in summary 5 reporting 48 Adoption 119 Strategy 2020 6 GRI Index 58 Auditor’s Report 120 High profitability over time 8 Auditor’s Report on the The Scandic share 124 Scandic’s concepts for success 10 Statutory Sustainability Report 60 Definitions 126 Shareholder information 128 Scandic is a Swedish company subject to Swedish laws. All values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Figures in parentheses refer to 2016 unless otherwise specified. Data on markets and the competitive situation is based on Scandic’s own assessments unless a specific source is indicated. Such assessments are based on the best and latest available facts from published sources. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 62–119 of this document. THIS IS SCANDIC 55,000 THE LEADING HOTEL COMPANY IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES Scandic has the largest and widest hotel network in the Nordic market. This creates a unique offering to customers and high efficiency. Scandic conducts operations under a single, fully-owned brand that is the best-known hotel brand in the Nordic hotel market. HOTEL ROOMS IN OPERATION AND UNDER DEVELOPMENT FORERUNNER IN SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC COOPERATION Doing business responsibly is important to Scandic. The company is the driving force In the Nordic market, leasing is the most common model for operating in the hotel industry in the area of sustainability, both when it comes to environmental hotels and Scandic focuses on hotels with long-term revenue-based and social issues. Scandic’s efforts in this area reduce the use of resources and thereby ­leasing agreements. In addition to giving Scandic financial stability, the lower costs. They also strengthen the company’s brand since guests – like Scandic – feel leasing model links the interests of Scandic and the property owners. increasingly strongly about these issues. This allows for long-term positive development of properties and good financial results. Scandic’s value-creating model means that it is the first choice for many property owners when it comes to new hotel projects. HOTELS 280 IN OPERATION AND 130 LOCATIONS A LOYAL CUSTOMER BASE UNDER DEVELOPMENT Over the years, Scandic has been a pioneer and driven development in the hotel industry. Guests have appreciated Scandic’s innovation and today, the company enjoys a high percentage of repeat customers. CORPORATE CUSTOMERS DOMINATE This is manifested in the Scandic Friends loyalty program – the largest About 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes from business travelers and conferences. in the Nordic countries. Members earn valuable points each night Scandic is a full-service provider of accommodations, restaurants and conference facilithey stay and Scandic Friends members account for about 35 percent ties with a range of services tailored to local markets. Scandic constantly differentiates of Scandic’s reservations. its offering in relation to competitors. Returning guests should feel that Scandic offers distinct and meaningful added value. 18 16,000 A 50-YEAR HISTORY HOTELS IN Scandic was founded as Esso Motor Hotel in Laxå, Sweden in 1963. Within just ten years, Esso was the THE PIPELINE largest hotel chain in Sweden. The Scandic brand TEAM MEMBERS was established in 1983. The journey since then has HIGH-QUALITY HOTEL PORTFOLIO been marked by strong organic growth combined ENGAGED EMPLOYEES Scandic works constantly to optimize its existing with strategic acquisitions. The model has always Employee satisfaction at Scandic is high, hotel portfolio through additions and reconfigurabeen to transform hotels into Scandic ones right which is a prerequisite for being able to maintions. It has also successfully built a pipeline of away – a successful strategy that has laid the fountain strong customer loyalty. As an employer, new hotels. As of December 31, 2018, the pipeline dation for Scandic’s strong brand. Ownership of the Scandic is ranked high in many different types included 18 exciting new hotels that will open by company has changed over the years. Between of external surveys. the end of 2021. 1996 and 2001, Scandic was listed on the stock exchange. The re-listing of Scandic’s shares in the fall of 2015 marked a comeback. THE LEADING HOTEL COMPANY IN THE NORDICS 55,958 hotel rooms. At 280 hotels in operation and under development. In about 130 different locations. These three figures underline Scandic’s role as the leading hotel operator in the Nordic region. Scandic focuses on hotels in the mid-market segment. Annual sales for 2017 totaled more than SEK 14.6 billion. Scandic has more than 16,000 team members. And each person is equally important for creating the positive hotel experiences that Scandic is known for. NET SALES ADJUSTED EBITDA AND EBITDA MARGIN REVPAR MSEK MSEK % SEK 15,000 1,600 12 800 12,000 1,200 9 600 9,000 800 6 400 6,000 400 3 200 3,000 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net sales, MSEK Adjusted Adjusted EBITDA margin, % RevPAR, SEK EBITDA, MSEK Target adjusted EBITDA margin, 11% OUR NORDIC DNA The Nordic way of thinking has been in Scandic’s DNA since its inception over 50 years ago. It is reflected in our design, our service and our people. It steers our culture, our thinking and our leadership. It is reflected in our curiosity and our openness to the world and its diversity. In thinking big, challenging ingrained ideas, working as a team and being driven by the conviction that nothing, absolutely nothing, is impossible. And naturally, it is the foundation of our vision, our mission and our values. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 1 AN EVENTFUL YEAR FOR SCANDIC 2017 was an active year for Scandic with strong sales growth and improved underlying earnings. Growth was driven by strong demand in our markets combined with more hotels in operation. Market development was especially strong in Norway and Finland, where both occupancy and average room rates increased during the year. HOW WOULD YOU SUMMARIZE 2017? “THERE IS GREAT STRENGTH HOW WAS MARKET DEVELOPMENT 2017 was an eventful year for Scandic. We enjoyed good IN OUR BUSINESS MODEL DURING THE YEAR? sales growth driven by underlying growth in the market and Our markets developed relatively well in 2017, and RevPAR WITH VARIABLE LEASE the addition of new hotels. During the year, our turnover increased in all countries. We saw continued growth in increased by 11.5 percent and we improved our adjusted ­AGREEMENTS THAT GIVE US our base of Nordic corporate customers, while the leisure EBITDA. That said, we’re not entirely satisfied with the way A FLEXIBLE COST BASE.” segment continued to grow significantly, not least from we ended the year with lower results in our Swedish operainternational guests who see the Nordic region as an tions, concentrated to Stockholm. However, at the beginning increasingly attractive tourist destination. of 2018, we implemented measures to ensure profitability and revenue going forward. The most positive development was in Norway and Finland, relationship with our property owners with a common which both showed strong RevPAR development due to The biggest event during the year was undoubtedly the ­interest in improving and developing our hotels over time, higher demand and a relatively unchanged supply. The acquisition of Restel, which is a big step for us in Finland since higher revenues for us also means greater incomes Finnish economy seems to be on its way up again after a where we now have a market-leading position. We also for them. Combined with our market-leading position weak period, and the Finnish travel industry is also being opened a record number of new hotels during the year. And and distribution capacity, we are seen as a very attractive spurred by significant increases in air traffic from Asia. internally, among other things, we focused on developing partner in the market. leadership in the organization as part of our cultural platParts of the Norwegian market fell sharply in connection form, Inspiring Nordic. WHAT AREAS DOES SCANDIC NEED with the oil crisis a few years ago, but we have now seen TO IMPROVE? a recovery at the oil destinations in western Norway. What WHAT’S YOUR IMPRESSION OF SCANDIC Scandic has grown quickly in a short time and we need to is clear is that Norway is becoming more attractive as a SO FAR? ensure that we work efficiently and draw the full benefits of tourist destination. For example, we are now seeing that I have visited a large number of hotels and have to say that the economies of scale we have. Not only that, the travel some of our hotels in northern Norway that have previously I am pleased by the consistent high quality of our portfolio. industry has become increasingly dynamic in recent years, been summer destinations also have high occupancy Not only do we have the largest hotel network in the Nordic with new types of distributors and competitors gaining ­during the winter months. region, but the product we offer is something we should be ground. We need to be a bit more agile so we can quickly proud of. It’s also been great to get to know the positive and adapt to changes and new opportunities in the market. We The market also grew in Sweden and Denmark, however, it inspiring culture we have at our hotels, something we must also need to prioritize our efforts to constantly optimize our declined towards the end of the year. In Stockholm, supply continue to nurture. hotel portfolio and further develop our offering. Furtherincreased by 6 to 7 percent while growth in demand gradumore, we need to strengthen our ability to foresee, and ally tapered off, resulting in negative RevPAR at the end of There is great strength in our business model of variable respond quickly to, potential changes in external factors in the year. leases that gives us a flexible cost base. We have a positive our main markets. 2 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-1 In Copenhagen, occupancy is at a historic­ ally high level and the market needs more hotel rooms. That said, our comparative figures during the second half of last year were unusually high due to a high level of conference activity during the corresponding period in 2016. WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE ACQUISITION OF RESTEL? We completed the acquisition of Restel just before the end of the year. This is a big step for Scandic since we have gone from number three to number one in Finland and we now have a comprehensive network in the country. And we have started rebranding the hotels with full force. While there are cost synergies as a result of the deal, we see the greatest potential in being able to generate more revenue once the hotels have been integrated into Scandic’s distribution system and gain access to our large Nordic customer base and loyalty program. I am convinced that our existing base of corporate customers will appreciate “WE HAVE GONE FROM NUMBER THREE TO THE MARKET LEADER IN FINLAND AND WE NOW HAVE A ­COMPREHENSIVE NETWORK IN THE COUNTRY.” GRI: G4-1 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 3 that we now have a geographically comprehensive offering “OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS barriers to the labor market by, for example, offering people in the Finnish market. At the same time, the acquisition SOMETHING I FEEL STRONGLY work experience at our hotels, we contribute to integration also gives us increased exposure to the growing leisure in society while increasing the chances that more people ABOUT. IT IS THE RIGHT THING segment. I also think the deal was timely. After several will choose Scandic as an employer in the future. In 2018, years of weak economic development, the Finnish econTO DO AND AN IMPORTANT PART we will revise our sustainability targets for 2030 with the omy has improved and the hotel market showed positive OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL.” goal of ensuring that Scandic contributes even more clearly development in 2017. to Agenda 2030 and continues to be a model when it comes to environmental issues and social sustainability. The acquisition of Restel also gives us a better geographical balance in the portfolio. Since each Nordic country has its are not aiming to grow at any price. Any business we do CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT ANY INTERNAL own character and driving forces, this will contribute to must ­contribute to our profitability, which is why we are INITIATIVES DURING THE YEAR? increased stability over time. being very selective. Internally, we focused on developing leadership as part of our Inspiring Nordic cultural platform. Our aim was to MANY NEW HOTELS OPENED DURING In February 2018, we took over a hotel in Frankfurt and strengthen our employees’ abilities and power to take THE YEAR. CAN YOU TELL US MORE? in December 2017, we signed an agreement to operate ­initiative. We also implemented a new digital tool for In 2017, we opened a total of 11 hotels with over 2,700 a big new conference hotel in Frankfurt located next to the social learning. Each year, we carry out a comprehensive rooms, which is a record level for Scandic. Most of them headquarters of the European Central Bank. Our two hotels employee survey and the results this past year improved were conversions, that is, where we took over existing in Frankfurt will complement each other and there are from already high levels. We are convinced that satisfied capacity. The advantage of conversions is that they allow ­obvious synergies to enjoy when we operate several hotels and committed team members contribute to our guests’ us to grow without affecting supply on the market and the in the same city. experience at Scandic. time between the agreement and takeover is relatively short. Eight of the hotels were the result of taking over the HOW DO YOU VIEW SCANDIC’S WHAT IS YOUR OUTLOOK FOR 2018? operation of a portfolio from Pandox and Eiendomsspar, SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES? It’s going to be a busy and exciting year. We have a number which included the Grand Hotel in Oslo. This was carried Our sustainability work is something I feel strongly about. of important hotel openings to look forward to and we have out with no consideration and with fully variable lease It is the right thing to do and an important part of our business already started integrating Restel. We also recently rolled agreements – a deal that demonstrates the strength of model. I feel very positive about what I have seen here at out a new version of our comprehensive customer loyalty our business model. Scandic so far. Everything from our commitment to the enviprogram, Scandic Friends. At the same time as we focus ronment, for example our efforts to reduce food waste, to on growing and strengthening our positions, we need to At the end of the year, our pipeline consisted of 18 hotels work to include people in society and at our hotels. Our coopensure that we operate efficiently and that we are responwith a total of close to 6,000 rooms, which corresponds to eration with the Helt Med organization in Norway and My sive to changes in the market. 12 percent of our existing portfolio including Restel. About Dream Now in Sweden are excellent examples of the latter. half of the new hotels will open in 2018 and will contribute We have a good geographic balance in the portfolio, which to growth in the coming year. We are members of the UN Global Compact and we have will contribute to increased stability for Scandic over time. also examined how we can best contribute to Agenda 2030 WHAT ABOUT SCANDIC’S OPERATIONS and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. During the ANY CONCLUDING REMARKS? IN GERMANY? year, we quantified our sustainability goals, both in terms of I would like to thank all of our team members who do such Our explicit ambition is to grow in the largest cities in social and environmental aspects. Sustainability is somea great job all year round. Their daily interactions with ­Germany. Our existing hotels in Berlin and Hamburg have thing that our corporate customers and guests are demandguests are critical to the guests’ experience at Scandic and developed well, which shows that our way of operating ing more and more, and at the same time, our sustainability they shape and develop our brand over time. hotels also works in Germany, and our brand and offering initiatives foster pride and increase motivation among our have been received well. Germany has a fragmented team members. Scandic in Society, a program where our hotel market and like the Nordic region, it is dominated by hotels carry out activities to support their local communities, long-term leases and a high share of domestic business is a great example of this. Being sustainable is also about Even Frydenberg, travelers. But here, it is important to emphasize that we attracting future talents to the hotel industry. By reducing President & CEO 4 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-1 2017 IN SUMMARY 2017 was an active year for Scandic with strong sales growth and improved underlying earnings. Growth was driven by good demand in our markets combined with more hotels in operation. Market development was especially strong in Norway and Finland where both occupancy and average room rates went up during the year. Scandic opened 11 hotels in 2017, which in itself is a record. In addition, a number of new hotel agreements were signed and Scandic has a solid pipeline that provides a good foundation for continued growth. At the end of the year, the company acquired the Finnish hotel company Restel, making Scandic the market leader in Finland. IMPORTANT EVENTS 2017 ACQUISITION TAKEOVER OF PORTFOLIO FROM PANDOX TWO NEW HOTEL PROJECTS IN FINLAND & EIENDOMSSPAR IN COPENHAGEN In December, Scandic completed At the beginning of the year, Scandic announced the acquisition of a portDuring the year, Scandic announced two new hotel projects in the acquisition of the hotel operafolio of eight Nordic hotels from Pandox and Eiendomsspar, including the Copenhagen: the centrally located Scandic Spectrum, which tions of Finnish Restel, with a total classic Grand Hotel in Oslo, which became a new signature hotel. The will be Scandic’s largest hotel, and Scandic Copenhagen of 7,600 rooms at 43 hotels. This transaction was carried out without consideration and with fully variable Airport, which will be located adjacent to Kastrup Airport. gives Scandic a comprehensive leases. The hotels opened as Scandic hotels during the second quarter. network in Finland. NEW HOTELS IN GERMANY During the year, Scandic announced that it would take over CHANGE OF CEO two hotels in Frankfurt in line with its strategy to grow selecOn August 1, Even Frydenberg took over as President & CEO after tively in Germany. Frank Fiskers decided to leave his position as CEO of Scandic. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 5 SCANDIC’S STRATEGY AND VISION WHAT WE WANT TO BE IN 2020 FAVORITE AMONG HOTEL BRANDS Scandic’s work environment encourages a healthy lifestyle CAPITALIZING ON MARKET DYNAMICS Scandic is known for creating exceptional hotel experiand is characterized by cooperation, diversity and incluScandic is in the driver’s seat when it comes to detecting ences characterized by personal service and a generous sion. Our team members feel respected and appreciated trends in our industry and society and the continuous breakfast. Our social spaces are warm and welcoming and for who they are. Scandic inspires others by successfully change in the distribution landscape, use of new technolour hotel rooms feel like bedrooms where you can get a including our employees and through our quest to reflect ogy and digitalization. good night’s sleep. the society in which we live. We drive change through analysis and innovation to The entire hotel experience is seamless thanks to our Scandic has the lowest CO2 emissions, water consumpidentify shifts in guests’ preferences and behaviors as well guests’ mobile devices and our knowledge about each tion and waste volumes in the industry. We are constantly as new dynamics among competitors and other industry guest – it’s always easy to book and travel to and from our implementing improvements both large and small in the players. hotels and each stay is facilitated by giving guests the right guest experience and in our business to further enhance Our employees use knowledge about our guests and are information at the right time. our sustainable footprint. curious about their changing preferences when developing Our guests know what to expect, but they are still pleasScandic’s strong commitment to sustainability makes new offerings and experiences. For example, we use this antly surprised when they visit us. This makes them want to our employees proud, attracts guests and inspires compaknowledge to improve the room experience and drive come back and to share their experiences with friends and nies both in and outside of our industry. bookings through our own channels, allowing us to control in social media. distribution and costs. OUTPERFORMING THE MARKET Scandic is adaptable and continually makes improveINSPIRING CULTURE Scandic’s high customer satisfaction is made possible by ments to our offering and in our operations instead of Our team members live our values: be caring, be you, be a competitive hotel, meeting and restaurant offerings that ­running major development projects. This improves our pro and be bold. Scandic’s leaders ensure that we cooperattract both leisure travelers and corporate customers ability to react quickly and shortens time-to-market. ate and build trust by asking for and giving feedback. Our ­willing to pay a premium. Our wide reach and high RevPAR leaders inspire and develop people by setting clear goals are the result of good visibility in the most relevant distribuA GROWING HOTEL NETWORK while coaching and creating opportunities for their teams tion channels, attractive partnerships and ability to continuScandic is the largest hotel operator in the Nordic counto constantly develop and grow. Scandic’s culture attracts ously attract guests from new markets. Scandic’s loyalty tries, with a strong presence in all large cities and key destalents and makes people want to stay and develop in program strengthens our relationships with our most tinations. With our unbeatable geographic reach, we are the company. important guests, increases willingness to pay and reduces well-known and appreciated among Nordic business traveScandic has adopted a flexible working approach with distribution costs. lers, distribution partners, property owners and developers. clear responsibilities and fact-based decision making. Scandic is cost-effective and leverages economies We have a platform in Germany with attractively-located Our employees are given the right tools and processes of scale. Many processes have been simplified or digitalbrand-building hotels that are performing better than our to work successfully, collaborate with each other and creized and our employees have systems and tools to work competitors. We have established a strong network of ate the best hotel experiences. efficiently and enable a seamless guest experience. property owners, investors and other potential partners in Scandic has centralized systems, tools and IT ecoGermany who see Scandic as a reliable partner and the DEDICATED CORPORATE CITIZEN systems that enable the company to further drive and best hotel operator. We are an inspiration through the strong engagement and ­optimize sales, customer knowledge and operational Scandic has a clear strategy for future growth that takes clear responsibility we take in society. We comply with ­efficiency. advantage of opportunities and optimizes existing hotels UN Global Compact and support the UN’s Sustainable We drive cost-efficiency through continuous improvethrough proactive work on our existing portfolio and new Development Goals. ments and take advantage of our size within purchasing hotels in the Nordic countries and Germany. and operations by sharing best practices. 6 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VISION What we strive to be MISSION Why we run our operations VALUES How we treat each other FINANCIAL TARGETS What we promise our owners A WORLD-CLASS NORDIC HOTEL COMPANY DESIRED POSITION What we want to be in 2020 WE CREATE GREAT HOTEL EXPERIENCES FOR THE MANY PEOPLE BE CARING BE YOU BE A PRO BE BOLD >5% ANNUAL >11% ADJUSTED 2–3X NET DEBT TO REVENUE GROWTH EBITDA MARGIN ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO The Inspiring Dedicated Outperforming Capitalizing A growing favorite culture corporate the market on market hotel network hotel brand citizen dynamics STRATEGIC PROJECTS TO REACH DESIRED POSITIONS SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 7 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME Scandic has adopted clear financial goals for its operations. These involve sales growth, profitability and financial strength. The goals are mediumto long-term and were adopted at the end of 2015. FINANCIAL TARGETS 1 2 3 GROWTH PROFITABILITY CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Group shall have revenue growth of at least 5 percent The adjusted EBITDA margin of the Group shall be at least The Group shall have net debt in relation to adjusted per year over a business cycle, excluding acquisitions and 11 percent on average over a complete business cycle. EBITDA of 2–3x. adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations. TARGET AND OUTCOME 2013–2017 TARGET AND OUTCOME 2013–2017 TARGET AND OUTCOME 2016 AND 2017 % % Times TARGET: 5 % TARGET: 11% TARGET: 2–3x 12 12 3.0 10 10 8 8 2.0 6 4 6 2 1.0 4 0 2 -2 0 -4 0 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, revenue growth adjusted for exchange rate fluctuIn 2017, the adjusted EBITDA margin was 10.8 percent At the end of 2017, net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA ations was 10.6 percent. Growth was attributable to good for the Group. The margin decreased in Sweden but was 2.3x, and 2.1x including Restel. Underlying cash flow RevPAR development in the existing hotel network as well increased in Norway as well as in the other Nordic counwas strong during the year at the same time as the payas the strong performance of hotels that were established tries and Europe. ment for the acquisition of Restel was carried out at the in 2017. end of 2017. 8 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AN ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL PROFILE Scandic’s ability to deliver good profitability over time rests on four pillars. 1 2 3 4 STABLE GROWING SALES FLEXIBLE COST STRUCTURE STABLE EBITDA MARGINS STABLE CASH FLOWS Scandic has stable growing sales with a Scandic has a flexible cost structure. A large share of recurring sales and a Scandic is good at generating cash flows. large share of returning guests. Its strong About 25 percent of costs are fully flexible cost structure have provided Scandic This is because little capital is tied up in its market position in the mid-market segment variable in the form of consumables and with high and stable EBITDA margins in working capital. Since customers generally and good geographic footprint means that sales-­related costs such as rents and recent years. The acquisitions of Rica in pay when checking in and suppliers are Scandic is often the first choice for Nordic commissions. Accordingly, these costs Norway in 2014 and Restel in Finland in paid with the usual terms of credit, Scandic business travelers. This can be seen in the vary directly with the sales volume. 2017 have contributed to reducing the has negative working capital. Even the large number of framework agreements About 55 percent of Scandic’s costs market risk, which stabilizes EBITDA marrequirement for investments in fixed capital with companies and organizations, many are semi-flexible. To adapt these costs gins. Another contributing factor is cost is limited through the division of responsiof which are renewed every year. to current business conditions, Scandic efficiencies at all levels through careful bilities between the property owners and Recurring sales are strengthened by closely monitors the order status at all planning of staffing and economies of Scandic. The need for reinvestments in the the Scandic Friends loyalty program. This levels of operation. This allows the comscale within IT, purchasing and administrahotel business – excluding the construction demonstrates the company’s ability to pany to address deviations quickly. tion. The company focuses on the midof new hotels – usually amounts to 3.5 to retain its guests, which is a strong contribmarket segment of the hotel industry. 4 percent of sales. The ability to convert uting factor for stable revenue growth. ­Historically, this segment has proven to profit into cash flow, or cash conversion, is Strong sales and loyal guests make be less cyclical than other hotel segments. a result of the low level of capital tied up. Scandic an attractive partner for property The business model with variable leases owners, and a leasing model with variable contributes to stable margins over time. rent contributes to creating a platform of common values between Scandic and property owners. This is a precondition for continuing to expand the hotel network in attractive locations. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 9 SCANDIC’S CONCEPTS FOR SUCCESS ONE STRONG PROPRIETARY BRAND COMMERCIAL PLATFORM SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT Scandic operates under a single, fully-owned brand that is Scandic has a central organization that manages and Scandic is a pioneer in the hotel industry when it comes to clearly the most well-known brand in the Nordic hotel develops the company’s brand, offering, distribution and sustainability and works proactively to maintain its position industry. The company consistently delivers a quality offerability to drive revenue. At the same time, individual hotels as a responsible hotel company. Its sustainability initiatives ing in all markets and at all hotels. The company is posihave full responsibility for their revenues and adapt their affect the way guests and society perceive Scandic as a tioned in the mid-market segment which is less cyclical offering to the local market. The basis for Scandic’s concompany. The company has clear sustainability goals than other segments. It is also the dominant segment in the cept and development is regular customer surveys that within priority areas such as diversity, inclusion, health and Nordic markets. The brand is developed over time through provide insight into how the offering can be developed the environment. In the environmental area, the focus is on daily interactions between Scandic and its guests. Scandic ­further. Scandic’s customer satisfaction is at a high level. reducing CO2 emissions and waste, which is appreciated stands for an informal approach, openness, personal serCorporate customers form the backbone of Scandic’s busiby guests and also reduces costs for Scandic. The comvice, Nordic design and diversity. ness and almost 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes pany’s efforts to increase diversity and employee commitfrom business travel and conferences. The Scandic Friends ment also help provide a better experience to guests. MARKET-LEADING POSITION loyalty program, which is clearly the largest in the Nordic Scandic has the largest and broadest hotel network in the hotel market, is an important tool for establishing a direct ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM Nordic market. The hotels are strategically located in cities relationship with guests and helps increase customer loyScandic has over 16,000 team members in six countries. and close to business parks, airports and other communialty. A significant part of Scandic’s distribution and an Employee engagement is high and Scandic as an employer cation hubs. Over time, Scandic has built up a strong relaincreasing share of customer bookings are being made via is ranked high in external surveys. Scandic’s cultural work tionship with a large number of corporate customers and digital channels, and Scandic is working on new concepts is built on its common cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, organizations that appreciate its unique offering while also to meet customers’ changing digital behavior. which is the starting point for all daily relationships, both being well positioned to take advantage of increases in leiexternal and internal. Inclusion and diversity, gender equalsure travel. The Nordic hotel market is attractive and has VARIABLE LEASE MODEL ity and employee well-being are prioritized areas within developed well in recent years. Market development differs Scandic focuses on rental agreements as a model for operScandic that help boost competitiveness. from one country to another and today, Scandic has a good ating hotels. The leases are generally long-term and usugeographic balance that helps stabilize profitability over ally involve variable rent based on the hotel’s revenues and time. Having a market-leading position enables Scandic to a shared investment commitment with the property owner. enjoy unique economies of scale in its operations comThe variable rent model has been successful. This contribpared with its competitors. Scandic’s operations are based utes to Scandic having a flexible cost structure and the on clear concepts and processes with centralized support company is thus more able to sustain profitability during functions while the hotels focus on interacting with guests weaker periods. Scandic has a constructive cooperation and optimizing local operations. with property owners where both parties have a common interest in continuously developing and improving the property. The fact that the Nordic hotel market is dominated by leases has limited the presence of major international hotel chains. 10 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-4 STRENGTHS COMMERCIAL VARIABLE PLATFORM LEASE MODEL MARKETTHE LEADING SUSTAINABLE LEADING NORDIC HOTEL FOOTPRINT POSITION COMPANY EA O TIO M N SS I NE ONE STRONG ENGAGED CR B US PROPRIETARY & MOTIVATED VA BRAND TEAM LU DE L E Scandic’s value creation builds on its strong brand and leading position in the attractive Nordic hotel market. The company has a broad offering that is appreciated by a returning customer base and it cooperates with property owners and customers to constantly develop its offering. Scandic’s work in the area of sustainability is prioritized and contributes to increased competitiveness. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 11 ONE STRONG PROPRIETARY BRAND Scandic conducts and controls its operations under a single, fully-owned brand. The company has the strongest brand in the Nordic hotel industry, as recently confirmed by a survey carried out in the Nordic countries. Work on the company’s cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, which contributes to strenghtening the brand both internally and externally, is now in its third year. 12 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ONE STRONG PROPRIETARY BRAND THE STRONGEST BRAND IN THE NORDIC HOTEL MARKET ONE STRONG PROPRIETARY time during the year. The results showed region, Scandic was the only hotel oper­ator At the moment, Scandic has signature BRAND that on a Nordic basis, Scandic is clearly included on the list. hotels in Stockholm and Oslo. Unlike many other hotel companies, Scandic number one when it comes to brand controls its operations by running most awareness. A BRAND EVOLVING Clear brand platform of its hotels under a single, fully-owned Scandic is the “top of mind” (number OVER TIME Having a distinct customer focus is an brand. This enables the company to provide one) in both Sweden and Denmark, number Scandic’s brand is strengthened in important driving force for achieving suca consistent quality offering in all markets two in Norway and number three in Finland. every customer interaction cess and having a strong internal culture and at all hotels, thus ensuring that it When the survey was conducted, the Restel Scandic is positioned in the mid-market is a prerequisite for being able to serve meets the expectations of guests. deal had not been completed. Through the segment, which is by far the largest segcustomers best. This is why since 2015, This clear ownership creates good acquisition, the Cumulus brand, which was ment in the Nordic market. Scandic stands Scandic has been working to build its opportunities to run business efficiently previously in second place in Finland, will be for an informal approach and its culture is ­cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, which and allows the company to implement replaced by ­Scandic. characterized by Nordic values and openis described on page 46. Inspiring Nordic changes and launch new concepts and ness, personal service, Nordic design and is based on the Nordic values presented processes quickly in all markets. STRONG EMPLOYER BRAND diversity. But Scandic’s brand is not static on the next page and one goal of Scandic’s Scandic also adds value to its brand – it has to be nurtured over time. work with Inspiring Nordic is to emphasize BRAND RECOGNITION through its work on sustainability and how to apply the company’s common values REFLECTS MARKET POSITION employment issues. According to The High brand recognition with targeted when interacting with guests. Scandic’s market share in the Nordic Sustain­able Brand Index 2017, which preoffering region is about 15 percent, making it the sents a list of sustainable brands in the The brand is strengthened among other market leader in the Nordic countries. This Nordic region each year, Scandic ranked things by well-established concepts that position is particularly strong among busiamong the top 100 companies in the guests recognize from their interactions ness travelers. In October 2017, a Sifo ­Nordic markets, placing 29th in Sweden, with Scandic. In addition to its basic offersurvey showed that Scandic’s brand which was the best in the industry by a ing of hotels, in 2017, Scandic continued awareness reflects its market share. The good margin. The brand is also reinforced to launch signature hotels that are more survey was carried out in all Nordic counin rankings by business students. When experience-based and have been develtries among people aged 20 – 65 who had more than 30,000 students ranked the oped to meet customer demand and stayed at hotels in the country at some most attractive employers in the Nordic attract customers with other preferences. B R A N D R E CO G N I T I O N A S I N G L E , F U L LYO W N E D B R A N D Unlike many other hotel companies, Scandic controls its operations by running most of its hotels itself under a single, fully-owned brand. This enables 99% the company to ­provide a consistent quality offering. Source: Study carried out by Evidence for Scandic. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 13 MARKET-LEADING POSITION Scandic is the leading hotel company in the Nordic hotel market. Customers enjoy a unique, comprehensive network at the same time as there are good opportunities to run business efficiently. 14 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET-LEADING POSITION A DYNAMIC MARKET MORE TRANSPARENCY WITH HIGH SHARE OF OWN DISTRIBUTION CONTINUED GOOD MARKET DIGITALIZATION Scandic’s strong brand and market position as well as its DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 The global hotel industry is developing rapidly and customhigh proportion of returning corporate customers have As a whole, the Nordic hotel markets developed well in ers are increasingly searching for and booking hotels via helped the company maintain a strong distribution capac2017 and conditions are good for continued growth in digital channels. Digital booking sites, or online travel ity. OTAs currently account for about 17 percent of booked demand going forward. GDP growth, which is an important agencies (OTAs), have gained ground in a short period of nights at Scandic. A total of 63 percent of bookings are driver of the hotel market, is expected to remain stable in time. And websites such as Tripadvisor.com where custommade via Scandic’s own channels – on the website, the coming years. ers can read reviews and compare prices before booking through call centers and directly at hotels. The percentage In 2017, demand for hotel nights in the Nordic region hotels have achieved increasing influence on the market. of bookings made digitally is increasing rapidly at the and RevPAR increased in all Nordic countries, driven mainly This has created increased transparency where hotels that expense of analogue channels, and in the past year, bookby higher average room prices. The growth was especially do not meet customer expectations and get bad reviews ings via Scandic’s website increased significantly. strong in Norway and Finland. In the Nordic region, demand find it hard to survive competition. A poor review affects Scandic considers OTAs and similar players as an generally exceeded the availability of hotel rooms. In business very quickly, while a hotel with good reviews and important complement to its own distribution since they ­Stockholm, RevPAR fell in the second half of the year due attractive prices will enjoy competitive advantages. Cusmake it possible to reach customers outside the Nordic to a short-term rise of between 6 and 7 percent in the tomers are increasingly also sharing their experiences, region that Scandic itself cannot reach as easily through availability of hotel rooms. both positive and negative, in social media and also directly its own channels. Nonetheless, Scandic aims to control In Copenhagen, RevPAR also fell in the second half of with hotels. It has become crucial for all hotel companies to inter-Nordic bookings to the greatest extent possible. the year, driven by very high demand during the previous address the more open dialogue with customers. year due to a high level of conference activity. Another global trend is the growth of Airbnb and similar NORDIC HOTEL MARKET GROWING online marketplaces for renting and booking private The trend has generally been positive in the Nordic hotel POSITIVE GEOGRAPHIC MIX accommodations. Airbnb is estimated to account for about market in recent years. Since 2010, the average demand Scandic’s geographic mix has changed in recent years 3 percent of rooms sold in the larger Nordic cities and it is for hotel nights has grown by between 2 and 5 percent per after the acquisition of Rica in Norway in 2014 and Finnish likely to have a lower share in smaller towns. This competiyear, while the total capacity of available rooms is going up Restel at the end of 2017. The four Nordic markets are tion has had a certain impact on the hotel market. Services about 2 percent per year. This has resulted in a positive ­different in character and do not always follow the same like Airbnb, however, do not have a significant influence on RevPAR development for the market as a whole, although trends. Consequently, Scandic has gradually become Scandic, which has a high share of corporate customers there have been some variations between countries. less sensitive to changes in market conditions in each and an average overnight stay of less than two nights. AirGrowth in demand has been particularly strong in the country. For example, the domestic economy in Finland bnb has probably contributed to increasing the total market leisure segment, which is less cyclical than the corporate has improved following a long period of weak economic for overnight stays in recent years. segment, which accounts for almost half of the total market. develop­ment, while growth in Sweden has been strong in The share of non-Nordic guests, which today only reprerecent years. Parts of the Norwegian market were heavily GOOD CONDITIONS IN THE NORDICS sent 15 to 20 percent of the Nordic hotel market, has affected by the oil crisis after 2015, but have now recovThe Nordic hotel market is somewhat different than the shown strong growth during the period. The Nordic region ered. The most international hotel destination in the Nordic international market. The major international hotel chains has become an increasingly popular tourist and meeting region is Copenhagen, where occupancy has been at a have a relatively limited presence in the Nordic countries destination and it is becoming more common for inter­ ­historically very high level after a period of strong demand because they usually prefer franchise and management national conferences to be held in the larger Nordic cities. from major international congresses and conferences. agreements rather than the lease model that is dominant Major new entertainment and sports arenas have been in the Nordic region. Generally, a larger share of customer built and communications have improved. Additionally, bookings takes place through Nordic hotel companies’ own demand has risen in prime tourist destinations, especially channels and they strive to own the entire relationship with in the Norwegian market. The majority of non-Nordic the customer to a greater extent – from first contact to guests come from Germany, the UK and the US. Demand ­follow-up after the hotel stay. from foreign guests has grown sharply in recent years, not least from Asia. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 15 MARKET-LEADING POSITION “THE NORDIC HOTEL MARKETS DEVELOPED WELL IN 2017 AND CONDITIONS ARE GOOD FOR CONTINUED GROWTH IN DEMAND GOING FORWARD.” OCCUPANCY ANNUAL CHANGE IN RevPAR ANNUAL CHANGE IN NUMBER OF ­AVAILABLE ROOMS % % % 80 12 6 8 5 70 4 4 60 3 0 2 50 -4 1 -8 0 40 -1 -12 30 -2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland The Nordic countries Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. 16 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET-LEADING POSITION A STRONG OFFERING FOR CONTINUED GROWTH Scandic is clearly the leading hotel operator in the Nordic corresponds to approximately 12 percent of the current AN ATTRACTIVE PARTNER FOR PROPERTY market. With a hotel network of 280 hotels in operation and portfolio including Restel. Scandic’s pipeline is at a historiOWNERS under development in close to 130 different locations, cally high level and provides good conditions for continued Scandic is constantly looking for new properties to add to Scandic offers unique reach for customers. growth in the coming years. About half of the hotels will its portfolio and aims to grow by 2 to 4 hotels per year. In start operating as Scandic hotels in 2018. Five of the hotels recent years, growth has been significantly greater than A STRONG PIPELINE FOR CONTINUED in the pipeline are conversions while the rest are new conthat. Scandic’s market-leading position provides economies GROWTH structions. of scale that enable efficient hotel operations. In addition, 2017 was an active year for Scandic, with a record number Four of the planned hotels are in Copenhagen, including Scandic offers strong distribution capacity with its large of hotel openings that contributed to growth at the end of a new centrally-located hotel near the central station and base of returning business customers and the market’s the year. A total of 11 hotels were opened with over 2,700 Tivoli Gardens. With its 632 rooms, the hotel, which will be largest loyalty program, Scandic Friends. All of this makes rooms. Most of the new hotels during the year were concalled Scandic Spectrum, will be the largest in Scandic’s Scandic an attractive partner for property owners, both versions, that is, hotel operations at existing hotels that portfolio. In addition, during the year, Scandic announced when it comes to new hotels and taking over existing ones. Scandic took over. The advantage of this type of expansion a new hotel in the emerging Scanport area adjacent to is that there is a relatively short amount of time between ­Kastrup Airport that is scheduled to open in 2020. A LEADING POSITION signing an agreement and taking over a hotel, giving In addition to new hotels, the company is constantly Scandic’s total market share in the Nordic region was about ­Scandic the opportunity to grow without affecting supply working to optimize its existing hotel portfolio together with 13 percent before the acquisition of Restel in Finland and on the market. Eight of the hotels that were opened during the property owners through improvements, extensions approximately 15 percent including Restel. Scandic is a the year came from an agreement with property owners and reconfigurations. At the end of 2017, Scandic had market leader in Sweden as well as in Denmark and after the Pandox and Eiendomspar to take over a hotel portfolio that ongoing extensions including 285 rooms, which correacquisition of Restel, it will also lead the market in Finland. included the magnificent Grand Hotel in Oslo. sponds in capacity to one new hotel. Scandic is also Today, about half of the hotels in the Nordic market are At the end of 2017, Scandic had a signed pipeline of involved in a number of ongoing negotiations regarding run by hotel chains and the rest by small operators. There agreements for 18 hotels and close to 6,000 rooms, which additional agreements. is a clear trend where the largest hotel chains are growing MARKET SHARES IN THE NORDICS 2017 – BASED ON NO. OF ROOMS MARKET SHARES 2012 – 2017 Hotel brands Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Total % Scandic 16,580 13,082 3,879 12,282 45,823 20 Nordic Choice 15,404 12,966 1,200 755 30,325 S-Group 10,325 10,325 15 Rezidor 2,046 6,303 1,838 10,187 Thon 200 9,023 9,223 10 Elite 4,742 4,742 Others 84,044 45,699 38,516 27,364 195,624 5 Total market 123,016 87,073 45,433 50,726 306,249 0 Scandic’s market share, % 13.5 15.0 8.5 24.2 15.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scandic incl. Restel Nordic Choice S-Group Scandic Rezidor Elite Restel Thon Source: Nordic Hotel Database. Source: Nordic Hotel Database. GRI: G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 17 MARKET-LEADING POSITION faster than the market over time by taking market share “2017 WAS AN ACTIVE from smaller players. Operational economies of scale and stronger distribution capacity combined with financial YEAR FOR SCANDIC, capacity are contributing to this development, which is WITH A RECORD N ­ UMBER expected to continue in the future. OF HOTEL OPENINGS The market is dominated by Nordic companies, with THAT CONTRIBUTED ­little significant presence of any major international chains. The Nordic market is dominated by the long-term leasing TO GROWTH AT model and the model of franchise and management agreeTHE END OF THE YEAR.” ments preferred by international chains is not as widespread in the Nordic countries. LEADING WITHIN ACCESSIBILITY Scandic has had a Director of Accessibility for many years who works to make Scandic’s hotels accessible. This work is supported by Scandic’s 135-point Sustainability Standard that all hotels must follow when implementing solutions to make their premises as accessible as possible. For Scandic, all guests are equally important, no matter what their abilities. HOTEL PORTFOLIO No. of Pipeline, No. of Openings during the year Location Type rooms year Hotel Location Type rooms Scandic Drammen Drammen, Norway Conversion 287 2018 Scandic Central Elverum Elverum, Norway Franchise 98 Scandic Flesland Airport Bergen, Norway New 300 Scandic Leknes Leknes, Norway Franchise 63 Grand Hotel by Scandic Oslo, Norway Conversion 274 Scandic The Mayor Aarhus, Denmark Conversion 162 Scandic Sørlandet Kristiansand, Norway Conversion 210 Scandic Franfurt Museumsufer Frankfurt, Germany Conversion 293 Scandic Valdres Fagernes, Norway Conversion 139 Scandic Lillestrøm Lillestrom, Norway New 220 Scandic Kista Stockholm, Sweden Conversion 149 Scandic Helsinki Airport Helsinki, Finland New 150 Scandic Sluseholmen Copenhagen, Denmark Conversion 215 Scandic Brennemoen Eidsberg, Norway Franchise 100 Scandic Lillehammer Hotel Lillehammer, Norway Conversion 303 Hotel Norge by Scandic Bergen, Norway Conversion 417 Scandic Hafjell Hafjell, Norway Conversion 210 Scandic Kødbyen Copenhagen, Denmark New 372 Scandic Prince Philip Stockholm, Sweden Conversion 208 Holiday Inn West (part of the Restel acquisition) Helsinki, Finland Renovation 256 Downtown Camper by Scandic Stockholm, Sweden Re-opening 494 2019 Scandic Falconer Copenhagen, Denmark Conversion 336 2,789 Scandic Marski Helsinki, Finland Conversion 363 2020 Scandic Platinan Gothenburg, Sweden New 362 Scandic Landvetter Airport Gothenburg, Sweden New 220 Scandic Helsinki Railway Station Copenhagen, Denmark New 483 Scandic Copenhagen Airport Copenhagen, Denmark New 357 2021 Scandic Spectrum Copenhagen, Denmark New 632 Scandic Hamburger Börs Turku, Finland Conversion 300 Scandic Hafenpark Frankfurt, Germany New 506 Ongoing extensions 285 5,975 18 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET-LEADING POSITION POSITION IN MID-MARKET SEGMENT There are three price segments in the hotel industry: the premium, mid-market and economy Scandic delivers a high-quality product. Its hotels maintain a high standard, their geographic segments. Scandic operates in the mid-market segment, which includes about 80 percent network is unique in the Nordic region and the company has a strong distribution capacity. of the total hotel capacity in the Nordic region. This segment is characterized by being Given these factors and the strength of the Scandic brand, Scandic sees potential to increase less cyclical than the other segments and is the most popular among Nordic hotel guests. revenues further in the future. One key is to succeed in communicating its products and Historically, cyclical fluctuations affect the mid-market segment to a lesser extent. ­concepts even better. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 19 MARKET-LEADING POSITION POTENTIAL IN GERMANY Scandic’s base is the Nordic market, but as of February that Scandic’s way of operating hotels effectively is competits second hotel in Berlin under the name Scandic Kurfürsten­ 2018, the company also had six hotels outside of the Nordic itive in Germany as well. With this as a base, Scandic has an damm. All of the hotels have had a positive RevPAR developregion, four of them in Germany. The positive experience ambition to continue growing in Germany by establishing ment in recent years and two have achieved profit­ability from these hotels has led Scandic to see good opportunities hotels in a number of the largest cities. exceeding the average in the Group. for growth in this large market. Since the fall 2016, Scandic has had a business develThe German hotel market is about twice the size of the oper responsible for Scandic’s business development in the ETABLISHMENT IN FRANKFURT Nordic market based on the number of rooms and it is conGerman market. One challenge is that Scandic is still a relaAt the end of June, Scandic signed an agreement to take siderably more fragmented. Scandic is a small player in the tively unknown player in the market. In addition, the leasing over the operation of the Wyndham Grand Frankfurt hotel, German hotel market and at the beginning of the year, the model is a bit different, with a higher proportion of fixed rent which has 293 rooms. The centrally-located hotel opened company had about 1,100 rooms at three hotels. As in the unlike the Nordic model. For this reason, it is important to as Scandic Frankfurt Museumsufer in early 2018. In DecemNordic region, the leasing model used by Scandic is the grow selectively to secure profitable growth. Expansion ber, Scandic also signed an agreement to operate a new most common basis for cooperation among German propshould not be at any price and expected returns on hotel large conference hotel next to the European Central Bank’s erty owners. Another similarity with the Nordic region is that investments should contribute to Scandic achieving its new headquarters. The hotel will have 506 rooms and will the market is dominated by domestic business travelers, financial goals. It is likely that future growth will consist of be one of Frankfurt’s largest conference hotels when it which provides a certain degree of stability over the busia combination of acquisitions of existing capacity and opens in 2021. ness cycle. This fits well into Scandic’s business model, new construction. Frankfurt is an exciting hotel market, as it is Germany’s as inter-Nordic corporate travelers are the foundation of financial center and a major trade fair city. It is also home Scandic’s business in its domestic markets. In addition, INITIAL POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT to one of Europe’s busiest airports, which is being expanded the Nordic way of taking care of guests and designing Scandic’s first hotel in Berlin, Scandic Potsdamer Platz, further. hotels is appreciated. And profitability has developed very opened in 2010 and two years later, Scandic Hamburg positively at Scandic’s three existing hotels, which shows Emporio opened in Hamburg. In 2014, the company opened 20 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET-LEADING POSITION MARKET LEADER IN FINLAND WITH RESTEL At the end of 2017, Scandic acquired Restel Hotelit Oy in “SCANDIC SEES GREAT are lower in Restel’s hotels than in Scandic’s. Scandic sees Finland. Scandic had previously held a leading position in great opportunities to strengthen RevPAR once the hotels ­OPPORTUNITIES TO STRENGTHEN the Helsinki area and was the third largest hotel operator gain access to Scandic’s strong Nordic distribution capacity in the entire Finnish market. REVPAR ONCE THE HOTELS GAIN and loyalty program. The acquisition also will make Scandic The acquisition of Restel has contributed 43 hotels with ACCESS TO SCANDIC’S STRONG a more attractive partner for corporate customers now that about 7,600 rooms, most of which have been operated NORDIC DISTRIBUTION CAPACITY the company has a more comprehensive offering in the under the Cumulus brand except for seven that were operFinnish market. ated under franchise agreements by IHG. The Finnish ComAND LOYALTY PROGRAM.” In its integration work, Scandic can benefit from the expepetition and Consumer Authority approved the transaction rience gained from acquiring Rica in 2014, which strengthsubject to the divestment of one hotel in Lahti, one in Pori ened Scandic’s position in Norway. In addition to the obvious and one in Kuopio within a 12-month period. Additionally, cost benefits, there was a clear effect from increased corpothe transaction was conditioned on Scandic committing SIGNIFICANT SALES SYNERGIES rate customers and government organizations once Scandic not to participate in certain announced hotel projects As soon as the deal was completed on December 29, 2017, had a more complete offering in the Norwegian market. in ­Lappeenranta and Vantaa. work began to rebrand the acquired hotels into Scandic Restel’s hotel portfolio complements Scandic’s existing hotels. From late February, Scandic began working to FINNISH MARKET DEVELOPING WELL network and provides access to nearly 15 new locations, rebrand three hotels per week. The Finnish economy improved in 2017 after a long period giving the company a comprehensive offering in the Finnish Integration work began in early 2018 and Scandic sees of low or negative GDP growth, and there has also been a market. In addition, Scandic will enjoy significantly greater synergies in areas such as purchasing and administration, positive trend in the hotel market in Finland in recent years. exposure to the growing leisure segment than previously in where the company can benefit from existing back office In total, RevPAR increased by 10.3 percent driven by both Finland. Restel currently has lower profitability than Scandic functions. higher average room rates and greater occupancy. At the in Finland, but there are considerable opportunities to The largest benefit of the Restel acquisition, however, is same time as demand for hotel nights has risen, the total increase profitability in the acquired business after rebrandnot on the cost side but rather the opportunity to drive sales range of hotels in Finland has remained relatively stable in ing and integration. growth. At present, both occupancy and average room rates the last few years. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 21 COMMERCIAL PLATFORM Scandic has a strong position among Nordic corporate customers and Scandic Friends is the biggest hotel loyalty program in the Nordic countries. This contributes to a large part of sales being made through Scandic’s own channels. 22 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM CONTROLLED DISTRIBUTION Scandic sells most of its hotel rooms through its own booking channels – through direct contact with the hotels, its website and its call centers. The primary external booking channels are contracted dealers, global distribution systems (GDS) and online travel agencies (OTAs). The latter are especially important for reaching new customers and international travelers. The division of distribution between Scandic’s own channels and external partners in 2017 was about the same as during the previous year, which means that Scandic sells about 63 percent of its hotel rooms through its own distribution channels. This is a relatively high proportion in the hotel industry and it gives Scandic consider­able control over the dynamic market that is connected to the travel industry. SHARP INCREASE IN SALES VIA WEBSITE Over time, customers have moved from traditional channels to digital channels, and during 2017, Scandic developed its digital platform additionally. In 2017, Scandic had sales growth in all distribution channels except for its call centers. Among its own channels, Scandic’s website stands out. It enjoyed particularly strong development during the year. RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS STRENGTHENED THROUGH OWN CHANNELS In addition to the obvious advantage that all revenue goes to Scandic when customers make bookings through its own website, the website serves an important function in establishing and developing relationships with customers. Thanks to this, guests can receive relevant information and customized offers throughout their customer journey. Scandic expects a continuous increase in bookings via digital channels in the future. Having control of the customer journey and being present in all digital areas will be critical. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 23 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM DIGITAL OPPORTUNITIES CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS CENTRAL January 2017, all of Scandic’s guests have been able to read nels, work is becoming more data-driven, requiring Scandic further improved its work to map guest behavior more than 5,000 national and international newspapers on new skills and greater adaptability. Scandic always stays during the year. Following the customer journey – from the their digital devices through a partnership with the Pressup-to-date to meet the challenges of tomorrow and on planning phase to booking, staying and talking about the reader app. This service is well in line with Scandic’s digital a system level, the company maintains an overview of stay – has become central. Feedback from guests is initiatives and reducing the consumption of print publications the entire digital platform, creating good conditions for analyzed to make constant improvements and provide fits in well with the company’s sustainability profile. During the future. as smooth a customer experience as possible. the year, all hotels also gained access to a system that makes it possible to see the design of rooms before guests get their STRONG DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 keys. Basic technical solutions such as digital meeting tools During the year, Scandic continued to develop its digital and free wifi have been offered at Scandic for several years. platform by recruiting skilled specialists and working to improve systems and digital marketing. CONTINUED DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL Scandic’s website demonstrated strong growth in 2017. Scandic understands that the companies that best underThere are three reasons for the increase: stand the digital landscape and are most relevant to cus• Improved responsiveness on the website led to a higher tomers will be the winners of today and tomorrow. At the conversion rate in the buying flow. beginning of 2018, Scandic launched an app to improve • Better content in all digital channels helped drive the customer experience on mobile devices. The app organic (search engine optimized) traffic to the site. ­integrates the new loyalty program and frequent guest • Greater investments in digitally-purchased marketing benefits such as restaurant vouchers are now digitalized. led to a significant increase in bookings. Members can also now follow their journey as they level up in the program. TECHNOLOGY IMPORTANT AT HOTELS In the digital world, there is a need to constantly develop Hotel direct, website, call centers At Scandic’s hotels, all housekeeping staff have access to expertise among employees and the systems they work Online travel agents Global distribution Contracted tablets to share information about room cleaning. And since with. As both sales and marketing move into digital chan(OTA & ADS) systems (GDS) leisure 24 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM MAXIMIZING THE HOTEL EXPERIENCE In 2017, Scandic invested significantly in developing and improving relevant parts of the which today scores high in customer service surveys, but this work will naturally never be hotel experience. Based on evaluations and feedback from guests, the company took steps completely ­finished. In 2017, a new meeting concept was launched, which has been well to further develop its offering to maximize the guest experience. An upgraded food and received by customers. Scandic strives to be the leading provider of meeting services in the beverage offering was launched during the year and in 2018, a room concept designed to industry and in total, about 600 team members have been trained as meeting advisors. have more emotional appeal will be introduced. Scandic is continuing to improve its service, SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 25 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM GENERAL MANAGERS HOLD THE KEY Scandic’s general managers play a major role in the Group’s success both in terms of profit­ to the local market. For general managers to fully focus on their local business, they have all ability and in ensuring that Scandic’s culture lives and develops at the hotels. They have full the necessary support from Scandic’s central functions such as finance, sales, HR and reveresponsibility for revenue and costs for their respective hotels, which is natural since they nue management. Because they are fully responsible for the hotel’s revenue and expenses, know their hotels and locations best. Their mission also includes adapting Scandic’s offering they work closely with the revenue manager for the region where the hotel is located. 26 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM FOCUS ON CORPORATE CUSTOMERS CORPORATE CUSTOMERS 2017, a new meeting concept was launched that Scandic Scandic has a strong position in the Nordic countries when is convinced will strengthen its offering to companies and SOLD ROOMS BY CUSTOMER SEGMENT it comes to corporate agreements. About 70 percent of the organizations that choose to meet at Scandic. company’s revenues come from business travel and conIn 2017, some 15 percent of Scandic’s revenues came ferences and the remaining 30 percent from leisure travelfrom conferences. The box below illustrates the Group’s ers. Recurring business is central and more than 90 perdistribution of sales. cent of corporate customers renew their agreements. Many contracts are signed at the end of the year and the LEISURE TRAVEL ON THE RISE contracted periods vary. Scandic has approximately 4,000 By 2017, the share of rooms sold to leisure travelers corporate customers and most of the largest companies in increased at Scandic. The trend is particularly strong each Nordic country have an agreement with Scandic. in Norway and Sweden where room sales in the leisure segment increased more than corporate bookings, DEVELOPED OFFERING ­especially from international visitors. Scandic is working Leisure Meetings & Individual Individual groups corporate groups corporate leisure Corporate agreements form the backbone of Scandic’s constantly to adapt its offering to meet the growing business. Scandic has a central sales organization where demand in the leisure segment. employees can share tips and experiences on how to best serve existing customers and establish new contacts. In SHARE OF SCANDIC’S REVENUES HOTEL NIGHTS MEETINGS & CONFERENCES 67% 15% FOOD & BE VE R AG E C O R P O R AT E A G R E E M E N T S 18% ~4,000 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 27 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM LOYALTY PROGRAM THE LARGEST BASE OF LOYAL CUSTOMERS “IN JANUARY 2018, IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES Loyal customers are a cornerstone of Scandic’s business. SCANDIC LAUNCHED The company’s loyalty program, Scandic Friends, has seen AN UPDATED LOYALTY a constant increase in members each year. At the end of 2017, Scandic Friends members continued to account PROGRAM.” for 35 percent of bookings. Within the industry, Scandic Friends is the Nordic region’s largest loyalty program based on the number of active members. NEW SCANDIC FRIENDS extra points. Along with the new loyalty program, Scandic In January 2018, Scandic launched an updated loyalty also launched an app that is closely connected to the program. The new Scandic Friends has been modernized ­program and improves communication with customers. to ease the interaction between Scandic and its loyal The app is partly based on gamification where members customers. The starting point for the program is to offer can follow their journey to the next level within the program. more personal and relevant communication. Scandic has also expanded its network of partners within the CUSTOMER SATISFACTION framework of the program and in these agreements, Scandic measures customer satisfaction as an NPS, or there are more opportunities to earn and spend points Net Promoter Score, that shows the share of customers at various partners. that would recommend Scandic to friends and colleagues. Earlier, members could only earn points on hotel nights. Scandic’s NPS increased during 2017, with a positive Now they can earn points on all purchases at Scandic and development in all Nordic markets. booking through Scandic’s own channels will earn them SCANDIC FRIENDS MEMBERS’ SHARE OF BOOKINGS 35% 28 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LEADING COMMERCIAL PLATFORM “KEEPING TRACK OF COSTS IS CRUCIAL TO SCANDIC’S SUCCESS.” EFFECTIVE COST CONTROL Scandic uses KPIs (key performance indicators) within its organization, important key EFFECTIVE SYSTEMS TO COLLECT & ANALYZE DATA figures that are used to evaluate how effectively its business is being operated. These Thanks to the company’s effective follow-up systems, data can be collected and analyzed. Every can include, for example, working hours in relation to number of guests and resource morning, each general manager can obtain an overview of the previous day. What was the revenue? allocation at breakfast or during cleaning. KPIs give quick and simple answers that can How was it distributed? How many working hours were required? Based on this information, activities be used to take action. Keeping track of costs is crucial to Scandic’s success. for the next day can be adapted and planned in the best way. The data from the hotels is collected centrally so that Scandic can evaluate each hotel and compare it with other hotels in the portfolio. Successful measures that reduce costs in one hotel can then be implemented widely. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 29 VARIABLE LEASES The model with variable leases has proven successful for Scandic. A flexible cost base contributes to stable earnings while both Scandic and property owners share a vested interest in making investments to drive sales growth. 30 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 VARIABLE LEASES LEASES VARIABLE LEASES MEAN A FLEXIBLE “THE LEASE MODEL HAS maintenance. Over time, the model with long-term variable COST STRUCTURE leases has led to constructive cooperation between Scandic Scandic’s business model is based on hotels that are CREATED CONSTRUCTIVE and the property owners, with a joint interest for both parties ­operated through leases. These leases are generally long AND LONG-TERM RELATIONto continuously develop and improve the properties since term with variable rents based on the hotel’s revenue. This model gives Scandic a relatively flexible cost structure with SHIPS BETWEEN SCANDIC increased revenues for Scandic also generate higher rents for the property owner. Scandic’s largest partner is Pandox, relatively stable margins throughout the economic cycle. AND PROPERTY OWNERS.” which owns approximately 20 percent of the hotel portfolio, ­Historically, Scandic has been very good at remaining and a total of eight property owners hold approximately half profit­able during weak periods in the hotel industry. One of the hotel portfolio. such example is Scandic’s Norwegian operations, where the company was able to maintain positive margins in the LIMITED PRESENCE OF GLOBAL ­Stavanger region during the 2015 oil crisis even though there is a legal tenure, meaning that the tenant is entitled HOTEL CHAINS demand for hotel nights dropped drastically in a short time to extend the lease on market terms. In other countries, The model with long-term leases is dominant in the Nordic at the same time as supply increased. Scandic’s leases generally include an option to extend the hotel markets. The major global hotel chains focus mainly At the end of 2017, 240 of Scandic’s 262 hotels were original agreement. At the end of 2017, the average on franchise and management agreements, which is why operated through lease agreements. Two-thirds had variable remaining length of leases was just over 11 years. their presence in the Nordic countries is limited. leases with a minimum guarantee, roughly 20 percent had Responsibility for investments is clearly regulated in the fully variable leases and only 10 percent had fixed leases. lease agreement. In general, the property owner is responsible for maintaining and refurbishing the building as well GOOD RELATIONSHIPS WITH PROPERTY as technical installations and bathrooms. Scandic, on the OWNERS other hand, is responsible for maintaining and renovating The lease model has created long-term relationships with the hotels’ furniture, fixtures and equipment. landlords. Scandic’s leases generally have an initial term of Scandic’s hotel portfolio is in good shape and the 15 to 20 years. In Sweden and to some extent in Denmark, ­company regularly invests 3.5 to 4 percent of sales in LARGEST PROPERTY OWNERS1) BREAKDOWN OF LEASE AGREEMENTS1) REMAINING LEASE LENGTHS2) Number of rooms 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 Pandox Capman Rica Eiendom Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 02 7 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 >2 Balder KLP Eiendomsspar Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed Utstillingsplassen Midstar Other 1) Excluding pipeline. 2) Including pipeline. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 31 VARIABLE LEASES LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS TAKEOVER OF 8 HOTELS DEMONSTRATES STRENGTH OF BUSINESS MODEL On January 18, 2017, Scandic signed an agreement with property owners Pandox and Eiendomsspar to take over the operation of a portfolio of eight hotels with a total of 1,708 rooms, of which 1,136 were in Norway, 357 in Stockholm and 215 in Copenhagen. Seven of the hotels are owned by Pandox and one by Eiendomsspar, and Pandox was previously responsible for operating the hotels, all of which had been renovated by the time of the takeover. The transaction took place without consideration and it was based on long-term, fully-variable income-based leases. The agreement includes Oslo’s leading hotel, the Grand Hotel, a hotel that recently underwent an extensive renovation and that dates back to the late 19th century. The Grand Hotel, which is owned by Eiendomsspar, has become a signature hotel. The fact that Scandic’s most important partner entrusts the operation of hotels to Scandic without consideration and with fully variable rents illustrates the strength of Scandic’s business model and the partnerships the company has with its property owners. 32 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 33 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT “Our sustainability work is something I feel strongly about. It is simply the right thing to do, good for business and an important part of our business model.” EVEN FRYDENBERG, PRESIDENT & CEO 34 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT GOAL-ORIENTED SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Scandic’s continued commitment to sustainability increases motivation among its team members. We also see a growing demand for sustainable alternatives from corporate customers and guests. Sustainability is not just a responsibility for Scandic, it is a business opportunity. SC A N D IC ’ S 4 M A I N SUS TA I N A B I LIT Y GOA L S 1 2 D I V E R S IT Y H E A LT H & I N C LU S I O N Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Scandic will lead the hotel industry Scandic will be the premier hotel choice in giving all employees the same for customers who prioritize a healthy lifestyle opportunities and reflect the society and an attractive employer when it comes to in which we operate. work-life balance. 3 4 CO 2 E M I S S I O N S WA S T E Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Scandic will be the hotel company Scandic will continually work to reduce with the lowest CO2 emissions. total waste and increase the share of recycled waste. GRI: G4-19, G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 35 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT 1 This work is important, both from the per2 spective of being a responsible corporate One result of Scandic’s focus on team DIVERSITY & INCLUSION citizen and as a means of reaching future HEALTH members is that all countries achieved the Diversity refers to the mix of people of variteam members. Leadership and culture promote Excellent level in the annual employee surous backgrounds and characteristics, In Norway, the Helt Med project, carried health vey. In addition, Scandic was named best while inclusion is how to manage the mix out in cooperation with the SOR organizaScandic constantly focuses on the well-­ workplace of the year in 2017 in Finland to achieve the best possible results. Today, tion and the Norwegian authorities, was being of its employees. In 2016 and 2017, and Denmark according to the Great Place Scandic is highly diverse. For example, it started to offer people with dis­abilities it carried out major initiatives to introduce to Work survey. employs more than 120 nationalities and work experience, in some cases followed a new cultural platform with updated valthere is a relatively even gender distribuby a job offer at Scandic. The outcome has ues. The company has also reviewed the Human rights tion within the organization. Scandic’s new been positive and several of the people way Scandic’s leadership should be to Scandic’s Code of Conduct covers human Diversity & Inclusion Policy emphasizes involved are now employed by the comallow all team members to demonstrate the rights. It states that fundamental human the fact that diversity is a prerequisite for pany. In Sweden, Scandic cooperates with company’s values. To this end, Scandic has rights and working conditions shall be the company’s success because it proseveral organizations that help new arrivdeveloped a tool called the “Leadership known, respected and apply equally to all vides a better recruiting base, improves als find work through mentorships (Mitt Compass.” Over the year, all leaders at employees, regardless of their form of the company’s ability to interact with guests Liv) and give youths an understanding of Scandic were trained in the new model, employment. and raises the level of creativity and sense working life (My Dream Now). both via the digital training platform Fuse When suppliers are procured, those of community. Scandic is equally clear on and in physical meetings in the “Leaderwho meet the UN Global Compact criteria the point that no discrimination in this area KPI – Goal 2020 ship Lab” project where they practiced are prioritized. One such example is is tolerated. At least 90 percent of all employees leadership skills together. Scandic wants ­Scandic’s cooperation with Fairtrade, Scandic doesn’t just have a clear policy shall state in the employee survey these leadership training programs to instill which ensures good working conditions in place. It is also inclusive by working that there is a good level of diversity in a sense of confidence in all employees. for ­people working with its products. constantly on values and leadership aimed the organization. Ultimately, the company is convinced that Scandic takes an active stance against at encouraging inclusion throughout the this will lead to increased job satisfaction forced labor, child labor, discrimination, organization. Outcomes and happier guests. corporal punishment and the unlawful The hotels in all countries also offer 100 In all countries, the physical and psycho-­ deprivation of liberty. The company safepractical work experience programs. This GOAL: >90% social work environments are monitored guards people’s freedom of association helps people gain on-the-job training at 90 regularly through safety inspections, and their right to join a union. Trafficking Scandic, bringing them closer to the job 80 employee surveys and personal dialogues and prostitution and the consequences of market. About 84 percent of Scandic’s between managers and team members. these activities are human rights viola70 hotels have offered some form of work tions. Scandic realizes that such violations experience program in the last 12 months. 60 2016 2017 For more KPIs within Sustainable footprint, see the table on page 50. 36 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-15, G4-19, G4-56, G4-DMA, LA-8, HR-2 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT may occur in its hotels and therefore 3 Data & responsibility are key hotel to be certified within one year of works to prevent them. Since 2015, To monitor the development of its environbecoming a Scandic hotel. By the end of ­Scandic has been training team members REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS mental initiatives, Scandic has a system for 2017, 90 percent of the hotels had on how to more easily detect trafficking Protecting the environment is a matter reporting environmental data, both centrally achieved this goal. Other examples of and/or prostitution in their hotels and act of survival and locally at each hotel. The aim is for this environmental standards include serving to prevent them. This training will continue Our environmental work is a central part reporting to be more transparent in 2018 so organic food in all countries. in 2018. of our natural responsibility for our planet. that external parties can more easily monitor In 2017, the environmental criteria for And corporate customers and guests are Scandic’s carbon footprint. In 2017, responpurchasing various materials were also KPI – Goal 2020 increasingly requesting more sustainable sibility for environmental issues was clarified revised. The aim is for the guidelines to At least 65 percent of employees shall hotel services. This means that Scandic’s and reinforced at all hotels. The general help Scandic be more environmentally-­ state that they are positive about being environmental initiatives are an important manager at each hotel is now responsible friendly when renovating and building new able to manage stress in the annual part of the business. Scandic has an Envifor ensuring that Scandic’s sustainability hotels. They also state that Scandic shall employee survey. ronmental Policy that applies to all hotels initiatives are carried out according to its work towards a circular economy – work and team members. The policy covers overarching procedures. that includes smarter solutions aimed at Outcome energy consumption, greenhouse gases, avoiding all types of waste. A plan for this 75 transport and travel, sustainable design, Environmental standards are work will be developed in 2018. GOAL: >65% 65 choice of materials, endangered species the driver and biodiversity, waste, water consumpScandic places a high value on its responCharging stations for electric cars 55 tion, chemicals and hazardous subsibility within the environmental area. Scandic will extend its existing network of 45 stances, responsible procurement, and Third-party environmental certifications charging stations for electric cars in concertification and labelling. are the driver for each hotel’s environmennection with its hotels. In Finland, a deci35 In 2017, Scandic’s total CO2 emissions tal initiatives. Hotels in the Nordic counsion was made to offer charging stations 2016 2017 decreased by more than 40 percent/ tries are certified according to the Nordic at hotels from Helsinki to Rovaniemi. In hotel night (from 2.64 kg/hotel night to Swan Ecolabel while hotels in Germany Sweden, thanks to a new procurement, 1.55 kg/hotel night). This is primarily and Poland are certified according to the charging stations will be implemented at due to updated emission factors for CO2, Green Globe and EU Eco Label respecmany more hotels all over the country. The more climate-smart energy solutions in tively. Certification involves criteria for goal is for Scandic to offer a comprehenthe municipalities where Scandic operates waste management, water consumption, sive charging network in the Nordic counand better follow-up at all hotels. energy consumption, carbon emissions tries that will also help each country in the and chemical use. The goal is for each shift towards an electric vehicle fleet. For more KPIs within Sustainable footprint, see the table on page 50. GRI: G4-15, G4-19, G4-DMA, HR-2 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 37 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT Award-winning environmental 4 ­initiatives In 2017, Scandic Sweden was ranked as WASTE MANAGEMENT Sweden’s most sustainable brand in its Work to reduce waste has been ongoing for industry, according to the Sustainable several years throughout the Group. In Brand Index. 2017, 79 percent of Scandic’s waste was Scandic was also recognized during the recycled, which is an increase compared year by the CDP, a non-profit organization with 2016, when the figure was 69 percent. that offers a global system for measuring a However, total waste increased by slightly company’s environmental impact. As such, more than 8 percent partly due to increased it is the leading environmental and climate revenues for Food & Beverage. index for investors. According to the CDP’s To manage food waste, Scandic is report over the two past years, Scandic implementing a program at all hotels achieved a level B ranking, above the averwhere breakfast waste will be weighed age for the 260 largest Nordic companies. while other initiatives (such as using This classification shows that Scandic is smaller breakfast plates) are helping working in a coordinated way on matters guests throw away less food. In Sweden, related to its climate impact. Norway and Denmark, cooperation with Karma and Too good to go are ensuring KPI – Goal 2020 that leftover food that would normally have 10 percent reduction in CO2 emissions/ gone to waste is being sold on digital platrevenue forms.1) In Norway and Denmark, Scandic is cooperating with a supplier called WinOutcomes now to weigh and analyze all food waste. 4 This working method will also be tested in GOAL: <2.5 kg/revenue Sweden and Germany in 2018. 3 1) This initiative is not being carried out in Finland due to more restrictive regulations for food handling. 2 1 KPI – Goal 2020 0 10 percent more waste recycled 2016 2017 Outcome 90 GOAL: >76% 80 70 60 50 2016 2017 For more KPIs within Sustainable footprint, see the table on page 50. 38 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-15, G4-19, G4-DMA SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Scandic has an established Code of Conduct that applies to all employees. The code is based on UN Global Compact principles that address anti-corruption, work environment, the environment and human rights. Scandic is a signatory of Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. While Scandic works towards most of the goals, the company has a specific focus on the following four goals. U N ’ S SUS TA I N A B LE D E V E LO PME NT GOA L S 1) H OW SC A N D IC CO NTR I BUTE S Equality is an end in itself as well as a prerequisite for sustainable and peaceful development. Gender equality is achieved when both Analyzes and takes action to achieve gender balance in women and men, girls and boys, enjoy equal rights, conditions, ­recruiting through internal programs as well as internal and opportunities and the power to shape their lives themselves and external recruiting. contribute to the development of society. Work for inclusive and long-term sustainable economic growth, Offers equal conditions and follows up on work environment. with full and productive employment and decent working con­ Has a Global Compact for suppliers. Offers work experience ditions for all. programs for people outside the labor market. Offers equal conditions regardless of gender, disability, ethnic ­background, etc. through value and leadership development. Reduce inequality within and between countries. Also offers work experience for people outside the labor market and has a focus on Fairtrade products. Promote sustainable consumption and production patterns Third-party environmental certifications of all hotels and through the efficient use of resources, consideration for ­individual products. This means lower use of energy, water and ecosystem services that are necessary for supply and reduce chemicals and less waste. Environmental requirements for the impacts of hazardous chemicals. all suppliers. 1) Read more about how Scandic contributes to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals on pages 56–57. GRI: G4-56, G4-DMA, LA-8 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 39 SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT ENGAGED PARTNER IN SOCIETY ANTI-CORRUPTION SCANDIC IN SOCIETY SAFETY & SECURITY Scandic operates hotels in several countries and complies Local involvement is critical to Scandic’s success. It is also Security is important for both guests and corporate custom­ with all relevant national legislation. Scandic has a special the driver behind the internal “Scandic in Society” program, ers and a key area of focus for Scandic. Scandic is highly Anti-Corruption Policy that stipulates that Scandic shall which involves all hotels. The starting point is that each committed to safety and security at its hotels and hopes never engage in any form of corruption. Scandic is working hotel should carry out at least three activities per year to to inspire other companies to do the same. to eliminate all forms of corruption, including extortion, contribute to the local community. This means that Scandic Scandic’s team members receive regular training in ­bribery, nepotism, fraud and money laundering. Scandic hotels make resources such as employees’ time, premises basic security issues, both interactively and practically, and must ensure that all employees, partners and suppliers and/or food available. Scandic’s team members give of two mandatory fire and evacuation drills are carried out understand that corruption is unacceptable. Confidence and their enthusiasm and engagement to help where it is each year. trust between companies and their customers, employees needed most. In addition to the joy and satisfaction it gives In addition, every six months, Scandic carries our comand the public are very important factors for corporate Scandic’s team members to be active in creating a better prehensive crisis management exercises to simulate possidevelopment. Scandic is committed to complying with good and safer society, it promotes team spirit. ble and relevant events. This includes lock-down exercises business practices and acting in a sustainable way based One example of an activity carried out in 2017 is lanthat simulate situations where the hotel closes entrances on internationally-accepted principles of anti-corruption. guage courses for team members who need to develop and exits to increase guest security. These exercises are Scandic has signed the UN Global Compact and complies local language proficiency. Many hotels also offer con­ run by Scandic’s central crisis unit, which follows up on the with its principles. The principle applicable to Scandic’s ference rooms free of charge to social organizations and results. All hotels also have access to emergency help from Anti-Corruption Policy is Principle 10: Businesses should charities. In all countries, hotels also offer on-the-job the 24-hour Scandic Crisis Call Center, which was very work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion ­training for people outside the labor market. helpful during the terrorist attack in Stockholm on April 7, and bribery. The document covers compliance and respon2017. Additionally, once a year, Scandic runs first aid sibility as well as the consequences of breaches, bribery or courses that focus on CPR and using AEDs (automated “lubrication payments”. It also deals with how Scandic external defibrillators). regards gifts, donations, sponsorship and political party contributions, fraud, extortion and money laundering, ­conflicts of interests, fair competition and insider trading (for which there is a special policy). In 2018, training programs on anti-corruption and ­follow-up for team members will be improved. 40 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-DMA SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT POLICIES THAT STEER SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Scandic has an established Code of Conduct that applies to all employees in both the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. It is based on the UN Global Compact principles dealing with anti-corruption, working environment, the environment, employees and human rights. All managers within the company are responsible for providing their team members with information about the content of the code. Thereafter, it is the responsibility of each manager and team member to follow the content of the code in their everyday work. P O L I C I E S A N D F O L LO WU P All of Scandic’s policies have been adopted by CO D E O F CO N DU C T SU PPLI E R Scandic’s Board of Directors. Within the framework Owned by the CEO. CO D E O F CO N DU C T of all policies, team members are encouraged to first contact their managers if they notice irregulariMembers of the management team are responsible Owned by the CFO. ties or if there are problems interpreting the content for implementing the Code within their units. The Director Group Procurement and Country Heads of the policies. are responsible for implementing the content of the Supplier Code of Conduct. UPDATED WHISTLEBLOWING SERVICE A NTI CO R RU P TIO N If employees or external parties discover deviations Owned by the CFO. from these policies, these can be reported anonyE N V I RO NME NT Members of the Executive Committee are responsible mously through Scandic’s Whistleblowing Service, for implementing the Code within their units. Owned by the SVP HR & Sustainability. a service that guarantees anonymity. Scandic has Members of the Executive Committee are responsible also introduced a whistleblowing function made up for implementation within their units. of both representatives from Scandic’s Executive Committee and Board of Directors to handle any D I V E R S IT Y & I N CLU S IO N reported whistleblowing issues. Owned by the SVP HR & Sustainability. Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for implementation within their units. GRI: G4-56, G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 41 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM Scandic’s mission, vision, values and culture platform are well-established internally and serve as a compass for its team members. The company is convinced that commitment and ­motivation among employees is a prerequisite for delivering a world-class hotel experience to its guests. At the same time, it also makes the company attractive to future employees. 42 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM MISSION, VISION AND VALUES OUR VISION OUR MISSION OUR CULTURE & VALUES To be a world-class Nordic To create great hotel experiences The foundation for the culture that characterizes Scandic was hotel company for the many people built 50 years ago when the first Esso Motor Hotel opened. With the help of our Nordic spirit, corporate culture and We want to cater to as many people as we can. No matter Even though today we have thousands of employees in six way of doing things, we will be the best hotel company who they are, how they dress, where they are from or countries, we always try to live up to the driving forces that we can be. World class isn’t about five stars, red carpets where they are heading, we get up every morning to create once laid the foundation for Scandic. This legacy runs like a or the number of hotels, but about delivering an apprecigreat hotel experiences for everyone – from the moment common thread throughout our entire organization and also ated experience every day, both on stage and behind the our guests first think of us until they check out and tell their governs the way we recruit new team members. scenes for our guests, customers, employees and owners. friends about us. We think a fantastic hotel experience is Our culture can be summed up in four main values. The This is how we will make the coming years the proudest more than a nice room or a delicious breakfast or dinner. idea is for all team members to apply these concepts in and most successful in Scandic’s already very proud It’s a friendly smile, an inviting atmosphere, genuine sertheir daily work and in all relationships, both internal and ­history – and become one of the world’s most outstanding vice and that little extra – in other words, the entire experiexternal. They are formulated and communicated internally hotel companies. ence we create for our guests. as follows. O U R VA LU E S We are warm and welcoming, meeting everyone with open arms and We are reliable and deliver high, consistent quality in everything we do. open minds. And we care for the people, planet and society around us. But we also go beyond what is expected of us and know that the key to success is about focusing on every little detail and a constant endeavor to be even better. We are ourselves celebrating each other’s unique potential and We dare to do things differently, to go outside of our comfort zone and appreciating the advantage of our differences – just as we see and treat to spend more time looking forward than back – always aspiring to be an each guest as a unique individual. inspiration to our guests, to each other, to owners and to society at large. GRI: G4-56 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 43 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM INSPIRING NORDIC THIRD YEAR FOR SCANDIC’S INTERNAL v­ alues. Internally, 2017 was called “the leadership year” Build trust, Inspire, Collaborate and Empower. Scandic CULTURAL PLATFORM where the goal has been to develop leaders and give them strives towards a leadership that signals trust, confidence Scandic is a relationship-based company. Interactions with the tools to strengthen and develop their teams. Scandic and cooperativeness in an inspiring environment. All leadguests are central to its operations. Scandic is convinced is convinced that this will improve relationships with and ers at Scandic, both on the Group and management levels, that a strong internal culture is a prerequisite for interacting experiences for customers while making Scandic an have since learned about the Leadership Compass digitally with customers and guests in the best possible way. The attractive employer. An important part of this work with and through the “Leadership Lab.” The Leadership Lab is internal cultural platform, Inspiring Nordic, was introduced in values and leadership has been to give team members a workshop where leaders get the opportunity to work in 2015 as an aid and a concrete measure to support the coma greater mandate to make their own decisions. In this groups and use Leadership Compass tools to support them pany’s mission, vision and values Be Caring, Be You, Be a Pro way, power has been moved closer to guests. And in in their roles. Furthermore, Scandic’s internal measureand Be Bold. In 2016, extensive work began involving the the employee satisfaction survey 2017, 80 percent of ment tool, the Leadership Index, shows that 80 percent of entire Scandic team in workshops and competitions to help Scandic’s team members indicated that they fully underthe company’s team members believe that its leaders team members and their teams become engaged in and stand Scandic’s vision. demonstrate Scandic’s values in their daily work. apply what Inspiring Nordic means in their work and at their To further support its internal culture and bring leaders workplace. In 2017, Inspiring Nordic entered its third year, LEADERSHIP COMPASS POINTS THE WAY and team members closer together in a fast-moving digital team members were further involved and insights from preAgainst this backdrop, in 2017, Scandic launched the world, Scandic introduced a new digital tool for social vious years were used to create new guiding stars and ways Leadership Compass, a tool for Scandic’s leaders. The learning and internal communication called Fuse. The tool of working. Leadership Compass was developed through internal is intended facilitate sharing news, experiences, best prac­sessions with leaders and team members throughout the tice and inspiration. All employees now have access to LEADERSHIP THAT SUPPORTS VALUES organization, from all countries and all levels. These sesFuse via a smart phone app and/or computer. In 2018 and Leaders play an important role in any work on a cultural sions allowed Scandic to identify how leadership should be going forward, Scandic will continue to focus on Inspiring platform. A natural next step was therefore to ensure that to enable team members to live the company’s values. The Nordic and engaging team members in its work on its Scandic has leadership that supports its way of working Leadership Compass is intended to make it easier for leadinternal culture. and encourages team members to live the company’s ers to do the right thing. The compass has four directions: S C A N D I C ’ S L E A D E R S H I P CO M PA S S B U I LD TRU ST I N S PI R E CO LL A BO R ATE E MP OWE R As a leader, I am myself, I focus on As a leader, I set clear and As a leader, I create an environment As a leader, I communicate clear ­leading myself and I demonstrate inspiring goals and communicate and conditions where people dare ­expectations and believe that my self-awareness. in a transparent way. to be open and where we use everyteam members find the best way one’s strengths. to achieve our goals. I make sure we talk about and learn from I focus on and communicate the “why.” I develop a diverse team where everyone I am present, I coach and I support, allowing our mistakes. I live as I learn and ensure I challenge myself and team members by cooperates, respects each other and has others to shine. I focus on developing others I walk the talk. I take full responsibility for constantly striving to be “world-class”. the company’s best interests in focus. by giving clear feedback regularly. I take end results and demonstrate responsibility I encourage innovation, creativity and new I ensure we share best practices, encourresponsibility for my own development and in every situation. ideas based on our values. age each other and celebrate success. always look for new ways to grow. 44 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM FUSE FACILITATES SOCIAL LEARNING AND INTERNAL COMMUNICATION E M P LOY E E S W IT H CO L L E C T I V E AG R E E M E N T S 89% G E N E R A L M A N AG E R S R E C R U IT E D I N T E R N A L LY 85% A NEW WAY TO LEARN “FINALLY, A PLATFORM PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT, SCANDIC Fuse is a new digital learning and communication tool that promotes learning and internal communication in a new FOR ALL SCANDIC BUSINESS SCHOOL, WOMEN/MEN TEAM MEMBERS.” 60% 40% way. It is a social platform based on social media that encourages all forms of involvement. Fuse is a digital space for knowledge sharing, education and development ANONYMOUS SCANDIC TEAM MEMBER (61%) (39%) as well as for internal news and communication. Fuse also makes it easier to meet and collaborate across countries and functional boundaries. Fuse was initially offered to Scandic’s leaders during the compilation. Further training within Inspiring Nordic and first half-year of 2017 and then to the rest of the Scandic Scandic’s Leadership Lab accounted for the greatest share team at the end of the year. Training hours in the program of total training hours during the year. 25,929 17,062 are measured differently compared with measuring tradiActivity in Fuse is already at a high level, with almost tional training hours. In 2018, Scandic will report training 2,000 active users. Much of the material in Fuse is userTOTAL NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS hours in the new way once Fuse is fully implemented. Together, digital and analogue learning during 2017 based where everyone can contribute their best tips, inspire and help others on their journey to make Scandic 42,991 achieved a level slightly lower than the results for 2016. a world-class hotel company. Digital learning within Fuse was not included in this GRI: G4-11 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 45 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM DIVERSITY MAKES US COMPETITIVE AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE WITH A CLEAR cent men. Among general managers, the figure for women people are offered permanent employment with the comFOCUS ON DIVERSITY increased by one percentage point to 52 percent. Almost pany. About 12 percent of the company’s team members Scandic strives to have an inclusive culture throughout its 60 percent of the 1,400 new team members hired in 2017 are over 50. There are more than 120 nationalities working operations. By reflecting the society in which it operates, were under 30. In the Group as a whole, 40 percent of at Scandic’s hotels. Scandic strives to develop a rich culture Scandic can deliver a better guest experience. This is why employees are under 30. This is natural, as Scandic’s with a strong diversity of skills and languages among its the company has developed a Diversity & Inclusion Policy ­operations are affected by seasonality and temporary team members. and has adopted clear goals in this area (see page 52 for highs. To meet these changes in an effective way, Scandic A total of 87 percent of Scandic’s team members believe information about the policy and its goals). This is also has a great need for temporary employees. In this respect, that the company is diverse and that all employees, regardexpressed in the corporate social responsibility initiatives Scandic has a key role to play as a first employer. Scandic less of background, contribute and help create value. Scandic supports. Read more on page 53. offers young people the opportunity to gain valuable proGender distribution within the Group during the year was fessional experience. Scandic’s temporary employees are very similar to 2016, with 63 percent women and 37 peran important recruiting base for its operations, and many TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES GENDER DISTRIBUTION, GEN. MANAGERS 63% 37% 52% 48% (63%) (37%) (51%) (49%) 10,484 women 6,277 men TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 16,761 women men 5,751 women 3,563 men GENDER DISTRIBUTION, NEW EMPLOYEES1) PERMANENT EMPLOYEES: 9,314 NUMBER OF 55% 45% N AT I O N A L I T I E S (53%) (47%) 4,447 women 2,562 men 120+ TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: 7,009 287 women 151 men 779 women 639 men CONTRACTED WORKERS: 438 1) Data refers to permanent employees. 46 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-9 ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN 2017 In 2017, just as in 2016, Scandic was named Sweden’s “SCANDIC IS THE WORLD’S Every year, Scandic carries out an extensive employee surbest hotel company by the Sustainable Brand Index. Over vey that results in a Voice Index. The 2017 Voice Index was the year, Scandic was also ranked as Denmark and FinBEST EMPLOYER. I’M REALLY 774, which is strong. In recent years, Scandic has nearly land’s Best Workplace. When business students in Sweden PROUD TO BE PART OF THE doubled in size, counted in the number of hotels. In spite of this, this year’s result is the best since Scandic began ranked their dream employers, Scandic placed in the top 50, regardless of industry, in both 2016 and 2017. SCANDIC FAMILY.” measuring employee satisfaction. Also, the response freAccording to a survey by the industry organization Visita SCANDIC TEAM MEMBER IN DENMARK2) quency is consistently high in all countries. This result in 2017, Scandic Hotels is the most attractive employer in places Scandic in the Excellent category among companies the Swedish hospitality industry. using the same measurement tools. Within the framework of the Voice survey, there are speSCANDIC CARES ABOUT TEAM MEMBERS model is based on clearly set criteria regardless of gender, cial categories that measure commitment, loyalty and work (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) origin, ethnicity, age or other irrelevant factors. environment. Some 85 percent of employees say that they Scandic knows that a happy, healthy workplace is a comScandic greatly values being a committed corporate are proud to work at Scandic and are happy to speak posipetitive advantage when it comes to recruiting. One appre­citizen (see page 7 under Scandic’s strategy – what we tively about Scandic to others. A total of 85 percent of ciated benefit of working at Scandic is that all hotel want to be in 2020, and page 12 for a description of our employees believe strongly in the company and its future employees are offered nutritious meals at work. Staff corporate social responsibility). The company seeks to direction. And 94 percent say that they always try to create meals are an area that Scandic paid particular attention to reflect the society in which its hotels operate and con­ a fantastic hotel experience for guests, no matter who they in 2017. The company generally strives to provide a good sequently analyzes appointments of new positions from are. All of these percentages improved in 2017. work-life balance for its employees. Read more about an equality and equal opportunities perspective. For many Over the year, the total number of employees increased Scandic’s work to promote good health among team memroles, development is carried out through Scandic’s internal by 9 percent. The increase was greatest in Norway, which bers on pages 36–37 (Sustainable footprint). training and culture. For other roles, experts with specific is attributable to the opening of six new hotels over the The company aims to comply with national legislation and skills are required. year. Employee turnover in 2017 was 25 percent in total rules to ensure a good working environment for its team among permanent employees compared with 2016, when members. Employees receive remuneration based on local the figure was 35 percent. salary levels and market practices, and the remuneration AGE DISTRIBUTION, NEW EMPLOYEES1) A N AT T R AC T I V E E M P LOY E R 1,418 NEW HIRES 2017 GRE AT PL ACE TO WORK VOICE INDEX 2017: 774 1st place in Denmark 2017 2016: 760 Median 29 years 1st place in Finland 2017 2015: 763 808 people 550 people 60 1st place in Finland 2016 (700 = Excellent) < 30 30–50 > 50 1) Data refers to permanent employees. 2) Quote from Great Place to Work. GRI: LA-8 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 47 MORE IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Scandic’s sustainability strategy is built on a materiality ­analysis where different stakeholders rank sustainability issues. Based on the results and in combination with Scandic’s overall long-term goals, the company has developed an overall strategy. The results of this strategy are presented on pages 35–38 of this Annual Report. 48 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES Scandic’s sustainability initiatives need to be in line with the interests of different stakeholders. Stakeholder dialogues are therefore an important part of Scandic’s sustainability strategy. Ultimately, Scandic’s Board of Directors determines the company’s final sustainability strategy. STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS ON expectations that customers have on a sustainable hotel Stakeholder group Main aspects MATERIAL ASPECTS chain and the sustainability issues that different groups of The stakeholders invited to the annual dialogue are internal stakeholders perceive as important for Scandic. Based on Employees • Satisfied customers and external stakeholders who have shown commitment to the results of stakeholder dialogues, Scandic presented a • Hotel security sustainability issues and a supplementary group of external materiality analysis that formed the basis for an Executive • Minimizing waste stakeholders from whom Scandic wants input only for the Committee decision on a sustainability strategy. During Owners and investors • Reducing CO2 emissions materiality analysis. The dialogues were conducted online 2017, the materiality analysis was evaluated and deemed • Minimizing waste and through questionnaires and personal meetings. Scandic to confirm the current strategy. Scandic will re-evaluate • The Board and Executive reports to the Board of Directors annually on developments the strategy in 2018. All essential sustainability aspects Committee’s commitment within its sustainability work and it considers the stake­ are controlled by the company. to sustainability issues holders’ responses to meet external expectations on sustain­ability and on Scandic’s development. Non-government • Reducing CO2 emissions organizations • Minimizing waste HOW SCANDIC SELECTED MATERIAL • Fair working conditions ASPECTS Future employees • Fair working conditions In 2015, Scandic conducted its first annual materiality analysis to determine relevant sustainability aspects • Minimizing waste affecting the company. Internal and external stakeholders Guests • Minimizing waste were asked to rank the sustainability issues they thought • Reducing CO2 emissions Scandic should address. The starting point was the • Occupational health and safety Corporate customers • Fair working conditions • Occupational health and safety • Choosing interiors with consideration for environmental impacts S C A N D I C ’ S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y ESG analysts • Active work to prevent trafficking and prostitution • Reducing CO2 emissions • The Board and Executive Committee’s commitment The aspects where Scandic Inclusion and diversity to sustainability issues aims to inspire, focus aspects Health. CO2. Waste. where Scandic aims to Business partners • Ensuring that all employees have be engaged and areas Hotel security, water, chemicals, equal rights and opportunities INSPIRE energy, sustainable supply chain, where Scandic takes • Active efforts to prevent trafficking anti-corruption, trafficking & prostituand prostitution ­responsibility. tion, food safety, community engageE NG AG E ment and working conditions. • Fair working conditions BE RESPONSIBLE GRI: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 49 SCANDIC’S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS During 2017, Scandic’s sustainability goals were quantified to facilitate steering and follow-up of its sustainability work. 1 2 4 MAIN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Outcome Goal 2020 2017 2016 D I V E R S IT Y H E A LT H Share of employees who state in the >90 87 85 & I N C LU S I O N 1 employee satisfaction survey that ­Scandic has a good level of diversity in the organization Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Total employee index in the employee >800 774 760 Scandic will lead the hotel Scandic will be the premier 2 satisfaction survey industry in giving all employees hotel choice for customers Increase of 4 points in employee satis­ >65 63 61 the same opportunities and who prioritize a healthy lifefaction survey regarding recovery from reflect the society in which we style and an attractive stress, physical work environment and operate. employer when it comes to leadership index work-life balance. Share of hotels using renewable 100 99.60 86 3 ­electricity, % CO2 emissions kg/revenue KSEK <2.5 1.62 2.75 CO2 emissions kg /hotel night <2.3 1.55 2.64 3 4 % share of hotels that are environmen100 90 N/A tally certified after opening or rebranding Water use (m3)/hotel night) 0.16 0.18 0.18 CO 2 E M I S S I O N S WA S T E Share of environmentally95 82 78 certified chemicals Total kg waste/hotel night 0.62 0.76 0.65 4 Recycled waste >76 79 69 Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Scandic will be the hotel Scandic will continually company with the lowest work to reduce total waste CO2 emissions. and increase the share of recycled waste. 50 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-DMA, EN-18 COOPERATION & ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Scandic’s sustainability work is built on the valuable cooperation it has with companies, ­organizations and authorities. Scandic’s operations also create value for their stakeholders from a broader social perspective. EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES THAT SCANDIC SUPPORTS ECONOMIC VALUE RESULTING FROM INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY WORK Organization Description Country Type of cooperation Economic value creation, MSEK 2017 2016 Mitt Liv Works to promote an inclusive Sweden Scandic is a partner Direct economic value generated 14,592 13,360 society and a labor market that Revenues 14,592 13,360 values diversity through mentoring, Economic value distributed 13,882 12,478 training and broad contact networks. Operating costs 8,920.0 7,958.8 My Dream Now Works to link the labor market with Sweden Scandic is a partner students from upper secondary Employee wages and benefits 4,738 4,211 schools in vulnerable areas. Financial costs 133 133 Diversity Charter Part of Diversity Charter’s European Finland Scandic is a member Taxes 90 175 Finland network. Works to promote diversity and one of the founders Community investments1) 1.18 0.17 and an inclusive perspective in comin Finland Remaining economic value 709.82 882.00 panies and organizations. The Finnish Para­ Encourages young athletes and Finland Scandic is a sponsor 1) Investments in society, SEK 2017 1) Investments in society, SEK 2016 lympic Committee contributes to research and training within sports for the disabled. Denmark 24,559 Denmark 105,200 Food Bank Charity Project to reduce food waste. Poland Scandic is a partner Norway 11,290 Poland 7,700 GOT – Gdansk Networks in tourism and hotels with Poland Scandic is a member Sweden 1,000,000 Germany 57,400 Tourism Organisation focus on experience exchange and Europe 139,820 training as well as opportunity to participate in charity projects. The information in this table shows generated and distributed economic value. This indicates how Budnianer hilfe e.V. Provides physical and social Germany Scandic supports Scandic has created value for stakeholders from a broader social perspective. Scandic’s operations support for marginalized children the organization are run in a sound way with a sustainable distribution of operating costs including wages, taxes and and young adults. community investments while there is still good profitability for shareholders. Joblinge Partnerships between companies, Germany Scandic is a partner individuals and authorities to support vulnerable young people. The goal is to integrate them into working life so they can earn their own living. Helt Med Aims to create meaningful work Norway Scandic is a partner for people with physical and/or learning disabilities. Confederation of Works to improve conditions for Norway Scandic is a partner Norwegian Enterprise recruiting people outside of the labor (NHO) market. Dansk Erhverv Network for the service industry Denmark Scandic is a member CSR netværk in Denmark, which represents 17,000 Danish companies. ReFood Collects and distributes leftover food Denmark Scandic is a member from restaurants. GRI: G4-16, G4-DMA, EC-1 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 51 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Scandic measures its environmental impacts by monitoring energy consumption and CO2 emissions and the amount of waste it generates. For 2017, franchise hotels (a total of 21 hotels) that were not included in 2016 were also included. This has generally led to an increase in consumption. Scandic’s total CO2 emissions during 2017 totaled 23,691 tonnes. 2 1 3 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 Scope 2 includes emissions from the Scope 1 includes emissions from gas and oil Scope 3 includes emissions from employenergy Scandic buys ready-made, which that Scandic purchases in the form of raw ees’ air travel. These emissions, like those is known as indirect energy. During 2017, materials. This is known as direct energy. in Scope 2, are released from purchased SCOPE SCOPE SCOPE emissions decreased dramatically due to ­Scandic uses gas and oil to heat certain hotels, energy but come from a third party, for 2 1 3 lower release factors and the fact that but the company is working continually to phase example, airlines. almost 100 percent of Scandic’s hotels these out as sources of heat. Some hotels 2017 2016 Indirect Direct Other use renewable electricity. use propane or kitchen gas in their restaurant Air energy energy indirect 2017 2016 kitchens, both of which are being phased out. Total km 3) 7,251,664 3,006,083 energy 2017 2016 Energy consumption, MWh CO2 emissions, tonnes 879.1 388.9 Electricity 290,835.0 222,596.6 Energy consumption, MWh District heating 213,176.3 196,096.2 Propane gas 1,774.8 1,713.2 Train District cooling 12,383.1 13,377.0 Natural gas 5,229.2 6,139.3 Total km 1,306,348 807,175 516,394.4 432,069.8 Biogas 311.6 n/a CO2 emissions, tonnes 0.003 0.003 CO2 emissions, tonnes Heating oil 2) 1,089.0 215.4 Electricity 85.9 3,054.9 8,404.6 8,067.9 1) During 2017, emission factors were updated, which resulted District heating1) 20,553.4 28,442.3 in a significant decrease in CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions, tonnes 2) Oil use in 2017 was higher than in 2016 as a result of more District cooling 461.5 2,555.0 Propane gas 416.0 398.4 thorough follow-up of the hotels’ environmental reporting. 3) During 2017, air travel increased compared with 2016. Due 21,100.8 34,052.2 Natural gas 997.6 1,099.9 to a change of travel provider, the data for 2017 and 2016 Biogas 10.5 n/a are not fully comparable. Heating oil 287.3 56.8 1,711.4 1,555.1 WASTE Total weight per method of disposal, 2017 2016 In 2017, Scandic recycled 79 percent tonnes Hazardous waste Waste Hazardous waste Waste of its waste, an increase of 10 percent Reuse 0 0 0 0 compared with 2016. Recycling 5.9 9,191.5 9.0 6,583.8 Household waste, which constitutes Energy recovery 26.0 2,073.6 18.4 2,502.4 a high share of total waste, is excluded Combustion 35.9 0 29.1 4.0 in this calculation as a result of difficulties Landfill 4.7 300.0 3.1 83.4 in sourcing reliable information mainly Total 72.4 11,565.1 59.6 9,173.6 from Sweden’s municipalities. In 2016 information about weight Total weight per type of waste, tonnes 2017 2016 of “Other waste” such as grease was Paper 2,229.5 1,990.5 ­presented (329.8 tonnes). This informaGlass 1,854.3 1,385.6 tion is not presented in 2017 due to Metal 218.6 171.0 ­unreliable data. Plastic 303.3 193.2 1) 2 017 includes food waste from Other waste1) 6,959.4 5,433.3 all hotels compared with 2016 when only data from a limited number of hotels was included. 52 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-22, G4-23, G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-23 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT As the leading hotel company in the Nordic countries, Scandic buys goods and services worth substantial amounts every year. For this reason, procurement and supplier control are important elements of the company’s sustainability initiatives. Scandic works systematically to ensure that only suppliers that live up to the company’s requirements are contracted. SUSTAINABILITY – A NATURAL PART OF an onsite audit of the supplier. All deviations identified Sweden held a conference at which its larger suppliers and THE SELECTION PROCESS ­during selfor third-party audits must be addressed in the general managers were invited to develop this work ­further. To ensure that Scandic only cooperates with suppliers that manner described in a corrective action plan approved by share its values, sustainability is included as an item in the Scandic. The measures stated must be implemented within UNDER CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT selection process when it comes to cooperation. A special the agreed timeframe for the supplier to remain under conScandic has successfully worked with systematizing its sustainability screening is carried out by Scandic’s protract. During 2017, work on audits and a first review at a process for supplier management. To support the process, curement team as a first step in the process. This involves supplier were completed at the end of the year. the company constantly works with skills development and criteria regarding the environment, anti-corruption, human follows up on the procurement team as regards challenges rights and work environment. Suppliers that pass the susCOOPERATION in the area. Scandic has many different suppliers that each tainability screening process then undergo a more extenAfter decades of working with sustainability, Scandic has stand for a small part of its turnover. Going forward, Scandic sive risk assessment based on a self-assessment. During extensive knowledge and gladly shares this knowledge aims to decrease this part in order to simplify the entire the year, all suppliers that were screened and accepted with its suppliers. The company encourages a continuous process. During 2017, the criteria for which materials and agreed to adhere to the principles in Scandic’s Supplier dialogue with suppliers parallel to the screening process substances are suitable for use from a sustainability perCode of Conduct. in order to support and help develop the suppliers’ own spective were updated and clarified. The aim is to update Scandic also regularly carries out risk assessments ­sustainability work. criteria for food and beverages in 2018 to facilitate work of the entire supplier base. If there is uncertainty regarding In Norway, Scandic is driving supplier sustainability for employees who are responsible for purchasing as well a supplier, a more in-depth assessment is carried out ­forward together with other companies through the puras to clarify expectations for suppliers who sell to Scandic. through a self-assessment that may also be followed by chasing company GRESS. And in January 2018, Scandic KEY FIGURES PROCUREMENT 97% OF ALL CONTR AC TE D 4.3 SEK BILLION 100 SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS PURCHASING A C C O U N T F O R 70% SCREENED VOLUME OF SPENDING (G O A L : 9 0%) GRI: G4-12, G4-56, G4-DMA, EN-32, LA-14, HR-10, SO-9 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 53 EMPLOYEE DATA Scandic is continuing to grow, both in terms of the number of hotels and employees. Both demographically and geographically, the distribution of employees was generally unchanged in 2017 compared with 2016. 2017 2016 Total number of employees1) Women Men Total Women Men Total Total number 10,484 6,277 16,761 9,688 5,639 15,327 Permanent employment 5,751 3,563 9,314 5,270 3,224 8,494 Full-time 3,436 2,605 6,041 3,184 2,402 5,586 Part-time 2,315 957 3,272 2,086 822 2,908 Temporary 4,447 2,562 7,009 4,176 2,295 6,471 Contracted workers 287 151 438 242 120 362 1) The total number of employees for 2015 has been adjusted to include contracted workers. 2017 2016 New hires1) Number Share, % Number Share, % Total number and % of total 1,418 8.5 1,237 14.6 Of which Women 779 54.9 656 53.0 Men 639 45.1 581 47.0 Of which Age <30 808 57.0 675 54.6 Age 30–50 550 38.8 515 41.6 Age >50 60 4.2 47 3.8 Of which Sweden 534 37.7 514 41.6 Norway 341 24.0 272 22.0 Finland 94 6.6 83 6.7 Denmark 328 23.1 242 19.6 Other European 121 8.5 126 10.2 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 2017 2016 Employee turnover1) Number Share, % Number Share, % Total number and % of total 1,807 10.8 1,667 19.6 Of which Women 974 53.9 935 56.1 Men 833 46.1 732 43.9 Of which Age <30 803 44.4 764 45.8 Age 30–50 856 47.4 760 45.6 Age >50 148 8.2 143 8.6 Of which Sweden 707 39.1 660 39.6 Norway 445 24.6 462 27.7 Finland 128 7.1 118 7.1 Denmark 386 21.4 296 17.8 Other European 141 7.8 131 7.9 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 54 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-10, G4-DMA, LA-1 2017 2016 Geographic breakdown Women Men Total Women Men Total Total 10,484 6,277 16,761 9,688 5,639 15,327 NEW Of which Sweden 4,966 2,650 7,616 4,586 2,420 7,006 PERM ANENT Norway 3,235 2,178 5,413 2,957 1,864 4,821 E M P LOY E E S Finland 913 481 1,394 878 435 1,313 DURING THE YEAR Denmark 1,085 761 1,846 1,013 738 1,751 1,418 Other European 286 206 492 254 182 436 The table shows the total number of employees at Scandic including contracted workers. The Board of Directors is not included. Demographic breakdown Total number of Board of Executive 2017 employees, % Directors, % Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % Women 10,198 62.5 4 40.0 1 11.1 731 54.3 9,466 63.2 Men 6,125 37.5 6 60.0 8 88.9 615 45.7 5,502 36.8 Age <30 7,135 43.7 0.0 0.0 157 11.7 6,978 46.6 Age 30–50 7,237 44.3 1 10.0 6 66.7 947 70.4 6,284 42.0 Age >50 1,950 11.9 9 90.0 3 33.3 242 18.0 1,705 11.4 Total number 16,323 10 9 1,346 14,968 Demographic breakdown Total number of Board of Executive 2016 employees, % Directors, % Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % Women 9,446 63.1 3 25.0 1 10.0 677 53.5 8,768 64.0 Men 5,519 36.9 9 75.0 9 90.0 588 46.5 4,922 36.0 Age <30 6,564 43.9 0 0.0 0 0.0 143 11.3 6,421 46.9 Age 30–50 6,667 44.5 4 33.3 8 80.0 908 71.8 5,751 42.0 Age >50 1,734 11.6 8 66.7 2 20.0 214 16.9 1,518 11.1 Total number 14,965 12 10 1,265 13,690 The table shows the total number of employees at Scandic including the Board of Directors. Contracted workers are not included. Average training time, hours 2017 2016 Comparisons between 2016 and 2017: During the year, the total Total number 2.6 3.3 number of employees increased by 9 percent. The increase was Of which Women 2.5 3.2 greatest in Norway, mainly due to the new hotels that opened during Men 2.7 3.6 the year. There were also changes in the Board as a result of new Of which Executive Committee 12.7 10.1 owners in 2017. Both demographically and geographically, distribution was largely unchanged. In terms of permanent new positions Managers 19.1 18.0 and left positions in 2017, the share of people under 30 who were Employees 1.1 2.0 recruited increased and the share of people who left decreased. The proportion of women followed the same pattern: more women were hired and fewer women left permanent positions during 2017. It is important to take into account that the information in the tables relates only to new permanent positions and does not take into account re-employment of former employees. GRI: G4-10, G4-DMA, LA-9, LA-12 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 55 SCANDIC’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN’S GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Scandic is a signatory of Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Scandic focuses mainly on four of the goals, but also works to a certain degree to achieve seven others. Equality is an end in itself as well as a prerequisite for sustainable and peaceful development. Gender equality is achieved when both women and men, girls and boys, enjoy equal rights, conditions, opportunities and the power to shape their lives themselves and contribute to the development of society. Work for inclusive and long-term ­sustainable economic growth, with full and productive employment and decent working conditions for all. Reduce inequality within and between countries. Promote sustainable consumption and production patterns through the efficient use of resources, consideration for ecosystem services that are necessary for supply and reduce the impacts of hazardous chemicals. 56 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-DMA TH E U N ’ S G LO BA L SUS TA I N A B LE H OW SC A N D IC CO NTR I BUTE S D E V E LO PME NT GOA L S Encourages physical activity and focuses on leadership development and Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. empowerment. Support for employees with alcohol and drug problems. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote Provides training in sustainable development for all new employees lifelong learning opportunities for all. Focus on knowledge that including the environment, human rights, diversity and inclusion. supports sustainable development. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and The environmental certification of Scandic’s hotels includes a program sanitation for all. Focus on responsible water stewardship. for efficient water management. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Only serves fish approved by the WWF’s Seafood Guide. Also serves resources for sustainable development. End illegal, unreported MSC-certified fish. and unregulated fishing and destructive fishing methods. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial Includes environmental criteria in the purchasing process and buys ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desert­­­­ environmentally-certified products that promote biodiversity (e.g. KRAV, ifi­cation, and halt and reverse land degradation and Debio, Luomu, Ø-märkt). biodiversity loss. Provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable Policy and training for employees as well as a Code of Conduct for and inclusive institutions at all levels by, for example, reducing Suppliers that regulates corruption and bribery. corruption and bribery. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Partners with authorities and non-government organizations around issues global partnership for sustainable development. such as integration and education. GRI: G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 57 GRI INDEX This is Scandic’s third Annual Sustainability Report. The report was prepared in accordance with emission factors for district heating and cooling. Waste data is based on a compilation GRI G4 on a self-declared Level Core. The Sustainability Report can be found on pages 1–11 ­provided by Scandic’s waste management suppliers. Human resources data is compiled using and 34–59 and it fulfills the requirements for sustainability reporting as stipulated by the Scandic’s HR system and supplier data is compiled based on Scandic’s risk assessment tool. Accounts Act. It also constitutes Scandic’s COP to the Global Compact on the Active level. The Customer satisfaction data is compiled from monthly surveys. sustainability information provided has not been externally assured by a third party. The report includes all of Scandic’s hotels operated under lease agreements in all countries of operation, as CONTACT DETAILS well as the Group’s various support offices. Scandic’s partner hotels and franchises are excluded Scandic’s contact for questions regarding Scandic’s operational sustainability work is Scandic’s as they act under their own governance systems. When calculating environmentally-certified Director Sustainable Business. Questions regarding Scandic’s Annual Report and Sustainability hotels, however, all hotels are included. Report should be directed to the Investor Relations department at ir@scandichotels.com. Both The report refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017. The previous report functions are located at Scandic’s head office in Stockholm, Sweden. was published on April 19, 2017. The base year for environmental data is 2015. Emissions data is calculated based on the GHG protocol, supplier information and third-party reports on Fulfilled Partially fulfilled GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Strategy and analysis G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary p. 58 GC Principle 7 G4-1 Statement from the most senior p. 2–4 principle is addressed by the decision-maker of the organization organization Organizational profile G4-15 Externally developed economic, p. 36–38 environmental and social charters, G4-3 Name of the organization p. 62 principles or other initiatives to which G4-4 Primary brands, products and services p. 10, 17 the organization subscribes or G4-5 The organization’s headquarters p. 62 which it endorses G4-6 Number of countries where the organip. 17, 67 G4-16 List of memberships in associations p. 51 zation operates and names of countries (e.g. trade associations) and national or where either the organization has siginternational advocacy organizations nificant operations or that are specifiIdentified material aspects and boundaries cally relevant to the sustainability topics G4-17 Entities included in the financial p. 58, 62 covered in the report statements G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 62, 73 G4-18 Process for defining material aspects p. 49 G4-8 Markets served by the organization p. 17, 67 G4-19 Material aspects p. 35–38, 49 G4-9 Scale of the organization p. 17, 46, 67, G4-20 Aspect boundary within p. 49 84–85 the organization G4-10 Compilation of the organization’s p. 54–55 GC Principle 6 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside of p. 49 employees the organization G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by p. 45 GC Principle 3 G4-22 Restatements of information provided p. 52, 58 collective bargaining agreements in previous reports and the reason for G4-12 The organization’s supply chain p. 53 these restatements G4-13 Significant changes during p. 73 G4-23 Significant changes from previous p. 52, 58 the reporting period reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 58 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-14, G4-17, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33, G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-23 FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Stakeholder engagement G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding p. 58 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups p. 49 the report or its contents G4-25 Method for identification and p. 49 G4-32 GRI Content Index p. 58–59 prioritization of which stakeholders G4-33 Assurance process p. 58 N/A with whom to engage Governance G4-26 The organization’s approach to p. 49 G4-34 The governance structure of the p. 72, 76 stakeholder engagement organization, including committees G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been p. 49 responsible for economic, raised through stakeholder engagement environmental and social issues Reporting profile Ethics and integrity G4-28 Reporting period p. 58 G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, p. 36, 39, 41, GC Principle 10 G4-29 Date of most recent published report p. 58 April 19, 2017 standards and code of conduct 43, 53, 72, 76 G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 58 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and DMA and indicaFulfillindicaFulfilltors Title Page ment Comments tors Title Page ment Comments G4-DMA Disclosure regarding p. 35–41, GC Principles 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, HR-10 Screening of suppliers p. 53 GC Principles 1, 2 sustainability governance 49–58 10 using human rights criteria Economic performance SO-9 Screening of suppliers p. 53 EC-1 Direct economic value p. 51 using criteria for impacts on society Energy consumption and emission of Employment greenhouse gases LA-1 New employee hires and p. 54 GC Principle 6 EN-3 Energy consumption p. 52, 58 GC Principles 7, 8 employee turnover within the organization Health and safety EN-15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 52, 58 GC Principles 7, 8 LA-8 Health and safety topics p. 36, 39, 47 (Scope 1) covered in formal agreements EN-16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 52, 58 GC Principles 7, 8 Training (Scope 2) LA-9 Average hours of training p. 55 EN-17 Other indirect greenhouse gas p. 52, 58 GC Principles 7, 8 Diversity and equal opportunity emissions (Scope 3) LA-12 Composition of the Board of p. 55 GC Principle 6 EN-18 Greenhouse gas emission p. 50 Includes Scopes 1, 2 and 3, Directors and the Executive Employee figures have not intensity GC Principle 8 Management, and breakdown been divided into all diversity EN-23 Total weight of waste by type and p. 52, 58 GC Principle 8 of employees per employee categories desired by the GRI, disposal method category as this would contravene Supplier assessment GC Principle 8 Swedish law. EN-32 Screening of suppliers p. 53 GC Principles 7, 8, 9 Training on human rights using environmental criteria HR-2 Employee training p. 36–37 GC Principles 1, 2 LA-14 Screening of suppliers p. 53 GC Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 on human rights using labor practices criteria Customer satisfaction PR-5 Customer satisfaction p. 28 GRI: G4-32 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 59 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY ­SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 1–11 and 34–59 and for ensuring that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FARs auditing standard RevR 12: The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory ­sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with a sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Magnus Brändström Authorized public accountant Auditor in charge 60 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTENTS ADMINISTRATION REPORT 62 Note 16 Inventory 105 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 68 Note 17 Accounts receivable 105 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 72 Note 18 Discontinued operations 106 Note 19 Prepaid expenses 106 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL 78 Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents 106 Note 21 Share capital 106 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 80 Note 22A Borrowings 107 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 82 Note 22B Management of financial risks 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS 84 Note 22C Management of capital risk 108 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENTS 88 Note 23 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 109 NOTES Note 24 Other provisions 110 Note 1 Accounting principles 92 Note 25 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities 111 Note 2 Revenue by type of agreement 94 Note 26 Accrued expenses and deferred income 113 Note 3 Segment reporting 95 Note 27 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 113 Note 4 Audit fees 96 Note 28 Statement of cash flow 113 Note 5 Leasing agreements 97 Note 29 Business combinations 114 Employees, personnel expenses and Note 30 Participations in Group companies 115 Note 6 remuneration to the Board of Directors 98 Note 31 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 115 Note 7 Non-recurring items 100 Note 32 Financial assets and liabilities 116 Note 8 Financial income 100 Note 33 Transactions with related parties 117 Note 9 Financial expenses 100 Note 34 Appropriation of profits and dividend per share 118 Note 10 Income tax 101 Note 35 Event after the reporting date 118 Note 11 Earnings per share 101 ADOPTION 119 Note 12 Intangible fixed assets 102 Note 13 Tangible fixed assets 104 AUDITOR’S REPORT 120 Note 14 Shares in associated companies 104 THE SCANDIC SHARE 124 Note 15 Financial investments 105 DEFINITIONS 126 INFORMATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 128 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 61 ADMINISTRATION REPORT O P E R AT I O N S 2017 in summary Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) • Net sales increased by 11.5 percent to 14,582 MSEK (13,082) due to higher RevPAR and more rooms in operation. Corp. Id. 556703-1702 • Adjusted EBITDA totaled 1,570 MSEK (1,513), corresponding to a margin of 10.8 percent (11.6). The Board of Directors and the CEO of Scandic Hotels Group • Earnings per share amounted to 6.86 SEK (8.58). Excluding items affecting comparability and currency effects related to AB (publ), with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit the revaluation of loans, earnings per share totaled 7.04 SEK (6.85). the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for • The acquisition of the hotel company Restel was concluded in December. In total, the acquisition included 43 hotels and the 2017 financial year. the consideration was 1,160 MSEK. In 2017, Restel had pro forma adjusted EBITDA totaling 196 MSEK corresponding to a margin of 9.1 percent. Operations • Net debt/adjusted EBITDA including Restel pro forma was 2.1 at the end of the year as a result of a strong operating cash flow The company owns 100 percent of the Scandic Group through during the fourth quarter. its wholly-owned subsidiary, Scandic Hotels Holding AB. Over the year, Scandic conducted hotel operations in seven counGroup key ratios, MSEK 2017 2016 Change, % tries. On the reporting date, Scandic had 49,983 rooms in operation at 262 hotels, of which 240 had lease agreements. Financial key ratios Net sales 14,582 13,082 11.5 Nordic hotel market development Net sales growth, % 11.5 7.3 Development in the Nordic hotel market was good during the Net sales growth LFL, % 4.7 6.6 year. In Sweden, the number of sold rooms increased by 3.6 Adjusted EBITDAR 5,335 4,896 9.0 percent and RevPAR increased by 2.3 percent with a rise in occupancy and slightly higher average room prices. The numAdjusted EBITDA 1,570 1,513 3.8 ber of sold rooms in Norway went up 3.4 percent and RevPAR EBITDA 1,473 1,462 0.8 increased 8.5 percent. There was also an increase in average EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 925 room prices as well as occupancy. In the Danish market, the Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.8 11.6 number of sold rooms remained largely unchanged compared with the previous year while RevPAR increased by 1.9 percent. Earnings per share, SEK 6.86 8.58 Average room prices rose slightly during the year while occuHotel-related key ratios pancy was unchanged. In Finland, the number of sold rooms RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 680 643 5.7 increased 5.4 percent during the year and RevPAR went up by 10.3 percent driven by higher average room prices and higher ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 1,012 976 3.7 occupancy. OCC (Occupancy), % 67.1 65.9 Seasonal variations Scandic operates in a sector affected by seasonal variations. Revenues and earnings fluctuate during the year. The first quarter and other periods with low levels of business travel such as the summer months, Easter and Christmas/New Year’s are generally the weakest periods. The Easter holiday may fall in both the first and second quarters, so this should be taken into account when making comparisons between years. HOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES 2017 1) Approximately 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes from % % business travel and conferences while the remaining 30 per12 12 cent comes from leisure travel. 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 -2 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Average room rates Occupancy RevPAR Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR 1) Source: Benchmarking Alliance and STR Global. 62 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-17, Sales and profit/loss Adjusted EBITDA before opening costs for new hotels increased Growth in RevPAR and net sales compared with 2016 Net sales rose by 11.5 percent to 14,582 MSEK (13,082). For to 1,570 MSEK (1,513). The adjusted EBITDA margin fell to RevPAR, RevPAR, Net sales, Net sales, comparable units, the increase was 4.7 percent, driven by 10.8 percent (11.6). Last year’s result included a one-off comJan–Dec 2017 SEK % MSEK % good demand in all markets. Currency effects impacted net pensation of 65 MSEK. The decline is chiefly attributable to sales positively by 0.9 percent. Net changes in the hotel port­ Scandic’s operations in Stockholm, where sales dropped in the LFL contribution latter part of the year without it being possible to adjust costs to to growth 31 4.9 621 4.7 folio contributed 5.8 percent or 765 MSEK to the increase in sales. The greatest contribution was from Downtown Camper the same extent. RevPAR growth affected the margin positively, Exchange rate by Scandic, which opened in Stockholm on September 1, while the hotels that were added during the year initially contribimpact 6 0.8 114 0.9 2017, the eight hotels that were added through the Pandox uted a margin below the Group average. New/exit hotels 0 0.0 765 5.8 and Eiendomsspar transaction in the second quarter of 2017, Pre-opening costs for new hotels amounted to -67 MSEK Reported growth 37 5.7 1,500 11.5 and the hotels Scandic Continental and Haymarket by Scandic (-51). LFL contribution to growth = LFL portfolio change in RevPAR and net sales in that were opened in 2016. Items affecting comparability totaled -30 MSEK (0), comprisrelation to the total portfolio. Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) increased ing -47 MSEK in transaction costs related to the acquisition of by 4.9 percent in local currencies compared with the previous Restel’s hotel operations in Finland and 17 MSEK in capital gains year. For comparable units, RevPAR increased by 4.9 percent from the sale of Scandic Vierumäki’s hotel operations in Finland. Financial targets and all main markets contributed positively to the development, Consequently, EBITDA was 1,473 MSEK (1,462). In September 2015, Scandic adopted the following mediumto with Norway and Finland in the lead with an increase of over EBIT totaled 925 MSEK (925), corresponding to an EBIT long-term financial targets: 9 percent. margin of 6.3 percent (7.1 percent). Depreciation and amorti• Annual net sales growth of at least 5 percent on average Revenue from restaurant and conference operations grew zation rose to -549 MSEK during the period (-537). over a business cycle, excluding potential M&As. by 12.9 percent and the share of total net sales amounted to The Group’s net financial expense amounted to -124 MSEK • An adjusted EBITDA margin of at least 11 percent on aver33.3 percent (32.9 percent). (132). The interest expense was -110 MSEK (-133). The lower age over a business cycle. Rental costs accounted for 25.8 percent (25.9) of net sales. interest expense is the result of lower average debt and the • A net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA of 2–3x. Fixed and guaranteed rental costs were 61.7 percent (65.1) of effects of the new loan agreement that was concluded on June • The dividend shall amount to 50 percent of the year’s total rental costs. The decline is a result of increased sales and 22, 2017. The result of exchange rate fluctuations from the results. For 2017, the Board of Directors proposes that the additional contracts with lower or no guarantee levels. revaluation of loans and investments totaled -23 MSEK (225). Annual General Meeting resolve on a dividend of 3.40 SEK Central costs and Group adjustments increased somewhat Reported tax amounted to -90 MSEK (-175). Reported tax (3.15) per share. The dividend will be paid out in two equal to -401 MSEK (-347). Costs for the central functions of IT and was affected positively by 42 MSEK, with a valuation of tax amounts on two occasions during the year. Commercial grew, driven by increased investments within digilosses in Norway from the Rica acquisition that are now estitalization, infrastructure and IT security. The increase is also mated to be utilized. explained by a number of non-recurring items in the fourth Net profit dropped to 711 MSEK (882). Earnings per share quarter, including costs for Scandic’s long-term incentive proafter dilution totaled 6.86 SEK per share (8.58). Excluding gram and personnel costs. ­currency effects related to the revaluation of loans, earnings per share after dilution amounted to 7.04 SEK per share (6.85). RevPAR, SCANDIC AVERAGE ROOM RATES, SCANDIC OCCUPANCY, SCANDIC SEK SEK % 800 1,200 70 700 1,000 60 600 800 500 50 400 600 300 40 400 200 200 30 100 0 0 20 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 63 Five-year summary SEGMENT MSEK 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Sweden Financial key ratios – income statement Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, Net sales 14,582 13,082 12,192 10,826 7,882 MSEK 2017 2016 % Net sales growth, % 11.5 7.3 12.6 37.4 -1.9 Net sales 5,977 5,637 6.0 Net sales growth LFL, % 4.7 6.6 7.3 4.5 -3.5 Net sales growth, % 6.0 11.3 Adjusted EBITDAR 5,335 4,896 4,406 3,826 2,734 Net sales growth LFL, % 1.7 6.6 Adjusted EBITDA 1,570 1,513 1,246 1,019 693 Adjusted EBITDA 875 975 -10.3 EBITDA 1,473 1,462 1,114 686 589 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.6 17.3 Adjusted EBIT 1,022 976 745 544 292 RevPAR, SEK 710 693 2.4 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 925 613 211 187 ARR, SEK 1,029 1,012 1.7 Adjusted EBITDAR margin, % 36.6 37.4 36.1 35.3 34.7 OCC, % 68.9 68.5 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.8 11.6 10.2 9.4 8.8 EBITDA margin, % 10.1 11.2 9.1 6.3 7.5 Net sales rose by 6.0 percent to 5,977 MSEK (5,637). Net Adjusted EBIT margin, % 7.0 7.5 6.1 5.0 3.7 sales for comparable units grew by 1.7 percent. Market capacity in Stockholm increased gradually over the year, faster than Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.3 7.1 5.0 1.9 2.4 demand, which resulted in lower occupancy. Profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Company 707 879 117 -439 -248 Changes in the hotel portfolio contributed 4.3 percent or 242 MSEK to the increase in sales. The greatest contribution Financial key ratios – financial position was from Downtown Camper by Scandic, which opened on Balance sheet total 16,964 14,144 12,900 13,456 11,322 September 1, 2017, from Haymarket by Scandic, which Equity attributable to the Parent Company 7,356 7,103 6,205 3,614 3,126 opened in Stockholm on May 10, 2016 and from Scandic Working capital -1,501 -1,161 -1,132 -909.2 -690 ­Continental, which opened on April 1, 2016. Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,629 2,709 3,355 6,073 4,555 Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) increased by 2.4 percent compared with the same period the previous Interest-bearing net liabilities/adjusted EBITDA 2.3 1.8 2.7 6.0 6.6 year. RevPAR for comparable units grew by 1.5 percent. Adjusted EBITDA before pre-opening costs for new hotels Cash flow from operating activities 1,544 1,609 1,186 790 545 dropped to 875 MSEK (975). Last year’s figure included a nonOperating cash flow -549 890 401 -1,596 111 recurring compensation of 65 MSEK from a property dispute. The adjusted EBITDA margin, excluding the non-recurring Key ratios per share compensation, declined to 14.6 percent (16.1). Average number of shares 1) 103,003,004 102,457,837 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 The decline in adjusted EBITDA is chiefly attributable to Earnings per share, SEK 6.86 8.58 1.43 -5.36 -3.03 Scandic’s operations in Stockholm, where sales dropped in the Equity/share, SEK 71.4 69.3 75.8 44.2 38.2 latter part of the year without it being possible to adjust costs to the same extent. Hotel-related key ratios RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 680 643 601 574 534 ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 1,027 976 934 927 903 OCC (Occupancy), % 67.1 65.9 64.4 61.8 59.1 64 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial position The balance sheet total on December 31, 2017 was 16,964 Norway Other Nordic countries and Europe MSEK, compared with 14,144 MSEK on December 31, 2016. The increase in the balance sheet total was largely attributable Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, MSEK 2017 2016 % MSEK 2017 2016 % to the Restel acquisition, which is included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. Interest-bearing net liabilities Net sales 4,586 3,744 22.5 Net sales 4,019 3,701 8.6 increased in the period from 2,709 MSEK on December 31, Net sales growth, % 22.5 0.8 Net sales growth, % 8.6 8.5 2016 to 3,629 MSEK on December 31, 2017. In connection Net sales growth LFL, % 9.4 –1.5 Net sales growth LFL, % 4.6 10.8 with the Restel acquisition, a finance lease liability of 1,735 Adjusted EBITDA 490 363 35.2 Adjusted EBITDA 606 522 16.1 MSEK was identified in relation to hotel property leases and corresponding tangible fixed assets. Financial lease liabilities are Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.7 9.7 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 15.1 14.1 not included in the definition of interest-bearing net debt. RevPAR, SEK 617 559 10.3 RevPAR, SEK 708 659 7.5 The increase in net debt over the year was largely due to the ARR, SEK 988 938 5.4 ARR, SEK 1,012 958 5.7 Restel acquisition, which was financed through a bank loan. OCC, % 62.4 59.7 OCC, % 70.0 68.8 Loans to credit institutions totaled 3,769 MSEK at the end of the year. Net debt on December 31, 2017 corresponded to 2.3x adjusted EBITDA for the past twelve months (1.8x as per Net sales rose by 22.5 percent to 4,586 MSEK (3,744). Net Net sales rose by 8.6 percent to 4,019 MSEK (3,701). Net December 31, 2016). In 2017, pro forma including adjusted sales for comparable units grew by 9.4 percent. sales for comparable units grew by 4.6 percent. Changes in EBITDA for Restel, net debt was 2.1x adjusted EBITDA. Changes in the hotel portfolio contributed 11.7 percent or the hotel portfolio contributed 2.2 percent or 83 MSEK to the On December 31, 2017, the total number of shares and votes 440 MSEK to the increase in sales. Over the year, Scandic increase in sales. It was mainly Scandic Sluseholmen in was 103,003,004 after dilution. Total equity was 7,356 MSEK Ambassadeur Drammen and the Grand Hotel by Scandic in Copenhagen and the hotels that were opened in 2016, Scandic compared with 7,103 MSEK on December 31, 2016. Oslo were opened in addition to four hotels that were added in Vaasa in Finland and Scandic Aalborg City in Denmark, that the Pandox and Eiendomsspar transaction, which was implecontributed to the increase. Cash flow and liquidity mented in the second quarter. Also, Scandic Flesland Airport Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) increased Operating cash flow amounted to -549 MSEK (890) in 2017. The was opened in Bergen on April 3, 2017 while a hotel in Tromsø by 5.8 percent in local currencies compared with the same major reason for the change compared with the previous year is was exited at the end of 2016. period the previous year. RevPAR for comparable units grew the Restel acquisition on December 29, 2017 of 1,146 MSEK. Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) increased by 6.0 percent. The cash flow contribution from the change in working capital by 9.0 percent in local currency compared with the same Adjusted EBITDA before opening costs for new hotels amounted to 196 MSEK (150) with a seasonally strong fourth period the previous year. RevPAR for comparable units grew increased to 606 MSEK (522). quarter. The Group has negative operating capital as the majority by 9.4 percent. The adjusted EBITDA margin grew to 15.1 percent (14.1), of revenue is paid in advance or in direct connection with stays. Adjusted EBITDA before pre-opening costs for new hotels mainly due to positive margin development in Finland. Paid tax amounted to -125 MSEK (-3) and included payment of increased to 490 MSEK (363). -96 MSEK related to an assessment in Finland for the fiscal year The adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 10.7 percent (9.7). Central functions 2008 that was announced on October 19, 2017. The decision has RevPAR growth affected the margin positively, while new hotels Adjusted EBITDA for central functions and Group adjustments been appealed and no part of the paid tax has been expensed. The initially contributed a margin below the average for the hotel amounted to -401 MSEK (-347) for the year. Costs for central contingent liability has been updated to 404 MSEK considering total portfolio in Norway. IT and Commercial functions increased, driven by greater exposure for the years 2008 to 2016 excluding interest. investments in digitalization, infrastructure and IT security. The Net investments during the period amounted to -2,093 increase is also attributable to a number of non-recurring items MSEK (-719), of which hotel renovations accounted for -618 in the fourth quarter including costs for Scandic’s long-term MSEK (-450) and IT for -55 MSEK (-37). Investments in new incentive program and other personnel costs. hotels and increased room capacity totaled -291 MSEK (-232) and acquisitions and disposals of Restel of -1,146 MSEK (-) and Vierumäki of 17 (-). Cash flow from financing activities was -372 MSEK (-107) over the year. The change is chiefly explained by a payment of 325 MSEK in dividends to shareholders in May. Net borrowing was 9 MSEK, comprising a net of amortization in connection with the refinancing in June and borrowing in connection with the Restel acquisition. On June 22, 2017, Scandic Hotels Group AB entered into a 5,000 MSEK loan agreement with DNB Sweden AB, Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) and Nordea Bank AB (publ). The loan agreement replaces a previous agreement that was initially conSCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 65 cluded on July 1, 2015, with an unchanged maturity of June 30, with long-term lease agreements, seven of which are operated Sweden (149 rooms), Scandic Prince Philip, Sweden 2020 and an option to extend the agreement by two years. The through franchise agreements with InterContinental Hotels (208 rooms) and Downtown Camper by Scandic (494 rooms). 5,000 MSEK total credit line is divided into a 1,500 MSEK longGroup. Most of the hotels are operated under the Cumulus term loan and a 3,500 MSEK multicurrency revolving credit facilbrand and will be converted into Scandic hotels over time. Research and development ity. The terms and conditions relating to margins and covenants Scandic sees good opportunities for sales growth and marNo R&D work was carried out during the year since the operaremain unchanged. The loan agreement provides increased flexgin improvement in the acquired hotel portfolio in the coming tions of the company are not of the type requiring R&D. ibility to avoid excess liquidity by adjusting utilized credit based years. There is potential to increase revenues through rebrandon liquidity requirements and seasonal variations as well as the ing the hotels as Scandic hotels and the strengthened offering Share and ownership structure ability to take out loans in relevant currencies in an effective in the Finnish market. In addition, costs are expected to The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Nordic manner. Greater flexibility and a higher share of loans in SEK are decrease through coordinating administration and purchasing. Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. According to the company’s expected to reduce the annual interest expense by approximately Since the acquisition was carried out on December 29, share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB, Scandic had 15 MSEK, based on unchanged interest rate levels. 2017, the acquired company has not had an impact on Group 12,274 shareholders at year-end 2017. Each share has equal When the loan entered into force on June 30, 2017, the earnings as per December 31, 2017. ­voting rights, equal rights to the assets and profits and an equal company ceased to apply hedge accounting aimed at hedging Acquisition-related expenses of -47 MSEK are included in right to dividends of the share capital. Rolf Lundström through net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in Finland, Denmark non-recurring items in the consolidated income statement as Novobis and private holdings was the largest shareholder, with and Norway. Only minor currency effects are expected in net per December 31, 2017. For more information, see Note 29. 16.3 percent of the share capital and votes. Stena Sessan Rederi financial items from this time. For the second half year, curOn September 29, the Scandic Group signed an agreement to AB, which is part of the Stena sphere of companies, held 14.6 of rency effects totaled 5 MSEK. divest its hotel operations at Scandic Vierumäki in Finland to the the capital and votes in Scandic at year-end. Scandic has entered At the end of the period, the Group had 140 MSEK (1,068) Vierumäki Country Club. The hotel, which has 180 rooms, had into a share swap agreement with a third party to ensure the in cash and cash equivalents. Unused credit facilities totaled been operated by Scandic since 2010. The sale has given rise to ­delivery of shares that may be allotted according to the Long-Term 1,182 MSEK (1,000), a profit of 17 MSEK that is included in non-recurring items. Incentive Program (LTIP). If the full number of matching shares and performance shares is allotted, the total number of shares allotted Acquisitions and divestments Portfolio development under the LTIP will amount to 615,602, corresponding to approxiAt the end of the period, Scandic had 49,983 rooms in operaAt the end of the year, Scandic had 49,983 rooms at 262 hotels, mately 0.60 percent of Scandic’s share capital and votes. tion at 262 hotels. On June 21, 2017, the Scandic Group of which 240 had lease agreements. On December 29, 2017, signed an agreement to acquire 100 percent of the share capi42 more hotels with 7,324 rooms in Finland were added through Risks and risk management tal in Restel Hotellit Oy. On December 29, 2017, the Scandic the acquisition of Restel, which will contribute to Scandic’s sales A description of Scandic’s significant risks and uncertainties is proGroup completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the share and results from January 1, 2018. During the year, the number vided in the Risks and risk management section on pages 68–71. capital of Restel Hotellit Oy for 1,160 MSEK. The acquisition of hotels in operation increased by a net of 39 and the number of price is preliminary and will be updated after a final reconciliarooms by 8,411. New hotels in operation during the year were Employees tion of liquid assets, working capital and investments comScandic Drammen, Norway (289 rooms), Scandic Flesland The average number of employees was 9,929 on December 31, pared with the targets for respective item that are stated in the ­Airport, Norway (300 rooms), Grand Hotel by Scandic, Norway 2017 compared with 9,359 on December 31, 2016. Scandic acquisition agreement. Restel’s operations include 43 hotels in (283 rum), Scandic Valdres, Norway (139 rooms), Scandic aims to be an equal opportunity employer and to provide a safe Finland and through the acquisition, Scandic will gain nation­Sørlandet, Norway (210 rooms), Scandic Hafjell, Norway work environment, which among other things is governed by the wide coverage in the Finnish market. Restel’s portfolio cur(210 rooms), Scandic Lillehammer, Norway (303 rooms), Group’s Code of Conduct. During the year, the annual employee rently consists of approximately 7,600 hotel rooms at 43 hotels ­Scandic Sluseholmen, Denmark (215 rooms), Scandic Kista, survey again showed good results and improvements within INVESTMENTS, 5 YEARS NET SALES ADJUSTED EBITDA AND MARGIN MSEK MSEK MSEK % 2,500 5.1% 4.7% 3.7% 3.4% 4.2% 15,000 2,000 16 2,000 12,000 1,500 12 1,500 9,000 1,000 8 1,000 6,000 500 4 500 3,000 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Investments Renovations New hotels & expansions Adjusted EBITDA, MSEK Adjusted EBITDA margin, % IT % Renovations as a % of net sales 66 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 leadership, motivation and commitment to the company. According The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted Integration costs for Restel are expected to be approximately to the research company TNS Sifo, Scandic is ranked as an “excelunder the LTIP and the delivery of shares to the participants of the 150 MSEK in 2018 and investments related to integration are lent” company from an employee perspective. LTIP have been hedged through Scandic’s entering into a share ­estimated at around 50 MSEK in 2018. Most of these costs are swap agreement with a third party on market terms. related to the first half of the year. Restel’s revenue growth is Sustainability report For further information, see Note 6 and page 72 of the Corpoexpected to be impacted slightly by ongoing renovations in 2018. Scandic has prepared a sustainability report in accordance with the rate Governance Report. Most of Restel’s sales are normally generated between the second Annual Accounts Act, which is submitted by the Board. The Sustainabiland fourth quarter of the year. ity Report can be found on pages 1–11 and 34–59. The Sustainability Events after the reporting date Report includes the Parent Company and the Swedish subsidaries. On January 16, Scandic announced that it expected lower earnings Parent Company for the fourth quarter 2017. This is a result of lower earnings in The operations of the Parent Company, Scandic Hotels Group AB, Executive Committee and Board of Directors ­Swedish operations and non-recurring costs for central functions. include management services for the rest of the Group. Revenues Scandic has a diversified Executive Committee with solid experience On January 30, Scandic launched a new version of its Scandic for the period amounted to 54 MSEK (29). Operating losses totaled from the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in various Friends loyalty program and a new app. -17 MSEK (-7). The net financial expense for the period was till markets. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO and eight On February 15, it was agreed to amend the loan agreement, 8 MSEK (17) The Parent Company’s profit before taxes was senior executives: The Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Senior Vice increasing the total credit line by 500 MSEK in the form of 325 MSEK (76). President Human Resources & Sustainability (SVP Human Resources a ­multi-currency revolving credit facility that will apply until & Sustainability), the Vice President Business Development (VP BusiFebruary 12, 2019. Appropriation of profits ness Development) and the Heads of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, FinOn February 20, the Nomination Committee of Scandic Hotels In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on Sepland and Europe. In addition, the CEO is also the acting Chief CommerGroup AB announced that Vagn Sørensen had informed the committember 14, 2015, Scandic aims to distribute at least 50 percent of cial Officer (CCO). Five nationalities are represented in the Executive tee that he would stand down as Chairman and member of the its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. Committee, which is composed of eight men and one woman. Board of Directors from the Annual General Meeting 2018. This is Decisions regarding the appropriation of profits are made with At the Annual General Meeting on May 10, 2017, Vagn Sørensen, due to time constraints from other international board appointments. consideration to the company’s future profits, financial position, Ingalill Berglund, Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie Knutson, On February 27, the Nomination Committee of Scandic Hotels capital requirements and macroeconomic conditions. Christoffer Lundström, Eva Moen Adolfsson and Fredrik Wirdenius Group AB announced that it would propose that the Annual GenThe Board proposes that the profits be distributed as follows: were re-elected and Martin Svalstedt was elected as new member of eral Meeting to be held on April 26, 2018 elect Per G Braathen as SEK the Board for the period until the next Annual General Meeting. Vagn new Chairman of the Board of Directors and Frank Fiskers as new Sørensen was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. member of the Board. Dividend to shareholders, 3.40 SEK per share 350,149,255 To be carried forward 6,229,766,528 Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives Outlook Total 6,579,915,783 Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment In total, there were 18 hotels in the pipeline with close to 6,000 for the CEO and senior executives were adopted at the Annual rooms, which constitutes a good platform for growth in the coming Board of Directors proposes that dividend be paid out in two equal General Meeting held on May 10, 2017. See the Corporate Goveryears. Scandic estimates that revenue growth for comparable entiamounts of 1.70 SEK per share on two occasions. The proposed nance Report on page 72 for further information. ties, adjusted for calendar effects, will be positive in the first quarter, record date for the first payment is April 30, 2018 and for the in line with development in the fourth quarter. The fact that Easter ­second payment October 30, 2018. Long-Term Incentive Program falls partly in the first quarter of this year is expected to have a negaFor more information, please see the financial statements Scandic has a share-based Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP). tive impact on the quarter’s revenue of 4–5 percentage points. and notes. Hotels and rooms in operation and under development Operational Under development Lease agreements Management agreements Franchise and partner agreements Owned Total Total 31 Dec 2017 Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Sweden 79 16,580 1 145 5 600 85 17,325 2 705 Norway 67 12,947 13 1,837 1 135 81 14,919 4 990 Denmark 23 3,879 1 210 24 4,089 5 1,859 Finland 66 12,158 1 67 67 12,225 5 1,622 Rest of Europe 5 1,425 5 1,425 2 799 Total 240 46,989 2 355 19 2,504 1 135 262 49,983 18 5,975 All hotels under development will be operated through lease agreements, except Scandic Gällivare (80 rooms) that will be operated under a franchise agreement. GRI: G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 67 R I S K S A N D R I S K M A N AG E M E N T All business activities are associated with risks. Scandic has developed processes to handle different types of risks. The ability to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks is an Risk management process is assigned to a designated manager who is respons­ible for important part of the management and control of Scandic’s Scandic has established a risk management process designed ­proposing measures to fill any gaps and ensure the execution business operations. The aim is that the Group’s objectives will to identify and reduce risks that can have an adverse effect on of action plans. Financial risks are managed by Group Finance be achieved through well-considered risk-taking within estabthe Group’s earnings and cash flow, brand and reputation or in accordance with Board-approved policies and instructions lished limits. long-term competitiveness. The process that provides a frameand are reported by the Chief Financial Officer to the Audit The risk management process includes strategic, operawork for the Group’s risk management follows an annual cycle: ­Committee. tional and financial risks. • The Executive Committee carries out risk mapping where Scandic has good underlying risk diversification in the form risks are identified and measured based on the probability Sustainability risks of a geographically diverse and balanced customer base. The that they will occur as well as the consequences of their Over the year, an evaluation of sustainability risks was carried Group operates primarily in the Nordic market through 262 occurrence on the Group’s operations and financial posiout. The evaluation considered all four areas of the UN Global hotels that serve its customers. Of the Group’s revenues, cortion. This results in a risk map where each risk is classified Compact: environment, human rights, labor and anti-corruption. porate travel accounts for approximately 70 percent and leias low, medium or high. The internal controls and the conThe results were included in Scandic’s work to develop its sure travel for about 30 percent. Scandic is not dependent on trol environment are then evaluated to ensure that relevant sustain­ability strategy. The company’s business development a specific industry or a few customers. controls are in place that can reduce risks both in terms of and its operational and strategic decisions include sustainability For a detailed description of internal controls designed to probability and consequences. as a parameter that is evaluated based on opportunities and manage risks relating to financial reporting, see pages 72–83 • Based on the Group’s risk profile and risk strategy, any gaps risks. The management of sustainability risks is an integrated in Scandic’s Corporate Governance Report. in relation to the desired level of control are identified. element of the Group’s risk management process. Thereafter, an action plan is developed to reduce gaps where the value of reducing the risk is measured against Strategic and operational risks the cost of establishing and maintaining internal controls. The following pages provide a description of the most signifiRISK MAPPING • The structure and frequency of monitoring risk status and cant risks to which Scandic’s operations are exposed. These action plans is determined. Strategic risks are reported to are not the only risks and there may be other risks that are curthe Board and monitored in connection with strategy meetrently considered immaterial that may have a negative effect ings, establishing business plans and regular Board meeton the Group’s business, financial performance or position. The ings. Financial risks are reported and monitored both in order in which risks are presented should not be considered an ACTION PLAN VALUATION AND financial reporting to the Board and at Audit Committee indication of the probability of the occurrence of the risk or the TO REDUCE CLASSIFICATION meetings according to the agenda adopted at the annual seriousness of the consequences. GAPS OF RISKS ANNUAL CYCLE general meeting. Operational risks are managed by the Strategic risks include external factors that may affect Executive Committee, but more significant risks are Scandic’s business and long-term competitiveness as well as reported regularly to the Board. internal factors that could lower the prospects of achieving Scandic’s strategic business objectives. Operational risks are IDENTIFICATION EVALUATION Responsibility and monitoring risks over which Scandic has control and primarily include proOF GAPS IN DESIRED OF INTERNAL The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring cesses, assets and people. CONTROL LEVEL CONTROL that the Group has appropriate risk management structures in place. The Board is also responsible for monitoring strategic Business risk risks. The Audit Committee is responsible for evaluating the A change in RevPAR due to variable rental costs and variable efficacy of the structure and risk management processes. The costs will have an impact of approximately 40 to 60 percent on Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring financial EBITDA. Based on Group results and assuming that all other risks in accordance with the committee’s instructions. factors except RevPAR remain unchanged, Scandic assesses The President & CEO is responsible for managing risks in that an increase or decrease of 1 percent in RevPAR will have accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Board. The risk an impact of approximately 30 to 50 MSEK on EBITDA on an management process and work within specially identified risk annual basis, where the higher value relates to a change driven areas are driven centrally by the Group’s Chief Financial Officer, entirely by the average room rate and the lower value refers to who has overall responsibility. Operational risks are managed a change driven solely by occupancy. by the Executive Committee where each significant risk identified 68 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET RISKS Risk management Scandic operates in a sector where demand for hotel nights Scandic operates in the mid-market hotel segment, which historically has demonstrated greater resilience in economic downturns. and conferences is influenced by the underlying domestic Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where approximately 90 percent of the agreements have variable, revdevelopment and purchasing power in the geographic markets enue-based rents. This results in lower profit risks since revenue losses are partly offset by reduced rental costs. Scandic’s other in which Scandic does business, as well as development in expenses also include a high share of variable costs where above all, staffing flexibility is important to be able to adapt cost levels countries from which there is a significant amount of travel to to variations in demand. All together, this means that by having a flexible cost structure, Scandic can lessen the effects of seasonal Scandic’s domestic markets. and economic fluctuations. Additionally, profitability in the sector is impacted by Scandic sells products to a wide range of customers and industries. The company has achieved a high percentage of satisfied changes in room capacity where when new hotels are estaband returning customers and guests. lished, occupancy can decrease in the short term. In the long A significant share of distribution, just over 60 percent, is achieved through Scandic’s own channels, and a high level of reveterm, however, greater availability of rooms can help generate nues from members of Scandic’s loyalty program contributes to revenue stability. Scandic invests regularly in achieving an optimal interest in particular destinations for business and leisure and customer-focused buying process and maintaining a leading digital dialogue with customers. To increase the inflow of internatravel, thereby increasing the number of hotel rooms sold. tional leisure travelers, distribution through digital channels with international reach is essential. Increased growth in apartment hotels and concepts such as Airbnb as well as the rising use of video conferencing may impact demand for traditional hotel and conference services. Competition from digital distribution channels and search engine companies may reduce traffic to Scandic’s own distribution channels, which could have a negative impact on Scandic’s operations and profitability. POLITICAL RISK, TAXES AND DECISIONS OF AUTHORITIES Risk management Changes in VAT or other taxes may affect demand for hotel Scandic operates only in countries that are politically mature and stable, which leads to a low political risk. Through geographic stays, conference facilities and restaurants. Changes in taxes, spread, the risk that changes to legislation and regulations in a single country may impact Scandic’s earnings negatively is social security fees and other fees that increase Scandic’s costs reduced. During 2017, Scandic worked to prepare for the new requirements resulting from the introduction of the GDPR in 2018. may have a negative effect on the Group’s results. Scandic is also impacted by regulations and legislation on the EU and national levels. Among other things, Scandic’s operations will be impacted when the EU introduces the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that will come into effect on May 25, 2018 and lead to stricter requirements on handling personal data. LEASE AGREEMENTS – FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Risk management Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements. The risk involved in long-term financial commitments is reduced through a high proportion of agreements with variable rent. Of ScanThese agreements are signed for a period of typically 15 to dic’s total lease agreements (based on the number of rooms), approximately 90 percent have fully variable rent or variable rent with a 20 years, with the option to extend in many cases. According minimum guaranteed rent. The latter is the most common contract model in the Nordic countries. to these agreements, the property owner and the tenant Revenue-based rent and joint investment responsibility mean that the property owner and tenant have a common interest in (Scandic) share responsibility for investments in and maintedeveloping and maintaining the property in order to increase guest satisfaction and generate revenue. Scandic prepares rolling plans nance of the property. Scandic’s commitment relates in genfor renovating and maintaining hotels to ensure their standard, attractiveness and ability to continue to generate good revenue. eral to maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniture, According to Scandic’s portfolio strategy, the company only enters into lease agreements for hotels in markets that have good, fixtures and equipment. Historically, these investments have stable demand, that are in attractive locations and that have the scale and configuration that allow for good profitability and thereby accounted for 3 to 4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. low commercial risk. Where these criteria are not met and the risk of entering into a lease agreement is deemed too high, a franchise agreement may be considered if the geographic location of the property has a strategic value or may contribute to increasing the value of Scandic’s loyalty program by improving geographic reach. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 69 BRAND AND REPUTATION Risk management The hotel market is constantly evolving in terms of preferScandic is the leading brand in the Nordic countries and the Scandic brand is one of the Group’s most valuable assets. Scandic’s ences and customer behavior. For this reason, it is extremely loyalty program, Scandic Friends, is the largest in the Nordic hotel industry. In 2017, Scandic Friends generated about 35 percent important for a hotel company to ensure that its brand and of the Group’s revenues from accommodations. By owning its brand, Scandic can guarantee the consistency and quality of its content as well as its perceived position remain relevant and offerings and service and also ensure that the content and offering are constantly adapted to the demands and preferences of appreciated at all times. Maintaining the strength and releboth existing and new customers. vance of the Scandic brand and customer perception of Scandic’s Code of Conduct is based on social and environmental sustainability as well as ethical business conduct in all areas Scandic’s offering and concept is therefore critical to ensure of its operations. The Code applies to all employees and also places demands on Scandic’s suppliers and partners. long-term competitiveness. HUMAN RESOURCES AND TALENT MANAGEMENT Risk management Scandic operates in the service industry where each cusScandic has a strong corporate culture and to strengthen it further, the company’s cultural platform has been fully implemented in tomer and guest experience has a great impact on how the the Group. Each year, Scandic conducts an employee survey that has a very high response rate and high scores when it comes to Group’s offering, quality and service are perceived. job satisfaction. The insight obtained through this survey is an important tool for continued improvement throughout the entire Employee engagement is a key driver in terms of customer organization. satisfaction and it is therefore also central to the Group’s Scandic develops leadership through regular evaluation and development programs at all levels of the organization, including long-term results. The ability to attract, develop and retain Scandic Business School. Talent@Scandic is the Group’s program for training leaders and developing talents. talents and build a good service and corporate culture is thus critical to Scandic’s success. SUSTAINABILITY Risk management Hotel security The risk of incidents associated with hotel security, such as Scandic has a security program that includes crisis management in the event of fire, accidents or terror incidents. The security fire, accidents involving staff or guests or terror incidents. program includes having AEDs (automated external defibrillators) in all hotels. All employees receive regular training and selfinspections are carried out twice per year. In 2018, an evaluation will be carried out and measures will be implemented to ensure that the internal organization for security is optimal in all countries. Supply chains Scandic requires all suppliers to comply with the UN Global Scandic has a process requiring suppliers to report on their sustainability work. In 2017, audits, i.e. onsite follow-up at the Compact criteria. In addition, Scandic has detailed require­suppliers’ premises, were also carried out to ensure compliance with the requirements. ments, including environmental aspects. There is a risk that suppliers do not comply with these detailed requirements. Working conditions There is a risk that working conditions do not reach the level Scandic carries out regular safety audits in its hotels to ensure employee safety. These are followed up with annual self-­ where the health and safety of employees can be guaranteed. inspections and evaluations by the employees of their physical and psychosocial work environment as part of the annual employee survey. In 2017, Scandic also introduced an anonymous Whistleblowing Service that makes it possible to report serious deviations/incidents anonymously. 70 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY cont. Risk management Property ownership structure Scandic does not own any hotel properties. This means that Scandic is engaged in continuous dialogue with its property owners, encouraging them to implement measures to reduce Scandic is dependent on the property owners implementing their environmental impact. measures to reduce their environmental impact, such as systems for ventilation and heating. There is a risk that property owners do not want to make this type of investment, which makes it more difficult for Scandic to meet its CO2 emission targets. Corruption and fraud There is a risk that Scandic’s routines are not secure enough Scandic has internal rules and procedures in place that are intended to prevent corruption and fraud. Managers and leaders also to prevent corruption and/or fraud in various forms. receive training in these areas. In 2018, Scandic will review the structure to ensure compliance with the rules and procedures. Trafficking and prostitution Hotels are locations where prostitution and various forms of In cooperation with the police, the employer organization, the unions and the authorities, Scandic has developed a training protrafficking may occur. This is a risk, as this type of activity gram aimed at helping hotel employees detect if trafficking or prostitution is occurring at a hotel. In 2018, this training program attracts other forms of crime and poses a direct danger to will also be offered in Norway, Denmark and Finland. the victims. FINANCIAL RISKS Risk management The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: Risk management is handled by Group Finance in accordance with policies established by the Board of Directors. These include market risk (including exchange rate risk and interest rate overall risk management as well as risk management for specific areas such as exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall finanthe use of derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity. Group Finance identifies, evalucial policy focuses on the unpredictability of the financial ates and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the Group’s operating units. markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on For a description of the management of financial risks, see Notes 20b and 20c. the Group’s financial result. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scandic is a Swedish public limited liability company, with its registered office in Stockholm, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Nordic Mid Cap list. Scandic applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby submits its Corporate Governance Report for the 2017 financial year. THE BASIS OF SCANDIC’S CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT SCANDIC GOVERNANCE Scandic’s corporate governance aims to support the Information ANNUAL GENERAL Decision NOMINATION Board of Directors and the Executive Committee so that Election MEETING Proposal COMMITTEE all operations create long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders. Governance includes upholding: • an efficient organizational structure; • systems for risk management and internal control; AUDIT COMMITTEE and EXTERNAL AUDITOR Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE • transparent internal and external reporting. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Goals Strategies Reports Responsibility for the governance and control of Scandic Steering documents Control is distributed between the shareholders, the Board of Directors, its appointed committees and the CEO. The governance of Scandic is based on external and internal governance instruments. The external governance PRESIDENT1) & CEO framework includes the Swedish Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and other applicable Swedish and foreign laws and regulations. Chief Financial Officer Chief Commercial Officer1) VP Business Development SVP HR & Sustainability The internal binding governance instruments include the Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure for the Board, instructions for the Board’s committees and the CEO, values, the Code of Conduct, the authorization Head of Sweden Head of Norway Head of Denmark Head of Finland Head of Europe and delegation procedure, the Finance Policy, the Information Policy, the Insider Policy, the IT Security Policy, the Diversity and Inclusion Policy and guidelines for EXTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS INTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS leases as well as for remuneration to senior executives. • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Annual Accounts Act •  Rules of Procedure and Instructions • Other applicable legislation for the Board/CEO • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rulebook for Issuers • Values • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Code of Conduct • Policies and guidelines 1) Even Frydenberg is acting Chief Commercial Officer. 72 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-34, G4-56 DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFLUENCE THROUGH • Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the auditor. Scandic complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance THE GENERAL MEETING • Adoption of guidelines for remuneration to senior execuCode with the following exception: The shareholders exercise influence at the general meeting, tives in accordance with the proposal of the Board. • Rule 9.7: Incentive programs – In order to adapt the which is Scandic’s highest decision-making body. The gen• Adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Program and hedgvesting period for potential future share-related incentive eral meeting adopts the Articles of Association and at the ing measures for the program in accordance with the programs, the vesting period in the Long-Term Incentive Annual General Meeting, which is the regular general meetproposal of the Board. Program implemented in December 2015 is approxiing held annually, the shareholders elect the Board members, mately 2.4 years and accordingly, it does not meet the the Chairman of the Board and the auditor, and determine 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING requirement that the vesting period to the date for the their fees. The Annual General Meeting further adopts the Scandic’s 2018 Annual General Meeting will be held acquisition of shares be no less than three years. income statement and the balance sheet and decides on the on April 26, 2018 in Stockholm. For more information, see appropriation of profits and whether to discharge the Board page 128. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2017 members and the CEO from liability to the Company. The During 2017, a new President & CEO was appointed. The Annual General Meeting also appoints the Nomination ComNOMINATION COMMITTEE Chief Commercial Officer left the Company and responsibilmittee, determines their work and adopts principles of remuThe Nomination Committee represents the Company’s ity for the commercial organization was taken over until neration and terms of employment for the CEO and other shareholders and is tasked with preparing proposals for the ­further notice by the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. The senior executives. Scandic’s Annual General Meeting is held Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the ChairBoard of Directors appointed a new deputy chairman during annually in Stockholm before the end of June. Extraordinary man of the Annual General Meeting, Board members, the the year. The Annual General Meeting approved the Board’s general meetings may be held as and when needed. Chairman of the Board and the auditor, as well as proposals proposal to adopt a Long-Term Incentive Program for a for fees to the Board of Directors, fees to the auditors and, maximum of 50 senior executives and key employees in 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to the extent it is considered required, proposed changes to the Scandic Group. At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2017 in the instructions to the Nomination Committee. The NominaStockholm, resolutions were passed on the following: tion Committee has adopted the guidelines stipulated in SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS • Adoption of the income statement and balance sheet section 4.1 of the Code as the diversity policy as regards The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s for 2016. the composition of the Board of Directors. Proposals should Nordic Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. At year-end • Decision in accordance with the Board of Directors’ probe justified to reflect the requirement that the Board have a 2017, the share capital of Scandic was 25.7 MSEK divided posal that a dividend of 3.15 SEK per share for the 2016 composition that is appropriate based on the Company’s into 102,985,075 shares with all shares conferring equal financial year be paid and that the rest of the free equity needs, characterized by versatility and breadth. The Nomivoting rights, an equal share of assets and earnings and an be carried forward. nation Committee strives to meet the Code’s requirements equal share of any dividends. Of the total share capital, 52.3 • Discharge of the Board of Directors and the CEO from for an even gender distribution and diversity mainly with percent was held by Swedish investors and 47.7 percent by liability to the Company. regard to age, nationality and skills. foreign investors. The ten largest shareholders represented • Vagn Sørensen, Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie The Company shall have a Nomination Committee con50.4 percent of the share capital and votes in the Company. Knutson, Eva Moen Adolfsson, Fredrik Wirdenius, Ingalill sisting of the Chairman of the Board and a representative of During the year, the previous largest shareholder, Sunstorm Berglund and Christoffer Lundström were re-elected as each of the three largest shareholders, based on shareHolding AB, sold holdings corresponding to 20.4 percent of Board members.Martin Svalstedt was elected as a new holder statistics from Euroclear Sweden AB, as at the last the share capital and votes in the Company to Stena Sessan member. Vagn Sørensen was re-elected as Chairman of banking day in August every year. The Nomination CommitAB and Rolf Lundström, through Novobis and privately. At the Board. tee’s term of office shall run until a new Nomination Comyear-end, Rolf Lundström, through Novobis and privately, was • PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as auditor, mittee has been appointed. the largest shareholder with 16.3 percent of the share capital with Magnus Brändström as the auditor-in-charge for Unless otherwise agreed by the members of the Nominaand votes. At year-end, Stena Sessan’s shareholding totaled the period until the end of the 2018 Annual General tion Committee, the Chairman of the Nomination Commit14.6 percent of the Company’s share capital and votes. Meeting. tee shall be the member who represents the largest shareGRI: G4-7, G4-73 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 73 holders based on the number of votes. If a shareholder should cease to be one of the three largest shareholders by number of votes during the Nomination Committee’s term of office, the representative appointed by the shareholder in question shall resign, and the shareholder who has become one of the three largest shareholders by number of votes shall appoint a representative. Such a change is not necessary if the change in votes is marginal or if the change occurs later than three months prior to the Annual General Meeting, unless there are special reasons for it. The names of the three shareholder representatives and the names of the shareholders represented by them shall be announced no later than six months prior to the 2017 Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee for the 2018 Annual General Meeting JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN The Nomination Committee for the 2018 Annual General Meeting consists of four 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 members and in addition to the Chairman of the Board of Directors includes represenJUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC tatives from the three largest shareholders. The work of the Nomination Committee was led by Joel Lindeman of Novobis AB. The composition of the Nomination Commit11 12 13 14 15 tee was published in a press release on October 11, 2017. % of the number of votes 1 6 11 Nomination Committee Representing as at 31 Dec 2017 Vagn Sørensen Investment decisions Q1 Interim Report, InvestQ2 Interim Report Joel Lindeman Novobis AB 16.3 (per capsulam) ment decisions, Follow-up on investments, Evaluation 12 Johan Wester Stena Sessan AB 14.6 2 of Executive Committee Staffan Ringwall Handelsbankens Fonder 4.4 Investment decisions, Change of President & CEO Follow-up on investments, In the work on nominations for the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Com7 Approval of policies mittee assessed the size and composition of the current Board of Directors as well as Board meeting following 3 Scandic’s operations. Special weight was attached to industry-specific and financial election (per capsulam) 13 expertise and an even gender distribution. The Nomination Committee complies with Year-end report Q4, the guidelines in the Code regarding Board Member independence. Scandic’s Diversity Investment decisions Q3 Interim Report, 8 ­Policy was taken into account chiefly as regards equal gender distribution.The 2018 Investment decisions, 4 Investment decisions Succession planning, Nomination Committee held six meetings and maintained communication in between. (per capsulam) Evaluation of Board The Nomination Committee based its work on the Chairman of the Board’s report on Investment decisions, of Directors the work of the Board of Directors and discussions with the CEO about the operations Follow-up on investments, 9 of the Company. Remuneration to senior 14 The proposals of the Nomination Committee will be presented at the 2018 Annual executives Investment decisions, General Meeting and on Scandic’s website at www.scandichotelsgroup.com Approval of binding offer Investment decisions The website also presents the motivation behind the proposals, a report on the 5 for Restel, Financing committee’s work as well as a full presentation of the proposed members. decisions 15 Investment decisions, The Nomination Committee can be reached at nominationcommittee@scandic­ Preparation for AGM Investment decisions, hotels.com. For the Nomination Committee to consider suggestions, shareholders who 10 Follow-up on investments, wish to submit proposals may do so at any time, however before December 31. More Investment decisions, Short-term incentive information is available at www.scandichotelsgroup.com Approval of Restel trans­ program 2018, action, Follow-up on Budget 2018 investments, Follow-up on business plan for 2017, Strategy, Risk analysis 74 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Independence The duties of the Board of Directors include appointing the The Board of Directors is responsible for Scandic’s orgaNone of the Board members are employed by the Scandic CEO, adopting strategies, business plans, budgets, interim nization and the management of the Company’s affairs. Group. All Board members are considered to be indepenreports, year-end accounts and annual reports as well as According to the Articles of Association, the Board of dent in relation to the Company and the senior executives. instructions, policies and guidelines. The Board of Directors Directors shall consist of no fewer than three and no Seven of the nine Board members, who are independent in shall also monitor the financial performance of the Company, more than eleven Board members, with no more than two relation to the Company and the senior executives, are also ensure the quality of financial reporting and internal control alternates. In addition, trade unions are entitled to appoint independent in relation to the Company’s major shareholdand evaluate the operations in relation to the objectives and two regular Board members and two alternates. Board ers. Scandic thereby complies with the requirements in the guidelines adopted by the Board of Directors. The Board of members are elected annually at the Annual General Code regarding the Board of Directors’ independence in Directors also resolves whether to enter into or extend Meeting for the period up until the end of the subsequent relation to the Company, the senior executives and the leases, franchise agreements and management agreements Annual General Meeting. Company’s major shareholders. and whether significant investments or changes in the Group’s organization and operations should be made. During Composition of the Board of Directors 2017 Work of the Board of Directors the year, the Board also made decisions regarding the The Board of Directors currently comprises nine members The duties of the Board of Directors are regulated in the change of CEO and the acquisition of Restel. and one employee representative elected for the period up Swedish Companies Act, the Company’s Articles of AssociThe Chairman of the Board is responsible for the work of until the end of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. Three of ation and the Code. The work and procedures of the Board the Board of Directors, including ensuring that the work of the nine Board members are foreign nationals. The CEO of Directors are decided annually in written Rules of Procethe Board of Directors is conducted efficiently and that it and the Group’s Chief Financial Officer participate in Board dure. These rules govern the distribution of work and fulfils its obligations in accordance with applicable laws meetings, as well as the Board’s secretary. Other employresponsibilities among the Board members, the Chairman and regulations. The Chairman of the Board shall, in close ees of the Group participate in Board Meetings as and of the Board and the CEO, and the routines for financial cooperation with the CEO, monitor the Company’s perforwhen necessary to report on special matters. reporting. The Board of Directors also adopts instructions mance and prepare and lead Board meetings. The Chairfor the committees of the Board of Directors. man of the Board is also responsible for ensuring that the Board members evaluate their work annually and continually receive the information required to conduct their work Independent Independent efficiently. The Chairman of the Board represents the Comin relation to in relation to Attendance Committees, attenpany vis-à-vis the shareholders. Elected, the company and the largest and number dance and number RemunerName Position year senior executives shareholders of meetings1) of meetings1) ation 2017 Vagn Sørensen Chairman 2007 Yes Yes 15 (15) 4 (4) Remuneration 761,667 Work during the year During the year, nine regular Board meetings were held, of Ingalill Berglund Member 2016 Yes Yes 14 (15) 7 (7) Audit 475,833 which one per capsulam, and six extraordinary meetings, Per G. Braathen Vice Chairman 2007 Yes Yes 15 (15) 2 (2) Remuneration 454,167 of which three per capsulam. The Board dealt with issues Albert Gustafsson Member 2016 Yes Yes 6 (15) 3 (7) Audit 154,166 related to investment decisions, property development, Grant Hearn Member 2014 Yes Yes 14 (15) 4 (4) Remuneration 375,833 policies, remuneration to senior executives, the change of Lottie Knutson Member 2015 Yes Yes 13 (15) 325,833 CEO and the potential acquisition of Finnish Restel. Stephan Leithner Member 2016 Yes Yes 4 (15) 1 (4) Remuneration 154,167 Christoffer Lundström Member 2016 Yes No 15 (15) 4 (7) Audit 355,000 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF Eva Moen Adolfsson Member 2014 Yes Yes 15 (15) 4 (4) Remuneration 425,833 ­DIRECTORS Niklas Sloutski Member 2011 Yes Yes 6 (15) 2 (7) Audit 154,167 The Board of Directors has two committees: The Audit Martin Svalstedt Member 2017 Yes No 8 (15) 3 (7) Audit 221,667 Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Neither Fredrik Wirdenius Member 2015 Yes Yes 13 (15) 4 (7) Audit 355,000 committee is authorized to make decisions, but they preMarianne Sundelius Employee 2017 No Yes 6 (15) 24,000 pare matters and present them to the Board of Directors for repres. decisions. The work of the committees is conducted in Jan Wallmark Employee 2015 No Yes 10 (15) 26,667 accordance with the written procedures for each commitrepres. tee, as adopted by the Board of Directors and the Rules of Total 4,264,000 Procedure for the Board. 1) Total number of meetings during the year. Martin Svalstedt joined the Board on 10 May 2017 and therefore was unable to attend all of the meetings in 2017. Albert Gustavsson, Stephan Leithner and Niklas Sloutski left the Board on 10 May 2017. Marianne Sundelius replaced Jan Wallmark as employee representative on 10 May 2017. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 75 Remuneration Committee regarding independence and accounting or auditing experMagnus Brändström is an authorized public accountant and The Remuneration Committee prepares resolutions in mattise are thus met. a member of FAR. During 2017, the auditor reported its ters involving remuneration principles, salaries, benefits and The Audit Committee held seven meetings during the observations on one occasion times to the Board of Direcremuneration to the CEO and senior executives who are subyear, all of which were attended by the Company’s auditor. tors. No members of the Executive Committee were presordinate to the CEO. The Remuneration Committee shall also ent. Thereafter, the auditor participated in five meetings supervise and evaluate the outcome of programs for variable The following matters were handled at the Audit Committee with the Audit Committee. remuneration and the Company’s compliance with the guidemeetings: The Audit Committee evaluates the auditors’ work and lines for remuneration adopted at a general meeting. • Interim reports – review prior to approval by the Board independence annually. The Remuneration Committee shall consist of at least of Directors. The auditor receives a fee for its work, according to a three Board members elected at a general meeting. The • Status of internal control and risk analysis, and evaluaresolution at the Annual General Meeting. Information on Chairman of the Board can also be the Chairman of the tion of the structures and efficiency of internal control. auditors’ fees is provided in Note 4 on page 96. Remuneration Committee. The other members of the Com• Auditors’ reports on the review of the annual accounts, mittee shall be independent in relation to the Company and the interim report for the third quarter, “early warning” EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE its senior executives. and internal control. Scandic’s Executive Committee has solid experience from The Remuneration Committee consists of Eva Moen • Audit plan and auditors’ fees, and evaluation of auditors’ the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in variAdolfsson (Chairman), Vagn Sørensen, Per G. Braathen and work and independence. ous markets. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO Grant Hearn. • Evaluation of the requirement for an internal audit funcand eight senior executives: The Chief Financial Officer The Remuneration Committee held four meetings during tion for recommendation to the Board of Directors. (CFO), the Senior Vice President Human Resources & Susthe year. The Committee conducted a review of the basic • IT Security Policy – review prior to approval by the Board tainability (SVP HR & Sustainability), the Vice President remuneration of senior executives, the bonus program, of Directors. Business Development (VP Business Development) and the other remuneration and the Long-Term Incentive Program. • Status of ongoing disputes and legal matters – standing Group’s five Country Heads. The previous CEO left the Comitem at all meetings. pany and was replaced on August 1, 2017. The Chief ComAudit Committee mercial Director (CCO) left the Company in October and his The Audit Committee prepares the Board of Directors’ work EVALUATION OF THE WORK OF THE BOARD responsibilities have been temporarily assumed by the CEO. on matters involving risk assessments, internal control, OF DIRECTORS Five different nationalities are represented in the Executive internal audit, accounting, financial reporting and audits. The Chairman of the Board is responsible for evaluating the Committee, which is composed of eight men and one The Committee’s work aims to ensure compliance with the work of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors evaluwoman. During the year, one new member joined the Execadopted principles for financial reporting and internal conates its work annually. This evaluation concerns the procedure utive Committee. See page 83 for more information. trol and that the Company’s relationship with its auditors is and main direction for the work of the Board of Directors. The The CEO’s areas of responsibility and powers are govappropriate for the purpose. evaluation also focuses on access to and the need for special erned by the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors The Audit Committee shall also evaluate the audit and expertise on the Board of Directors. The evaluation in 2017 and instructions for the CEO. The CEO is responsible for provide a report to the Nomination Committee. It shall also included evaluation of the work of the Board by the members communicating and implementing Scandic’s strategy, busipropose auditors to the Nomination Committee. of the Board as well as a survey of the Board’s current level of ness plans and other decisions in the organization. The CEO The Audit Committee also follows up and comments on expertise and need for expertise, which was carried out with is also ultimately responsible for ensuring that the governon-auditing related services that Scandic procures from the assistance of an external consultant. The results were nance, organization, risk management, internal processes the Company’s auditor. ­presented and discussed by the Board of Directors and the and IT infrastructure are satisfactory. The Audit Committee shall consist of at least three memNomination Committee. The evaluation was used as a tool to To achieve economies of scale and ensure a consistent bers. The majority of the members shall be independent in develop the work of the Board of Directors and also constitutes customer offering, Scandic has gathered a number of suprelation to the Company and the senior executives, and at support for the work of the Nomination Committee. port functions centrally including accounting and finance, least one member shall be independent in relation to the HR, purchasing, IT, marketing, product development, reveCompany, the Company’s senior executives and the ComAuditors nue management, and restaurant and conference operapany’s major shareholders, and shall have experience in PricewaterhouseCoopers has been the Company’s auditor tions. Personnel in charge of the various Group functions auditing or accounting. since 2012. At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May are also in charge of developing Group-wide policies, The Audit Committee consists of Ingalill Berglund (Chair2017, PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as audiguidelines and working methods and for following up on man), Christoffer Lundström, Martin Svalstedt and Fredrik tor, with Magnus Brändström as the auditor-in-charge, for and ensuring that the Group’s operations are conducted in Wirdenius. The requirements of the Swedish Companies Act the time until the end of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. compliance with adopted policies and standards. 76 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-34, G4-56 Sustainability Sustainability is an integrated part of Scandic’s governance ANNUAL CYCLE OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE and reporting. The understanding of and commitment to challenges such as climate change, creating ethical and safe workplaces and being a responsible purchasing party are of IMPLEMENTATION SELF-ASSESSMENT major importance to the Group. All countries strive to employ OF NEW PROCESSES people who reflect the society in which the hotels operate at the same time as discrimination and harassment are EXTERNAL AUDIT ­prohibited. In these contexts, Scandic’s governance docuUPDATING OF SELF-ASSESSMENT ments are Scandic’s Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct CHECKLIST for Suppliers, the Anti-Corruption Policy, the Environmental ANNUAL CYCLE Policy and the Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Scandic’s INTERNAL AUDIT ­Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which was formulated during 2017, is an underlying policy to Scandic’s Code of Conduct. UPDATING OF GUIDELINES, PROCESSES The policy sets out that diversity contributes to business AND ROUTINES ANALYSIS OF RESULTS ­success and clearly stipulates that no form of discrimination is accepted. When appointing Board members, Scandic strives for RISK MANAGEMENT EVALUATION OF diversity mainly with respect to gender, age, nationality and PROCESS skills. The Board of Directors has joint responsibility for sustainability. Within the Executive Committee, sustain­ ability is delegated to the head of each function: the CFO is responsible for anti-corruption and supplier control and Guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and The pension benefits to the CEO and other senior executives the SVP HR & Sustainability is responsible for reporting and senior executives shall chiefly consist of defined contribution pension schemes, ESG information, employment law, diversity and equality Scandic’s senior executives are the members of the Execubut they may also be defined benefit schemes if required by as well as for sustainability as a whole within Scandic. tive Committee. Following a resolution passed at the a collective bargaining agreement. Fixed salary during notice Annual General Meeting held on May 10, 2017, the followperiods and severance pay, including compensation for SIGNIFICANT EVENTS HANDLED BY ing guidelines apply: anti-competition restrictions, shall in aggregate not exceed THE CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Scandic shall offer terms that are in line with market an amount corresponding to the fixed salary for 18 months. IN 2017 conditions and that enable the Company to recruit and The total severance pay for all members of the Executive During the year, the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) left retain the managers required to meet its shortand longCommittee shall not exceed the fixed monthly salary for the the Company and was temporarily replaced by the CEO. term targets. Remuneration to senior executives may remaining years until the employee reaches 65 years of age. In addition, the Executive Committee handled work related ­consist of a fixed salary, variable salary, pension and other Other remuneration may consist of customary benefits, such to the approval of new leases and extensions of existing benefits. The fixed salary of the CEO and the senior execuas health insurance, which shall not constitute a significant leases as well as the acquisition of Restel’s Finnish tives shall be commensurate with market conditions and part of the total remuneration. Additional remuneration may hotel operations. reflect the demands and responsibility that the position be paid in extraordinary circumstances, provided such remuAt the Annual General Meeting held on May 10, 2017, entails, as well as individual performance. The fixed salary neration is intended to recruit or retain senior executives, guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employof the CEO and the senior executives shall be reviewed and is then to be agreed upon in the individual case. Such ment for senior executives, including the CEO, were annually. The variable salary of the CEO and the senior extraordinary arrangements may include a lump sum cash adopted. These guidelines are only applicable to new executives shall be based on the Company’s fulfillment of payment or a benefit package in the form of a relocation employment agreements entered into between the Comcriteria set in advance. The variable salary shall amount to allowance, income tax support and similar. pany and the respective senior executives, which is why no more than 60 percent of the fixed annual salary of the The Board of Directors has the right to deviate from the there are employment agreements that were entered into CEO and 35 to 50 percent of the fixed annual salary of above-mentioned guidelines in individual cases if it is of before the guidelines were introduced that do not fully other senior executives. Long-Term Incentive Programs the opinion that there are special reasons to do so. The ­conform to the currently applicable guidelines. may be offered as a supplement to the above in order to 2016 guidelines for remuneration gave the Board the right create long-term commitment. to deviate from the guidelines in individual cases if it was of SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 77 the opinion that there were special reasons to do so. The Term Incentive Program, and additional programs were external financial reporting in accordance with the IFRS, guidelines stated that the fixed salary during the notice adopted at the Annual General Meetings in 2016 and applicable laws and regulations and other requirements of period and severance pay, including compensation for any 2017. Terms and conditions for both programs are procompanies listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. This anti-competition restrictions, should not exceed an amount vided in Note 6 on pages 98–100. work involves the Board of Directors, the senior executives corresponding to the fixed salary for 18 months. and other employees. In 2017, the Board resolved to approve an employment Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives The manner in which the Board of Directors monitors agreement for the CEO according to which such payment before the 2018 Annual General Meeting and ensures the quality of internal control is documented in shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the fixed salary The Board of Directors has proposed that the Annual General the adopted Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors for 18 months i.e. in accordance with the guidelines, but Meeting 2018 adopt guidelines that in all material aspects and the instructions for the Audit Committee. The Audit including a provision to the effect that severance payment correspond to the guidelines adopted at the Annual General Committee’s duties include evaluating the Company’s (if any) shall qualify for pension. The Board considered such Meeting 2017. The 2017 guidelines authorize the Board of structure and guidelines for internal control. a deviation justified considering that the company recruited Directors to deviate from the guidelines if, in any individual Financial reporting to the Board of Directors is carried a new CEO with an international background and made the case, there are special circumstances justifying such. out on a monthly basis according to a format described assessment that the CEO’s overall remuneration package in the CEO’s instructions for financial reporting. The Com­ was reasonable and well balanced. More information about THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON pany’s CFO also conducts a review of the financial perforremuneration to the CEO is provided in note 6 in the Annual INTERNAL CONTROL mance and latest forecast for the current year at each Report for 2017. This description has been prepared in compliance with the ­regular Board meeting. Drafts of interim reports are first In February 2017, the Board decided that the former Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate presented to the Audit Committee for discussion and CEO’s fixed salary during the notice period and severance Governance Code (the “Code”) and is therefore limited to ­consideration at a committee meeting before they are pay, including compensation for anti-competition restricinternal control related to financial reporting. The report ­presented to the Board of Directors for approval. tions, would amount to a sum corresponding to the fixed has not been reviewed by the Company’s auditor. The internal financial reporting complies with a standardsalary for 19 months, marginally exceeding the 18-month According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, ized format where a common set of definitions and key ratios limitation set out in the guidelines. The Board deemed that the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that is used for all subsidiaries and hotels. Reporting is carried such a deviation was motivated on the grounds that the internal control mechanisms are developed, communiout through a Group-wide reporting system that allows a CEO would be available to support his successor during his cated to and understood by the employees of Scandic who high level of transparency and comparability of financial extended period of notice. carry out individual control measures, and for ensuring that data. Financial performance is monitored through monthly Additionally, variable remuneration for a member of the such control measures are carried out, monitored, updated reports from the subsidiaries and quarterly reviews where Executive Committee amounted to 41 percent of the fixed and maintained. members of the Executive Committee, the central accountsalary due to a one-off payment. According to the employExecutives at all levels are responsible for ensuring that ing department and the relevant country management team ment contract, the variable salary shall be payable up to a internal control mechanisms are established in their participate. Detailed follow-up of key ratios for different parts maximum of 35 percent of the fixed salary. For more inforrespective areas and that these controls achieve the of Scandic’s hotel operations enables benchmarking mation, see Note 6 on pages 98–100. desired results. Scandic’s CFO is ultimately responsible for between hotels and also provides information quickly on ensuring that the monitoring of and the work on Scandic’s deviations in operating margins and operating profit/loss Remuneration internal control is conducted in the format determined by compared to the expected outcome. Detailed follow-up is an For information on remuneration to the CEO and senior the Board of Directors. important tool for ensuring internal control. executives, see Note 6 on pages 98–100. Scandic’s structure for internal control is based on the Scandic uses “BINC” (Best in Class), which involves COSO model, the framework of which is applied to Scandic’s benchmarking key ratios for revenues, operational effiResolved remuneration not yet payable operations and conditions. According to the COSO model, a ciency and customer satisfaction where key ratios per hotel The company has decided on an one-off compensation to review and assessment is made within the areas of control are compared with other comparable hotels in a “BINC a senior executive that can amount to up to 50,000 EUR environment, risk assessment, control activities, information group.” The purpose is to create a tool to identify good subject to the succesful integration of Restel. The compenand communication and monitoring activities. Based on this examples and stimulate learning and continual improvesation will be paid out in 2018. review, certain areas of development are identified and priorment of best practices. itized in the ongoing internal control work. Long-Term Incentive Program The procedures for internal control, risk assessment, Control environment At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on November control activities and monitoring of financial reporting have The control environment forms the basis of internal control 15, 2015, Scandic adopted a performance-based Longbeen devised to ensure reliable and relevant reporting and of financial reporting. An important element of the control 78 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 environment is that channels for decision-making, authorInformation and communication the Group’s CFO to the Audit Committee, together with a ity and responsibility are clearly defined and communicated The part of Scandic’s governance documents in the form of report of measures undertaken to improve internal control between different levels of the organization and that goverpolicies, guidelines and manuals that involve financial reportif the results indicate that there is a need to do so either at nance documents in the form of internal policies and ing is chiefly communicated via monthly meetings, where all the hotel level or in general. guidelines are available. A good control environment is crefinancial managers participate, and via the Group’s finance As part of their review, external auditors make additional ated through communication and training to ensure underhandbook. The finance handbook is published on the intranet hotel visits during which they test controls according to the standing of and compliance with policies and regulatory and is updated regularly based on changes in external internal checklist. The aim is that these onsite audits, from frameworks. The control environment is strengthened by a requirements and in Scandic’s operations. both Scandic’s accounting department and the external positive corporate culture and the transparent and relevant Communication with internal and external parties is govauditors, shall cover approximately one-third of all hotels monitoring of financial performance and key ratios at all erned by a Communication Policy that provides guidelines every year. levels in the Group. on how such communication should be conducted. The purpose of the policy is to ensure compliance with all disInternal audit Risk assessment closure requirements in a correct and complete manner. Based on the Audit Committee’s evaluation, the Board of Internal control is based on a risk analysis. The risk analysis Internal communication aims to make each employee Directors has decided not to establish a separate internal related to internal control and the risk of errors in the finanunderstand Scandic’s values and business operations. To audit function. The decision is based on the assessment cial reporting form a part of the risk analysis that the Execachieve the aim of informed employees, work is carried out that the existing process for internal control is well estabutive Committee performs and presents to the Audit Cominternally, whereby information is communicated regularly lished, efficient and supported by a good control environmittee and Board of Directors annually. This analysis identivia the Group’s intranet. ment, a clear governance model and well-functioning fies and valuates risks based on their likelihood of occur­regular financial monitoring. The Board of Directors evaluring and the potential impact of the incident on the operaMonitoring ates the need for a special internal audit function on an tions and financial position of the Group. Thereafter, the Scandic’s accounting functions are integrated through a annual basis. Group’s internal controls and control environment are evalcommon finance and accounting system and common uated and any gaps compared with the desired level of accounting instructions. The Board of Directors and the Measures in 2017 control are identified. An action plan aimed at reducing Executive Committee regularly receive information on the Scandic continued to focus its risk analysis to gain a better gaps is established where the value of and possibility to Group’s performance and financial position and the develunderstanding of the financial reporting and analysis. Special reduce the risk is weighed against the cost of establishing opment of its operations. The efficiency of the internal confocus was put on IT security and the new GDPR regulations and maintaining internal controls. Based on the risk analytrol is evaluated annually by the Company and the Audit in the work of the Board of Directors and its committees. sis, control activities are designed aimed at reducing risk at Committee. It is also reviewed by the external auditors. The Self-assessment for internal control was discussed regua reasonable cost. The activities shall also contribute to result of the evaluation forms the basis for improvements larly by the Audit Committee. improved internal procedures and operational efficiency. to processes and controls for subsequent years. Internal control at hotel and country levels is monitored Control activities through self-assessments and onsite audits. Scandic’s internal control is based on the Company’s • All hotels conduct self-assessments at least once a year established channels for decisions and the delegation and based on a Group-wide checklist with mandatory and authorization procedures documented in governing policies recommended controls. and guidelines. • Internal audit visits are carried out by employees at the Control activities may be IT based or manual. To the Company’s central accounting department for a number greatest extent possible, they shall be an integrated part of of hotels per year. These involves a control checklist, defined and documented processes and procedures. spot checks within relevant areas and a general discusA number of control activities that are common to all sion with the general manager and department heads to companies within the Group have been established. Some ensure the understanding of and compliance with interof these are implemented on the hotel level and some are nal control. implemented in the centralized accounting departments in The results of the self-assessments and onsite audits are each country. Control activities are described in Groupreported by the local heads of finance to the management wide instructions. team of the country in question. The results are reported by SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 79 BOARD OF DIRECTORS VAGN SØRENSEN EVA MOEN ADOLFSSON INGALILL BERGLUND PER G. BRAATHEN GRANT HEARN Chairman of the Board of Directors since Member of the Board of Directors since Member of the Board of Directors since Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since 2007. Member of the Remuneration 2014. Chairman of the Remuneration 2016. Chairman of the Audit Committee. since 2017. Member of the Board of 2014. Member of the Remuneration Committee. Committee. Born: 1964. Directors since 2007. Member of the Committee. Born: 1959. Born: 1960. Swedish citizen. Remuneration Committee. Born: 1958. Danish citizen. Swedish and American citizen. Education: Born: 1960. British citizen. Education: Education: Special advanced course in economics, Norwegian citizen. Education: Master of Business Administration from Bachelor of Business Administration from Frans Schartau Business I­nstitute. Education: Diploma in Hotel and Tourism M ­ anagement, ­Aarhus University, Denmark. University of Gothenburg, ­Sweden. Other current assignments: MBA from Schiller University London, UK. Shannon College of Hotel Management, Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Interim Managing Director AxFast AB. Other current assignments: Ireland. Chairman of the Board of F L Smidth A/S, SPP President & CEO of Resia Travel Group AB Board member of Veidekke ASA, AxFast AB, Chairman of the Board of Braathens Regional Other current assignments: Group Plc, Tia Technology A/S Air Canada and and Board assignments in companies within Handelsbanken Regionbank Stockholm, Airlines (BRA), Bramora Ltd. Chairman of Chairman of the Board of Zebra A/S (Flying Tiger Copenhagen). Deputy the Resia Group. Board member of Svenska Kungsleden AB (publ), Bonnier Fastigheter the Board and CEO of Braganza AB. Board Amaris Hospitality and Shearings Chairman of the Board of Nordic Aviation Resebyråföreningens Service AB. AB and Stiftelsen Danvikshem. Member of member of W ­ ayday Travel AS. Holidays Ltd. Capital A/S. Board member of Braganza AB, Previous assignments: Balco Group AB, Juni Strategi and Analys AB. Previous positions: Previous assignments: CP DYVIG A/S, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd, Board member of Västsvenska Previous assignments: Chairman/CEO Tjæreborg, Always and Chairman of the Board of The Hotel CollecUnilode Aviation Solutions and VFS Global. ­Handelskammaren Service AB; President & CFO at Atrium Ljungberg AB. Saga Tours. Chairman of Escape Travel A/S tion; Board member of London & Partners Previous assignments: General Manager, Scandic Rubinen; General Twenty years of experience from the real SunHotels AG. Board member at Arken Zoo Ltd, Thame and London Ltd, TLLC Group CEO of Austrian Airlines Group 2001–2006, Manager, Scandinavian S­ ervice Partner; estate sector. Holding AB and Kristiansand Dyrepark AS, Holdings Ltd and Travelodge Hotels Ltd. Executive Vice President & Deputy CEO of CFO, Radisson SAS Park Avenue Hotel and Shareholding: 3,000 Ticket ­Leisure Travel AB and Ticket Biz AB. Shareholding: 3,000 Scandinavian Airlines Systems 1984–2001. CFO, AVAB Elektronik. Shareholding: 14,925 Chairman of the Board of TDC A/S and Independent in relation to major Independent in relation to major Shareholding: 3,134 ­shareholders: Yes (through companies) ­shareholders: Yes KMD A/S. Deputy Chairman of DFDS A/S. Independent in relation to major Board member of VEGA and Independent in relation to major Independent in relation to the company Independent in relation to the company ­shareholders: Yes and management: Yes ­shareholders: Yes JP/­Politikens Hus. Independent in relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: 60,676 Independent in relation to the company and management: Yes and management: Yes Independent in relation to major ­shareholders: Yes Independent in relation to the company and management: Yes Number of shares as per December 31, 2017. 80 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LOTTIE KNUTSON CHRISTOFFER MARTIN SVALSTEDT FREDRIK WIRDENIUS MARIANNE SUNDELIUS Member of the Board of Directors LUNDSTRÖM Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board since 2015. Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Member of the Board of Directors since since 2017. ­Member of the Audit Committee. since 2017. Born: 1964. 2016. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Employee representative. Born: 1961. Swedish citizen. Born: 1973. Swedish citizen. Born: 1963. Swedish citizen. Born: 1967. Education: Education: Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Education: Bachelor from the Department of Media Bachelor of Arts, Webster University and Education: Master of Science in Engineering, KTH Royal Education: ­Studies, Stockholm University, Sweden. Hotel Management Diploma, HOSTA. Education: Bachelor of Science in Business Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. University courses in leadership and ­Diplôme de l’Université Paris IV. Other current assignments: Administration and Law from the University ­psychology. Studies in economics. Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Owner & President of investment company of Karlstad, Sweden. CEO of Vasakronan AB. Board member of Other current assignments: – Board member of Cloetta AB, Stena Line BV, RCL Holding AB. Board member of Collector Other current assignments: RICS Sweden. Previous assignments: STS Alpresor AB, Swedavia AB and Talently AB, Feelgood Svenska AB, Rasta Group AB CEO Stena Adactum AB and Stena Sessan Previous assignments: Employee representative at Sara Hotels AB Online Group AB. (until 2018), Provobis Invest AB, Harrys AB, Chairman of the Board in Ballingslöv Board member of Vasakronan AB. and Reso Hotels AB. Previous assignments: Pubar AB, RCL Holding AB, KL Capital AB, International, Gunnebo and Stena Renew­ Future Pawnbroker AB and Tableflip EnterShareholding: 3,134 Shareholdings in Scandic: – Board member of H&M Hennes & Mauritz able. Vice chairman of the Board in Envac. AB, Actic AB, Wise Group AB and TUI Nordic tainment AB. Chairman of the Board of Board member in Svedbergs, Stena Sessan Independent in relation to major Independent in relation to major Holding AB. AM Brands AB. and Stena Adactum. Member of the Stena ­shareholders: Yes ­shareholders: Yes Shareholdings: 205,219 Sphere Coordination Group. Independent in relation to the company Independent in relation to the company Shareholding: 3,134 Independent in relation to major Previous assignments: and management: Yes and management: No (employee Independent in relation to major Chairman of the board of Meda, Envac, ­representative). ­shareholders: Yes ­shareholders: No (Rolf Lundström/Novobis) Mediatec Group and Blomsterlandet. Independent in relation to the company ­Experience from operational roles such as and management: Yes Independent in relation to the company CFO at Capio and other senior financial and management: Yes ­positions. Shareholdings: 20,000 (In addition, Stena Sessan Rederi AB held 15,025,982 shares) Independency in relation to major ­shareholders: No (Stena) Independency in relation to the company and management: Yes Number of shares as per December 31, 2017. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 81 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Standing, from left to right: Aki Käyhkö, Jan Johansson, Michel Schutzbach, Linda Eriksson, Svein Arild Steen-Mevold. Sitting, from left to right: Lena Bjurner, Even Frydenberg, Jesper Engman, Jens Mathiesen, Peter Jangbratt. 82 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 EVEN FRYDENBERG JESPER ENGMAN PETER JANGBRATT AKI KÄYHKÖ MICHEL SCHUTZBACH President & CEO Vice President Business Development Head of Sweden Head of Finland Head of Europe Born: 1964. Employed and member of Born: 1974. Employed since 2006. Born: 1967. Employed by the Group 1995– Born: 1968. Employed by the Group since Born: 1961. Employed by the Group since Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2017. Member of Scandic’s Executive Committee 2008 and since 2015. Member of Scandic’s 2012. Member of Scandic’s Executive 2009. Member of Scandic’s Executive Norwegian citizen. since 2014. Swedish citizen. Executive Committee since September 2016. ­Committee since September 2016. ­Committee since September 2016. Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Swedish citizen. Finnish citizen. Swiss citizen. Education: Master of Business AdministraEducation: Master of Real Estate DevelopOther assignments: – Other assignments: Vice Chairman of Other assignments: – tion from Stanford University and Bachelor ment, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Education: Scandic Business School the Board of the Finnish Hospitality Industry Education: Diploma from Hotels & Manageof Science in International Business from Stockholm, Sweden. and Hilton. Association. Member of the Board of ment School, Glion, Switzerland. ­University of San Francisco. RGE Holding Oy. Previous experience: Business Area Director Previous experience: Several senior Previous experience: Several senior posiPrevious assignments: Several senior and Analyst, Pandox. Analyst, Hotellus. ­positions at Scandic including Director of Education: Bachelor of Business Administrations within Rezidor, including Vice President ­positions within Starwood Hotels & Resorts Marketing & Communications, Head of tion in International Business and ManageHR and Regional Director Poland and Ireland. Number of shares in Scandic: 5,970 ment, Schiller International University, and Marriott International; SVP Operations ­Operations Sweden and CEO of Rica Hotels Number of shares: 11,194 Western Europe & Global Initiatives; VP Six Sweden. ­London. Sigma Europe Africa Middle East. Latest role LINDA ERIKSSON Previous experience: Several senior (adjunct member) Director Group Strategy Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 SVEIN ARILD STEEN-MEVOLD was Chief Operations & Franchise Support ­positions at Procter & Gamble and Reckitt Officer Europe, Marriott Hotels Europe. Born: 1983. Employed and adjunct member ­Benckiser; Commercial Director, Oy Hartwall Head of Norway of Scandic’s Executive Committee since JAN JOHANSSON and CEO, Palace Kämp Group. Born: 1967. Employed by the Group since Shareholdings: 5,500. Chief Financial Officer August 2015. Swedish citizen. Number of shares: 11,194 2010. Member of Scandic’s Executive Other assignments: – Born: 1962. Employed and member of ­Committee since September 2016. LENA BJURNER Scandic’s Executive Committee since Norwegian citizen. Senior Vice President HR & Sustainability Education: Master of Science in Engineering, ­September 2016. Swedish citizen. JENS MATHIESEN Media Technology and Master of Industrial Head of Denmark Other assignments: Chairman of the Board Born: 1968. Employed and member of Other assignments: of Norsk Reiseliv, Board member of NæringsScandic’s Executive Committee since 2015. Management from KTH Royal Institute of Born: 1969. Employed by the Group since Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. Education: Master of Business Administration, livets hovedorganisasjon (NHO), Oris Dental Swedish citizen. 2008. Member of Scandic’s Executive and Guma Sport Ltd. Previous experience: Management Uppsala University, Sweden. ­Committee since September 2016. Other assignments: Board member of Education: Bachelor in Service ManageUNHCR in Sweden. ­Consultant at Bain & Company and Head of Previous experience: CFO, Apoteket; CFO, Danish citizen. Marketing at Norvida. Nobia AB and CFO, Eniro. ment, Norwegian School of Hotel Education: Bachelor of Business AdministraOther assignments: Chairman of the Board ­Management. tion, Falun/Borlänge U­ niversity, Sweden. Number of shares: 590 Number of shares in Scandic: 2,600 of Dansk Erhverv and Board member of DA (Dansk Erbejdsgiverforening) and Wonderful Previous experience: Several senior posiPrevious experience: Several senior posiCopenhagen. tions within Scandic; General Manager, tions within American Express: VP HR Head of Radisson SAS and Vice President and memMarket HR Nordics, Central Eastern Europe, Education: Shipping Broker, Transocean ber of Executive Committee, Nordic Choice Benelux and France, Director HR Business Shipping, Denmark. Hotels AS with responsibility for Clarion Partner Customer Service Organisation Previous experience: Director of Sales & ­Collection Hotels chain. Latin America/Canada and Director, Head of Marketing, Choice Hotels Scandinavia; CEO, Number of shares in Scandic: 11,194 Commercial Card & Business Travel Account Fountain Scandinavia A/S and Head of Sales Management Nordic. & Marketing, Avis Rent a Car. Number of shares: 5,907 Number of shares: 11,194 Number of shares as per December 31, 2017. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 83 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT INCOME STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP GROUP MSEK Notes 2017 2016 MSEK Notes 2017 2016 INCOME 2, 3 Profit/loss for the year 711 882 Room revenue 9,464 8,530 Other comprehensive income Restaurant and conference revenue 4,853 4,299 Franchise and management fees 26 29 Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Other hotel-related revenue 239 224 Translation differences for the year -56 169 Net sales 14,582 13,082 Hedge of net investment in foreign operations, net of tax -124 Other income 1 13 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 14,853 13,095 Actuarial gains/losses for the year -79 -6 OPERATING COSTS Total other comprehensive income, net of tax -135 39 Raw materials and consumables -1,295 -1,138 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 576 921 Other external costs 4, 5 -3,215 -2,850 Personnel costs 6 -4,738 -4,211 Adjusted EBITDAR 5,335 4,896 Fixed and guaranteed rental charges 5 -2,323 -2,203 Variable rental charges 5 -1,442 -1,180 Adjusted EBITDA 1,570 1,513 Pre-opening costs -67 -51 Non-recurring items 7 -30 EBITDA 1,473 1,462 Depreciation 12,13 -549 -537 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS -13,658 -12,170 Adjusted EBIT 1,022 976 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 925 Financial items Financial income 8 9 265 Financial expenses 9 -133 -133 Net financial items -124 132 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 800 1,057 Tax 10 -90 -175 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 711 882 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 707 879 Non-controlling interests 4 3 Profit/loss per share before dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 11 6.87 8.58 Profit/loss per share after dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 11 6.86 8.58 84 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI: G4-9 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET GROUP Notes 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Notes 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Equity Goodwill 12 6,303 5,793 Share capital 21 26 26 Trademarks 12 3,153 3,145 Other contributions 7,865 7,865 Other intangible assets 12 213 165 Translation reserve -86 -29 Land & buildings 13 1,764 95 Retained earnings -482 -790 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 13 3,835 2,882 Equity attributable to owners of Parent Company 7,323 7,072 Shares in associated companies 14 21 10 Non-controlling interest 33 31 Financial investments 15 9 8 Total equity 7,356 7,103 Other long-term assets 106 14 Deferred tax assets 25 34 35 Long-term liabilities Total fixed assets 15,438 12,147 Liabilities to credit institutions 22 3,769 3,777 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 23 542 413 Current assets Other provisions 24 128 133 Inventory 16 128 92 Other liabilities 0 47 Accounts receivable – trade 17 626 498 Finance lease liabilities 1,607 1 Current tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 25 642 560 Other current receivables 161 134 Total long-term liabilities 6,688 4,931 Assets held for sale 18 101 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 370 205 Current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 20 140 1,068 Advance payments from customers 164 112 Total current assets 1,526 1,997 Accounts payable – trade 786 527 Derivative instruments 5 20 TOTAL ASSETS 16,964 14,144 Current tax liabilities 9 5 Current liabilities for finance lease 5 58 Liabilities held for sale 18 70 Other liabilities 367 222 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 26 1,461 1,224 Total current liabilities 2,920 2,110 Total liabilities 9,608 7,041 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,964 14,144 GRI: G4-9 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 85 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT GROUP MSEK Notes 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 925 925 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 27 548 537 Income tax paid -125 -3 Cash flow before changes in working capital 1,348 1,459 Changes in working capital Inventory -19 -7 Accounts receivable – trade -64 -11 Other current receivables -159 179 Accounts payable – trade 231 23 Other current liabilities 207 -34 Cash flow from operating activities 1,544 1,609 Investing activities Acquisition of fixed tangible assets 13 -964 -719 Sale of associated companies 17 Acquisition of subsidiaries 29 -1,146 Cash flow from investing activities -2,093 -719 Operating cash flow -549 890 Financing activities Share issue 30 Borrowings 22 4,683 475 Amortization 22 -4,674 -475 Refinancing costs -6 Interest paid 9 -80 -101 Dividend -325 -3 Cash flow from financing activities -372 -104 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -921 786 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,068 248 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents -7 34 Cash flow for the year -921 786 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 140 1,068 86 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Equity attributable to owners Non-controlling of the Parent Company ­interest Share Other Translation Retained MSEK ­capital contributions reserves ­earnings Total Total equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2016 26 7,865 -71 -1,643 6,177 28 6,205 Profit/loss for the year 879 879 3 882 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations 166 166 3 169 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net after tax -124 -124 -124 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax -6 -6 -6 Total other comprehensive income 0 0 42 -6 36 3 39 Total comprehensive income 0 0 42 873 915 6 921 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -3 Share-based payments 5 5 5 Forward contract to repurchase own shares -25 -25 -25 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 0 -20 -20 -3 -23 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2016 26 7,865 -29 -790 7,072 31 7,103 Profit/loss for the year 707 707 4 711 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations -57 -57 1 -56 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net after tax 0 0 0 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax -79 -79 -79 Total other comprehensive income 0 0 -57 -79 -136 1 -135 Total comprehensive income 0 0 -57 628 571 5 576 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -322 -322 -3 -325 Share-based payments 12 12 -12 Forward contract to repurchase own shares -10 -10 -10 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 0 -320 -320 -3 -323 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2017 26 7,865 -86 -482 7,323 33 7,356 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 87 INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT OF PA R E N T CO M PA N Y COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes 2017 2016 MSEK Notes 2017 2016 Net sales 54 29 Profit/loss for the year 254 65 Operating expenses Other comprehensive income: Other external expenses 4, 5 -11 -8 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified Personnel expenses 6 -60 -28 to profit and loss Total operating expenses -71 -36 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Operating profit/loss -17 -7 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 0 0 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 254 65 Financial items Interest income and similar items 8 113 114 Interest expenses and similar items 9 -104 -97 Net financial items 9 17 Appropriations 334 66 Profit/loss before tax 325 76 Income tax 10 -71 -11 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 254 65 88 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BALANCE SHEET PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Financial assets Equity Participations in Group companies 30 5,039 4,590 Share capital 21 26 26 Receivables from Group companies 5,174 5,067 Total restricted equity 26 26 Deferred tax assets 25 0 71 Non-restricted reserves 6,326 6,581 Total fixed assets 10,213 9,728 Net profit/loss for the year 254 65 Current assets Total non-restricted equity 6,580 6,646 Receivables from Group companies 333 66 Total equity 6,606 6,672 Current receivables 27 6 Liabilities Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 Long-term liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 20 0 790 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,813 3,839 Total current assets 361 862 Liabilities to affiliated companies 29 Other liabilities 47 TOTAL ASSETS 10,574 10,590 Total long-term liabilities 3,813 3,886 Current liabilities Other liabilities 118 8 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 26 37 24 Total current liabilities 155 32 Total liabilities 3,968 3,918 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,574 10,590 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 89 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating profit/loss -17 -7 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 27 Income tax paid Cash flow before changes in working capital -17 -7 Changes in working capital Other current receivables -1 -5 Other current liabilities 3 -34 Cash flow from operating activities -15 -46 Investing activities Shareholders’ contribution to subsidiaries -448 Cash flow from investing activities -448 0 Operating cash flow -463 -46 Financing activities Borrowings 22 4,683 475 Amortization 22 -4,674 -475 Dividend -322 Refinancing costs -6 Interest paid -80 -92 Loans to subsidiaries 69 925 Cash flow from financing activities -330 833 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -793 787 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 790 2 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 3 1 Cash flow for the year -793 787 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 0 790 90 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CHANGES IN EQUITY PA R E N T CO M PA N Y Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Share premium Retained Total MSEK capital reserve earnings equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2016 26 1,534 5,088 6,648 Net profit/loss for the year 65 65 Other comprehensive income 0 Total comprehensive income 0 0 65 65 Transactions with shareholders: Share-based payments 5 5 Forward contract to repurchase own shares -46 -46 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 -41 -41 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2016 26 1,534 5,112 6,672 Net profit/loss for the year 254 254 Other comprehensive income 0 Total comprehensive income 0 0 254 254 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -322 -322 Share-based payments 12 12 Forward contract to repurchase own shares -10 -10 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 -320 -320 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2017 26 1,534 5,046 6,606 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 91 NOTES Notes common to the Group and the Parent Company. Amounts in MSEK unless otherwise stated. NOTE 01 Accounting principles Basis for presentation Translation of foreign currencies The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ReportThe consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the ing Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and in accordance with RFR 1 Supplementary accounting ­functional and reporting currency of the Parent Company. principles for groups of companies and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The annual accounts The results and financial position of all Group companies using a functional currency other have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting than the reporting currency are translated into the Group’s reporting currency as follows: for legal entities. a) Assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are translated at the daily closing rate. The consolidated accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the acquisition value b) Income and expenditure for each of the income statements are translated at the average method, except in respect of certain financial assets and liabilities that are valued at actual value exchange rate. in the income statement. c) All exchange rate differences that arise are reported in Other comprehensive income Drawing up annual accounts in accordance with the IFRS requires the use of a number of imporand accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. tant accounting estimations. The Board of Directors and Executive Committee are also required to make assessments when implementing the company’s accounting principles. The areas that Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in the acquisition of foreign operations are treated include a large degree of assessments that are complex, or areas where assumptions and estimaas assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the daily closing rate. tions are of significant importance for the consolidated accounts, are detailed in each note. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency according to the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date or the date on which the items were translated. Consolidated accounts Exchange rate gains and losses that arise when paying such transactions and in translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the daily closing rate are reported in the The consolidated accounts cover the companies, including branches, in which the Group’s ownerincome statement. The Group applied hedge accounting for net investments in foreign subsidiaries ship is equivalent to at least one half of the votes or where the Group in another way exercises a until May 2017. Thereafter, any exchange gains and losses have been recognized in the income controlling influence over the business, these are fully consolidated into the Group. Subsidiaries are statement. entities over which the Group has a controlling interest. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or has the right to the variable returns from its stake in the company and has the opporThe below exchange rates are used in the consolidation tunity to influence the return through its influence in the company. In subsidiaries that are not wholly owned, non-controlling interest is presented as minority owner’s portion of equity. This is Exchange rates Jan–Dec 2017 Jan–Dec 2016 included as part of the Group’s equity. The income statement includes the portion attributable to SEK = EUR non-controlling interest and information is provided in connection to the income statement. Income statement (average) 9.6326 9.4704 The acquisition of companies or businesses is accounted for using the acquisition method. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for Balance sheet (at end of period) 9.8497 9.5669 recognition are recognized at the fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangible assets arising from an acquisition are recognized as an asset that is the excess of the cost of the SEK = NOK business combination over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabiliIncome statement (average) 1.0330 1.0199 ties recognized. If the acquisition value is less than the actual value of the purchased operation’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported directly in the income statement. Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.0011 1.0540 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Associated companies are incorporated in the Group’s financial statement using the equity SEK = DKK method. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated Income statement (average) 1.2949 1.2720 balance sheet at cost, adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.3229 1.2869 Internal Group transactions, undertakings and unrealized earnings from transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Sales between Group companies are priced according to market terms. Internal profits arising in conjunction with sales within the Group are eliminated in their entirety. Pre-opening costs relate to costs associated with the opening of new hotels. Items affecting comparability pertain to non-recurring items, such as integration costs for acquisitions and expenses in connection with the IPO or capital gains/losses connected to the sale of businesses. Normally, there are no items affecting comparability. 92 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 New and amended International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers New and amended standards adopted by the Group IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related SIC and IFRIC. Accounting principles and the basis for calculations are in all material aspects unchanged compared The standard regulates the recognition of revenue. The principles that IFRS 15 is based on shall with the Annual Report 2016. Amendments and interpretations of standards that enter into force provide users of financial statements with more useful information on the company’s revenues. The for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017 have not had any material effect on the Group’s financial increased disclosure requirement means that information shall be provided on the nature of the reporting. revenue, the time of settlement, any uncertainties connected with revenue recognition and cash flow linked to the company’s contracts with customers. According to IFRS 15, revenue shall be ­recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold goods or services and is able to use New standards and interpretations yet to be applied by the Group and derive benefit from the goods or services – a principle that replaces the previous principle that The following amendments to IFRS will only come into force until the financial year 2018 and beyond revenue is recognized when the risks and rewards have been transferred to the buyer. A company and have not been applied in the preparation of these financial statements. can choose between “full retroactivity” or prospective application with additional disclosures. IFRS 15 entered into force on January 1, 2018. Earlier adoption was allowed. The introduction IFRS 2 Share-based payments of IFRS 15 had a limited effect on Scandic since only accounting related to Scandic’s loyalty program On June 20, 2016, the IASB published three extensions to IFRS 2 Share-based payments. The change is subject to calculations according to the new standard. The new standard states that revenue from is intended to eliminate non-uniform practices in three main areas: the customer will be allocated to earned points and the goods on the basis of r­ elative independent a) How effects of vesting conditions in the valuation of share-based payment transactions that sales prices rather than based on the residual value method. This can affect the amounts allocated are settled in cash should be regulated. to the goods sold and the date of presentation of a certain portion of the r­ evenues. Approximately b) The classification of share-based payments, which includes the employee’s obligation to pay 1 percent of the Group’s revenue will be affected by accounting under IFRS 15. The estimated ­withholding taxes on compensation. effect of IFRS 15, based on 2017 figures, is 0 MSEK. c) Accounting for a change in the terms of share-based payments, which means that the rating will be changed from settlement in cash to settlement in equity instruments. IFRS16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued a new lease standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the The changes apply to financial years beginning on January 1, 2018 or later. As currently no cash-­ related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The implementation of the standard will mean settled remuneration plans exist, the effect is assessed to be limited for the Group. that nearly all lease agreements will be recognized in the balance sheet, as no distinction will be made between operational and financial leases. According to the new standard, an asset (the right IFRS 9 Financial instruments to use the leased asset) and a financial obligation to pay leasing fees are accounted for. Contracts This standard deals with the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and of short duration and contracts of lesser value are excluded. The accounting for lessors will in all liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the sections of material aspects remain unchanged. IAS 39 that deal with the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The standard The standard is effective for financial years from January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted if shall be applied in the financial year starting on January 1, 2018. Application of the standard IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers also is applied. The Group currently does not before this date was allowed. If the Group had applied the standard from January 1, 2017, the intend to apply the standard early. impact on doubtful accounts receivable would have been an additional 0 MSEK. This is partly due to The introduction of the new standard will require recalculation of comparative figures and some the fact that Scandic does not have any material amounts for writing off receivables and partly that key ratios where the effect of the introduction of IFRS 16 is shown. The impact of the introduction of a very small portion of the Group’s net sales are invoiced to the customers as the majority of payIFRS 16 concerns Scandic on the Group level only and not the legal entity, meaning that the introments are made by credit card. duction of IFRS 16 will not affect the Parent Company’s capacity to pay dividends. Scandic will report according to the new standard from the first quarter 2019. The effect of the transition will be presented in the Annual Report for 2018 and communicated prior to the press release for the first quarter 2019. The new leasing standard will primarily affect the accounting of the Group’s operating leases and is expected to have significant effects on Scandic’s balance sheet when leases are reported in SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 93 cont. Note 01 the balance sheet. For amounts of non-cancellable contracts, see Note 5 Operational leasing agreements. The income statement is also expected to be impacted primarily by adjustments NOTE 02 Revenue by type of agreement between income statement items. In 2017, the Group began the evaluation and quantification of Group the changed accounting in accordance with IFRS 16. This work will continue in 2018. None of any other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations yet to be applied is expected to have a material MSEK 2017 2016 impact on the Group’s financial statements. Lease agreements 14,507 13,019 Management agreements 11 11 The Parent Company’s accounting principles Franchise and partner agreements 22 27 Unless otherwise stated, the Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group. Owned 43 38 The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Total 14,583 13,095 Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Other 54 29 Differences between the accounting principles of the Group and Group eliminations -54 -29 the Parent Company Group 14,583 13,095 The Parent Company applies the alternative rule for Group contributions and reports both received and paid Group contributions as appropriations. In this respect, the Parent Company does not comply with IAS 27. Accounting principles Financial instruments in the Parent Company are not reported according to IAS 39 in view Revenue recognition of the connection between reporting and taxation. Instead IFRS 7 is applied when applicable and Revenue consists of the value of goods and services generated in hotels under lease agreements, disclosure requirements are applied according to chapter 5 in The Annual Accounts Act. management and franchise fees and other income generated in the Group’s operations. Revenue is Remuneration to employees in the Parent Company is not reported according to IAS 19, reported at the actual value of what has been received or will be received and corresponds to the as the Parent Company, in accordance with RFR 2, applies reporting according to the Pension amount to claim for delivered goods and services, less any discounts given and sales-related taxes. ­Obligations Vesting Act. The Group has a customer loyalty program in which customers earn points from completed purchases. These points give the customer a discount on future purchases. Revenues are accounted for when the points have been used. See also Note 24. Below is a description of the composition of the Group’s revenue: Lease agreements – revenues from hotel operations, including all income from sold rooms, conferences, food and beverage sales and other services. Revenue is reported when the goods or services have been consumed, i.e. when checkout or invoicing of the services takes place. Management fees – from hotels managed by the Group through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Management fees usually consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and/or profits and are recognized in the income statement at the end of the month in question and are realizable according to the terms of the agreement. Inovicing occurs monthly in arrears. Franchise fees – received in conjunction with licence fees for the Group’s trademarks, through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Franchise fees consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and are reported in the income statement based on the underlying terms of the agreement. The fee is recognized in the income statement at the end of the month and invoicing occurs monthly in arrears. 94 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 cont. Note 03 NOTE 03 Segment reporting Scandic’s main markets in which the Group operates are: Central functions – Costs for financial control, business development, investor relations, communications, technical development, human resources, branding, marketing, sales, IT and purchasing. Sweden – Swedish hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. These central functions support all of the hotels in the Group, including those under lease agreeNorway – Norwegian hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. Norwegian partner hotels ments as well as management and franchise agreements. are operated under their own brands. The split of net sales between segments is based on the location of the business activities and Other Nordic countries & Europe – Hotel operations under the Scandic brand in Belgium, Denmark, segment reporting is carried out after the elimination of inter-Group transactions. Net sales come Finland, Poland and Germany as well as hotel operations under the Hilton brand in Finland. The hotel from a large number of customers in all segments. operations in Belgium have been discontinued as of November 30, 2017. The different countries The segments are reviewed and analyzed based on adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is earnhave been aggregated to one segment based on the fact that the countries involved have similar ings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and excludes non-recurring items that economic situations, they operate their business in similar ways and have similar types of customare not directly related to the normal operations of the company, for example, costs for transacers. They also have the same currency, EUR, or a currency pegged to EUR. tions, exits and restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes pre-opening costs that refer to expenses for contracted and new hotels before opening day. 2017 Other Nordic Central 2016 Other Nordic Central MSEK Sweden Norway countries & Europe functions Group MSEK Sweden Norway countries & Europe functions Group External net sales 5,977 4,586 4,019 14,582 External net sales 5,637 3,744 3,701 13,082 Other income 1 1 Other income 13 13 Internal transactions 54 54 Internal transactions 29 29 Group eliminations -54 -54 Group eliminations -29 -29 Total operating income 5,978 4,586 4,019 0 14,583 Total operating income 5,650 3,744 3,701 13,095 Expenses -5,103 -4,096 -3,413 -401 -13,013 Expenses -4,675 -3,381 -3,179 -347 -11,582 Adjusted EBITDA 875 490 606 -401 1,570 Adjusted EBITDA 975 363 522 -347 1,513 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.6 10.7 15.1 10.8 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 17.3 9.7 14.1 11.6 EBITDA 1,473 EBITDA 1,462 EBITDA margin, % 10.1 EBITDA margin, % 11.2 Depreciation -548 Depreciation -537 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 Net financial income/expense -124 Net financial income/expense 132 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 800 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 1,057 Assets and investments by segment Other Nordic countries & Sweden Norway Europe Central functions Group MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Fixed assets 5,582 5,176 3,577 3,658 6,194 3,103 85 210 15,438 12,147 Investments in fixed assets 433 341 220 210 252 131 59 37 964 719 Other Nordic countries Sweden Norway & Europe Total RevPAR development 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 RevPAR, SEK 710 693 617 559 708 659 680 643 Exchange rate differences 7 12 6 New/left hotels 7 -3 -2 0 LFL 10 53 39 31 ARR 1,029 1,012 988 938 1,012 958 1,012 976 OCC, % 68.9 68.5 62.4 59.7 70.0 68.8 67.1 65.9 For definitions of key ratios, see page 126. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 95 cont. Note 03 Accounting principles NOTE 04 Audit fees Segment disclosures Segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments. Scandic operates similar Fees to audit companies Group Parent Company businesses in several countries in Europe where the main markets are in Sweden and Norway MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 and the segments have therefore been identified based on geography and the financial importance of each segment. The segments monitored by management are divided into Sweden, N ­ orway, Other Nordic countries and Europe and Central functions. Segment information c­ orresponds to Audit assignments the internal reporting to executive decision-makers: the CEO, the Executive Committee and the PwC 5 4 1 Board of Directors. Others 1 0 Revenue from Revenue and fixed assets per country external customers Fixed assets MSEK 2017 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Other statutory assignments Sweden 5,978 5,650 5,582 5,119 PwC Belgium 23 22 0 Others Denmark 1,535 1,412 694 656 Finland 1,915 1,750 5,423 2,380 Tax consultancy services Norway 4,586 3,744 3,577 3,658 PwC 1 1 Poland 73 76 16 15 Others 0 1 Germany 473 444 60 52 Group assets 86 267 Other Total for the Group 14,583 13,095 15,438 12,147 PwC 3 1 Others 0 The allocation of income and assets is based on where the Group is domiciled, i.e. where the individual Total fees to audit companies 10 7 1 hotel is located. Scandic does not have any large customers where the revenue from the customer exceeds 10 percent of the total revenue of the Group. The auditing assignment includes auditing the Annual Report and accounts as well as the administration of the company by the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties the company auditor must perform as well as advice and other assistance arising from the audit or in carrying out these duties. The Parent Company’s audit fee has been charged to the subsidiary Scandic Hotels AB. Of the fees for audit assignments, MSEK 3 relates to PwC Sweden, for other statutory assignments MSEK 0 refers to PwC Sweden, for tax consultancy services 0 MSEK refers to PwC Sweden and for other services MSEK 3 refers to PwC Sweden. Other services mainly refers to services related to the Group’s GDPR project as well as a certificate for variable rent. Tax consultancy services mainly refers to services related to compliance. 96 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 05 Leasing agreements Important estimations and assumptions Leasing undertakings relating to premises relate in all significant respects to the premises on which Scandic’s hotel operations are carried out. The amounts relating to future leasing undertakings Operational leasing refer to minimum leasing fees, i.e. fixed rental fees. In most lease agreements, the majority of the rental cost is dependent upon revenue from the leased premises. Revenue-related leasing costs Leasing fees according 2017 2016 are not included in the amounts. The table, therefore, does not provide a full view of Scandic’s to operational leasing Other Other future leasing costs. Lease agreements have a duration of between 15 and 20 years and are generagreements leasing leasing ally not cancellable during the time of duration. The leasing terms, index clauses and presence of Lease of agreeLease of agreements Total premises ments Total conditions to extend agreements vary. For most agreements, the agreements are extended when MSEK premises the leasing period has ended, after renegotiation with the lessors. Options to extend agreements Leasing fees paid are often regulated in the leasing terms. during the year 3,765 101 3,866 3,383 94 3,477 Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where the property owner and Scandic – of which minimum fees 2,323 57 2,380 2,203 69 2,272 share responsibility for investing in and maintaining the properties. Scandic’s commitment relates – of which contingent rents 1,442 45 1,487 1,180 2 1,205 in general to maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. The extent of obligations is regulated by the demarcation list of the lease agreement. Historically, these Future leasing investments have accounted for just over 5 percent of Scandic’s net sales. Investment commitundertakings due ments regarding signed agreements for new hotels and expansions are estimated at 1,028 MSEK – within 1 year 2,806 80 2,886 2,293 95 2,388 during 2018, 993 MSEK during 2019 and 986 MSEK during 2020. – in 1 to 5 years 11,236 176 11,412 8,918 183 9,101 – in more than 5 years 18,318 3 18,321 15,663 0 15,663 Accounting principles Total future leasing Operational leasing agreements undertakings 32,360 258 32,618 26,874 278 27,152 As of December 31, 2017, most of the Group’s leases were classified as operating leases. In these hotel leases, Scandic is only responsible for the risks associated with the operation of the hotel. The cost of operating leases is reported on a straight-line basis unless another systematic method better reflects how the financial resources of the leased assets are recognized. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 97 NOTE 06 Employees, personnel expenses and remuneration to the Board of Directors Personnel expenses Group Parent Company 2016 MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Remuneration and other compensation Compensation for Other to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees committee work compensation Total Salaries and other remuneration 3,804 3,311 35 19 Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 658,334 70,833 729,167 Payroll overhead excluding pension expenses 532 535 13 5 Ingalill Berglund 1) 186,667 87,500 274,167 Pension costs 402 365 12 4 Per G. Braathen 311,667 311,667 Total personnel expenses 4,738 4,211 60 28 Caspar Callerström 2) 100,000 50,000 150,000 Albert Gustafsson 3) 186,667 29,166 215,833 The management of the Group is employed by the Parent Company and the subsidiaries Scandic Grant Hearn 311,667 70,833 382,500 Hotels Holding AB, Scandic Hotels AB, Scandic Hotel A/S, Scandic Hotels AS and Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH. Lottie Knutson 311,667 311,667 For the Group’s current CEO, a mutual notice period of 9 months applies. In addition, he is entitled Stephan Leithner 4) 186,667 29,166 215,833 to severance pay corresponding to 9 months’ salary at the end of his employment in the case where Christoffer Lundström 5) 186,667 186,667 the company gives notice of termination or that his duties are substantially changed after a change of Eva Moen Adolfsson 311,667 79,166 390,833 control in the company, with the result that he resigns within one year after the change of control. Niklas Sloutski 253,334 79,166 332,500 For the Group’s former CEO, upon termination by the company, a notice period of 12 months was applicable and he was entitled to severance pay corresponding to 6 months salary at the end Rikard Steiber 6) 125,000 125,000 of the employment. In the case of termination by the CEO, the notice period was 6 months. Fredrik Wirdenius 311,667 311,667 For other senior executives, upon termination by the company, entitlement to severance pay of Jan Wallmark, employee representative 42,000 42,000 6–12 months applies and upon termination at their own request, a notice period of 6 months applies. Total remuneration and other compensation 3,483,671 495,830 3,979,501 Remuneration and other compensation 2017 1) Ingalill Berglund was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. 2) Caspar Callerström resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Compensation 3) Albert Gustafsson was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Remuneration and other compensation for committee Other 4) Stephan Leithner was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees work compensation Total 5) Christoffer Lundström was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 711,667 50,000 761,667 6) Rikard Steiber resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 12, 2016. Ingalill Berglund 325,833 150,000 475,833 2017 Per G. Braathen 425,000 29,167 454,167 Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension managers, SEK neration neration1) pensation2) costs Total Albert Gustafsson 1) 133,333 20,833 154,166 Frank Fiskers, Grant Hearn 325,833 50,000 375,833 President & CEO 4,403,002 3,396,770 9,316,469 1,519,273 18,635,514 Lottie Knutson 325,833 325,833 Even Frydenberg, Stephan Leithner 2) 133,334 20,833 154,167 President & CEO 2,416,667 1,414,567 54,549 797,500 4,683,283 Christoffer Lundström 325,833 29,167 355,000 Other members of Executive Eva Moen Adolfsson 325,833 100,000 425,833 Committee (9 people) 19,505,301 10,784,553 7,602,081 4,558,936 42,450,871 Niklas Sloutski 3) 133,334 20,833 154,167 Total remuneration and Martin Svalstedt 4) 192,500 29,167 221,667 other compensation 26,324,970 15,595,890 16,973,099 6,875,709 65,769,668 1) Variable renumeration includes share-based payments of 173,367 SEK for the current CEO, 973,861 SEK for the Fredrik Wirdenius 325,833 29,167 355,000 ­former CEO and 4,539,581 SEK for other members of the Executive Committee. Marianne Sundelius, employee 2) Remuneration for the former CEO and other members of the Executive Committee, 1 person, includes severance pay ­representative 24,000 24,000 as well as base and variable remuneration during the notice period. The number of other members of the Executive Committee above refers to the total for the entire year. At year-end, the number was 8 people. Jan Wallmark, employee representative 26,667 26,667 2016 Total remuneration and other compensation 3,734,833 529,167 4,264,000 Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension managers, SEK neration neration1) pensation costs Total 1) Albert Gustafsson resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. 2) Stephan Leithner resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. Frank Fiskers, 3) Niklas Sloutski resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. President & CEO 7,400,000 4,257,327 494,250 2,595,978 14,747,555 4) Martin Svalstedt was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. 5) Jan Wallmark was replaced by Marianne Sundelius as employee representative after the Annual General Meeting Other members of Executive on May 10, 2017. Committee (13 people) 2) 17,300,921 6,944,539 1,301,557 3,111,705 28,658,722 Total remuneration and other compensation 24,700,921 11,201,866 1,795,807 5,707,683 43,406,277 1) Variable renumeration includes share-based payments of 1,193,727 SEK for the CEO and 1,820,319 SEK for the other members of the Executive Committee. The remuneration for other members of the Executive Committee includes severance pay as well as base and variable remuneration for 2 people during the notice period. 2) The number of other members of the Executive Committee above refers to the total for the entire year. At year-end, other members of the Executive Committee totaled 9 people. 98 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 cont. Note 06 Remuneration to the CEO and other senior managers can consist of fixed salary, variable salary, Fair value calculations pension and other compensation. Terms and conditions for remuneration to senior management are The fair value is measured through the use of generally accepted valuation models with the followdescribed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 72. ing input factors: LTIP 2017 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2015 Pensions Weighted average share price, SEK 109,75 62 67 The CEO is covered by a defined contribution pension plan until he reaches age 65. The pension preRight life 2.62 year 2.92 year 2.45 year mium for the Group’s current CEO amounts to 33 percent of the fixed salary and for the Group’s former CEO, it amounted to 35 percent of the fixed salary. The CEO has no part in pension liability. Deduction of expected dividends 3% 4% 3% Other members of the senior management are covered by defined contribution pension plans, Risk-free interest non applicable non applicable non applicable and to a lesser extent defined benefit pension plans. The retirement age is in accordance with Expected volatility non applicable non applicable non applicable applicable local laws and collective agreements. Other members of the senior managements’ part of the pension liability was 1 (1) MSEK. As the exercise price (zero) is significantly lower than the share price on the grant date, the value has a limited sensitivity expected volatility and risk-free interest. Long-Term Incentive Program In December 2015, Scandic implemented a share-based Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP Cost of share-based payments that are regulated by equity instruments 2015). A corresponding incentive program LTIP program was decided upon at the Annual General LTIP 2017 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2015 Meeting 2016 (LTIP 2016) and at the Annual General Meeting 2017 (LTIP 2017). The LTIP enables Parent Parent Parent participants to receive matching shares and performance shares provided they make their own MSEK Group Company Group Company Group Company investments in shares or allocate shares already held to the program. For each such savings share, the participants in the LTIP 2015 can be assigned a matching share. In the LTIP 2016 and LTIP Expected cost of the 2017, the allocation of matching shares to 50 percent due to a requirement related to the total entire program 13 2 7 0 15 5 return on the shares (TSR) is being met and 50 percent are free of charge. In addition, the particiThe maximum cost of pants may receive a number of performance shares, free of consideration, depending on the the entire program 35 7 21 1 36 11 degree of meeting certain performance criteria adopted by the Board of Directors for which criteria Cost in 2017 1 0 2 0 6 2 are related to EBITDA, cash flow and RGI (Revenue Generation Index = RevPAR in relation to the Cost in 2016 2 1 5 1 RevPAR of the competition group) for the financial years 2015–2017 (LTIP 2015), 2016–2018 (LTIP 2016) and 2017–2019 (LTIP 2017) financial years. Cost in 2015 0 0 Matching shares and performance shares will be allotted after the end of a vesting period until the date of publication of Scandic’s interim report for the first quarter of 2018, the first quarter of The cost of the programs, which is included in the income statement for the Group, is calculated in 2019 and the first quarter of 2020 respectively, subject to the participant remaining a permanent accordance with IFRS 2 and is distributed over the vesting period. The calculation has been made employee within the Group and retaining the savings shares. based on the following assumptions: (i) an annual dividend yield of 3 percent for LTIP 2015, 4 percent The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under LTIP 2015, LTIP 2016 and for LTIP 2016 and 3 percent for LTIP 2017, (ii) an estimated annual turnover of personnel of 10 perLTIP 2017 and the delivery of shares to the participants has been hedged by Scandic’s entering cent, (iii) an average fulfillment of each performance condition of 50-100 percent, and (iv) a maximum into a share swap agreement with a third party on market terms. of 615,602 matching shares and performance shares that may be awarded. In total, the costs for the programs are estimated to total 35 MSEK including social security fees. The estimation is also based Granted rights outstanding: on the assumption of an annual share price increase of 10 percent during the program. 2017 2016 2015 Assuming that the cap is reached and that participants are entitled to allotment of the maximum number of matching and performance shares and remain in the program until the end of the vesting As of January 1 516,610 286,945 period, the maximum cost for the programs will amount to 92 MSEK, including social security fees. Granted 188,510 295,047 286,945 The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under the LTIP and the delivery Allotted of shares to the participants of the LTIP has been hedged through Scandic’s entering into a swap agreement with a third party on market terms, whereby the third party undertakes to, in its own Forfeited 89,518 65,382 name, acquire and transfer shares to the participants. Total at December 31 615,602 516,610 286,945 – of which currently exercisable The rights have no exercise price. Number of rights Number of rights Number of rights Grant date Due date Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 December 2, 2015 April/ May 20181) 251,952 251,952 286,945 June 10, 2016 April/ May 20191) 183,890 264,658 September 25, 2017 April/ May 20201) 179,760 Total 615,602 516,610 286,945 1) The due date is after the Scandic’s interim report for the first quarter will be published. The date for this is still to be confirmed. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 99 cont. Note 06 2017 Average Average 2016 NOTE 07 Non-recurring items Average number of employees number of of which number of of which per country employees men employees men Group Non-recurring items Parent Company MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Sweden 4 2 2 2 Transaction costs -47 Subsidiaries Sales of operations 17 Sweden 4,876 1,708 4,609 1,678 Total -30 0 Belgium 14 6 16 12 Non-recurring items refer to items that are not directly related to the Group’s normal activities, such Denmark 1,106 453 1,083 433 as transaction costs when buying or selling a business, cost for leaving hotels and restructuring Finland 692 236 680 250 costs. Costs for the year are transaction costs related to the aquisition of Finnish Restel’s hotel operations, as well as the result of selling the hotel operations of Scandic Vierumäki in Finland. Norway 2,822 1,125 2,563 1,108 Poland 114 39 112 36 Germany 301 132 294 134 Total for the Group 9,929 3,701 9,359 3,653 NOTE 08 Financial income 2017 2016 Gender division of the Board and Execuof which of which Division by income type Group Parent Company tive Committee on the balance sheet date Total men Total men MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Board of Directors 9 6 11 8 Interest income 2 3 0 0 Executive Committee 9 8 10 9 Interest income from Group companies 112 68 Total for the Group 18 14 21 17 Revaluation of derivative instruments 6 35 Results from associated companies 1 2 Accounting principles Exchange rate gains, net 225 46 Severance payments Total 9 265 112 114 Employees receive severance payments on termination before normal retirement age or when they voluntarily accept termination in exchange for such compensation. The Group recognizes severance payments where it is under a manifest obligation either to give notice to employees following a detailed, formal plan without right to rescission or to provide compensation in the event of termination as a result of an offer made as an incentive for voluntary resignation. Benefits that become NOTE 09 Financial expenses due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to the present value. Division by type of cost Group Parent Company Share-based payments MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 The Group has a share-based incentive plan where the settlement is carried out in shares and the Group is provided with services from the employees as payment for the shares. The cost of the proInterest expenses, bank -79 -104 -78 -96 gram amounts to the fair value of the share on the grant date multiplied by the number of vested Interest expenses, pension plan -12 -11 shares and the cost is distributed over the vesting period. Interest expenses to Group companies -2 -1 At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews its assessment of the number of shares that Exchange rate losses, net -23 -24 are expected to be earned based on the non-market vesting conditions and terms of employment. Any deviation from the original assessment that the review raises are recognized in the income Share of transaction costs statement and the corresponding adjustments are made in equity. expensed during the year1) -19 -18 It can sometimes happen that the employees render services before the grant date, in which Total -133 -133 -104 -97 case an estimate of the fair value is made in order to recognize a cost to be distributed for a fee 1) Part of interest expenses has been expensed over the duration of the borrowings, see Note 22. reported to be spread over the period between the time the employee begins performing services and the grant date. The social security costs that arise with the granting of equity rights are seen as an integrated Accounting principles part of the allotment and are treated as a cash settled program. Financial income and expenses All interest income and interest expenses are accounted for at their amortized cost. Interest derivaSwap agreement for repurchase of own shares tives are accounted for at the fair value through profit or loss. Revaluation of electricity derivatives is Scandic has a swap agreement with Nordea for purchasing its own shares. This swap agreement is accounted for as other external costs. Associated companies are accounted for using the equity reported as a financial liability for the agreed amount payable on the maturity date and as a deduction method. from equity. Interest costs related to the swap agreement are accounted for in the income statement in the period they occur. When the agreement has reached the maturity date and the obligation and agreed amounts have been paid, the liability will be derecognized from the balance sheet. 100 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 10 Income tax NOTE 11 Earnings per share Group Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Basic Group 2017 2016 Tax expenses Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders Current tax expenses -8 -3 of the Parent Company, MSEK 707 879 Adjustment of tax for previous year -5 Average number of shares outstanding, basic 102,959,870 102,428,053 Deferred tax relating to Earnings per share, SEK 6.87 8.58 temporary differences 28 9 Deferred tax relating to untaxed reserves -3 1 Diluted Group 2017 2016 Deferred tax relating to loss carried forward -108 -185 -71 -11 Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders Income due to change in tax rate 6 3 of the Parent Company, MSEK 707 879 Total tax income/expenses -90 -175 -71 -11 Average number of shares outstanding, basic1) 102,959,870 102,428,053 Dilutive effect of stock purchase plans 43,134 29,784 Connection between tax expenses for the year and reported profit before tax, Average number of shares outstanding, diluted1) 103,003,004 102,457,837 MSEK Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 6.86 8.58 Tax in accordance with current rate, 22.0% -176 -233 -71 -11 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company divided by the weighted average numbers of shares outAdjustment of tax expense from standing during the year. When calculating diluted earnings per share, the average number of previous year -5 shares is adjusted to take into account the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares originating Tax effect of non-deductible expenses -4 -5 during the reported periods from share-based payment programs that have been offered to Tax effect of non-taxable income 47 45 employees. Dilutions from share-based payment programs affect the number of shares and only Adjustment for differing tax rates 3 0 occur when the strike price is less than the share price. Potential ordinary shares are not viewed as Tax effect of non-offsettable losses 0 -4 dilutive if they result in better earnings per share after dilution, which occurs when the net income is negative. Loss carried forward from previous year for which deferred tax asset has not been reported 6 40 Loss carried forward from previous year for which deferred tax asset has been reported 33 -22 Tax effect on changed tax rate on deferred taxes 6 4 Total tax income/expenses -90 -175 -71 -11 The current tax rate, 22 percent (22 percent) has been calculated on the basis of the tax rate applicable to the Parent Company. The tax rate in Norway was changed from 24 percent in 2017 to 23 percent from 2018. All deferred tax relating to Norway has subsequently been recalculated. Deferred tax has been reported in Other comprehensive income relating to actuarial gains of 22 MSEK (2) and deferred tax on hedging of net investments of foreign operations amounts to 0 MSEK (-24) . SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 101 NOTE 12 Intangible fixed assets 2017 2016 Impairment testing AccumuAccumuImpairment testing of goodwill and brands occurs annually and at any given time when indications lated Reported lated Reported Acquisidepreciaresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual of impairment are identified. Today, the Group has three cash-generating units: Sweden, Norway Group, MSEK tion value tion value tion value tion value and Other Nordic countries and Europe, see also Note 3. The recoverable amount for cash-generating units is determined based on calculations of value Goodwill in use. These estimates are based on estimated future cash flows before tax based on a five-year Opening balance 5,793 5,793 5,575 5,575 period. Cash flow for 2018 is based on a budget established by the company’s Board and for 2019 Acquisition of businesses 530 530 0 to 2020 based on the company’s long-term forecast. For the subsequent two years, cash flow is Exchange rate differences -20 -20 218 218 based on assessed market growth and estimated cost increases. Revenue forecasts are based on Closing balance 6,303 0 6,303 5,793 0 5,793 industry data relating to market development and historical experience regarding the development of new and newly renovated hotels. Cost forecasts are based on industry data regarding inflation Trademarks and wage development and historical experience. Opening balance 3,187 -42 3,145 3,177 -26 3,151 After 2020, market growth has been estimated to amount to 2.5 (2.5) percent per year in the period 2021 to 2022. When calculating value in use, a discount rate before tax and a sustained Acquistion of businesses 49 49 0 growth rate have been used in accordance with the following table. Cash flow after the five-year Depreciation for the year -15 -15 -16 -16 period is extrapolated with a growth rate of 2.5 percent per year. The impairment test for the year Exchange rate differences -26 -26 10 10 showed that there were no impairment losses for any of the segments, even with reasonable Closing balance 3,210 -57 3,153 3,187 -42 3,145 changes in the parameters, such as an individual change +/1.0 percent on the discount rate before tax and on the EBITDA margin. Other intangible assets At a discount rate before tax of 15.7 percent for Sweden, 14.3 percent for Norway and Opening balance 344 -179 165 323 -142 181 13.4 percent for Other Nordic countries and Europe, there is a need for impairment at the retained Reclassifications -1 1 0 0 EBITDA margin. Acquisition of businesses 85 -6 79 0 Other Nordic countries Sweden Norway & Europe Purchases 1 1 3 3 Depreciation for the year -25 -25 -35 -35 Forecast period, years 5 (5) 5 (5) 5 (5) Exchange rate differences -7 0 -7 18 -2 16 WACC rate, pre tax % 9.4 (9.4) 10.5 (9.5) 9.0 (9.2) Closing balance 422 -209 213 344 -179 165 Terminal growth rate, % 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) Total intangible fixed assets Opening balance 9,324 -221 9,103 9,075 -168 8,907 Reclassifications -1 1 0 0 Acquisition of businesses 664 -6 658 0 Purchases 1 1 3 3 Depreciation for the year -40 -40 -51 -51 Exchange rate differences -53 0 -53 246 -2 244 Closing balance 9,935 -266 9,669 9,324 -221 9,103 Goodwill Trademark Total Goodwill and trademark, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Sweden 1,866 1,866 2,312 2,312 4,178 4,238 Norway 1,667 1,752 578 625 2,245 2,332 Other Nordic countries & Europe 2,770 2,175 263 208 3,033 2,368 Total goodwill and trademark 6,303 5,793 3,153 3,145 9,456 8,938 102 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 cont. Note 12 Accounting principles Important estimations and assumptions Intangible fixed assets The estimations that may have the greatest effect on the future profit and position of the Group are Goodwill the assumptions made when considering the impairment of intangible assets. Every year, the Group Goodwill represents the excess of the value of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s investigates whether any need for impairment exists for goodwill and trademarks in accordance share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired operation on the date of acquisition. Goodwill with the accounting principle described above. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units on acquisitions of operations is reported as an intangible asset. Goodwill accounted for is tested have been determined through calculation of the value in use. Assumptions made in this calculation annually in order to identify any impairment requirement and is reported at the acquisition value are described in the table in the section Impairment testing, from which it emerges that revenue less the accumulated impairment. was expected to rise in the coming years. Should growth be considerably weaker, an impairment Goodwill is allocated across cash-generating units when an assessment of any impairment requirement that significantly affects the Group’s profit and position may arise. requirement is made. The allocation is made to the cash-generating units or groups of cashgenerating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition of an operation giving rise to the goodwill item. Trademarks Trademarks acquired are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and any impairment. The trademark Scandic Hotels with an uncertain useful life is not depreciated, but instead assessed annually with regard to any impairment requirement. The trademark Scandic Hotels, in the acquired companies in the Scandic Group, has existed on the market since 1984 and today constitutes the basis for the Group’s operations. The trademark is used on all markets where the companies are established. The brand Rica Hotels, which was acquired in April 2014, has a fixed useful life of eight years, mainly regarding franchise and partnership agreements entered into by Rica Hotels. The Cumulus brand, which was acquired in December 2017, also has a fixed useful life of eight years. Depreciation takes place linearly over the estimated useful life. Other intangible assets Customer relationships identified in connection with the acquisition of Rica hotels and Restel Hotellit Oy are also accounted for under Other intangible assets. Customer relationships have a defined useful life of over ten years, and depreciation takes place linearly over the estimated useful life. Development costs directly attributable to the development of identifiable systems for the business are capitalized as intangible fixed assets when the following criteria are met: • it is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used; • it is the company’s intention to complete the software and to use it; • there are prerequisites for using the software; • it can be shown how the software will generate probable future financial benefits; • adequate technical, financial and other resources exist for completing the development and for using the software; and • the expenses attributable to the software during its development can be calculated in a reliable way. During 2009, Scandic began a major investment in a new operational system that came into use at the first hotels during 2010 and was operational at all hotels at the end of 2011. The investment consists of both licence costs and considerable implementation work. The investment has been divided into stages based on when the system becomes operational at different hotels. Depreciation of each stage started when the system became operational. The system has been fully depreciated since December 2016. During 2012, another major investment began on a new Group reporting system. The investment was completed in December 2013 and has been the subject of depreciation. During 2016, an upgrade of the system was carried out. These two proprietary systems are capitalized under Other intangible assets and will be written off over five years. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 103 cont. Note 12 NOTE 13 Tangible fixed assets Future minimum leasing fees, nominal and discounted amounts, for finance lease agreements at closing date Future minimum Present value of future leasing fees minimum leasing fees 2017 2016 Due for payment: Accumulated – within 1 year 123 121 Acqui­ depreciation Reported Acqui­ Reported – between 1 and 5 years 493 437 sition and writeresidual sition Accumulated residual Group, MSEK value down value value depreciation value – later than 5 years 1,933 1,107 Total 2,549 1,665 Land and buildings1) Opening balance 116 -21 95 107 -18 89 Acquisition of businesses 1,675 0 1,675 0 Accounting principles Depreciation for the year -2 2 -1 -1 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings comprises mainly hotel buildings. Land and buildings is reported at the Group’s Exchange rate differences -6 1 -5 9 -2 7 acquisition value, based on an external valuation made in conjunction with the acquisition of the Closing balance 1,785 -22 1,764 116 -21 95 ­operations less depreciation of buildings made subsequently. Buildings are the subject of component depreciation, where different parts of the building are depreciated based on differing useful lives. The Equipment, fixtures and depreciation period for buildings is between 25 and 50 years. Land is not subject to depreciation. fittings Equipment, fixtures and fittings are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and impairOpening balance 8,190 -5,308 2,882 7,502 -4,953 2,549 ment. The acquisition value includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the Acquisition of businesses 653 -122 531 0 asset. Assets are depreciated in a linear way over the calculated useful life, which varies depending on Purchases 964 964 719 719 the character of the assets. Assets consist of many different types of equipment, fixtures and fittings Sales/disposals -364 349 -15 -327 321 -6 such as furniture, fixtures and fittings in hotel rooms and public areas, kitchen equipment and IT equipment with varying useful lives. For this reason, a number of different depreciation periods are Depreciation for the year -495 -495 -473 -473 used. In general, IT equipment is depreciated over three years, while other fixtures and fittings, instalWrite-down during the year -10 -10 -12 -12 lations and equipment are depreciated over three to 20 years. Equipment, fixtures and fittings with a Exchange rate differences -72 50 -22 296 -191 105 useful life shorter than three years are reported as expenses in the income statement. Closing balance 9,371 -5,536 3,835 8,190 -5,308 2,882 Finance lease agreements Total tangible fixed assets When Restel Hotellit Oy was acquired on December 29, 2017, ten of the lease contracts were identiOpening balance 8,307 -5,329 2,977 7,609 -4,971 2,638 fied as finance lease. This is due to the fact that the financial benefits and risks that are connected Acquisition of businesses 2,328 -122 2,206 0 with owning the properties in all material respects are transferred from the lessor to the lessee, and that the leasing period covers the major part of the financial life of the properties of 50 years. The Purchases 964 964 719 719 effect for Scandic is the change of EBITDA, depreciation and interest costs as well as a finance Sales/disposals -364 349 -15 -327 321 -6 lease liability, however with a limited effect on cash flow, equity and earnings per share. Depreciation for the year -495 -495 -474 -474 Write-down during the year -10 -10 -12 -12 Important estimations and assumptions Exchange rate differences -78 50 -28 305 -193 113 Additional expenditure is added to the reported value of the asset only when it is probable that the Closing balance 11,156 -5,557 5,559 8,307 -5,329 2,977 future financial benefits associated with the asset will benefit the Group and that the acquisition 1) Of buildings and land, 88 (95) of the reported residual values relates to the property in Gardermoen, Norway. value of the asset can be measured in a reliable way. All other forms of maintenance of a tangible fixed asset are reported as expenses in the income statement. Inventories, installations and equipment include ongoing facilities of 422 (241) MSEK. If there is a need for impairment, tangible fixed assets are impaired to the lowest of the recoverable amount and the reported value. Finance lease In connection with the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy in December 2017, ten lease contracts were identified for hotel properties as finance leases. Lease payments consist of both minimum lease payments and partly variable fees. Leases have a remaining maturity of up to 30 years and depreciation is calculated over the same term. NOTE 14 Shares in associated companies In Land and buildings above, leasing assets that the Group has under finance leases are included in the following amounts: Share Share Reported value Reported value 31 Dec 2017 Group, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Acquisition Accumulated depreciaReported Gress-Gruppen AS 33% 33% 10 10 Finance leased assets value tion and write-down residual value Aulangon Kylpä Oy 25% 9 Buildings Rukan Kokouskeskus Oy 33% 2 Opening balance 0 0 0 Total 21 10 Acquisition of businesses 1,675 1,675 Exchange rate differences Closing balance financial leased assets 1,675 0 1,675 104 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 cont. Note 14 Changes during the year, MSEK 2017 2016 NOTE 17 Accounts receivable Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 10 10 Acquisitions 11 Accounts receivable, gross values, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Result/dividends Total accounts receivable 638 511 Sales Deducted provision for doubtful accounts -12 -13 Exchange rate differences 0 0 Accounts receivable, book value 626 498 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 21 10 Change in deducted provision for doubtful accounts receivable 2017 2016 Gress-Gruppen is one of Norway’s largest purchasing companies where Scandic together with the other owners and paying members combine their purchasing volumes. The purpose of the ownership 1 January -13 -15 is to have efficient purchasing and enjoy the best possible terms and conditions from suppliers. Provision for doubtful accounts -3 -3 Aulangon Kylpylä Oy and Rukan Kokouskeskus Oy were included in the Restel acquisition that Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable -4 -4 the Group made at the end of 2017. Both companies are involved in cooperations with the Group Reversed unutilized amount 8 8 concerning spa and conference facilities at two hotels in Finland. Exchange rate differences 0 1 31 December -12 -13 Accounting principles Shares in associated companies Age analysis, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the Receivables not matured 430 329 financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those Receivables matured 1– 30 days 146 138 policies. Significant influence is normally present in situations where the company has a share­ Receivables matured 31 – 60 days 44 15 holding of between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights. Receivables matured 61– 90 days 9 9 The share of income represents the company’s share in the net income (after tax) from these associates and is directly accounted for in the income statement. Receivables matured 91– 120 days 3 9 Receivables matured more than 120 days 6 11 Accounts receivable, reported value 638 511 NOTE 15 Financial investments Accounting principles Loans receivable and accounts receivable Changes during the year, MSEK 2017 2016 Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, that are not Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 8 4 listed in an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of current Acquisitions 0 0 assets, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable Disposals 0 0 are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables in the balance sheet. Reclassification1) 1 3 Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any proviExchange rate differences 0 1 sion for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 9 8 at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but since accounts receivable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the value reported by the Group is 1) During the year, there was a reclassification of other long-term receivables to financial investments of 3 MSEK. not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable run with a variable rate of The financial investments on the balance sheet date consist of approximately 60 (50) smaller interest and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. investments. Important estimations and assumptions A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the 16 Group will not be able to recover all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and NOTE Inventory conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. The Group’s inventory consists in its entirety of raw materials, mainly for restaurant operations. Accounting principles Inventory Inventory is reported at the lower of the acquisition value or net selling price. The acquisition value is determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 105 NOTE 18 Discontinued operations NOTE 19 Prepaid expenses MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Division by type of expense Group Parent Company Assets classified as held for sale MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Goodwill 8 Prepaid rent 193 81 Buildings 70 Other prepaid expenses 129 124 0 Property, plant and equipment 23 Accrued interest 1 1 Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses 0 Accrued income 47 Total assets of disposal group held for sale 101 0 Total 370 205 1 0 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale Financial leases Accounts payable 69 1 NOTE 20 Cash and cash equivalents Accrued expenses 0 Group Parent Company Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale 70 0 MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Cash and bank balances 140 1,068 0 790 Accounting principles Total 140 1,068 0 790 Discontinued operations Assets classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of the book value and fair value after The Parent Company does not have any balance in the bank since all excess liquidity is used for deducting the cost of sales. Fixed assets are classified as assets or liabilities held for sale if their amortization of loans. This also explains the decrease in cash for the Group compared with the carrying amount will be recycled at a potential sale, rather than through continued usage. This is previous year. considered fulfilled when the Executive Committee and the Board have made a decision to divest the business, an active sales process has been initiated, the assets are disposable for an immediate sale in their present condition and it is likely that the disposal will be carried out within the Accounting principles upcoming year. Cash and cash equivalents The approval of the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy at the end of 2017 was conditioned by the Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank balances and other current investments with a due disposal of three hotels, of which one existing hotel and two acquired hotels, in accordance with the date within three months from the time of acquisition. decision of the Finnish Competition Authority. The above refers to identifiable assets and liabilities for these three hotels. Revenue of 34 MSEK and net income of 7 MSEK for Scandic Lahti is included in the Group’s financial statements for 2017. NOTE 21 Share capital Change in Ordinary shares Total number of shares share capital, SEK Share capital, SEK Quota value, SEK Number of shares on 31 December 2016 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,746,269 0.25 Number of shares on 31 December 2017 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,746,269 0.25 106 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 22A Borrowings NOTE 22B Management of financial risks Liabilities to Financial Total Market risk – Foreign exchange risk Changes during the year, MSEK credit institutions leasing ­borrowings The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 3,600 0 3,600 currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized Borrowings 475 475 assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. Transaction costs expensed during the year1) 17 17 Risk management Amortization of loans -475 -475 Foreign exchange risk arises when future business transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are Exchange rate differences 160 160 denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The operations of the Scandic Group companies are mainly local, with revenues and expenses denominated in domestic currencies, Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 3,777 0 3,777 and the Group’s internal sales are low. This means that exchange rate exposure related to transactions Borrowings 4,667 4,667 is limited. According to the Group’s Financial Policy, which requires Group companies to manage their Acquisition of businesses 1,665 1,665 foreign exchange risk against their functional currency, the Group companies hedge their foreign Capitalization of transaction cost1) -6 -6 exchange risk in larger future business transactions via Group Finance. To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, the Group companies use forward conTransaction costs expensed during the year1) 19 19 tracts signed with Group Finance. Amortization of loans -4,674 -4,674 Exchange rate effects in the Group arise from the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ financial Loans converted to shareholders’ contribution 16 16 statements into SEK. For the year, 41 (43) percent of the Group’s sales were in SEK, 31 (29) percent in Exchange rate differences -29 -29 NOK and 28 (28) percent in EUR and other currencies. Borrowings in EUR and NOK are matched by the Parent Company’s loans to subsidiaries. The currency exposure arising from internal loans to Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 3,769 1,665 5,434 the Group’s foreign operations is eliminated by borrowing in the same currencies, which is referred 1) Existing loans were renegotiated in June 2017 and resulted in transaction costs of 6 (0) MSEK. These costs have been to as a natural hedge. capitalized and are distributed in a linear manner over the borrowing period. The Group’s borrowings broken down by different currencies are shown in the table below. The Board has decided that other currency risks for assets and liabilities should not be hedged. The company’s external loans were renegotiated in June 2017 with new terms and maturity. The 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 loan relates to a fixed loan of MSEK 1,500, with a maturity of three years, with interest from Stibor +1.00 to 2.00 percentage points, and a revolving lending facility in several currencies of 3,500 Group borrowings by currency MSEK with a maturity of three years, with interest at base rate +1.00 to 2.00 percentage points. SEK, % 70 40 The margin within the range is for all loans dependent on the company’s indebtedness. The loan EUR, % 15 31 terms stipulate that the following covenants should be within certain limits: interest coverage and NOK, % 15 29 net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA. At each measurement period and on the balance sheet date, all loan terms were met. There are no claims for amortization and no collateral has been pledged for the loans. The Board closely monitors the company’s financial position with respect to Market risk – Interest rate risk the fulfillment of the loan terms. Interest rate risk arises from changes in market interest rates that can have a negative effect on the The finance lease debt consists of ten lease contracts identified as finance lease when acquirGroup’s revenue, cash flow and interest-bearing assets and liabilities. ing Restel Hotellit Oy in December 2017. The leasing fees consists of both miminum lease payments and variable fees. The lease agreements have a remaining lease period of up to 30 years. Risk management Since the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s revenues and cash flow from operating activities are essentially independent of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Loans issued at variable rates Accounting principles expose the Group to interest rate risk in respect of cash flow. Loans issued at fixed rates expose the Borrowings Group to interest rate risk in respect of fair value. The Group’s Financial Policy stipulates that 25 to 75 Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at actual value, net after transaction percent of Scandic’s loans must be taken at fixed interest rates. Deviations from this must be approved costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference by the Board. The Group uses, when needed, interest rate swaps to manage this. The Group’s borrowings between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income on the balance sheet date are shown below. statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. BorrowThe Group normally takes long-term loans at variable interest rates and converts them into fixed ings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. interest rates using interest rate swaps. In such transactions, the Group agrees with other parties to ­Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the agreed fixed and variable interest the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. The finance lease is rates, calculated based on the agreed nominal value. booked at the fair value since it was first reported on the acquisition date of December 29, 2017. 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Group borrowings by fixed and variable interest Fixed interest, % 39 63 Variable interest, % 61 37 All external borrowings at fixed interest rates have been carried out using interest rate swaps. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 107 cont. Note 22b Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparties cannot fulfill their obligations. Credit risk arises NOTE 22C Management of capital risk from cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial ­institutions as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and agreed The Group’s goal for capital structure is to safeguard the Group’s ability to maintain its operations transactions. so that it can continue to generate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep capital costs down. Risk management The Group’s managed capital is made up of shareholders’ equity. To maintain or adjust the capiCredit risk is managed on the Group level. Only banks and financial institutions that have received tal structure, the Group may change the dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholdan independent minimum rating of A-1 are accepted. In cases where no independent credit rating ers, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce liabilities. exists, a risk assessment of the customer’s creditworthiness is carried out considering the customIn the same way as other companies in the industry, the Group assesses capital on the basis of er’s financial position, previous experience and other factors. The use of credit limits is monitored the debt/equity ratio. This key figure is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Interregularly. Sales in the company’s operations are primarily settled by cash or credit cards, although est-bearing net debt is calculated as total borrowing from credit institutions excluding financial invoicing is also used. Credit losses relating to customers as per December 31, 2017 amounted to leasing less cash and cash equivalents. 3 (3) MSEK, see Note 17. Group, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 5 years > 5 years Total borrowings 5,434 3,777 As at 31 December 2017 Excluding finance lease -1,665 Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 67 3,986 Excluding cash and cash equivalents -140 -1,068 Financial leasing 2) 121 437 1,107 Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,630 2,709 Derivative instruments 3) 5 Total shareholders’ equity 7,356 7,103 Accounts payable and other liabilities 786 Debt/equity ratio 0.5 times 0.4 times Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 5 years > 5 years As at 31 December 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 99 4,087 Liabilities Liabilities to credit Finance to credit Finance Derivative instruments 3) 20 Due dates, MSEK institutions lease institutions lease Accounts payable and other liabilities 527 Liabilities due for payment 1) Liabilities to credit institutions include future cash flows regarding liabilties such as future interest payments. – within 1 year 121 2) For future minimum lease payments, see Note 13. 3) Market value on December 31. – between 1 and 5 years 3,769 437 3,777 – later than 5 years 1,107 Liquidity risk Total 3,769 1,665 3,777 0 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient liquidity to pay its debts and meet its commitments. Bank overdraft facilities, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Risk management Amounts utilized Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining within the Group sufficient cash and cash equivalents and Amounts not utilized 1,182 1,000 short-term investments with a liquid market, available financing through agreed credit facilities and Total bank overdraft facilities granted 1,182 1,000 the ability to close market positions. The Group’s liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is monitored and forecast on a daily basis by Group Finance. The Group’s liquidity reserve on December 31, 2017, consisting of cash and unutilized credit facilities, amounted to 1,322 (2,068) MSEK. Sensitivity analysis as at 31 Dec 2017 Change Result effect MSEK Interest expense from changed interest rates +/1% -/+ 23 Interest expense from the change in the average level of interest rates +/1% -/+ 38 If the variable market rate differs from the current fixed rate of derivative instruments, a theoretical overor under valuation of the financial instrument will occur. The derivatives are recognized at the fair value in the statement of financial position and the change in value, which does not impact cash flow, is recognized in profit for the year. The sensitivity analysis is based on net debt. 108 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 23 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations refer in their entirety to defined benefit pension Pension expenses for defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans plans in which the employees have the right to benefits after their employment ends, and where MSEK 2017 2016 the level of benefits is based on final salary and length of service. Provision for such plans has been made for FPG/PRI occupational pensions in Sweden (ITP 2 plan). In other countries, defined Expenses relating to service during the current year, contribution pension plans have been adopted. The defined benefit plan in Sweden provides defined benefit pension plans -18 -17 employees with a guaranteed level of pension payouts during their lifetime. The defined benefit Expenses relating to service during the current year, plan is adjusted for annual inflation of 1.5 percent. The Swedish Central Bank has a long-term defined contribution pension plans -384 -348 inflation target of 2 percent. Total pension expenses included in personnel expenses -402 -365 Defined benefit pension plans Interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans -12 -11 Total expenses in the income statement -414 -376 Calculation of provision, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Present value of obligations 542 413 Payments for the next year are expected to be at the same level as this year. Actual value of plan assets Multi-employer plans Total provision for defined benefit pension plans 542 413 The company has secured the ITP plan through insurance from the insurance company Alecta. Although this plan is classified as a defined benefit plan, it is not possible to get sufficient informaChanges in provision during the year, MSEK 2017 2016 tion from Alecta to be able to report it as a defined benefit plan. Information regarding allocation Net liability, opening balance 413 380 between employers is missing and instead, all earnings are allocated to the previous employer. A Remeasurements reported in Other comprehensive income 1) 82 6 breakdown of Alecta’s assets and provisions for individuals is not possible, which means that these plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. Collective consolidation is the buffer of Net expense reported in the income statement 30 28 Alecta’s insurance commitments to be able to handle fluctuations in investment returns and insurPensions paid -5 -5 ance risks, and it is calculated as the difference between investments and the insurance commitChange in special employer’s contribution 22 4 ments. The consolidation level is calculated as Alecta’s assets in relation to the insurance commitNet liability, closing balance 2) 542 413 ments. Alecta has a target ratio of 140 percent for the consolidation level and during 2017, the 1) Items consolidation level was 154 percent (149 percent). For 2018, the contribution to the plan is estireported in Other comprehensive income consist of a loss in 2017 due to changes in financial assumptions of -72 (-8) MSEK and a loss from experience based adjustments of -9 (2) MSEK. mated to be at the same level as 2017, which was 67 (45) MSEK. 2) The weighted average duration of pension obligations is 25 years. Accounting principles Important estimations and assumptions Pension undertakings Group companies operate various pension schemes. These pension plans are usually financed Important actuarial assumptions 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 through payments to insurance companies or managed funds where the payments are determined Discount rate, % 2.75 3.05 according to actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a Future salary increases, % 3.00 3.00 separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if Future pension increases (inflation), % 2.00 1.50 this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee Employee turnover, % 3.00 3.00 service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan where the contribution is not defined, but defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, Sensitivity analysis in actuarial assumptions Change Increase Decrease usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. Within the Group, defined benefit plans only exist in Sweden. Discount rate, % +/0.5 13.1 -11.2 For defined contribution pension plans, the Group pays fees to publicly or privately managed Future salary increases, % +/0.5 4.8 -3.7 pension insurance schemes on an obligatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no Future pension increases (inflation), % +/0.5 9.8 -8.6 ­further payment obligations once the fees are paid. The fees are reported as personnel expenses Life expectancy +/1 year 3.7% -3.7% during the period they relate to. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation on the balance sheet date less the actual value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The net present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows. The calculation uses interest rates of first-class corporate bonds that are denominated in the same currency that the benefits will be paid in and that have terms of maturity approximating the terms in the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses that arise from experience-based adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are reported in Other comprehensive income during the period when they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately as income unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are allocated on a linear basis over the vesting period. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 109 NOTE 24 Other provisions 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Provision Total Provisions Total Changes in other provisions for loyalty Other other for loyalty Other other Accounting principles during the year, MSEK program provisions provisions program provisions provisions Provisions Opening balance 131 2 133 121 3 124 Provisions for environmental restoration measures, restructuring expenses and legal claims are reported when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a result of earlier events, when it is Change through the income prob­able that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the undertaking and when the statement -4 -1 -5 10 -1 9 amount has been calculated in a reliable manner. Provisions are valued based on the best possible Closing balance 127 1 128 131 2 133 estimate of expenditure that will be required to resolve the obligation in question on the balance sheet date. Provisions for restructuring include costs for terminating leasing agreements and sevScandic has a loyalty program, Scandic Friends, in which members earn points for overnight stays erance pay. No provisions are made for future operating losses. that can then be used for free overnight stays. This loyalty program is covered by the rules in IFRIC 13. The liability is valued at the market value of the anticipated free-night usage. In measuring the liability for the loyalty program, the first step is to calculate the liability for the number of free Important estimations and assumptions nights expected to be used on the basis of the level of utilization and estimated points withdrawal Reporting of provisions for loyalty programs for customers per free night, based on the outstanding balance of points. The anticipated utilization of free nights In accordance with IFRIC 13, provisions for loyalty programs for customers are reported as a reducis then multiplied by the average market price of such free nights. That part of the liability that is tion in revenue in conjunction with the earning of the right to future use. The reserve outstanding at expected to be utilized after more than one year is reported under Other provisions above, while any time is divided into a long-term part, which is reported under Other provisions, and a short-term that part that is expected to be utilized within one year is recognized as deferred income under part, which is reported under Accrued costs and prepaid income. Accrued expenses and deferred income (see note 26). The total liability for the loyalty program and its allocation between current and non-current liabilities is shown in the table below. The provision is expected to be utilized within five years. 2017 2016 Total Total liability in liability in Nonrespect of Nonrespect of Total liability regarding current Current loyalty current Current loyalty loyalty program provision provision program provision provision program Opening balance 131 87 218 121 87 208 Change through the income statement -4 2 -6 10 0 10 Closing balance 127 85 212 131 87 218 The assessed market value of free overnight stays used during 2017 amounted to 115 (116) MSEK. For the current provision, see Note 26. 110 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 25 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred taxes are expected to be settled at the same time. No such offsetting has been carried out in these annual accounts. 31 Dec 2017 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 39 4 5 203 251 Reported in income statement 2 -2 -72 -72 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 22 22 Exchange rate differences 0 1 1 Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 63 2 5 132 202 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 -735 -13 -3 -24 -775 Reported in income statement -2 1 -1 -3 -5 Acqusition of businesses -24 -24 Exchange rate differences -6 1 -1 -6 Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 -767 -11 -4 -28 -810 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months -33 -1 -34 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2017 -524 Reported in income statement -77 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 22 Acquisition of businesses -24 Exchange rate differences -5 Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 -608 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 111 cont. Note 25 31 Dec 2016 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward Issuing costs tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 35 12 5 370 6 428 Reported in income statement 2 -8 0 -169 -6 -181 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 2 2 Exchange rate differences 2 2 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 39 4 5 203 0 251 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Hedge Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation accounting tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 -734 -12 -26 -25 -11 -808 Reported in income statement 5 1 0 1 -24 -17 Items recognized in equity 24 35 59 Exchange rate differences -6 -2 -1 0 -9 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 -735 -13 -3 -24 0 -775 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months -33 -1 -34 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2016 -380 Reported in income statement -198 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 2 Items recognized in equity 59 Exchange rate differences -7 Closing balance 31 Dec 2016 -524 Tax losses carried forward The Group has reported loss carry-forwards amounting to 599 MSEK (909) mainly in Sweden, Accounting principles ­Norway and Denmark. These loss carry-forwards can be utilized against future taxable surpluses. Deferred income tax Recorded deferred tax assets related to reported loss carry-forwards amounted to 132 (203) Deferred income tax is reported using the liability method on all temporary differences arising MSEK, the Group has assessed that it will be possible to offset these carry-forwards in the future, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the balance sheet. based on the forecasts of the Group for coming years. Non-recorded deficiencies amounted to 882 However, deferred tax is not reported if it arises as a result of a transaction that constitutes the first (1,038) MSEK and are mainly related to Finland, Denmark, Germany, Poland and Belgium where it reporting of an asset or liability that is not an operational acquisition and which, at the time of the still is uncertain to what extent they can be offset towards taxable surpluses. These deficiencies transaction, affects neither the reported nor the tax result. Deferred tax is not reported either on amount to 178 MSEK (216). the first reporting of goodwill. Deferred income tax is determined using the tax rates (and laws) that Tax on previous, not recognized, loss carry-forwards amounted to 43 MSEK (39). None of the have been applied or notified by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deductible deficiencies are limited in time. All deferred tax on deductible deficiencies is valued on deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. taxable deficiencies. Deferred tax assets are reported to the extent it is probable that future tax surpluses will be avail­ able, against which the temporary differences can be utilized. The Group accounts net for deferred tax Deferred tax assets, Parent Company 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 assets and deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet where there is a legal right to offset. Opening balance 71 82 The Parent Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have applied the tax consolidation legReported in income statement -71 -11 islation which means that these entities are taxed as a single entity. Reported in equity Closing balance 0 71 Deferred tax assets in the Parent Company consist solely of unused deductible deficiencies that the Parent Company had on the closing date. 112 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 26 Accrued expenses and deferred income NOTE 27 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Group Parent Company Adjustment for items not included Group Parent Company Division into type of expense, MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 in cash flow, MSEK 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accrued leasing expenses 100 35 Depreciation 549 537 Accrued personnel expenses 829 654 17 6 Gain/loss on sale of associated companies Accrued interest expenses 0 7 0 7 Change in accrued expenses/income and Deferred income, current portion of loyalty provisions -1 0 19 program 85 87 Total 548 537 0 19 Deferred income, bonus checks1) 66 58 Other items 380 383 20 11 Accounting principles Total 1,461 1,224 37 24 The cash flow analysis has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The cash flow 1) The bonus check liability is a payment method permitting discounted stays at all Scandic hotels. Bonus checks have a limited reported includes only transactions that involve payments in or out. period of validity. When bonus check booklets are sold, a liability is recorded. The liability is liquidated when the checks are In addition to cash and bank balances, short-term financial investments are classified as liquid ­utilized or when the customer is deemed to be no longer able to utilize or redeem the bonus check. funds since these are exposed only to an insignificant risk of value fluctuations or have a remaining term of less than three months from the acquisition date. NOTE 28 Statement of cash flow Non cash flow Opening balance Cash flow from Exchange Closing balance MSEK 2017-01-01 financial activities Transaction costs difference Acquisition Interest cost 2017-12-31 Borrowings 3,777 3 19 -30 3,769 Finance lease 0 1,665 1,665 Accrued interest 7 -80 73 0 Subtotal 3,784 -77 19 -30 1,665 73 5,434 Cash and cash equivalents -1,068 921 8 -140 Total 2,716 844 19 -23 1,665 73 5,294 The table above shows the changes in financial liabilities that affect cash flow. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 113 NOTE 29 Business combinations On June 21, 2017, the Scandic Group signed an agreement to acquire 100 percent of the share Purchase price on 29 December, 2017, MSEK Group capital in Restel Hotellit Oy. On December 29, 2017, the Scandic Group completed the acquisition Cash and cash equivalents 1,149 of 100 percent of the share capital of Restel Hotellit Oy for 1,160 MSEK. The purchase price is preliminary and will be updated after a final reconciliation of liquid assets, working capital and the Total purchase price paid 1,149 investments compared with the targets for respective items that are stated in the acquisition agreeRecognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired ment. Restel’s operations include 43 hotels in Finland and through the acquisition, Scandic will gain and liabilities taken over nationwide coverage in the Finnish market. Restel’s portfolio currently consists of approximately 7,600 hotel rooms at 43 hotels with long-term lease agreements, seven of which are operated Tangible fixed assets 2,299 through franchise agreements with Intercontinental Hotels Group. Most of the hotels are operated Trademark 49 under the Cumulus brand and will be converted into Scandic hotels over time. Customer relationships 69 Scandic sees good opportunities for sales growth and margin improvement in the acquired Intangible fixed assets 11 hotel portfolio in the coming years. There is potential to increase revenues through rebranding the Long-term receivables 12 hotels as Scandic hotels and the strengthened offering in the Finnish market. In addition, costs are expected to decrease through coordinating administration and purchasing. Inventories 18 Since the acquisition was carried out on December 29, 2017 the acquired company has not had Accounts receivable and other receivables 103 an impact on Group earnings as per December 31, 2017. Cash and cash equivalents 27 If the acquired company had been consolidated from January 1, 2017, the consolidated income Deferred tax liabilities, net -24 statement would have shown revenues of 16,745 MSEK and a profit of 726 MSEK. Acquisition-related expenses of -47 MSEK are included in the non-recurring items in the conFinance lease -1,735 solidated income statement as per December 2017. Accounts payable and other liabilities -218 Goodwill of 537 MSEK that has arisen as a result of the acquisition is related primarily to the value Total identifiable net assets 612 of additional sales in the future that the Group expects as well as the positive effects of the leasing model with which Scandic operates. The identified intangible assets that have been valuated relate Goodwill 537 mainly to customer relationships and the brand. The acquisition was approved by the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority subject to the Effects on Group cash and cash equivalents divestments of two of the acquired hotels, Cumulus Asema Kuopio and Cumulus City Pori, as well as Cash purchase price -1,160 the divestment of Scandic’s existing hotel, Scandic Lahti, by the end of November 2018. In 2017, Acquisition costs -13 sales from the two acquired hotels amounted to 48 MSEK and their share of goodwill was 8 MSEK. Acquired cash and cash equivalents 27 The assets and liabilities of the three hotels are reported as assets held for sale in the balance sheet. No part of the recognized goodwill is expected is expected to be tax deductible. Cash flow from acquistion of subsidiary -1,146 The following table outlines the purchase price paid for the acquired companies as well as the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities taken over. The table below summarizes the paid considPro forma income statement Restel Hotellit Oy, 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2017 eration and true value of the acquired assets and liabilities. The acquistion analysis is preliminary Restel Hotellit Oy and may be adjusted within 12 months from the time of the acquisition. Restel Hotellit Adjustment for Pro forma excl. MSEK Oy Pro forma Finance lease Finance lease Total revenue 2,163 2,163 Adjusted EBITDA 321 -125 196 EBITDA 321 -125 196 Depreciation and amortization 1) -224 86 -138 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 97 -39 58 Net financial items -94 67 -28 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 2 28 30 Tax 13 -6 8 Profit/loss for the year 16 22 38 1) Of which amortization for intangible assets identified at the acquisition is 13 MSEK. 114 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTE 30 Participations in Group companies Changes during the year Parent Company MSEK 2017 2016 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 4,590 3,536 Given shareholders’ contribution 449 1,054 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 5,039 4,590 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Holdings on the balance sheet date Organization number Registered address Shareholding Shareholding Reported value Reported value Scandic Hotels Holding AB 556723-5725 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 5,039 4,590 • Scandic Hotels AB 556299-1009 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 • Scandic Hotels AS 953 149 117 Oslo, Norway 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Holding A/S 30 61 64 56 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 • Scandic Hotel A/S 12 59 67 74 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 • Scandic Polen Sp.z o. o. 288532 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Europe AB 556351-7373 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH HRB 146065 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 Scandic Berlin Kurfürstendamm GmbH HRB 158329 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 • Scandic Hotel NV 462 318 529 Antwerp, Belgium 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Holding AS1) 912 198 022 Oslo, Norway 100 • Rica Hotels AS1) 984 695 322 Oslo, Norway 100 Rica Hotels AB 556520-9797 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 Scandic Hotels Gardermoen AS 880 289 772 Gardermoen, Norway 50 50 • Scandic Hotels Oy 1447914-7 Helsinki, Finland 100 100 • Restel Hotellit Oy 2) 0753772-4 Helsinki, Finland 100 Total 5,039 4,590 1) In 2017, the company merged with Scandic Hotels AS and has ceased to exist. 2) The company was acquired as of December 29, 2017. NOTE 31 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company No significant liabilities are expected to arise due to the contingent liabilities reported. Scandic is MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 involved in a small number of commercial disputes. None of these disputes is deemed to have any Pledged assets major negative impact on the company’s financial position or profit. No contingent assets have Floating charges been identified within the Group. Total pledged assets 0 0 0 0 Important estimations and assumptions Contingent liabilities On October 19, 2017, Scandic announced that the Finnish Tax Administration had decided to make Guarantee undertakings, FPG/PRI 5 5 an additional assessment for the 2008 tax year. The Finnish Tax Administration is of the opinion Lease guarantees 119 121 that Scandic’s Finnish operations should be subject to additional taxes, fees and interest totaling Tax dispute 404 142 96 MSEK as the deduction of intra-Group loans has been denied. Scandic and its tax advisors are of the opinion that the company has acted correctly and in Travel guarantees 6 3 compliance with the applicable legislation and, accordingly, believe that the Finnish Tax AdministraTotal contingent liabilities 534 271 0 0 tion’s decision is incorrect. The company will appeal the decision and request that the tax decision be rejected in its entirety. Lease guarantees relate mainly to guarantees for lease contracts for premises in the Danish and The amount for the contingent liability has been increased to 404 MSEK, which is the total Norwegian subsidiaries. These have remaining periods of contract of up to 13 years. Fixed rental exposure in the years 2008–2016 excluding interest. fees for the whole remaining period have been accounted for above. These rental fees are included in future leasing undertakings in Note 5. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 115 NOTE 32 Financial assets and liabilities Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2017, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments 9 9 Accounts receivable 626 626 Cash equivalents 140 140 Total financial assets 766 0 0 9 775 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,769 3,769 Finance lease 1,665 1,665 Advance payments from customers 165 165 Accounts payable 786 786 Derivative instruments 5 5 Total financial liabilities 0 5 5,434 951 6,390 Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2016, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments 8 8 Accounts receivable 498 498 Cash equivalents 1,068 1,068 Total financial assets 1,566 0 0 8 1,574 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,777 3,777 Advance payments from customers 112 112 Accounts payable 527 527 Derivative instruments 20 20 Total financial liabilities 0 20 3,777 639 4,436 Liabilities to credit institutions have variable interest rates and are reported at the accrued acquisi31 Dec 2017, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total tion value. A fixed rate of interest is achieved through interest rate swaps. Variable unit prices for electricity have been swapped to fixed prices for parts of the Group’s electricity consumption. Liabilities to credit institutions 3,769 3,769 The Group also entered into a share swap agreement related to the Long-Term Incentive Program, Derivative instruments used for hedging 5 5 see Note 6. These are accounted for using the fair value through profit and loss and are reported as Total financial liabilities 0 3,774 0 3,774 derivative instruments above. The actual value of other financial assets and liabilities is not assessed as diverging materially from the reported value. 31 Dec 2016, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 3,777 3,777 The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at the fair value and Derivative instruments used for hedging 20 20 categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows: Total financial liabilities 0 3,797 0 3,797 Level 1: Quoted prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Other observable data than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly. In accordance with the Group’s Financial Policy, the Group uses derivative instruments and has Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. entered into an interest rate swap in order to hedge the Group against interest rate risk. These interest rate swaps were valued on the reporting date at the market value declared by the issuers, Liabilities to credit institutions and the shareholder loan are booked at the fair value. There were no which constitutes a Level 2 valuation under IFRS 7. financial assets at the fair value during 2017 and 2016. 116 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 cont. Note 32 Accounting principles NOTE 33 Transactions with related parties Financial assets and liabilities The Group classifies its significant financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: finanThe group Braganza AB is treated as related party based on its ownership and representation on cial assets valued at actual value through the income statement, loans receivable and accounts the Board during the year. For transactions with subsidaries, OECD’s guidelines for Transfer Pricing receivable, borrowings and accounts payable. The classification depends on the purpose for which are applied. The following transactions were carried out with related parties: the financial asset or liability was acquired. The management determines the classification of the financial assets and liabilities at the first time of reporting and reassesses this decision at each time Group Parent Company of reporting. MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Purchases of services a) Financial assets/liabilities reported at actual value through the income statement Braganza AB Financial assets/liabilities valued at actual value through the income statement are financial assets/liabilities held for resale. A financial asset/liability is classified in this category if it is Total purchases of services 0 0 0 0 acquired mainly for the purpose of being resold shortly thereafter. Derivatives are classified as if Sales of services held for resale unless they are identified as hedges. Assets/liabilities in this category are classified Braganza AB 1) 10 11 as current assets/liabilities. Changes in the value of these financial assets/liabilities are reported as financial income/expenses in the income statement. Scandic applies hedge accounting for net Subsidiaries 54 29 investments. Total sales of services 10 11 54 29 Closing balances at year-end from b) Loans receivable and accounts receivable purchases and sales of services Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, not listed on an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of the current assets, Receivables from related parties with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in Braganza AB 1 1 which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables on the balance sheet. Subsidiaries 333 66 Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any proviTotal receivables from related parties 1 1 333 66 sion for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued Liabilities to related parties: at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as accounts receivable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is Braganza AB not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable have a variable interest Subsidiaries rate and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. Total liabilities from related parties 0 0 0 0 A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not be able to receive all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms Loans to related parties and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between Subsidiaries the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective Opening balance 5,067 6,779 interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. Transactions during the year 12 -1,801 c) Borrowings Interest 111 66 Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at the actual value, net after transaction Exchange rate differences -16 23 costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference Closing balance 0 0 5,174 5,067 between proceeds (net of transactions costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income 1) Sales relate entirely to income from accommodations. statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. Receivables and liabilities in the Parent Company from/to Group companies consist of receiv­ables ­Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer and liabilities within the cash pool of the Group. These are classified as long term. the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. For terms and remuneration to the Executive Committee, see the Corporate Governance Report. d) Accounts payable Accounts payable are financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are part of current liabilities, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as long-term liabilities. Accounts payable are reported at the acquisition value. According to IAS 39, accounts payable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as the Group’s accounts payable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 117 NOTE 34 Appropriation of profits and dividend per share NOTE 35 Events after the reporting date In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to On January 16, Scandic announced that it expected lower earnings for the fourth quarter 2017. distribute at least 50 percent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 and onwards. This is a result of lower earnings in the company’s Swedish operations and non-recurring costs for ­central functions. Appropriation of profits On January 30, Scandic launched a new version of its Scandic Friends loyalty program and The Board proposes that the following available amounts a new app. in the Parent Company’s balance sheet, KSEK: On February 15, it was agreed to extend the loan agreement, increasing the total credit line Share premium reserve 1,534,254 by 500 MSEK in the form of a multicurrency revolving credit facility that will apply until Retained earnings 4,791,432 February 12, 2019. Net profit for the year 254,230 On February 20, Scandic announced that the Nomination Committee had received notice that Total 6,579,916 Vagn Sørensen would stand down as Chairman and member of the Board from Scandic’s Be distributed as follows: Annual General Meeting 2018. Dividend to be paid to the shareholders, 3.40 SEK per share, KSEK 350,149 On February 27, Scandic announced that the Nomination Committee would propose that To be carried forward 6,229,767 Per G. Braathen be elected as new Chairman of the Board of Directors and Frank Fiskers be elected as new Board member at the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2018. Total, KSEK 6,579,916 The Board proposes that the dividend be paid out on two separate occasions with 1.70 SEK per share on each occasion. The proposed record dates for the payment of dividends are April 30, 2018 and O ­ ctober 30, 2018. The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justified in relation to the requirements that come with the nature of the Group, the scope and risks of the Group’s equity, as well as the Group’s need for consolidation, liquidity and general position. The proposed dividend reduces the Group’s solvency from 39 to 37 percent and that of the Parent Company from 62 to 59 percent, calculated as per December 31, 2017. The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2018 for adoption. 118 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ADOPTION The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby certify that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Reporting Standards, IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union, and that they give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Administration Report of the Group and Parent Company gives a true and fair view of the progress of the Group and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and results of operations, and states significant risks and uncertainty factors facing the Parent Company and Group companies. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2018 for approval. Stockholm, March 22, 2018 Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board Ingalill Berglund Per G. Braathen Grant Hearn Board member Deputy Chairman Board member Lottie Knutson Christoffer Lundström Eva Moen Adolfsson Board member Board member Board member Martin Svalstedt Fredrik Wirdenius Marianne Sundelius Board member Board member Employee representative Even Frydenberg President & CEO Our audit report was presented on March 23, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Magnus Brändström Authorized Public Accountant Auditor-in-charge SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 119 AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of shareholders of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND section. We are independent of the parent company and the of 30 September, we have undertaken hotel visits on an CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS group in accordance with professional ethics for accounongoing basis and we have executed an assessment and Opinions tants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical testing of key controls regarding the financial reporting. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This For the reporting units in Denmark and Finland, we have accounts of Scandic Hotels Group AB for the year 2017 with includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and audited the annual book closing and have executed a the exception of the Corporate Governance Report on pages belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regureview of the September book closing as a part of the 72–83. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of lation (537/2014) Article 5.1. have been provided to the ­overall review of the group’s interim report. We have also the company are included on pages 62–119 in this document. audited company or, where applicable, its parent company undertaken hotel visits, on an ongoing basis, and have In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared or its controlled companies within the EU. tested certain key controls. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is The consolidated accounts, disclosures in the notes in fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. the annual report and complex transactions of a one-off parent company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial nature have been examined by the group team. This has performance and cash flow for the year then ended in Our audit activities included impairment testing of the group’s goodwill and accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated The focus and scope of the audit brands which are not subject to ongoing depreciation. accounts have been prepared in accordance with The We designed our audit by determining materiality and Annual Accounts act and present fairly, in all material assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consoliMateriality respects, the financial position of the Group as of 31 dated financial statements. In particular, we considered The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of December 2017 and their financial performance and cash where management made subjective judgements, for materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurflow for the year then ended in accordance with Internaexample, in respect of significant accounting estimates ance whether the financial statements are free from matetional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by involving assumptions and considering future events which rial misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or the EU, and the Annual Accounts act. The statutory adminisare inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also error. They are considered material if individually, or in tration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual addressed the risk of management override of internal aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence accounts and consolidated accounts. ­controls, including among other matters, consideration of the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of whether there is evidence of bias representing a risk of financial statements. shareholders adopts the income statement and balance material misstatement due to fraud. Based on our professional judgement, we determined sheet for the parent company and the Group. We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficertain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and cient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolioverall materiality of the financial statements as a whole. the consolidated accounts are consistent with the content dated financial statements as a whole, taking into account These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us of the additional report that has been submitted to the the structure of the group, the accounting processes and to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing ­parent company’s audit committee in accordance with controls, and the industry in which the group operates. and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. The major portion of Scandic’s operations are in Sweden effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate and Norway and represent slightly more than 72 percent on the financial statements as a whole. Basis for Opinions of the group’s net sales in 2017 and slightly more than We conducted our audit in accordance with International 87 percent of the group’s adjusted EBITDA. For the largest Key audit matters Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing reporting units in Sweden and Norway, including the parent Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stancompany and consolidation, we have examined the yearprofessional judgment, were most significant in our audit of dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities end book closing, executed a review of the interim report as the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the cur120 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of goodwill and other acquisition-related assets We refer to Note 12 Intangible assets Goodwill and other acquisition-related assets, including brands, comprise a significant portion of the In testing the impairment requirement for goodwill, brands and other acquisition-related intangible Scandic group’s balance sheet total. As at 31 December, goodwill and brands amounted to MSEK assets, we executed, the following audit activities in order to ensure, primarily, the valuation and 9,456 which is equivalent to 56 percent of the balance sheet total. These items are not only significorrectness of these items: cant in terms of their amount but also in their nature, as they are impacted by management’s estiWe have undertaken measures to substantiate the mathematical correctness of the company’s mations and judgements. Due to the significance of this item and its nature, this has been deemed impairment testing, the correctness of the model applied, as such, and have determined if the to comprise a key audit area in the audit. model agrees with IFRS. We also challenged and evaluated the reasonability of significant assumpManagement and the Board of Directors annually undertake an impairment test of the value of tions made by management. In order to examine the model, itself, we have utilised PwC’s valuation goodwill and brands, and in conjunction with each occasion on which there are indications that a experts to test and evaluate the applied models and methods, as well as significant assumptions. decline in value has been identified, to assess whether there is an impairment requirement. On a random sample basis, we have tested and challenged the details applied in the calculations The estimated value is based on the Board of Director’s approved future budgets and forecasts for against the company’s budgets and financial plan and, where possible, external information. We the next five years. The cash flow for the years after the next five year period is extrapolated based have, then, focused on the assumptions regarding growth, margin development and the applied on the business plan. This assessment includes, therefore, assumptions of significant importance to discount rate per cash-generating unit. We have also followed up the correctness in forecasting the testing of an impairment requirement. This includes assumptions on sales growth, the developbusiness and financial plans through analysing historical outcome, where we compare previous ment of margins and the discount rate (WACC). years’ assumptions regarding future earnings and growth against actual outcomes. The value that is calculated in the testing is equivalent to the value of the discounted cash flows for We have implemented a sensitivity analysis of the valuation of negative changes in significant the identified cash-generating units: Sweden, Norway and Other Nordics and Europe. parameters which, individually or on a collective basis, could imply that an impairment requirement exists. Even if a given unit shows no impairment requirement in a testing, future developments negatively deviating from the assumptions and judgements providing the basis of that testing can lead to an Based on our examination, we have identified no observations significant to the audit in its entirety impairment requirement. as regards Scandic’s impairment testing of goodwill and brands, which should be reported to report to the Audit Committee. Other acquisition-related intangible assets are subject to ongoing depreciation. For these assets, a testing of the valuation is undertaken if there is a suspicion that the value of the assets has decreased so that a write-down needs to be undertaken. Based on the impairment testing undertaken for goodwill and brands, which is based on best estimate and on the information available in preparing the annual testing, Scandic’s assessment is that there is no impairment requirement regarding the above-mentioned assets as at 31 December 2017. Acquisition analysis regarding the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy We refer to Note 29 Business Combinations At the end of December, Scandic acquired 100 percent of the shares in Restel Htellit Oy for a purConcerning the acquisition of Restel, we have performed, in addition to the above-mentioned audit chase price of MSEK 1,160. Restel is the largest acquisition undertaken by Scandic since the measures regarding the valuation of goodwill and other acquisition-related assets, amongst other acquisition of Rica in 2014, which is the reason we deem the acquisition analysis to comprise a things, the following audit activities: special focus area in the 2017 audit. The acquisition analysis contains significant values as regards The group audit team has had meetings, together with the local Finnish audit team, and has ­discussed goodwill, MSEK 537, and as regards brands and client relationships, MSEK 118. As the acquisition the annual bookclosing figures which are also equivalent to the opening balances as at acquisition analysis presented in the annual financial statements is preliminary, there is a risk that the assets date which were examined and reported by Restel’s auditors in testing the a­ cquisition analysis. and liabilities reported as at acquisition date will be adjusted. We have evaluated to determine whether the accounts have been included in Scandic’s consolidation in a correct manner in accordance with IFRS. We have evaluated the model for identifying and calculating depreciable acquired assets and to determine if this model is in accordance with Scandic’s principles, as well as evaluating significant applied assumptions based reasonability. The acquisition analysis is preliminary up to 29 December 2018 and might, therefore, be adjusted. Based on our audit, we have reported no significant observations to the Audit Committee. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 121 rent period. These areas, which amongst other things, for such internal control as they determine is necessary to REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND include the valuation of deferred tax, valuation of fixed enable the preparation of annual accounts and consoli­REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS assets and management’s assessment of provisions have dated accounts that are free from material misstatement, Opinions been addressed within the framework of the audit and in in whether due to fraud or error. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliforming our opinion regarding the annual accounts and In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Directhe Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Scana separate opinion on these matters. tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s dic Hotels Group AB for the year 2017 and the proposed ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. Other Information than the annual accounts and applicable, matters related to going concern and using the We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders consolidated accounts going concern basis of accounting. The going concern that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proThis document also contains other information than the basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of posal in the statutory administration report and that the annual accounts, consolidated accounts and are included on Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate members of the Board of Directors and the Managing pages 1–61 and 124–127. The Board of Directors and the the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alterDirector be discharged from liability for the financial year. Managing Director are responsible for the other information. native but to do so. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall, Basis for Opinions accounts does not cover this other information and we do without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities We conducted the audit in accordance with generally not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding and tasks in general, among other things oversee the comaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilithis other information. pany’s financial reporting process. ties under those standards are further described in the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the Auditor’s responsibility the parent company and the Group in accordance with information identified above and consider whether the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about ­professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have information is materially inconsistent with the annual whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether with these requirements. also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained the audit and assess whether the information otherwise includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for appears to be materially misstated. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conour ­opinions. If we, based on the work performed concerning this ducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted information, conclude that there is a material misstatement auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and of this other information, we are required to report that fact. misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from the Managing Director We have nothing to report in this regard. fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the influence the economic decisions of users taken on the posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether Managing Director basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are A further description of our responsibility for the audit of which the company’s type of operations, size and risks place responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on the size of the parent company’s and the Groups equity, consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentaon the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www. consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. tion in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and in revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the organization and the administration of the company’s Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible auditor´s report. affairs. This includes among other things continuous 122 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial sitThe auditor’s examination of the corporate uation and ensuring that the company’s organization is ­governance statement designed so that the accounting, management of assets The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are congovernance statement on pages 72–83 has been prepared trolled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. manage the ongoing administration according to the Board Our examination of the corporate governance statement of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate govercompany’s accounting in accordance with law and handle nance statement. This means that our examination of the the management of assets in a reassuring manner. corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Auditor’s responsibility with International Standards on Auditing and generally Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree opinions. of assurance whether any member of the Board of DirecA corporate governance statement has been prepared. tors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omissecond paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same • in any other way has acted in contravention of the law are consistent with the other parts of the annual ­Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accorof Association. dance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approPricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Stockholm, was appointed priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our auditor of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) by the general opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of meeting of shareholders on 10 May 2017 and has been assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the company’s auditors since 9 May 2012. the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but Stockholm 23 March 2018 is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to Magnus Brändström ­liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations Authorized Public Accountant of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with Auditor-in-Charge the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/ showdocument/documents/rev dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the auditor´s report. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 123 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS SHARE PRICE TREND SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP storm Holding AB, corresponding to 14.6 percent of the Based on the closing price on the first day of trading in the ­STRUCTURE capital and shares in Scandic at year-end 2017. On JanuScandic share, December 2, 2015 (63.75), up until the The share capital amounts to 25.7 MSEK divided into ary 17, 2018, Stena Sessan Rederi AB reported that they closing price on the last day of trading in 2017 (117.75), 102,985,075 shares, conferring one vote each. At the end had bought additional shares in Scandic, bringing their total the Scandic share increased 84.7 percent compared with of 2017, Scandic had 12,274 shareholders, which is an holdings up to 15.1 percent of the votes and capital. the sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure that went increase compared with the beginning of 2016 when there down by 5.7 percent and the broad index OMX Stockholm were 6,196 shareholders. INCREASED FOREIGN OWNERSHIP that increased 7.7 percent during the corresponding period. During the year, there was a steady increase in foreign From the listing day until the last day of trading in 2017, CHANGES IN MAIN SHAREHOLDERS owner­ship of Scandic. At year-end, 52.3 percent of Scandic’s the stock market value of the company grew from approxiOn March 23, 2017, Sunstorm Holding AB announced that shares were held by Swedish investors and the estimated mately 6.6 SEK billion to about 12.1 SEK billion. On January it would sell its remaining 21,026,982 shares in Scandic. foreign ownership was 47.7 percent. Some 23.0 percent 16, 2018, Scandic announced that the company expected A total of 6,000,000 of the shares were sold to Novobis AB, of the shares in Scandic were controlled by anonymous lower earnings for the fourth quarter mainly as a result of which after the transaction controlled about 15.8 percent of owners at year-end. lower profitability in the company’s Swedish operations. the shares in Scandic. The holdings of Rolf Lundström and This led to a drop in share price of about 20 percent. After closely related parties – via Novobis AB and privately – TURNOVER the publication of Scandic’s Year-end Report 2017 on totaled 16,803,800 shares at the end of 2017, correspondIn 2017, 137.4 million shares in Scandic worth 13.6 SEK ­February 20, 2018, the closing price for the share ing to 16.3 percent of the votes and capital in the company. billion were traded in more than ten market places. Trading was 89.90. At the same time, Stena Sessan Rederi AB, which is part of on Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for about 50 percent of the Stena sphere, bought 15,026,982 shares from Sunthe total turnover. MARKETS WHERE SCANDIC SHARE THE SHARE PRICE AND TURNOVER TREND, DEC 2, 2015 – DEC 29, 2017 WAS ­TRADED SEK No. of shares ‘000 120 40,000 MSEK 105 35,000 150,000 90 30,000 120,000 75 25,000 90,000 60 20,000 45 15,000 60,000 30 10,000 30,000 15 5,000 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Stockholm Cboe BXE, CXE London Turquoise BOAT Other Scandic OMX Stockholm OMX Travel & Leisure Number of shares traded, thousands Source: Fidessa. Source: SIX Trust and Fidessa. 124 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY Share Votes, Number of The Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that Shareholders capital, % % shares GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF aims to distribute at least 50 percent of the net profit from Rolf Lundström 16.3 16.3 16,803,800 SHARE CAPITAL, % 1) the 2016 financial year. For 2017, the Board of Directors Stena 14.6 14.6 15,026,982 proposes a dividend of 3.40 SEK (3.15) per share paid Handelsbanken Fonder 4.4 4.4 4,556,595 in two equal amounts on two occasions during the year. Investec Asset Management 3.9 3.9 3,980,663 The record dates are April 30 and October 30. SEB Fonder 3.1 3.1 3,198,004 Analysts following Scandic Swedbank Robur Fonder 2.2 2.2 2,298,259 Vanguard 1.6 1.6 1,650,475 Stefan Andersson SEB JP Morgan Asset Vaughan Lewis Morgan Stanley ­Management 1.6 1.6 1,640,669 Andreas Lundberg ABG Svolder 1.4 1.4 1,422,548 Sweden 71.3 US 12.0 UK 5.8 Geoffrey d’Halluin Deutsche Bank Principal Global Investors 1.3 1.3 1,370,261 Norway 1.4 Luxembourg 0.8 Other 27.6 Karl-Johan Bonnevier DNB Tredje AP-fonden 1.1 1.1 1,174,522 Marcela Klang Handelsbanken Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2017-12-31. Norges Bank 1.0 1.0 1,050,403 Number Share of Goldman Sachs Asset Number of of known capital and ­Management 0.9 0.9 884,935 Owners by holdings shares owners votes, % Florida Retirement System 0.8 0.8 861,209 Size category OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, % 1) Dimensional Fund Advisors 0.7 0.7 733,521 1 – 1,000 1,577,867 11,363 1.5 Total 1,001 – 250,000 10,406,855 597 10.1 15 largest shareholders 55.0 55.0 56,652,846 250,001 – 5,000,000 35,427,318 39 34.4 Other 45.0 45.0 46,332,229 10,000,001 – 31,830,782 2 30.9 Total number of shares 100 100 102,985,075 Total known owners 79,242,822 12,001 76.9 Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2017-12-31 (verification dates can vary for foreign owners). Foreign owners, nominee-registered 23,742,253 23.1 Total 102,985,075 100.0 Swedish institutions 35.6 Swedish mutual funds 13.0 Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2017-12-31. Swedish retail investors 3.8 Foreign ownership 47.6 Share data Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per 2017-12-31. Ticker symbol SHOT 1) Refers to known owners. ISIN SE0000635401 Trading lot 1 share List Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap-list Sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 • 125 DEFINITIONS HOTEL-RELATED KEY RATIOS FINANCIAL KEY RATIOS & ALTERNATIVE Interest-bearing net liabilities PERFORMANCE MEASURES Interest-bearing assets minus interest-bearing liabilities. ARR (Average Room Rate) The average room rate is the average room revenue per EBT Interest-bearing net liabilities Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 sold room. Earnings before tax. Interest-bearing liabilities, excluding finance leases 3,769 3,778 Full-time equivalents (FTEs) EBIT Cash and cash equivalents -140 -1,068 The number of full-time employees calculated as the total Earnings before interest and taxes. Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,629 2,710 number of working hours for the period divided by annual working time. EBITDA Justification: Interest-bearing net liabilities are used to Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and calculate the company’s indebtedness, which is one of LFL (Like-for-Like) ­amortization. Scandic’s financial targets. The definition chosen cor­ LFL refers to the hotels that were in operation during the responds to the definition used for the calculation of entire period as well as during the corresponding period of EBITDA margin indebted­ness according to Scandic’s loan agreements. the previous year. EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Working capital OCC (Occupancy) Adjusted EBIT Current assets, exclusive of cash and cash equivalents, Refers to sold rooms in relation to the number of available Earnings before pre-opening costs, non-recurring items, minus current liabilities, exclusive of derivative instruments rooms. Expressed as a percentage. interest and taxes. and the current part of the finance lease liabilities. Working capital Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Pre-opening costs Adjusted EBITDA Current assets, excluding cash Refers to costs for contracted and newly opened hotels Earnings before pre-opening costs, non-recurring items, and cash equivalents 1,285 929 before opening day. interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted Current liabilities -2,786 -2,110 for the effects of the finance lease. Working capital, net -1,501 -1,181 RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room) Refers to the average room revenue per available room. Adjusted EBITDAR Justification: There is a need to optimize cash generation Earnings before pre-opening costs, non-recurring items, to create value for Scandic’s shareholders. The manageinterest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent, ment team is therefore focused on working capital and EQUITY-RELATED KEY RATIOS adjusted for the effects of the finance lease. on reducing lead times between income generation and ­payments received. Earnings per share Non-recurring items The profit/loss during the period related to the shareholdItems that are not directly related to the normal operations ers of the Parent Company, divided by the average number of the company, for example, costs for transactions, exits of shares. and restructuring. Equity per share Equity related to the shareholders of the Parent Company, divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. 126 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Joel Lindeman Provobis through Novobis AB A N N UA L G E N E R A L Hotels Group AB (publ) will be held at 13:00 CET on Thurs(Chairman of the Nomination Committee) MEETING day, April 26, 2018 at Scandic Alvik in Stockholm. RegistraJohan Wester, Stena Sessan Investment AB tion will begin at 12:00 CET. Staffan Ringvall Handelsbanken Fonder AB Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board of Directors 26 APRIL, Participation in the Annual General Meeting Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Among other things, the Nomination Committee proposes Meeting must be included in the share register maintained Board Members to the Annual General Meeting and if applicaby Euroclear Sweden AB and notify their intention to particble, auditors and fees to the Board of Directors. 2018 ipate in the Annual General Meeting no later than Friday, April 20, 2018. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2018 The notice may be sent to: Computershare AB c/o Interim Report January – March 2018 ­Scandics årsstämma, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd, Sweden April 26, 2018 or alternatively be given by phone at +46 771 24 64 00. Interim Report January – June 2018 S TO C K H O L M The notice should contain the name, personal or corpoJuly 20, 2018 rate identify number, address and telephone number and Interim Report January – September 2018 any accompanying assistant. Shareholders attending by October 25, 2018 proxy shall state the name and the corporate or personal identity number of the proxy. Financial reports are available on the company’s website at To participate in the Annual General Meeting, share­ www.scandichotelsgroup.com holders whose shares are nominee registered must tempoTo subscribe for Scandic’s press releases and interim rarily register the shares in their own names with Euroclear reports, register your email address on Scandic’s website. ­Sweden AB. Shareholders should inform the nominees well in advance of notifying their attendance. CONTACT DETAILS Jan Johansson, Chief Financial Officer Notice convening the Annual General Meeting jan.johansson@scandichotels.com The Annual General Meeting is convened through a notice on the Company’s website and an announcement in the Henrik Vikström, Director Investor Relations Swedish Official Gazette (Postoch Inrikes Tidningar). The henrik.vikstrom@scandichotels.com fact that the notice has been published will be announced in Svenska Dagbladet. Any documents that are to be presented at the Annual General Meeting will be made available on the Company’s website at least three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting and on the day of the Annual General Meeting. 128 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Production: Scandic in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2018. SCANDICHOTELSGROUP.COM
