COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Handle Care with CWS-boco International GmbH Franz-Haniel-Platz 6-8 47119 Duisburg United Nations Global Compact New York, NY 10017 USA January 11, 2018 Communication on Progress To whom it may concern, It is my great pleasure to inform you that CWS-boco International GmbH continues to support the 10 Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We remain wholly committed to promoting the principles within our sphere of influence. We undertake to integrate the Global Compact and its principles actively into our corporate strategy, our corporate culture and our day-to-day business activities over the coming years and also to participate in cooperation projects which serve to advance the general goals of the United Nations, in particular the Sustainable Development Goals. CWS-boco International GmbH communicates its involvement in the Global Compact clearly to its stakeholders and the general public. With submission of our fifth Communication on Progress (COP) for 2016, we have outlined our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We would like to offer an insight into the measures taken and the results thereof. In addition to the COP, we have also made our CR Report available. Yours faithfully, Thomas Schmidt, CEO CWS-boco International GmbH Phone +49(0)203-987165-0 Management Board: Franz-Haniel-Platz 6-8 Fax +49(0)203-987165-8575 Thomas Schmidt (CEO) 47119 Duisburg Carsten Bettermann (CDO) HRB 8957 AG Duisburg www.cws-boco.com Detlef Kröpelin (CDO) Germany Heiko Karschti (CFO) Principle Approach Implementation Reference and Measurement to GRI (see CR Report) indicators HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: According to a risk assessment, there is a particularly high risk of violations Management of G4-HR9 Businesses should of social and labour rights in our supply chain and especially in our textile Impact in Supply support and respect supply chain. Violations of this sort can be translated into reputational risks Chain 42-45, the protection of not only for CWS-boco but for our customers as well. Furthermore, such Data 73 internationally violations at the sites of our contractors can present legal risks. Regulatory proclaimed human drivers such the national action plan for business and human rights set the rights; and stage for regulatory risks. Principle 2: Purchasing and supply chain sustainability is managed by CWS-boco Supply Impact in G4-HR1 make sure that Chain Management GmbH (CWS-boco SCM). To take on this responsibility Supply Chain 7, G4-HR10 they are not and manage these risks, CWS-boco SCM analyses its supplier structure Management of complicit in human (Tier 1 and 2) annually. Tier 1 suppliers in countries with a high risk of social Impact in Supply rights abuses. and labour rights violations, which are commonly countries with weak govChain 42-45, ernance indicators, according to BSCI, are audited by third parties bienniData 66, 73 ally. CWS-boco works closely together with its suppliers and its contractors LABOUR to improve quality and to implement corrective action plans following audits Principle 3: and strives for long-lasting partnerships. Management of G4-HR4 Businesses should Every relevant supplier has to sign and accept CWS-boco’s Code of Conduct, Impact in Supply uphold the freedom which is based on the BSCI Code of Conduct, which refers to the ILO core Chain 42-45 of association labour standards and meets all the requirements stated in the UNGC prinand the effective ciples for labour and human rights (freedom of association, collective barrecognition of the gaining, elimination of forced or compulsory labour, abolition of child labour, right to collective elimination of discrimination). The Code of Conduct also applies to the bargaining; supply chain of CWS-boco’s suppliers. Every textile care supplier with an annual purchasing volume > € 10,000 and every washroom care supplier Principle 4: Impact in G4-HR6 with an annual purchasing volume > € 20,000 has to sign and accept the the elimination of Supply Chain 7, Code of Conduct. Should a supplier refuse to comply with our Code of all forms of forced Management of Conduct, the supplier is reported to CWS-boco SCM’s Executive Board and and compulsory Impact in Supply a process is initiated to find a different supplier who is willing to comply. labour; Chain 42-45, Target: By 2020, all our material suppliers have to comply with CWS-boco’s Data 71 Principle 5: Code of Conduct. G4-HR5 the effective abolition of child CWS-boco SCM is an active member of the partnership for sustainable texlabour; and tiles of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development and BSCI to promote sustainable change in textiles and differentiate itself as an industry leader. In 2016, CWS-boco was the industry leader in terms of the use of sustainable cotton in workwear. Principle 6: No form of discrimination based on personal characteristics, whether this U2, Further G4-10 the elimination be due to gender, age, extraction or nationality, social background, political Training 33, 35, G4-LA1 of discrimination or religious beliefs or sexual orientation, will be tolerated at CWS-boco. Data 65, 70 G4-LA9 in respect of CWS-boco employs people from 60 nations. Career opportunities and the G4-LA11 employment right of co-determination are open to every single employee. and occupation. Target: CWS-boco aims to support 100% of its staff with a training and further education management system by 2020. 1 Principle Approach Implementation Reference and Measurement to GRI (see CR Report) indicators ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: The management of CWS-boco’s environmental impact focuses on three U2, Impact in G4-EN1 Businesses should areas, which were identified as most relevant, both by internal and external Supply Chain 7, G4-EN2 support a precaustakeholders and assessments of environment-related business risks: energy Recycling 38-39, G4-EN3 tionary approach efficiency, carbon emissions and water consumption. CWS-boco washes and Energy, Water and G4-EN4 to environmental dries more than 100 million articles per year in its 43 laundries in Europe. Emissions 50-57, G4-EN5 challenges; The articles are collected and distributed by more than 1,500 service drivers, Data 71-73 G4-EN6 covering more than 50 million km per year. Considering these dimensions, G4-EN7 Principle 8: every increase in efficiency can be translated into a direct business case for G4-EN10 undertake initiaCWS-boco, especially in anticipation of increasing energy costs. Further G4-EN15 tives to promote regulatory changes for emissions standards concerning our service fleet can G4-EN16 greater environbecome business risks. The Paris agreement 2015 emphasises the necessity G4-EN17 mental responsito take action. G4-EN19 bility; and G4-EN30 Targets: (2020 vs 2012) Principle 9: G4-EN32 encourage the Improve energy efficiency by 30% development Reduce carbon emissions by 20% and diffusion Reduce water consumption by 10% of environmentally Our energy and carbon emissions hotspots are our laundry services and friendly technolespecially the drying processes: This represents 61.23% of our energy conogies. sumption. Our own service fleet (leased and owned) contributes to 18.08% of our energy consumption. Purchased electricity in laundry operations is equal to 9.53% of our energy consumption. Measures to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency focus on the named hotspots. The measures taken include modernisation of the laundry operations and service fleet, route optimisation and the procurement of green electricity. Currently, 61% of our purchased electricity is considered green. To keep track of our energy consumption, we monitor the energy efficiency of our laundry operations by type of laundry (kwh/kg) on a monthly basis. Our laundry services are our main source of water consumption. To achieve our target, we optimise our washing loads and reuse water (water from cotton towel rolls can be used to wash mats). We monitor our water consumption by type of laundry (l/kg) on a monthly basis. As a company offering textiles on a rental basis, we exert a high level of control over end-of-life treatments. This is not just a chance to increase resource efficiency, but also a chance to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Towel roll dispensers are recycled. We are considering different options for a sustainable end-of-life treatment for textiles. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: CWS-boco strives to achieve a transparent business culture. In 2011, we Values and G4-56 Businesses should introduced an internal Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct sets out Governance 9-11, G4-58 work against rules on responsible, morally correct and respectful business practices Data 71 G4-SO4 corruption in all while observing strict ethical standards. A compliance officer is responsible its forms, includfor ensuring that compliance training sessions focusing on competition law ing extortion and and the combatting of corruption are held. To this end, the company specibribery. fically clarifies how staff in the relevant areas, essentially purchasing and sales, should conduct themselves when acting on behalf of the company. Above and beyond this, the company set up a compliance helpline in September 2013, which is currently available to all staff in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Sweden and Ireland. If they so wish, staff may remain anonymous and call this line to receive advice on legally correct conduct for business activities or report abuses. Should colleagues, superiors or entire bodies within CWS-boco fail to act correctly or breach the above-mentioned Code of Conduct, an external law firm can be called or e-mailed. The external compliance helpline also offers assistance with conflicts between business and personal interests. Our Group uses an internal accounting and performance-related control system. The risk potential is regularly assessed using the management system. Amendments are made at regular intervals. 2
