DIETSMANN CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 www.dietsmann.com SMART MAINTENANCE SOLUTIONS FOR CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION PLANT 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction from the CEO 4 Company profile 7 I Ethics and compliance 8 Anti-corruption prevention program 8 Internal communication 8 Systems and practices for reporting violations 8 Audits related to compliance  9 Risk Management 9 Working with contractors and suppliers 10 Promoting sustainable procurement 10 Responsible practices among contractors and suppliers 10 Promoting financial transparency 10 Human rights 11 Non-discrimination 11 Forced labor and child labor 11 Union / Collective bargaining 11 II Human Resources 13 Training and development 13 Investing in training 13 Knowledge sharing 14 Training customized to clients’ operational needs 15 Promoting employees’ career development 17 Valorization of diversity 20 Generation equity 21 Nationalization plan 21 III Social and community 24 Local content 24 Managing social impacts 26 Donations and partnerships 27 IV Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality 30 Health 30 Medical check-ups 30 Health and wellbeing 31 Travel health 32 Safety 32 Managing safety 32 Safety culture program 33 Security 34 Emergency Preparedness and Response 34 Environment 34 Overall strategy 34 Implementation and outcomes 35 Training & Promotion 36 Waste management 37 Quality 38 Corporate Social Responsibility overview table 39 3 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO Since it was established more than 40 years ago, Dietsmann’s unrelenting focus on its core activities and on the quality of its services has resulted in it becoming the largest independent company specializing in Operation & Maintenance for continuous-production plant in the oil & gas, conventional & nuclear power generation and mining industries. But it is not just what Dietsmann does that sets Dietsmann apart from its competitors and has earned it the reputation of being THE reference in oil & gas, power and mining plant maintenance, it’s the way we have always done it. Dietsmann has always and will always put its clients and their objectives first, but will never compromise the safety of people and the environment or the quality of its services. Dietsmann has always and will always operate in a way that reflects its corporate culture, a culture that includes the ethics values of integrity, respect, loyalty, efficiency and transparency. Dietsmann has always and will always strive to operate its existing business and develop new opportunities in a socially, environmentally and economically responsible way. These three focus areas represent the three pillars of sustainability ‘People, Planet and Profit’. It is interesting to note that the phrase ‘people, planet, profit’ that describes the triple bottom line and the goal of sustainability was first used in 1994 and three years later was used as the title of the Shell oil company’s first sustainability report. Like Shell we are active in the energy industry and understand and accept that we operate in a sector in which we must meet the highest levels of expectation from all our stakeholders in respect of sustainability and fulfilling our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Since the Company became a signatory to the UNGC at the end of 2011 we have worked continuously on the further development of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy – our sustainability strategy by formulating our global approach, structuring our responsibility-oriented actions and integrating the Global Compact’s principles in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Dietsmann complies with the legislation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the principles and best practices of good Corporate Governance, the ethics and anti-corruption legislation and regulations, and all applicable legislation in every country in which we operate. This compliance, as well as the measures that have been included in Dietsmann’s overall strategy in order to ensure we achieve the highest standards of Corporate Social Responsibility and integrate the principles of the United Nations Global Compact into our day-to-day work, plays an intrinsic role in Dietsmann’s long-term vision and strategy and is summarized in this Corporate Sustainability Report. 4 Dietsmann is well positioned to achieve its long-term vision and maintain its leading position thanks to its unmatched base of satisfied clients, its experience and expertise, its optimal employment of local resources and, an important factor in today’s challenging economic environment, the fact that it is not carrying any debt on its balance sheet and, as a result, its stability and continuity is not challenged. This combination ensures the provision of world-class plant Operation & Maintenance plus, at the same time, the creation of good employee relations and local development. Dietsmann’s employees are its most important asset. They work day-in-day-out to ensure the safe and optimized availability of clients’ assets in the energy sector and, by the way they carry out their daily work, are themselves one of the most important channels for communicating the Company’s values and ethics to everyone with whom they come into contact. This is why, as Dietsmann’s founder, President and CEO, I feel a personal responsibility for upholding Dietsmann’s long term vision and strategy and am personally involved in communicating this strategy to all our employees in all the countries in which we operate. Peter Kütemann President & CEO 5 6 COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V., the Company’s holding company, is a privately held company with its registered office in Breda, the Netherlands. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 19 countries and a total workforce of 5663 employees. n Certifications: Dietsmann’s Quality Management System has been certificated since 1999. This certification covers the entire range of products and services offered to clients by all ISO 9001 certificated Dietsmann subsidiaries and by the Support & Coordination Office in Monaco. Currently the following Dietsmann subsidiaries are certificated. n Dietsmann in France Salies-du-Salat: OHSAS 18001 since 2013 ISO14001 since 2008 ISO 9001 since 1996 Toulouse: ISO 9001 since 2014 ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 since 2013 Qualification Collège in Boussens: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 since 2015 n Dietsmann in Monaco LRQA: ISO 9001 since 1999 n Dietsmann in the Republic of Congo (Pointe Noire) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2013 n Dietsmann in Gabon (Port Gentil) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2014 n Dietsmann in Nigeria (Abuja) Bureau Veritas: ISO 9001 since 2014 n Dietsmann in Angola (Luanda): ISO 9001 since 2016 n Dietsmann in Russia: ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 since 2016 n DietsmannEnergoremont in Bulgaria: ISO 9001 since 2001 ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 since 2009 n HSE awards received during the reporting period: n Nigeria: 11 years without LTI at Okpai site n Angola: Sonadiets has reached the milestone of four million hours (11 years) without LTI at Esso Exploration Angola Limited Block n During ENI’s Worldwide Safety Day, which took place in Milan on 6 June 2017, Dietsmann was awarded the first prize in the Mechanical Maintenance category n Organizational structure: n Group Holding: Breda, the Netherlands n International Support and Coordination Office: Monaco n Offices and operations worldwide: Angola, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, France, Italy, Gabon, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Libya, Nigeria, Mozambique, Russia, South Sudan, Switzerland, the Republic of Congo and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). During 2017 Dietsmann acquired 97.5% of the shares of Energoremont Holding JSC in Bulgaria. With Energoremont, Dietsmann not only took control of the largest maintenance company in Bulgaria, but also acquired access to the nuclear and conventional power and mining sectors in the Balkan Peninsula and Eastern Europe. Dietsmann sees great potential for expansion in Bulgaria and the Balkan countries and will focus on the further development of DietsmannEnergoremont’s core activities – the maintenance, optimization and modification of power generating, refinery and mining facilities, including the introduction and application of new technologies in training, monitoring and inspection. 7 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION PREVENTION PROGRAM Dietsmann endorses the United Nations Convention against Corruption and is committed to combating all forms of corruption. The Company has a long-term commitment to ethics and transparency and uses the stipulations of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as a basis for the development and implementation of good Corporate Governance for Dietsmann’s overall management. Although the Dutch Corporate Governance Code only applies to Dutch companies listed on a stock exchange recognized by the government, Dietsmann voluntarily complies with the Dutch Code’s stipulations and best practices including audits, disclosure, compliance and enforcement standards and the Management Board and Supervisory Board use the Code as a management framework. Dietsmann‘s ethics principles and guidelines are encapsulated in Dietsmann’s Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. Dietsmann also encourages its business partners to respect its Ethics commitments through the Business Partners Policy and the Business Ethics Charter. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Dietsmann complies with applicable legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anti-corruption. The Company’s Business Code of Conduct provides guidelines for Dietsmann’s employees and business partners. On joining Dietsmann employees receive copies of the Company’s policies and procedures, including the Code of Conduct. These publications are available in all the languages commonly used within Dietsmann. Using clear, easy-to-follow language, the Code of Conduct provides a series of examples of the types of behavior expected of Dietsmann employees. It also states clearly the types of behavior that would constitute a violation of the Code. Training is provided based on an animated video followed by a test to check whether the respective employee has understood the conduct requirements. A new version of the Code was issued in 2016. The Code is reviewed and revised every few years to ensure it remains up-to-date. SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES FOR REPORTING VIOLATIONS To protect its employees Dietsmann has implemented a Grievance Mechanism, the “Upline email”, which can be used to obtain advice regarding, or report any sensitive concern related to Human Rights and any deviance from the Code. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee. This tool also enables the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. 8 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE It is of the highest importance to Dietsmann that employees seek guidance if they are unsure about the right way to act in a business situation and that they are willing to report concerns about suspected unethical behavior. If an employee does not feel comfortable about something he/she is asked to do, or witnesses something that seems irregular, he/she should first check that the information he/she has is accurate. No employee has all the answers. The Company wants employees and managers to know the right questions to ask, the right experts to consult and the right way to make decisions. Dietsmann employees are told that If they are in doubt they should ask assistance from and get advice from: n If the issue is sensitive: his/her local HR or HSEQ Manager n If the issue is very sensitive: an email should be sent to the upline email address. Emails can be written in the employee’s own language (they will be translated). AUDITS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE An Ethics Committee was formed in October 2012. The Chairman of the Ethics Committee is the Legal & Tax Director. He has appointed representatives of the Group HR, Group Communications, Group HSSSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality) Departments as members of the Ethics Committee. In addition, to ensure compliance, in 2017 a Compliance Department was created under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Company’s Supervisory Board. RISK MANAGEMENT The decision to bid or not to bid on contracts is based on a deep analysis of a project’s risk profile. This evaluation contains many subjects such as, but not limited to: n Country profile (economic / political stability, safety, etc.) n Client profile (including a comprehensive KYC assessment) n Product / Service (core business or [partly] outside) n Financial aspects (currency, payment terms, etc.) n Limitation of liabilities n Warranty Social performance considerations are factored into the risk management phase of the bid process. Dietsmann will not pursue a project if it cannot be executed without violating its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy. 9 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE WORKING WITH CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Dietsmann’s aim when it comes to procurement at all levels is to meet its needs for goods, services, work, and utilities in a way that achieves value for money and promotes positive outcomes not only for the organization itself but for the economy, environment, and society of the country in which the items procured will be used. RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES AMONG CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS Dietsmann seeks to work with contractors that share its commitment to ethical, safe and sustainable working practices. Contractors and their employees are expected to and encouraged to act in a way that is consistent with Dietsmann’s code of conduct. To the extent it is possible Dietsmann’s contracts include health, safety, security and environmental requirements. In some cases bridging documents are necessary to define how the safety management systems of Dietsmann and its contractors will co-exist effectively. Dietsmann’s role is to oversee and be confident that its contractors are complying with the relevant procedures and management system requirements. In some instances contractors that do not meet Dietsmann’s requirements, or are unable to demonstrate improved performance, are dismissed. To further develop the supply chain Dietsmann works with local suppliers whenever possible. Dietsmann is committed to applying the UNGC principles at all its operating sites and to striving to assess its business partners’ compliance with these principles and encourage them to implement good practices. A procedure is available and provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential main suppliers or sub-contractors. PROMOTING FINANCIAL TRANSPARENCY To ensure effective and transparent financial reporting and provide clear information in respect of its activities, Dietsmann publishes its Annual Accounts on the Company’s website. In accordance with its Articles of Association, Dietsmann has appointed an External Auditor who plays an important role in ensuring the integrity of Dietsmann’s financial reporting, as well as the validity and reliability of reported financial information. In addition, Dietsmann’s Supervisory Board has appointed an Audit Committee from among its members. This Committee, in close cooperation with the Company’s management, endeavors to ensure that a high standard of quality, transparency and control is achieved and maintained. 10 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HUMAN RIGHTS Dietsmann respects the labor rights stated in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration as well as all relevant legislation and regulations, including the local content of the countries in which it operates. Dietsmann expects its business partners to do the same. As stated in its Business Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Dietsmann: n Respects freedom of association and supports collective bargaining n Does not tolerate forced or child labor and discrimination n Has always been committed to maintaining the highest level of HSEQ standards n Values the personal development of its employees and focuses on dynamic career management supports internal promotion, invests in training and strives to take employees’ expectations into account NON-DISCRIMINATION (including due to sexual orientation or identity) Dietsmann’s non-discrimination principle includes any explicit or implicit distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction, sexual orientation or social origin, which has the effect of nullifying or spoiling equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, including access to vocational training. Dietsmann’s recruitment criteria are based solely on skills and are not related to ethnic or religious origins, age, gender or any other form of discrimination. FORCED LABOR AND CHILD LABOR Dietsmann does not promote, practice or tolerate the use or forced or compulsory labor, human trafficking or the sale of sexual acts of any kind. The company’s policies and practices reflect this position. Dietsmann projects and offices worldwide are subject to laws and regulations prohibiting the hiring of underage employees. UNIONS / COLLECTIVE BARGAINING The Company endorses collective bargaining: employees’ representatives are active at all operating sites and are also provided with the necessary meeting facilities and appropriate time off duty to organize work sessions with the managers concerned. 11 I ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE At all sites Dietsmann promotes an open dialogue between employees and managers. In Monaco a specific anonymous email allows employees to send any question they may have to the employees’ representatives. In Nigeria a binding document the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) has been signed by both the Management and the Labor Union (employee representatives). Management and Union representatives maintain a cordial relationship, this ensures that whenever issues arise regarding staff welfare they are resolved amicably. In Russia a Feedback Form Box project which allowed operating staff to share their views and concerns directly with Dietsmann Russia’s management was introduced during 2017. To date the management has received, and duly responded to, more than 50 feedback forms. There is no doubt that this new communication channel has contributed towards the increased loyalty of the employees and the transparency of business processes. 12 II HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTING IN TRAINING One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide its national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Towards this end the Human Resources department has developed several successful tools: KMP and the Competencies Certification Program. The management and coordination of training courses and course participation are supported by the Employee Data Base (EDB) Dietsmann’s in-house HR management software which includes a training module. The aim of this module is to assist training managers throughout the Company by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. TRAINING COURSE PARTICIPATION 2015 2017 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Angola Bolivia Rep. of Congo France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Nigeria Russia SCO/Monaco 2015 2016 2017 The investment in training remained at a high level with 12,357 training days in 2017 (2016; 16,335 training days). The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available to all employees. 13 II HUMAN RESOURCES Training can cover technical, administration, languages or management courses and training sessions are also provided for mandatory HSEQ and IT topics. FIELDS OF TRAINING HSEQ 62% Technical 22% Languages 5% Management 4% Other* 7% *Administration, Data processing/IT, Various The focus is on transferring know-how and enhancing national employees’ skills. KNOWLEDGE SHARING In order to ensure the continuous development of employees’ competencies and thus increase the mobility of the Company’s human resources, Dietsmann Qualification College (DQC) has a training center focused on the qualification process of Dietsmann employees from any of the subsidiaries. The objectives are to: n Provide training services to its subsidiaries’ employees n Work closely with Dietsmann affiliates and trainers with platform experience n Qualify Dietsmann’s technicians for specific operations, such as regular visits, controls, adjustments and tests. 14 II HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING CUSTOMIZED TO CLIENTS’ OPERATIONAL NEEDS The Dietsmann Qualification College, with its extensive experience in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, instrumentation, HVAC and Maintenance Engineering as well as regulatory technical training (electrical qualifications, ATEX), is the expert in field maintenance. Qualification courses and programs are customized to answer clients’ needs. Even if trainees have no previous experience the College will take them all the way through from an initiation course to the required qualification. The College can also offer an All-In training program package that incorporates and encompasses all clients’ specific requirements. DIETSMANN QUALIFICATION COLLEGE NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN 2017 ATEX Training Electrical habilitation Electrical habilitation External training Internal training Nationalization and internal Nationalization and internal Management administration electrical training mechanical training and external training institution 15 II HUMAN RESOURCES The Dietsmann Qualification College conducted a worldwide census campaign to evaluate the possibility of reinforcing the College training team and to benchmark the potential for developing new training courses. Around 10 technicians were selected to be added to the Dietsmann Qualification College trainer team on the basis of their availability (rotation offshore/onshore), discipline expertise, skills and home address. This action is the result of Dietsmann’s policy of transferring know-how to internal employees so they can develop and improve their knowledge. In 2017 the Dietsmann Qualification College was ISO 9001 certificated and its ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications were renewed. In Angola Dietsmann’s joint venture, Sonadiets, runs a training center dedicated to potential future employees. Courses are in line with clients’ requirements. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and 70% are practical workshops in real working conditions. In 2017 the training center provided 22,448 hours of training. In Gabon a training center was established several years ago. Training courses are conducted by Dietsmann Gabon’s own trainers (instrumentation, mechanics, electricity) who share their teaching time between Dietsmann Gabon and Dietsmann Congo. 16 II HUMAN RESOURCES PROMOTING EMPLOYEES’ CAREER DEVELOPMENT Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees; the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. Total No. of No. of Country of Workforce interviews interviews Conducted vs Conducted vs employment 30/07/2017 forecasted conducted forecasted workforce Angola 457 263 207 79% 45% Bolivia 57 55 54 98% 95% Rep. of Congo 884 576 568 99% 64% France 123 123 129 99% 105% Gabon 378 290 62 21% 16% Kazakhstan 104 102 99 97% 95% Libya 412 411 305 74% 74% Monaco 103 96 78 81% 76% Nigeria 439 430 351 82% 80% Russia 1,608 1,561 1,526 98% 95% Grand Total 4,565 3,914 3,379 86% 74% % of employees 2017: 74% of employees 2017: 86% of the scheduled iewed were interviewed interviews were conducted 17 INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED AS % OF WORKFORCE 400 Western Europe 400 Western Europe 200 200 0 0 12 13 14 15 20 16 2012 17 14 15 16 17 20 20 20 20 20 20 13 20 20 20 20 Northern Africa (Libya)Northern Africa (Libya) 500 500 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 20 2012 17 14 15 16 17 20 20 20 20 20 20 13 20 20 20 20 60 South America 60 South America 1000 Western Africa 1000 Western Afric (Nigeria) 40 40 20 20 500 500 0 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 20 16 2012 17 14 15 16 20 20 20 17 12 13 14 14 15 20 20 20 20 20 20 13 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 15 16 2012 20 17 13 20 20 workforce workforce interviews conducted interviews conducted 18 Eastern Europe 2000 1000 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 20 20 20 20 20 600 Central Asia (Kazakhstan) 400 200 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 20 20 20 20 20 Middle Africa 400 (Rep. of Congo, Gabon, Anggola) 200 0 20 20 20 20 20 20 12 13 14 15 16 17 62 Gabon Workforce: 382 54 Bolivia Workforce: 58 78 Monaco Workforce: 110 99 Kazakhstan Workforce: 119 129 France Workforce: 136 207 Angola Workforce: 573 305 Libya Workforce: 415 351 Nigeria Workforce: 435 568 Rep. of Congo Workforce: 922 1526 Russia Workforce: 1,655 19 II HUMAN RESOURCES VALORIZATION OF DIVERSITY Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result, the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 55 different nationalities were represented in 2017. Dietsmann is present in 19 countries and in every one of these countries it recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. EMPLOYEE Algerian 0.41% Russian 29.63% NATIONALITIES Romanian 1.24% Filipino 1.01% DECEMBER Italian 1.62% Tunisian 0.87% 2017 Gabonese 5.42% Serbian 0.46% South Sudanese 0.60% French 7.38% Kazakh 1.73% Libyan 2.51% South African 0.49% Nigerian 6.73% Angolan 5.65% Bolivian 0.76% Other 2.61% Indian 0.53% Congolese 14.60% Bulgarian 15.61% GENDER EQUITY The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotating work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 50% of employees working in office positions. 20 II HUMAN RESOURCES GENERATION EQUITY The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 39. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 27%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. At the other end of the age spectrum, 13% of employees are over 55 years old. This is a quite significant percentage and it should be noted that 123 employees have worked for Dietsmann for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN BY AGE GROUP BREAKDOWN BY YEARS OF SERVICE 70+ 30+ 60-69 50-59 20-29 40-49 30-39 10-19 20-29 -20 0-9 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 NATIONALIZATION PLAN Dietsmann strives for maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, Dietsmann has developed a Nationalization Tool Box (NaTB). This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. The NaTB recommends a step-by-step nationalization process and includes support materials, such as technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support and cost evaluation software for each step as well as all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to set up and implement a training plan. 21 II HUMAN RESOURCES The NaTB has been used successfully by several subsidiaries and has resulted in efficient nationalization plans. Globally, the process of nationalization has resulted in 18 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized in 2017 The nationalization of expatriate positions is a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 98% of administrative staff positions and 60% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now 88%. Rate of employees by category position EMPLOYEE PROFILE TOTAL Hierarchical levels Expatriate National All % Top Management 28 200 228 4% Middle Management 205 151 356 6% Operational 442 4,149 4,591 81% Administrative 6 482 488 9% Grand Total 681 4,982 5,663 100% 22 II HUMAN RESOURCES Dietsmann undertakes to provide local employees with skill-development opportunities. In 2017 93% of training course participants were national employees. As a result, Dietsmann is proud to work with thousands of highly motivated and well-trained local staff, some of whom have been promoted to senior management positions including in Nigeria, Angola, the Republic of Congo and Gabon where the Company has been present for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN OF TRAINING COURSES PER PROFESSIONAL STATUS Expatriates 7% Nationals 93% 23 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY LOCAL CONTENT The term ‘local content’ describes the positive effects a foreign company or industry can have on the areas in which it operates. Companies can provide measurable benefits by: n Buying supplies and services locally n Employing and training local people n Supporting development Community development support includes social investment programs involving companies making voluntary contributions towards the positive development of the communities and societies in the region and/or country in which they are operating. Such programs typically donate to, or develop skills and resources in, local communities and local or national institutions. The assessment of Dietsmann’s level of performance in terms of local content is divided into three related sub-sections: Local purchases Dietsmann’s policy is to maximize purchasing from local suppliers and to help these suppliers achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally the required equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. Local training and employment In line with Dietsmann’s sustainability project development axis, the Company’s local community initiatives focus on knowledge sharing. The indicators include the efforts dedicated to building and equipping Dietsmann’s own training centers as these centers are long-lasting infrastructure. The partnerships with technical schools, schools and universities reflect the Company’s involvement in supporting the future of local communities. Another indicator sums up the total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities. Dietsmann believes that investing in local content could also mitigate some of the risks of doing business in foreign countries by creating healthy and sustainable relations with local communities. 24 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY In Nigeria, NetcoDietsmann hires local sub-contractors in the communities in which it operates. The tasks carried out by the employees of these sub-contractors on a daily basis include landscaping, logistics for local employees and site support maintenance. During periods of intensive maintenance activities, such as gas and steam turbine shutdowns, the Company hires additional local contractors. NetcoDietsmann has helped the local community to open a canteen and Hotel close to the Okpai IPP Plant where meals and accommodation are provided for contractors’ employees working at the plant for short periods. Community development initiatives In Nigeria, the Content Plan for the project includes the training of 60 unemployed Nigerian youths in different artisan skills. 20 young people were trained each year for three (3) years representing each year of the contract duration. The training started in January 2016 with 10 trainees and was successfully concluded in July 2017. The trainees were awarded City & Guilds Level 3 in Electrical and Instrumentation; the welders received certificates from the International Institute of Welders (IIW) while the Riggers and Scaffolders received IADC certificates. 25 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY In Russia, all our branches interact with the military draft offices, pension funds, municipal administrations, Ministry of Education and Ministry of Energy. Every year on Power Engineer’s Day distinguished employees of our branches traditionally receive awards from the Russian Ministry of Energy, including certificates of professional recognition and commendation and titles of honor. The Company participates in various local contests and events ranging from parades to relay races and often wins prizes! Dietsmann Russia takes an active part in the community life of the towns in which it is active: 2016 was declared “the year of sports”, 2017 was declared “the year of ecology”. Every year, in collaboration with municipal authorities, Dietsmann employees are actively involved in voluntary clean-up and tree planting events as well as sports events under the Dietsmann flag. Dietsmann always encourages its employees to get involved in voluntary activities and the best volunteers are awarded prizes. Environmental Protection Day in Russia on 5 June. “Protection of Nature in your hands”. MANAGING SOCIAL IMPACTS To strengthen corporate cohesion and promote a good working atmosphere, events that bring employees together are organized in all Dietsmann countries. The end of year is a regular opportunity for such get-togethers. Some special events and team-building events are also organized during the year. To celebrate Dietsmann’s 40th anniversary, in Russia an event called “Dietsmann – my family” was organized to spotlight the creativity of employees and their children. 26 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY DONATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS In Monaco Dietsmann has a long-standing involvement in the activities of local and neighboring municipalities, mainly through sponsoring or contributions to local organizations dedicated to children, such as Les Enfants de Frankie and The Children & Future Association. Dietsmann, as a dynamic and responsible citizen of Monaco, has undertaken to support the Monaco Impact Association which promotes Monaco as a world centre of philanthropy and Social Impact investment. The Association’s aim is to connect committed global citizens, local philanthropists and investors, through collaboration, education, and opportunities in order to support the next generation of “Responsible Entrepreneurs – Social Entrepreneurs”. Participants in the “No Finish Line” event in Monaco for “Children & Future Association” to help disavandtaged and sick children 27 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY For its 2017 Season’s Greetings card Dietmann chose to give 5,000 Euros to a regional good cause: In Africa, Dietsmann cares about future generations so donated € 5,000 to AMREF Flying Doctors’ ‘Christmas for African mothers’ campaign which is supporting the training of 15,000 African midwives. Each of these midwives represents 500 mothers and babies helped every year in Africa. Copyright: AMREF Flying Doctors In Europe, Dietsmann pledged a € 5,000 donation to the Reflets Association, which teaches children about the environment and sustainable development. Dietsmann is the legacy sponsor of the Delft Technical University Mineralogical and Geological Museum (MGM) with a pledge of sponsorship for 10 years. The €50,000 sponsorship per year has enabled the core of the collection to continue to be displayed. In Luanda (Angola) Sonadiets supports the Luanda Music School for children with special needs For Children’s Day in Russia presents were bought for Sonyshko Child Center. 28 III SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY Supporting education Dietsmann Gabon signed an agreement with the Fund for Support to the Integration and Reintegration. Dietsmann Gabon will provide 10 young people with a six-month training program that combines attendance at a vocational training center with periods of apprenticeship in business. This program, jointly funded by the European Community and private partners, such as Total Gabon, and supported by the National Office of Employment (ONE), is intended to promote the integration of young people with no qualifications into the maintenance trades. An agreement has been signed with the Ministry of National Education of Gabon to host interns on work-study placements. Interns spend four days a week in the Company and two days a week in school. The first participant will graduate in 2018. Since June 2017 Dietsmann Gabon has chaired the Sponsorship Committee of the Vocational Specialization Center (CSP). To support the education sector in Port Gentil, Dietsmann Gabon sponsors L’Ecole Mixte. This multi-cultural school offers its students, 80% of whom are nationals, a high-quality standard of education. In Nigeria, for the past two years NetcoDietsmann has invested in the youth of its host communities. The Don Bosco Skill Acquisition Project (DBSAP) was initiated by NetcoDietsmann Company Limited in 2012. By the end of 2016 32 students nominated by the host communities of Omoku, Rivers State and Okpai in Delta State had graduated. The project focuses on enabling participants to acquire technical skills, and develop know-how and capacity that will increase their employability and enable them to secure and retain gainful employment with various operators in the Oil, Gas and Power sector. More than 40% of the graduates have been hired by NetcoDietsmann and have performed their assigned jobs well. Some have now been promoted to Foreman. In Russia Dietsmann collaborates with the Nevinomyssk Power Engineering College by offering students industrial placements as part of their apprenticeship. The graduates of the College have priority when it comes to employment in the oil, gas and power sector (50% of Dietsmann Russia’s employees have graduated from this College). 29 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Dietsmann’s Top Management has decided to cluster Health, Safety, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Environment and Quality together into a single department HSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality). This clustering will enable the Company’s management systems to be managed more effectively and bring Dietsmann’s organization more in line with those of its clients and main competitors. HSEQ are Dietsmann’s core values Dietsmann’s business culture is based on the firm belief that health, safety, security, social, environment and quality requirements should come before all economic considerations and takes a proactive approach to guaranteeing a safe, healthy working environment and the best service quality. This includes ensuring that every one of its employees understands and adheres to the corporate culture through dedicated health, safety, environment and quality training and doing everything possible to reduce the negative effects of its operations on the environment. All Dietsmann employees at every level in the hierarchy accept responsibility for their own behavior in respect of the application of the Company’s Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Charter at their workplace. HEALTH MEDICAL CHECK-UPS All employees are covered by medical insurance and throughout the year information campaigns increase employees’ awareness of specific health issues. Despite the challenging economic situation, in 2016 Dietsmann maintained the level of coverage for its local employees and their families. In Angola, in view of the devaluation of the kwanza, the insurance guarantees were revised to take into account the high inflation and maintain the same level of coverage. In Libya a health insurance scheme for Dietsmann employees and their relatives has been in place since the end of 2015. Thanks to the change of local medical network operator, this scheme was extended to the Republic of Congo, Gabon and Angola in 2017. In addition to safety and security, employees’ good health is also a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to employees. In 2017, 83% of employees benefited from a medical check-up (2016: 91%). The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). 30 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY RATE OF MEDICAL CHECK-UPS IN 2017 (IN MAIN COUNTRIES OF OPERATION) 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Italy France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Monaco Nigeria Russia Sudan Other Rep. of Congo Angola Bolivia Dubai Additional processes to prevent health incidents are implemented in subsidiaries. Senior employees can, on a voluntary basis, follow an Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) training course during which qualified HSEQ managers provide first aid instruction (for example, an automatic defibrillator is available in the Pointe Noire office in the Republic of Congo). HEALTH AND WELLBEING Dietsmann’s commitment to the health and well-being of its employees means that the Company also focuses on preventing sickness by nurturing wellness and by providing the right environment for a healthy lifestyle. Dietsmann aims to manage occupational risks and reduce exposure to hazardous substances. The Company’s health program takes global concerns, such as the possibility of an influenza pandemic or a disease like Ebola, into account. Health awareness sessions, such as how to manage stress and office ergonomics, are also organized. ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS 2015 2016 2017 824 563 716 552 747 476 < 3 days Up to 28 days Total 6975 7133 6098 31 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY TRAVEL HEALTH Traveling to, or staying in, locations with poor sanitation and increased risk of exposure to harmful microorganisms clearly increases the risks related to contagious diseases and can also worsen an existing personal health problem. To reduce these risks as far as possible and avoid unnecessary health incidents while abroad, Dietsmann includes these risks in its Health Risks Assessment process. SAFETY MANAGING SAFETY Dietsmann is committed to keeping people safe, whether they are working on site or living near its operations. Creating the right safety culture within the organization is important. It requires strong leadership and an active commitment to safe maintenance operations from all members of the workforce. For example, in 2017 Dietsmann’s Angolan Joint venture, Sonadiets, passed a milestone of 11 years without a single incident resulting in sick leave. They achieved this by focusing on tightening up adherence to safety procedures and by a full application of the HSEQ management system. “A latent hazard is a hazard that is not currently observable, but that could potentially appear”. At the beginning of 2017 we realized that, despite good HSEQ indicators, we were still recording incidents. With this in mind the HSEQ team identified latent hazards as a key factor. The goal is to identify the dangers that are not obvious, that are the result of habit, or are due simply to a lack of experience, and then to eliminate them to ensure improved safety at work for our employees and contractors’ employees. This approach was tested in the Dietsmann Gabon subsidiary throughout 2017. The campaign identified around 30 latent hazards and, consequently, nearly 30 potential incident situations. It is, therefore, logical that latent hazard identification should become a priority on all our operating sites. This identification campaign will be rolled-out in all our subsidiaries in 2018, with the support of Regional HSEQ Managers. The Project Manager of each contract, plus the relevant Regional HSEQ Manager, will lead the campaign deployment, follow-up and analysis. The identification of latent hazards is a key step in reducing the number of incidents and, therefore, a key step towards improving safety at work for all our collaborators. Pierre-Olivier Herry Regional HSEQ Manager 32 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SAFETY CULTURE PROGRAM For Dietsmann, empowering its teams to be the cornerstone of the Company’s HSEQ system is a priority. To achieve this employees have to understand their HSE responsibilities and duties and must master HSE tools. The Dietsmann safety culture program designates HSE training modules for each hierarchical level within the organization. A positive safety culture is vital to drive our industry-leading safety performance. We believe knowledge generated through training is the foundation block to building our desired culture. The program is all-inclusive and ensures that the employees are empowered as safety leaders, participating actively in HSE matters to ensure the safe execution of work on behalf of our clients. Inclusion of the management teams in the program ensures that the culture is driven from the top, down to every level within our organization in a linear fashion. The content addresses not only how to be safe but also... why. We believe this makes the organization proactive and generative in terms of HSE, ensuring continual improvement of our management system. Recent integration of our systems and adaptation of the safety culture program to include quality related information within the syllabus further reinforces our company HSEQ slogan: “Maintenance is our core business, HSEQ our core values”. Steven J. Bennett Regional HSEQ Manager Dietsmann’s Safety Culture programs HSEQ CULTURE DESCRIPTION classify employees into three categories Management Level II according to whether they work on Management Management Level I operational sites, in an office or are a member of the Group’s management team. Performer HSE Training The Dietsmann HSEQ Culture training Operational Garant HSE Training provided to employees is based on the staff Leader HSE Training following: Operational Management HSEQ Training Office staff HSE Training Level II Office staff Office staff HSE Training Level I 33 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 15 Man-hours in Mh 12 LTIFR 0,92 TRIR 9 0,78 0,64 6 0,42 3 0,23 0,23 0,17 0,08 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 SECURITY Potential threats to Dietsmann’s subsidiaries and JVs are not always predictable and come in many forms, such as physical attacks, political conflicts, major accidents, health alerts, earthquakes and extreme weather. Processes aimed at enabling such threats to be anticipated and plans for dealing with a crisis or incident if it occurs are in place and are up-dated on a regular basis. In a changing global security environment safeguarding the protection of employees by identifying and analyzing security threats remains a top priority. During 2017 a number of Dietsmann employees experienced armed robbery, burglaries, theft, fraud and threats. None of these incidents caused physical injury. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Emergency preparedness has improved significantly in recent years. At a corporate level the Company’s crisis management plan was reviewed and revised. During the coming years the focus will be on organizing training courses and exercises on a more frequent basis. ENVIRONMENT OVERALL STRATEGY Protection of the environment is supported by a specific HSEQ policy based on the ISO 14001 standard and is included in the HSEQ Charter. As Dietsmann’s main activity involves the provision of services, its impacts on the environment are more indirect than direct. Even so, to strengthen its approach to environment protection the Company is working on defining good-practices related to resource consumption, waste management and global environmentally-responsible behavior. 34 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY When operating on a client’s premises Dietsmann complies with that client’s environmental standards. Dietsmann also focuses on preventive maintenance to increase equipment lifetime and avoid spills. Furthermore, the Company encourages its business partners’ active protection of the environment through the Business Partners Policy. Dietsmann is committed to continually improving its environmental performance and reducing the potential impacts of its operations through the implementation of its Environmental Management System (EMS). Dietsmann Subsidiaries and JVs are accountable for assessing strengths and weaknesses, implementing risk-reducing actions and enabling and delivering a good environmental performance. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Dietsmann complies with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations and its official documents publically state the Company’s precautionary approach in terms of the environment. In order to remain fully compliant the HSEQ department maintains an up-to-date legislation and regulations database. Remaining objectives related to the environment are to draw-up a series of environmental good practices that should help reduce the environmental impact (resource consumption, waste and pollution), increase employee training in respect of environmental matters, implement a more accurate internal impactassessment system and improve Dietsmann’s ability to respond effectively to any issues that could arise. In Nigeria, the gas turbines at Afam and Okpai incorporate a Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) which ensures that emissions are in-line with the Department of Petroleum Resources’ environmental regulations. The Company is also involved in environmental initiatives, such as the monthly environmental day at Okpai IPP during which vehicles are not permitted in the plant and employees must walk to work. Beautification Afam VI NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria, for example, is continuing its efforts to plant grass, flowers and trees on the Afam VI site. The beautification and planting schemes continued in 2017 with the planting of trees and fruit plants, such as papaya and pineapple, in the Okpai IPP facility. When ripe the fruit is shared with local subcontractor personnel. 35 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY TRAINING & PROMOTION The HSEQ inductions of all employees include environment protection. The job description of every employee includes the requirement to respect and implement the HSEQ guidelines related to the environment in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. Dietsmann has been campaigning for switching off lights and computers. “Reducing Energy Usage” messages are displayed in almost all subsidiaries. On World Environmental Day, Sunday 5 June, NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria joined clients in educating employees during dedicated talks on reducing environmental impact and sustaining local ecosystems. Lilac Alley planted in Reftinsky On the last Tuesday of May 2017 the pedestrian walkway leading from the Central Library to Building No 19 and the playground near Building 29 in Molodezhnaya Street were turned into a Lilac Alley. The employees of Dietsmann Reftinsky Branch planted 40 lilac trees. The event took place as part of the Ecology Year campaign and was dedicated to mark World Environment Day and the 40 years anniversary of Dietsmann. This landscaping project had been approved by the town’s Housing and Utilities Center Administration and Environmental Department. The day before the event organizers dug the holes in which the saplings would be planted. Good top-soil was brought in buckets and on hand barrows from Building No 29 where apple trees had recently been planted. 36 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY WASTE MANAGEMENT Dietsmann develops and implements training and education programs on environmental protection good practices for all employees. To date these programs have focused primarily Waste sorting at on raising awareness regarding reducing waste production, Salies-du-Salat promoting and maximizing recycling and the traceability of (France) ultimate waste products. As a result, Dietsmann employs licensed waste companies to dispose of waste wherever available. Waste is sorted in accordance with specific procedures and the sorted waste is transferred to waste collection companies or, in the case of industrial waste, to the client. Where available local facilities are used for the separate disposal of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment and for batteries and the weight of waste material is monitored and measured on a regular basis. Waste reduction Dietsmann offices reduce waste by donating surplus furniture and office equipment to schools. During renovations waste is reduced by reusing or donating furniture and materials whenever possible. Dietsmann Reftinskaya Branch Russia cleaned unauthorized waste disposal (fly tipping) in the forest near Energetik Garden. The event took place as part of the Year of Ecology campaign launched by the President of the Russian Federation and to commemorate World Environment Day on 5 June 2017. The activities kicked off at around 9am and by lunch time the work was completed. In total, we managed to collect and dispose of around 25 cubic meters of domestic waste. Natalia Anokhina, Deputy Mayor of Reftinskaya for social policy said: “On behalf of the town’s administration we’d like to thank the Dietsmann Reftinskaya Branch employees for their personal involvement and help with clearing this dump. Unauthorized fly tipping not only spoils the looks of the town, but also poses a threat to people’s health because the waste becomes a source of water, soil and air contamination. I believe that our cooperation in this field will not be limited by this year’s ecology campaign but will continue in the future”. Stanislava Georgieva Regional HSEQ Manager 37 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY QUALITY The renewal of the ISO 9001 certification of Dietsmann subsidiaries contributes towards the continuous improvement of the Company’s high standards of quality performance. The main quality management initiatives during 2017 included: n Merging the Group’s quality management system and HSE management system n Improving the evaluation of internal client satisfaction n Improving the evaluation of project quality performance n The migration of Dietsmann subsidiaries’ QMS to the 2015 version of ISO 9001 The Dietsmann Group successfully managed the transition of ISO 9001 certification from version 2008 to version 2015 for the following subsidiaries: Dietsmann in Monaco certificate renewed in November 2016, 1st surveillance audit planned for January 2018 Dietsmann in France certificate renewed in March 2017 Dietsmann in Gabon certificate renewed in December 2017 Sonadiets in Angola certificate renewed in January 2016, 1st surveillance audit in May 2017 Dietsmann in the Republic of Congo certificate renewed in December 2016, annual surveillance audit in December 2017 NetcoDietsmann in Nigeria 1st stage of the certification renewed in December 2017 Dietsmann in Russia certificate renewal planned for 2018 Dietsmann in Bulgaria certificate renewed in May 2017 38 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE SOCIAL 2017 2016 1 Total workforce 5,663 4,663 2 West Africa (Angola, Gabon, Republic of Congo) 1,718 1,739 3 North & Central Africa (Nigeria, Libya) 882 867 4 East Africa (South Sudan, Mozambique) 84 80 5 East Europe & Central Asia (Russia, Kazakhstan, Bulgaria) 2,638 1,652 6 Latin America (Bolivia) 47 57 7 West Europe (Monaco, Italy and France) 261 243 Other 33 25 Workforce by job category position worldwide 8 Administrative 488 382 9 Operational 4,591 4,081 10 Managers 584 200 Employment (*) 11 New hires national employees 422 809 12 New hires expatriates 74 167 13 Outflow rate 13.2% 7.02% Diversity 14 Gender rate all positions (women) 10.34% 8.86% 15 Average age 39 41 16 Percentage of employees over 55 12.6% 10.89% 17 Percentage of employees under 35 26.6% 30.13% 18 Number of nationalities represented in the Group 55 53 19 Rate of National employees (vs expatriates) 88% 85.70% Training & career opportunities (*) 20 Total training days 12,357 16,335 21 Training expenses in millions of Euros 1,439 1,353 (*) Excluding Bulgaria 39 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY SOCIAL 2017 2016 Social dialogue & cohesion (*) 22 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 100% 100% 23 Percentage of scheduled annual interview (ICMS) carried out 86.33% 88.28% 24 Global rate of employees interviewed (ICMS) 70% 71% Health & Safety 25 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 83% 91% 26 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health and safety issues 9 5 27 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours worked 0.23 0.17 29 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours worked 0.78 0.42 ETHICS (*) Anti-corruption 30 Percentage of employees trained on ethics principles 90% 90% (Corporate Shared Responsibility Training) Business partner screening 31 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up 65% 62% (Global Compliance including Ethics) LOCAL CONTENT (*) Local purchases 32 Percentage of local purchases (goods & services) 80% 89% Local employment 33 Number of key position nationalized 18 13 34 Percentage of National employees in management positions 60% 74% 35 Percentage of training courses dedicated to national employees 93% 91.5% in total training provided (*) Excluding Bulgaria 40 IV HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY 2017 2016 Local communities initiatives 36 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 26 7 37 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities € 211,780 € 223,802 ENVIRONMENT (*) 38 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area 100% 100% Environmental protection 39 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising campaigns were provided to 88% 88% employees 40 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) for which an environmental risks assessment 40% 38% has been carried out (*) Excluding Bulgaria 41 www.dietsmann.com Support & Coordination Office Gildo Pastor Center 7, rue du Gabian MC 98000 Monaco tel: +377 93 10 10 10 e-mail: info@dietsmann.com
