COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Dear stakeholders, We have taken efforts on not causing any all our employees, suppliers, business partners Valuing people and embracing the human permanent negation on biodiversity, which and stakeholders, both theoretically and resources management as a company rather As a company carrying out all of our activities by has a significant importance for the natural life practically, within the scope of Akçansa OHS than considering it as a function, we have paying regard to the environment and society and the society, and even providing a positive Golden Rules meeting the requirements of been awarded with Gold Standard following and managing all these activities in line with a contribution into our strategic priorities. Yet, the best international practices and standards our first application to and first assessment by corporate strategy under “Sustainability” since we are using waste rubber, plastic, waste mud related to the Occupational Health and Safety, the Investors in People (IIP), the international we have been established, we see contributing and other types of wastes as an energy input as well as the requirements of the Occupational people management and development to the society and environment as a part of our for our production processes. Safety Law. With all these efforts, we aim to standard. business. We will be publishing our 5th report in an occupational health and safety culture, to 2017 as the first and only company publishing Climate change is an important domain make it a culture of life, and to create healthy, We will continue to inform the public and our a sustainability report in the Turkish cement for us, as for the entire cement industry. At safe workplaces. stakeholders by focusing on carrying out our industry. Akçansa’s corporate sustainability Akçansa, we adopt a solution driven approach sustainability efforts within the scope of the policy is implemented with the targets set on climate change. Accordingly, in addition to We exhibit the importance we attach to global guidelines of the UN Global Compact. out in Sustainability Targets 2030 covering mitigating practices such as energy efficiency sustainable life and the ecological sensitivity all subsidiaries of HeidelbergCement. The and emission reduction, we are implementing in our investments, as well as in the projects Sincerely yours, implementation plan, which our company will both environmentally and economically we carry out with the products we offer to the prepare for achieving the Sustainability Targets effective solutions in the struggle against market. Şahap Sarıer 2030, will also be announced this year. climate change such as the use of alternative General Manager fuel and raw materials. In this context, we have launched “My As a company procuring its raw material from the Neighborhood” social responsibility project nature with the insight “producing from what As Akçansa, we continue at full pace to raise in 2015 in order to support a better is consumed” and as a company harmonious awareness and to become a role model communication between the new generation with the nature, we have committed ourselves through the practices at our workplace and and their parents who raise them and to lay a to make investments for preserving the natural the OHS trainings we conduct. Akçansa OHS sound basis for the future. life and resources and to raise awareness by Academy we launched in this context serves reaching out to more people. with a continuous and innovative approach to DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights The “Procedures and Methods to Be Followed While Trainings and practices, behaviour oriented audits and reports obtained results to the senior management. Making an Ethical Decision” and “Resolution of and field audits are realized in order to enhance the Besides managers taking office at Headquarters, experts Ethic Unconformities” process were defined in the SA-ETIK awareness of employees regarding occupational working at production facilities also take part in the document and contact information were shared. health and safety, ensure the minimization of risks and management of OHS policies and practices. Akçansa adopts the Sabancı Code of Business Ethics constitute a productive working environment. Awareness (SA-ETIK) of Sabancı Group, of which it is a subsidiary; Employees can transmit their notifications regarding raising programs and simulation based trainings are Occupational health and safety trainings continued at the corporate principles, ethical values, and standards ethical principles to their managers, Human Resources, also organized for suppliers and customers, alongside OHS Academy for Akçansa employees in all fields in line are defined within the framework of this document Ethic Principle Consultant, or Sabancı Holding Ethics employees. with the annual plans, and drills were carried out at all throughout the company. SA-ETIK serves as a guideline Board by phone or e-mail, in secrecy. field for preparation against possible emergencies. for company employees to fulfill their responsibilities At Akçansa, high standards are implemented regarding within the scope of legal regulations, internal norms Employee Health occupational safety. OHS processes are managed in “I Am Safe At Height Project”, related to working at height and contracts and completely for the benefit of the accordance with Quality, Environment and Energy one of Ten Golden Rules of Akçansa in occupational corporation, by avoiding behaviors that might harm Akçansa aims for the protection of its employees from Policies within the framework of Integrated Management health and safety, has been planned, the international the corporation. SA-ETIK principles are also supported occupational diseases and illnesses in general. In this System. The OHS Policy complies with the requirements standards and practices within the scope of the project through internal policies. The Code of Business Ethics is regard, analyses are performed at all operation sites of of the OHS Law No. 6331, OHSAS 180001 Standard, and have been taken into account, and the actions determined binding for all operations of the company, members of the Akçansa, where raw material production, raw material ILO Conventions. are taken. Board of Directors, managers, and employees. Besides, all transportation, production and similar operations are suppliers, subcontractors, dealers and business partners conducted, to determine health risks. Follow-up health While OHS is the common responsibility of all Akçansa are also expected to comply with these principles. The checks are performed periodically, once or twice a year employees, OHS Directorate manages related processes constitution and sustenance of a corporate culture and depending on the operation type, in relation to these working environment promoting ethical principles is the risks. Akçansa employees are offered trainings by the responsibility of managers. workplace doctor throughout their working lives. 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS Akçansa conducts all its operations within the framework Occupational Health and Safety Attributing Utmost Priority to OHS of local legal regulations and international rules of law; being a publicly traded company, it manages its activities Occupational health and safety is a common priority Goal Definition KPIs Target 2020 in compliance with the relevant communiqué published area for all the links in the value chain of Akçansa. Akçansa manages the health and safety risks originating Accident Severity Rate 0 by the Capital Markets Board. Seeking to ensure that Establishing best possible from the business processes of its employees and Akçansa employees are aware of the corporate impacts of OHS conditions for employees, Fatalities 0 their actions and attitudes, SA-ETIK creates the necessary stakeholders with a preventive approach. In this direction, contractors and 3rd parties. transparent, honest and reliable communication works are conducted aiming at the generalization of Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 0 environment for the management of the relations with the occupational health and safety culture among its shareholders, as well as in all goals, decision-making and employees and stakeholders. business management processes. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Labour multinational partnership structure of Akçansa brings Akçansa, which acts with the purpose of offering a fair and interviewing, personality inventorying, and foreign diversity to the organization along with foreign national egalitarian work environment to its employees, has also language competency testing. As the leading and most admired company of its sector, employees. committed to voluntarily abide by the principles aiming Akçansa acts with the priority of creating a positive for the elimination of gender discrimination in business In line with its “Choose the right person for the right organizational climate that will ensure the self-realization Akçansa employees are introduced to the egalitarian life, to establish reliable systems for the dissemination of job” principle, Akçansa decides whether job applicants of employees. Human resource processes are carried working environment in the recruitment process. The these principles and to report transparently, through this are qualified or not as a result of a process that involves out under the guidance of agreements and decisions characteristics of candidates such as their religion, declaration. Furthermore, Akçansa became a signatory multiple observations and objective criteria that include such as ILO Conventions, UN Universal Human Rights language, race, sect, gender, physical attributes and life party to Women’s Empowerment Principles – (WEPs), interviewing, personality inventorying, and foreign Declaration, besides the provisions of the Labour Law. choices are not questioned under any conditions and one of the major global private sector initiatives aiming language competency testing. Akçansa also adopts the principles determined by the UN any practice that might be perceived as discrimination women empowerment for enabling them to participate Global Compact, of which it became a signatory in 2014, is prohibited in the recruitment process. Forced, in economic life, in all sectors and every level. With this With the “Internal Assessment Team” established in in relation to working life. compulsory labour and child labour are not tolerated in vision, Equality at Work Policy promotes employment of 2017, the talent acquisition and management process Akçansa operations. The same principle also applies to women at all positions. has been further strengthened. This process is managed Fair Work Environment subcontractor employees. systematically and impartially on a variety of platforms Talent Acquisition that include university career days and career centers, Providing a fair and participatory work environment for In order to ensure that sustainability impacts, primarily social media, career websites, web-based job interviews, its employees, being recognized for its respectability the principle of respect for human rights, are kept under As the sector’s leader and most admired company, İŞKUR, GAN, and Long Term Internship Project. In order and reliability by its employees and business partners control across the supply chain, the working principles Akçansa, in line with its HR strategy, aims to enhance its to help new recruits adapt to the company processes are among the most important values of Akçansa. that product and service suppliers are required to follow strength by getting to know and creating strong bonds and corporate culture, they are supported with Employee Akçansa adopts SA-ETIK principles recognized by Sabanci have been determined and attention paid to work with with potential employees who love their work and who Coach (Buddy) practice in addition to the individual and Holding, one of its principal shareholders, in order to suppliers adopting these principles. In this way, the want to be a part of Akçansa. general orientation programs. In 2016, this process is preserve these values and defines the basic rights and social, environmental and economic impacts of products further strengthened with the digital new e-Orientation responsibilities of its employees in this framework. All are managed in an identical manner with Akçansa Akçansa employees become acquainted with Akçansa’s module. employees are informed regarding ethical principles throughout their lifecycle starting with the procurement fair and impartial workplace environment during the through ethics trainings that also involve human rights stage. Compliance with the norms determined in Akçansa recruitment = talent acquisition process. When recruiting issues. Besides, there are also channels through which Supplier Business Ethics Principles is the responsibility and hiring people, the company makes no inquiries Akçansa employees can directly access the Akçansa of all suppliers and also a part of subcontractor service whatsoever concerning such issues as religion, language, Ethics Board Consultant. contracts. Child labour, forced and compulsory labour race, creed, gender, physical condition, or life choices are prevented in supply operations by means of business and engages in no practice whatsoever that might be Offering the work environment and conditions that ethics principles, issues such as respecting the union perceived as being discriminatory. its employees deserve, promoting gender equality rights of employees, complying with occupational in work life, enhancing communication and synergy health and safety principles, acting in compliance with In line with its “Choose the right person for the right among employees by recognizing the value of diversity norms, ILO Conventions and legal regulations regarding job” principle, Akçansa decides whether job applicants are among the fundamental priorities of Akçansa. The operations, preventing discrimination, bribery and are qualified or not as a result of a process that involves corruption are ensured. multiple observations and objective criteria that include DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Employee Participation First Accredited Mentoring Program in the Cement Sector Employee participation is encouraged at Akçansa through informational and motivational gatherings In its 3rd year, Akçansa’s Internal Mentoring Program (“Communication” and “We’re Listening To You” Kariyer Çınarı (Career Plane) has been accredited by the meetings) which are attended by all personnel and at European Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC) Turkey which knowledge, ideas, and suggestions are exchanged. according to the international standards in 2017. Akçansa Employees’ satisfaction and loyalty is measured through a has set an example to all the other organizations and regularly conducted “Work Life Evaluation Poll” in order to companies in this field as the first company accredited by determine issues that may be in need of correction. There EMCC in the cement sector. is also a “Recommendation System” which gives the company the benefit of employees’ innovative ideas and Being the “first” in the sector in Turkey with the mentoring which directs its attention to areas where improvements program, which is one of the most effective means of are needed. Made up of voluntary representatives creating a corporate culture and of employee loyalty in from different company functions and locations, the companies, has been widely appreciated in the EMCC “Employee Ambassadors Council” serves as a platform community around the world. for making uninterrupted two-way communication a way of life at Akçansa both by serving as a bridge and by Work / Life Balance providing a strong, trusted, and clear channel through which information about employee-related actions and Based on the work / life balance, sports, cultural and practices may be spread throughout the company. social events as well as Family Workshops diversified in line with the requests and expectations of all employees The goal of the Leadership Meetings, Leadership Style are carried out in Akçansa under “Happiness Workshop”. Survey, Organizational Climate Survey, and Leadership Development Program that are conducted every year at “One Spark Club” strengthening volunteering and social the company is to support the continuous improvement awareness continues to add value to the society with the of executives’ leadership skills. initiative of Akçansa employees. In 2016, Akçansa aimed spreading the leadership In addition to these events, in 2016, the support program development to the executives at different levels of “Don’t Worry, Make a Call”, where all of employees and the organization (engineers, directors, managers) with families can reach 24/7, was launched. “Akçansa Progress Academy”. Equality & Diversity Külçe Külçe Project Competition Departments initiated in manner that data can be NOx , SO2 and Other Pollutants monitored instantly. This way, authorities can monitor our Providing employees with a positive workplace “Külçe Külçe Project Competition” is organized in order stack gas emissions instantly. During the cement production process, nitro oxides environment and conditions as they deserve, to provide our employees the opportunity to put their (NOx ) arise from the chemical reaction during clinker supporting gender equality in working life, increasing innovative ideas at the best level and to enrich their Dust Emission production, and sulphur dioxide during the kiln communication and synergies among employees experiences. combustion process. On the other hand, depending and thereby strengthening its corporate culture by Reducing the dust emission generated during the on the fossil fuels, alternative fuels and raw material acknowledging the value of diversity are among the Workplace processes of downscaling, preparation and storage of types being used, pollutants such as volatile organic top priorities of Akçansa. With the Equality at Work raw materials and fuels is among our 2020 sustainability compounds, metals, hydrogen fluoride (HF), hydrogen Declaration signed as a member of the “Equality at Work” The efforts that Akçansa makes to enhance the quality objectives. In this regard, bag filtering reduces dust chloride (HCI), dioxin, and furan are generated. All these platform established under the World Economic Forum of life of its employees are not limited to the physical emissions at all our cement, ready-mixed concrete, and emissions are calculated through continuous monitoring (WEF) under the auspices of the Ministry of Family and conditions of the workplace itself. The company also aggregate facilities. All our kiln stacks in Büyükçekmece devices and reported to authorities as required by the Social Policies, Akçansa undertakes that it will voluntarily provides social spaces such as clubhouse and beach and Ladik Factories have been equipped with bag filtering relevant regulations. Although our emission values are comply with the principles to eliminate gender-based facilities for the use of its personnel and their families system. below the limit values determined in legal regulations, discrimination at the workplace, will proactively various projects are carried out aiming at reducing all champion these principles, and will establish reliable Environment As part of the Green Plant Project implemented at pollutant air emissions. systems that will make it possible to transparently report Büyükçekmece Factory, it was aimed for reducing the its progress in dealing with such issues. “Mom, Bring Me Emission Management visual and acoustic impacts of the facility, improving its For instance, during the reporting period, SNCR Systems Milk” project, launched within this scope for balancing dedusting performance and, enhancing its integration have been installed to all 3 furnaces in Büyükçekmece the life/work balance of the nursing mothers, and “Ladik Cement production is realized through emission intensive with the social environment. In this regard, the facings of Factory in order to reduce NOx emissions. The SNCR Glass Workshop”, which provides training to the spouses business processes owing to energy consumption and structures were renovated, landscaping and afforestation system investments have also started in our Çanakkale of Akçansa’s Ladik Plant employees and housewives from calcination that occurs due to product composition. works were conducted. The 40,000 m2 raw material and Ladik factories. Investment will be completed in 2018 Ladik and giving them an opportunity to turn their efforts For this reason, Akçansa constantly monitors its carbon stockyard was removed, planting and germination into an economic value by participating to production dioxide emissions, dust, and other polluting airborne practices were started, also an artificial pond is to be built activities, still continue. emissions and conducts reducing works as part of its on the field. Irrigation and filtration systems were renewed Sustainability Ambitions 2020. In this regard, Akçansa for dedusting, insulation works were implemented for Akçansa Equality In Business Network follows the Energy and Carbon Dioxide Inventory, an noise prevention. industry standard in Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon dioxide “Equality in Business Network” created in Akçansa in emissions calculations, prepared by WBCSD Cement 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITION 2017 has supported the personal and professional Sustainability Initiative (CSI). development of female members of Akçansa, and aimed Environmental Protection raising an internal and external awareness. January 1st 2015, all our air emissions were started to be Goal Definition KPIs Target 2020 Targets were set for the personal targets of company’s constantly recorded through continuous measurement executives with equality in business. devices; hence, online data transmission to Ministry of NOx Emissions < 800 mg/m³ Environment and Urbanization and District Environmental SOx Emissions < 50 mg/m³ Continuous monitoring of emissions Dust Emissions < 10 mg/m³ Specific CO2 emissions (kg CO2 /ton clinker) 830 Online monitoring of NOx and Rate of rotary kilns monitored online 100% SOx values Combatting the Climate Change facilities periodically get together to determine roadmaps sector, mostly involves the use of wastes as fuel. In this The greatest complication with using wastes as alternative for the more efficient use of energy and evaluate way, wastes are also being recycled, making this a method fuel is the difficulty of access to prepared wastes. Akçansa Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy application examples, with the aim of reducing energy with high economic value for combating climate change. made the necessary investments and obtained operating density, which is the primary purpose. On the other hand, permissions in order to use tyres which have completed Production of clinker, composing material of cement, energy managers are also responsible for relevant legal By using wastes as alternative fuel, on the one part the their lifespan, refuse-derived fuels (RDF), waste water consists of processes that require a high amount of heat arrangements and regulations. energy needed for cement production is procured from a treatment sludge and other waste types as energy and therefore energy. Beside the large amount of cost resource with lower environmental impact, while on the input for its own production processes. Subsequently, it brings, this situation is also a significant source of the Through the wind turbine investment, licensing process other hand the elimination of wastes, which generate it has also cooperated with local administrations and generated greenhouse gas emission stock. For this reason, of which was initiated in 2015, we aim at reducing emissions of methane that is many times more dangerous companies producing usable wastes to access sources energy efficiency, which is one of our fundamental means greenhouse gas emissions. The capacity of the turbine, than carbon dioxide, is ensured. From this aspect, cement of waste. The specially designed waste preparation and for combating against climate change elements, serves which is expected to be completed in 2016, is 2.35 MW plants offer a more advantageous and effective solution feeding system launched in Büyükçekmece Plant in the both to reduce environmental impacts and increase and it will generate 7,844 MWh of electricity annually. for the elimination of wastes with an environmentalist previous reporting period became a first on Turkey profitability. This amount is equivalent to 1.8% of the total electricity method, which is among the greatest problems of urban consumption of the factory administrations, compared to incineration facilities. Akçansa carries out its energy management processes in cement factories within the framework of ISO 50001 Alternative Fuel Use Energy Management System Standard. The operability of the system is controlled through periodical external With the emergence of climate change risks, the use of 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS audits and certified. Waste heat recovery practices, alternative resources to substitute traditionally used leakage loss monitoring, opting for efficient equipment, fossil fuels that have a high calorific value and emission Combatting the Climate Change and improving processes are among practices aimed at level also became prominent in the cement sector. This Goal Definition KPIs Target 2020 improving energy efficiency. Unit managers responsible method, which is among current best practice examples for energy at cement, aggregate and concrete production in the works for combating climate change in the cement Rate of fuel substituted by waste Reduction of fossil fuel use 29% (as thermal value Alternative Raw Material Use operation of quarry areas, water consumption, waste, and is also included among Sustainability Ambitions 2020, Anti-Corruption noise. The fundamental principle that Akçansa adopts through performance indicators and periodic targets. The Clinker, intermediate material of cement, also has the in its operations is to avoid any permanent negative performance achieved in the issue of biodiversity, which Akçansa adopts a transparent and accountable greatest share in the environmental impact of cement impacts on biodiversity, which is of great significance for also makes part of the corporate performance system, is management understanding, fully complying with because it is subject to a carbon-intensive production natural life and the society, and in fact to make positive also used for the evaluation of the individual performance the laws. Within the framework of this management process. It is possible to use alter native raw materials contributions. This principle was emphasized through the of employees. understanding, it aims to generate the highest value for with mineral content such as blast furnace slag, fly ash, inclusion of the issue of biodiversity within the scope of its stakeholders and ensure corporate sustainability. In marble wastes, foundry sand, iron filings, grid, pyrite ash. Sustainability Ambitions 2020. Biodiversity Project Competition – this regard, sustainability management and stakeholder Quarry Life Award Among these, blast furnace slag, by directly substituting engagement, which are structured with systematic clinker, can significantly reduce environmental impacts The management of mine sites is subject to very methods, are supported with best practice examples and “Quarry Life Award Biodiversity Project Competition”, of the cement while it also increases the quality of the extensive and strictly complied with legal regulations, constantly improved. organized by HeidelbergCement, of which we are a finished-product with high durability it provides. Other primarily the Mining Law and Implementation Regulation. subsidiary, in countries where it operates and aimed at alternative raw materials reduce environmental impacts The operations of Akçansa at mine sites are carried out Akçansa corporate governance structure was prepared in enhancing the biological values of quarry fields, was held as well by decreasing natural resource use. in line with the strategic objectives determined by the line with laws and international standards; and it involves in Turkey for the first time in 2014. Within the context senior management, in compliance with legal regulations the issues of internal auditing, risk management, quality of the competition, creative, distinctive and innovative Biodiversity and the norms specified in license and permits. All systems, and business ethics. projects produced by university students and research licenses and permits are renewed within the periods assistants for the reintroduction of fields and the natural Cement production has the potential to create an specified by laws. The Executive Board and Sustainability Akçansa has Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. wildlife to the nature subsequent to mining activities, impact on biodiversity for reasons such as land use, Committee monitor developments in biodiversity, which contributing to the enhancement and development of biological diversity in these fields were collected. Scope of this this policy; Quarry Life Award Biodiversity Project Competition aims • All Akçansa employees, including the Board of for the production of projects aspiring to increase the Directors of Akçansa, biological value of quarry fields by university students • The persons and organizations (business partners and for raising awareness among students in this regard. who work on behalf of Akçansa such as supplier, consultants, lawyers, external auditors. 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS Combatting the Climate Change Goal Definition KPIs Target 2020 Preparation of rehabilitation Rate of quarries with rehabilitation plan plans and their approval by 100% approved by public authorities public authorities Decommissining of mine sites where the production is Areas rehabilitated (ha) 25.00 terminated MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Labour Our sustainability management focuses on 6 main Human Rights areas. The UN ten principles are addressed within our sustainability management and our performance is 2017 OHS performance is followed by 2020 ambitions; constantly monitored. Direct Employment 1055 Female 70 Male 975 2017 Field Audits Accident Severity Rate 91,12 Less Than 30 191 Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 3,54 Between 30-50 810 Above 50 54 2017 Senior Executives (number) by Age Groups 18-25 0 Occupational Health and Safety Training 12249 man/hour 26-35 0 Behavior-Focused Audits 3854 36-45 3 Hazard Notifications 27235 46 4 Field Audits 2897 Senior Executives (number) by Gender Accident Frequency 3,27 Female 0 Accident Severeness 67,08 Male 7 SA-Ethics training has been completed by 512 people in 2017. Total number of discrimination cases 0 Labour Büyükçekmece Fabrika -% 9,7 Alternative Çanakkale Fabrika % 8,9 Ladik Fabrika % 0,8 Fuel Rate 2017 Akçansa % 8,3 Alternative Raw Akçansa % 1,8 Material Rate 2017 Energy Efficiency 10.300 GJ energy saving 2500 ton CO2 reduction Projects As of the end of 2017; Biodiversity 18,56 Ha areas rehabilitated Approximately; 8000 trees/sapling Anti-Corruption Training on Combating Bribery and Corruption has been designed and 83 people have been trained. There was no corruption case in 2017
