1 Communication on Progress (COP) Of Leadership Factory (LF), Egypt Contents:  Statement of commitment  Introduction: What is Leadership Factory and it’s key elements and principles governing its work on sustainability  Achievements done by Leadership Factory  Communication on Progress (COP) submitted by Leadership Factory (LF) 2 Statement of Commitment: I have the pleasure to inform you that Leadership Factory has completed the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2018. The report is reaffirming LF commitment with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the central areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Within this renewed commitment, our company is dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical practices and pledge continued active participation in the UNGC Local Networks, specialized initiatives and other forms of partnership. Our Company is committed to align its operations and activities with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's) adopted by the UN General Assembly Summit in September 2015 and work to prepare students and other stakeholders to assume responsibility towards these goals. This work is coupled with communicating the ways that advance the UNGC Principles by disclosing activities and results to stakeholders within LF sphere of influence thus aligning our practices and operations with universal values and foster a stronger sense of shared purpose and collective responsibility between all actors (stakeholders). The COP of October 2016 attempts to demonstrate LF resolve to actively participate in the Global Compact initiative and outline the related actions to incorporate its principles into business strategy, operations and culture. I take this opportunity to renew my highest consideration. Yours sincerely, Amira Alaaeldin Taher CEO Leadership Factory Giza, Egypt 3 What is Leadership Factory? Leadership Factory is an Egyptian startup founded by youth to deliver gamified development program to youth on December 2015. Leadership Factory offers gamified leadership and entrepreneurship learning tracks to schools and university students; its modules tackle 4 main areas (Self Awareness – Networking and Team Development – Creating a Movement – Having a Global Mindset). Achievements Done by Leadership Factory: 1. Delivered 35 learning camps for schools and university students. 2. Classified as one of the top 10 startups in MENA by World Bank. 3. Created the first camp of its kind for young women by conducting a learning track that teaches them entrepreneurship through applying its skills on the SDGs and then linking them to join internships in startups working on the SDGs areas. Key elements governing Leadership Factory’s work on sustainability:  Adopting 1 to 1 model where everyone got a training should teach someone in need for free  Environmental dimension as all the learning camps are held in an environmental camp to promote for saving the environment and recycling.  Connecting the high potentials in the trainings with the labor market to offer them job opportunity. 4 Communication on Progress (COP) submitted by Leadership Factory (LF): The protection of Human Rights: Gender Equality: Having a partnership with Entreprenelle “social enterprise that supports women”, and deliver leadership development camps for young ladies and then connecting them with startups to have project based internships at. Empowering Young Leaders: offer learning camps for young leaders to develop their decision making skills and connect the HiPos with organizations to work at. Refugees Trainings: Leadership Factory provides training for the refugees to engage them in the Egyptian Ecosystem Observing Labour Standards: Job creation: Leadership Factory hires the talented trainees to join it and also works on offering job opportunities for the HiPOs of its trainees. Environment Development and Community Service: Environment Development: Having partnership with Oasis Community Center “An environmental place that promotes for green entrepreneurship and recycling”. All the learning camps are delivered there. Community Service: Deliver online webinar for free for the women entrepreneurs in MENA with the World Bank. Anti Corruption Contribution: Leadership Factory took part in the EJB sponsored conference “The Private Sector’s Role in Fighting Corruption”. 5
