Contents previous next 03 Introduction 05 Message from President and CEO 07 Message from the President of the Board of Directors 08 About Embraer 20 Sustainability management 23 Economic performance 26 Social performance 29 Environmental performance 31 Attachment GRI 62 GRI content index 70 Credits Contents previous next INTRODUCTION Contents previous next Embraer S.A. is committed to disclosing the results of its operations and progress made in the relationship with its stakeholders on an annual basis, including customers, shareholders, people, partners and civil society. |102-1, 102-5, 102-40| In line with such principle, this report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. |102-54| This is the first stage of the transition to the new format, which replaces the G4 version. This publication is also a publicly available source of information, as requested by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI); and evidence of the commitments made under the Global Compact, of which the company is a signatory, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations (UN). Its content reflects the current Materiality Matrix, and covers the activities of the administrative parent company and its subsidiaries in Brazil and abroad from January 1 to December 31, 2017 – except as otherwise indicated in the explanatory notes. |102-45 | 102-46 | 102-48 | 102-49 | 102-50| THANKYOU FOR YOUR The financial data and the inventory of greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted were respectively audited by KPMG Auditores Independentes and by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA). The INTEREST. remaining data was reviewed internally. |102-56| For more information, go to: http://ri.embraer.com.br or send an email to investor.relations@embraer.com.br |102-53| Contents previous next MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO |102-14| PASSION FOR EXCELLENCE ment of small electric Vertical Take-Off and Landing In 2017, we strengthened the pillars that will support vehicles (VTOLs) for short urban commutes, with the our growth in the coming years – ethics, innovation and potential of changing urban mobility as we know it. efficiency – and we made progress towards reaching With the objective of improving efficiency, we implethe highest level of excellence in our activities. mented Passion for Excellence, an initiative that covers We revised our Code of Ethics and Conduct and several disciplines, such as purchasing, logistics, engistrengthened its sovereignty over local laws and cusneering, production, services & support, organizational toms in order to uphold the same integrity standards culture and design. Our Passion for Excellence is what throughout our operations. We completed our first gives us strength to keep up with the constant transexternal monitoring report – as part of the agreement formations taking place in our industry, and allows reached in the previous year with Brazilian and U.S. us to celebrate the significant progress being made authorities –, which allowed us to identify opportuniin each of our business units. ties for improvement. We also launched the campaign In Commercial Aviation, we celebrated the suc#BETHEXAMPLE to promote internal compliance and cessful outcome of important tests for the second rally our employees around the cause. generation of E-Jets, for which we completed 100% The external acknowledgment that we have received of the E190-E2 certification program. In April 2018, ! ##$% & '()!& & is a sign that we are headed in the right direction. the first aircraft will be delivered to the norwegian We were listed among the most transparent compaWiderøe. The new E-Jets family already has more nies in Brazil according to a report published by the than 700 purchase commitments from airlines and non-profit Transparency International, which ranked leasing companies. In addition, first-generation us fourth overall and gave us the top score in the E-Jets account for 58% of our revenue, which will Anticorruption Program category. ensure a stable and mature portfolio transition. Seeking to foster disruptive innovation and researchOur KC-390 military freighter achieved Initial Oping new business models, we expanded our presence erational Capability (IOC). In 2018, we will make in the Silicon Valley (California) and Boston, and inthe first delivery to the Brazilian Air Force and will augurated the Embraer Business Innovation Center start selling it to other countries such as Portugal, (EBIC) in Melbourne, Florida (USA). Through EBIC, which has already expressed interest in the aircraft. we established a preliminary agreement with Uber In 2017, we also entered into agreements for the Technologies to explore the development and deploysale of 18 units of the A-29 Super Tucano, which 5 Contents previous next |102-14| IN APRIL 2018, attests to this model’s international success, now in operation in more than 13 WE WILL DELIVER countries. Also in Defense & Security, THE FIRST E190-E2 ETHICS, we launched the Strategic Defense and Communications Geostationary Satellite THE NEW MODEL (SGDC, in Portuguese), through our sublocal development. In this sense, we sidiary Visiona. The successful launch experience has inspired us to negotiate reiterate our commitments made under the Global Compact of the United ALREADY HAS 280 FIRM ORDERS I N N O VAT I O N a potential new contract for a second satellite as early as 2018. Nations. Last year, we established the Embraer Foundation in the United AND MORE THAN 700 COMMITMENTS A N D E F F I C I E N CY States, which, similarly to the Embraer In Executive Aviation, we delivered Institute in Brazil, establishes partnerour 1,100th aircraft: a Phenom 300, the ships, engages volunteers and helps most-delivered jet model in its category build an entrepreneurial culture among since 2012, according to the General members of the communities served. Aviation Manufacturers Association In 2017, we began discussions with (GAMA). We also made enhancements Boeing – already a partner in engineerto the Phenom 100EV – which in 2017 ing, eco-efficiency and socio-cultural was certified by the Brazilian National projects – for a possible business comCivil Aviation Agency (ANAC, in Portubination between the two companies. guese), in Brazil, the Federal Aviation Negotiations are ongoing and any strucAdministration (FAA) in the U.S., and the ture will be subject to the approval of European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) the Brazilian Government, national and – and we delivered Phenom 300E. We international regulatory bodies and the are confident that the segment will see two companies. There is no guarantee a gradual recovery moving forward, as that the aforementioned business comsome signs indicate that the inventory of bination will materialize. used aircraft for sale is starting to drop. We want to become the world’s best and In order to reinforce our commitment to the most efficient company in the aerooffer the best experience to our customnautical industry, and we have the poers, we completed the structuring phase tential to do so. We will stay on this path, for the new Services & Support unit. By certain that we closed out the year stronger concentrating all services provided across than ever. What drives our conviction is the various sectors in which we operate, the trust of our customers, employees and we ensure greater operational efficiency. business partners – whom we would like to The new unit will also expand our portfolio thank for another round of achievements. and ultimately diversify our revenues. By planning our growth, we advance Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva our agenda of promoting sustainable President and CEO Contents previous next COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY ORGANIZATIONAL IMPROVEMENT It is our mission to transform Embraer into a refThe Vice-Presidency of Strategy, Innovation, erence in ethics and compliance both in Brazil and Digital Transformation was established to and around the world. We have made consisexplore disruptive business models, promote tent strides in that sense, completing the first new service platforms and keep the company external monitoring report after entering into at the forefront of the aerospace industry. agreements with entities responsible for ethics The new Services & Support Unit will consoliand compliance in Brazil and abroad. The results date the capacities currently located in differsteer our Compliance Program’s mechanisms ent business areas in order to deliver even more and strategies, which combines prevention, deeffective solutions to our customers. tection and discipline actions, in addition to promoting the constant involvement of employees RESULTS within the organizational culture through continIn recent years, we have improved our portfouous training. The goal is to ensure the highest lio by developing new aircraft and services – in level of integrity and reinforce the ethics and compliance with specifications, budget, and compliance culture throughout the company. deadlines. As a result of our effort and investment, even in the challenging scenario curRENEWAL AND TRANSPARENCY IN BD rently faced by the industry, we reached the In 2017, two new members joined our Board end of 2017 with revenues of US$5.839 billion, MESSAGE FROM of Directors (BD). The six other independent US$18.3 billion in firm orders (backlog) and an members were reelected, representing a 25% adjusted net income of US$279.7 million. renewal of the board. Voting was carried out in We are confident in the gradual recovery of the accordance with the company’s Bylaws and the Executive Aviation industry and remain optiTHE PRESIDENT Novo Mercado Listing Regulation. This trend of mistic about the imminent certifications for the promoting diversity and renewal contributes to KC-390 military transport aircraft and for the our continuous and efficient innovation, adding second-generation of E-Jets. The new aircraft, |102-14| value to our employees. added to the expansion and diversification of OF THE BOARD our service portfolio, will sustain Embraer’s competitiveness in the global market. Our commitment to excellence, ethics, and science reinforces this belief. OF DIRECTORS Thank you very much. Alexandre Silva President of the Board of Directors 7 Contents previous next ABOUT EMBRAER 8 Contents previous next |102-7| Embraer is a Brazilian company with headquarters in Embraer is the São José dos Campos, São Paulo, and units located in 28 other cities in Brazil and abroad. It operates in the leading exporter development, manufacturing and sale of aircraft and systems, in addition to providing after-sales support of high value-added and services for Commercial Aviation, Executive Aviagoods in Brazil tion and Defense & Security. In 2017, it started a business unit focused on services and support, with the aim of diversifying revenues and strengthening its business position in the more than a hundred countries where its products are sold. Embraer is the world leader in commercial jets with up to 150 seats, and the main exporter of high value-added goods from Brazil. |102-2, 102-6, 102-10| It is also the parent company of Embraer’s Equipment Division (EDE, formerly known as ELEB), Embraer Aero Seating Technologies (EAST), Atech, Savis and Bradar, in addition to holding a 51% stake in Visiona Tecnologia Espacial Telebras and 65% of OGMA, which develops integrated solutions and aerostructures. In 2017, Embraer registered R$18,713 billion in net revenue and US$18.3 billion in secured orders – results that testify to the commitment of its 18,433 employees worldwide. VISION |102-16| Embraer will further consolidate its position as one of the leading forces in the global aerospace and defense and security industries. Embraer is a market leader in the segments in which it operates and commands a reputation for excellence. VALUES |102-16| • Ethics and integrity are at the core of everything we do. • Our people are what make us fly. • We are here to serve our customers. • We strive for business excellence. • We build a sustainable future. • Global presence is our frontier. • Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks. To learn more about the company, please go to our corporate site at: www.embraer.com 9 Contents previous next THE SKY HAS NO LIMITS |102-4, 102-6| United States Memphis Mesa Dallas Windsor Locks Nashville Jacksonville Fort Lauderdale Irwindale Melbourne Titusville Netherlands Amsterdam United Kingdom Farnborough Ireland Dublin Portugal Évora Alverca France Mexico China Le Bourget Chihuahua Beijing United Arab Emirates Dubai Brazil São José dos Campos (SP) Singapore Gavião Peixoto (SP) Singapore Botucatu (SP) Taubaté (SP) Sorocaba (SP) Campinas (SP) São Paulo (SP) Florianópolis (SC) SERVICE ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER CENTER Brasília (DF) LOGISTICS DISTRIBUTION Belo Horizonte (MG) FACTORY CENTER CENTER 10 Contents previous next It is affiliated to the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC, in PorGOVERNANCE STRUCTURE |102-18| tuguese), the Brazilian Association of 2 nd Publicly-Traded Companies (ABRASCA, in Portuguese), the Brazilian Institute of Ranked Investor Relations (IBRI, in Portuguese), and the National Investors Institute of SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING FISCAL BOARD Brazil (INI, in Portuguese). in the Aerospace & Defense It was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainabilsegment of the Dow Jones ity Index (DJSI) for the eighth consecutive BOARD OF Sustainability Index year, with an overall score of 75 points that DIRECTORS moved the company up to second place in STRATEGY the Aerospace & Defense segment ranking. COMMITTEE Compared with 2016, Embraer maintained CORPORATE GOVERNANCE its leadership in the supply chain manageCOMPLIANCE A publicly-traded company, Embraer ment and innovation management categoAUDIT stocks are traded on the New York Stock ries, and moved up to first place in people AND RISK Exchange (NYSE: ERJ), through American development, labor practices and product COMMITTEE Depositary Receipts (ADRs) level III, and lifecycle management. INTERNAL on the Novo Mercado segment of São It was also listed on the Business SustainAUDITING PEOPLE AND Paulo stock exchange (B3, in Portuguese), ability Index (ISE, in Portuguese), the Brazil GOVERNANCE under the symbol EMBR3. The number Index (IBrX), the Differentiated Corporate COMMITTEE of votes by shareholders in each ShareGovernance Stock Index (IGC, in Portuguese), BOARD OF RISK AND holders’ Meeting is less than 5% of the the Differentiated Tag Along Stock Index EXECUTIVE INTERNAL OFFICERS CONTROLS number of shares that comprise its cap(ITAG, in Portuguese), the Industrial Sector ital stock. The number of votes cast by Index (INDX, in Portuguese), and the Brasil foreign shareholders, individually or col50 Index (IBrX 50, in Portuguese), all in B3. lectively, cannot exceed 40% of the total votes cast at any Shareholders’ MeetGovernance structure ing. The company also imposes certain The members of the Board of Directors are conditions on any shareholder holding chosen at a Shareholders’ Meeting: one is a stake equal to or greater than 35% of appointed by Brazil’s Federal Government, the capital, including the requirement two are chosen by company employees of a public tender offer to purchase all and eight are elected by the other shareThe composition and all duties of the Board Each member of the Board of Executive Officers outstanding shares, and authorization holders. The directors appoint the statuof Directors, the Committees, the Fiscal Board is evaluated on an annual basis through exterfrom Brazil’s Federal Government, which tory executive officers and are advised by and Board of Executive Officers, as well as nal consulting or according to the 360° methowns a special class share that grants three committees on specific matters. A information on voting rights and convocations odology. An external consultant supports the it veto power on strategic issues for the permanent and independent Fiscal Board of the Shareholders’ Meeting are detailed performance evaluation of directors, members company and the country. |102-5, 102-25| also comprises the company’s corporate in the Investor Relations Portal and in the from the Board of Directors and the President governance structure. |102-24| Bylaws. |102-19, 102-22, 102-23, 102-26| and CEO. The executives make a self-evaluation and evaluate the others every year. |102-28| 11 Contents previous next EMBRAER: RISK MANAGEMENT PASSION FOR EXCELLENCE VALUE STREAMS Seeking to ensure an efficient risk management, Embraer Launched in 2007, the Embraer Business Exholds periodic reviews in order to properly assess the cellence Program (P3E, in Portuguese) seeks • Win customers views of its executives regarding the main risks involved to promote excellence in the company’s man• Develop products in the company’s operations and internal processes. agement, processes and products. • Deliver orders Embraer’s risk management policy focuses on four catThe program is based on continuous improveegories set out in the Risk Management Policy: strategic, ment cells, encompassing all Embraer business • Serve customers operational, financial and regulatory/legal risks. The units, locations and processes, connected to the • Business management structure is strengthened by the work of the Internal value streams that define the strategies, and enRisk and Control department, which aims to ensure that sure continuous value generation to stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER the identification, prioritization, assessment and manThe kaizen concept is widely disseminated and VALUES |102-40| agement of the main business risks are carried out in used to review processes for optimization, focus•C  ustomers | Availability, Performance, accordance with the best practices established by the ing on productivity gains and waste elimination. Competitive Offering/Solutions, Safety company and the market. In addition, an independent In 2017, Passion for Excellence was launched •S  hareholders | Financial return/ Internal Audit department reports directly to the Audit with the goal of transforming Embraer into the Financial health and Risk Committee in order to ensure the independence best and most efficient aerospace and de•P  eople | Professional and personal fulfillment and objectivity of the auditors contracted to perform fense company in the world. To operationalexternal audit services. More information is available in ize Passion for Excellence, the Transformation •P artners | Integrity and continuity the Reference Form. For every risk identified, the policy Office was created, being responsible for the •C  ivil society and the environment | assigns an employee who is responsible for monitoring management of all workstreams and aiming Respect for society and the environment, with the progress of the mitigation plans and the monitoring to guarantee the execution of the projects and generation of wealth and well-being indicators. |102-11, 102-15, 102-30| the planned results, as well as the maintenance On the specific issue of climate change, the company and the reinforcement of lean and excellence monitors international discussions on the subject, as concepts, incorporated into the management of IN 2017, EMBRAER LAUNCHED well as current and future legislation, both in Brazil and the company since 2007 with P3E. The Passion in the countries where the company has a presence. for Exellence is comprised by 15 workstreams: In addition, the largest factories (which represent 47% Direct Procurement, Indirect Procurement, IT, of the total) are certified with ISO 14001, and Embraer maintains the goal of bringing certification to 100% Design to Value (DtV), Inventory, Engineering, Manufacturing, Services & Support, G&A, ZeTHE PASSION FOR EXCELLENCE, of industrial plants. As for product sustainability, the company has the Integrated Development of the Enro-Based Budget, Organizational Design, Digital Transformation, Industrial Intelligence, Culture A PROGRAM THAT AIMS TO vironmentally Sustainable Product (DIPAS, in Portuguese), project, as well as joint research with Boeing and Investment Forum. Based on risk management, projected results TRANSFORM EMBRAER INTO THE BEST AND MOST EFFICIENT under the ecoDemonstrator program and the Biofuel and stakeholder demands, the Board of Directors Research Center (see chapter 5 of this publication). approves the strategic plan, with a 15-year horizon, which undergoes an annual review process that involves the company’s administrative and operational functions. AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE COMPANY IN THE WORLD 12 Contents previous next THEMATIC SCOPE Peace, justice and effective institutions ETHICS AND INTEGRITY |103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, Anti-Corruption| To ensure the integrity and legal compliance of all operations and sites, the Compliance area coordinates the Compliance Program, supervised by the Board of Directors, the Audit and Risk Committee and the CEO. One year after reaching agreements with Brazil’s Federal Prosecutor’s Office (MPF, in Portuguese), and its Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM, in Portuguese), and with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), our first external audit report was completed. Its results guided the improvement of processes and controls under this program and the continuous training and workshops on ethics, integrity and compliance. Thus, workshops and online training were held to approximately 17,000 empolyees, and more than 250 compliance agents were trained to act as multipliers of internal ethical principles. All board members, executive board officers, leaders, employees and contractors are trained on the guidelines set out in these documents. Click here to learn more. |102-16| Still within the scope of the Compliance Program, the auditing system was extended to other company functions in 2017. This is a tool that monitors critical operations, such as vendor payment, travel expenses, donations and sponsorships. In order to promote compliance practices and raise employee awareness on this issue, the company launched the internal campaign #BETHEEXAM­PLE. The Code of Ethics and Conduct has been revised to strengthen its sovereignty over the laws and customs of the different countries where the company operates. The Helpline has been set up to field any complaints concerning noncompliance. Contents previous next Complaints are consolidated by an exterthe Canadian and Québec governments. nal company, which guarantees the anoAfter approving the Brazilian Government’s nymity of the complainant*, and sent to request, the WTO is now investigating more the Compliance function, which monitors than 25 programs in support of the Canadian verification and resolution. More informaaviation industry. tion is available here. |102-17, 103-2| In 2017, Embraer conducted its Ethics Survey BUSINESS UNITS at all units in Brazil and abroad, with the At the 52nd Paris Air Show, held in 2017, Empurpose of assessing employee perception braer celebrated 40 years of its first paron ethics in the workplace. The methodology ticipation at the event – one of the most was developed by external consultants to traditional aerospace events. The compaensure the confidentiality of respondents ny repeated the strategy employed at the and the consequent adherence of most previous year’s Farnborough Air Show, in employees. The results are currently being England, and showcased its Commercial compiled and will be used to develop action Aviation, Executive Aviation and Defense plans and training programs. Promotion for & Security products, all in the same space, the helpline and the #BETHEEXAMPLE in addition to introducing its new Services campaign is based on survey responses, and Support business unit. and will continue throughout next year. |102-17| Committed to upholding a level playing field in the global market, the company supported the creation of a dispute settlement panel at the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Gene* Except in countries where legislation does not alva, to investigate the more than USD3 billion low anonymous complaints. In this case, Embraer in subsidies received by Bombardier from observes the local legislation. Number of labor practice complaints fielded, processed and resolved through a formal mechanism in 2017 |103-2| Complaints made through the hotline 492 Out of scope 48 Within scope 444 Measures implemented 106 Warnings and suspensions 16 Layoffs 16 Coaching, monitoring, guidance, awareness campaign 74 and improved processes and policies 14 Contents previous next Commercial Aviation Embraer is the world leading manufacturer EMBRAER IS THE WORLD of commercial jets with up to 150 seats, with an approximate 30% share of the global market. In 2017, the company delivered 101 commercial aircraft. The latest-generation E-Jets E2 program stayed on schedule, within the original LEADING budget and met specifications targets. The E195-E2 took its maiden flight in 2017. MANUFACTURER OF COMMERCIAL The model features an exclusive wing that The first allows it to have the highest aspect ratio generation of among single-aisle jets, reducing fuel conthe E-Jets family JETS UP TO sumption and operating costs. The inaugural reached the flight of the fourth E190-E2 prototype also mark of 1 billion took place in 2017, with more than 95% of passengers the tests required for the certification campaign successfully completed, with emphasis in conditions and cabin evacua150 SEATS carried worldwide tion tests. All six prototypes (four E190-E2 and two E195-E2) have conducted more than 1,850 flight-test hours, and more than 44,000 ground-test hours. In 2018, Embraer will start serial produc­ tion of the E190-E2, whose first delivery is scheduled for April. The company will also continue to invest in other products of its aircraft family, namely the E195-E2 and E175-E2, which are scheduled to entry into service in the first half of 2019 and in 2021, respectively. Since their launch, the company received more than 700 purchase commitments for the E2, of which 280 as firm orders. 2017 was also the year that the company celebrated 20 years of commercial operation of the 50-seat ERJ-145 jet, which delivered around 900 aircraft in the period. LEARN MORE AT www.embraercommercialaviation.com/pt-br Contents previous next Executive Aviation Embraer is among the world’s largest manufacturers of business jets. In 2017, the company delivered 72 small jets and 37 large jets, for a total of 109 aircraft. The global market seems to be recovering, as some signs indicate that the inventory of used aircraft for sale is starting to shrink. The year’s highlights include delivery of the first Legacy 500 executive jet assembled in Melbourne, Florida. Since the plant’s start-up in 2011, it has delivered more than 290 aircraft to the United States and 17 other countries, such as United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico and China. The company also celebrated the delivery of its 1,100th aircraft: a Phenom 300, the world’s most-delivered jet of its category since 2012, according to the General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA). The year was also marked by improvements made to the Phenom 100 EV – which in 2017 earned certification from the Brazilian National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC, THE PHENOM 300 in Portuguese), in Brazil, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in the United States and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) – as well IS THE MOST as the launch of the Phenom 300E, with the first delivery scheduled for the first quarter of 2018. DELIVERED JET IN ITS CATEGORY LEARN MORE AT http://pt.embraerexecutivejets.com FOR THE SIXTH One of the world’s largest manufacturers of business jets CONSECUTIVE YEAR Contents previous next Defense & Security Embraer is the leader of the Defense & Security segAlso in 2017, four Phenom 100 light jets were delivered About two thirds of the project, which consists of an ment in Latin America and has expanded its operato Affinity Flight Training Services, completing the ful800-kilometer border line in the state of Mato Grosso tions in the global market. In 2017, the KC-390 certifillment of their order. The aircraft was selected by the do Sul, has already been delivered. Final delivery is fication has progressed as planned. Both prototypes United Kingdom’s Ministry of Defense to be used in pilot scheduled for 2019. used in the campaign exceeded 1,500 flight hours and training for the British Armed Forces. The contract with The Strategic Defense and Communications Geostaperformed well in high-altitude paratrooper airdrops, Affinity includes a firm order for five Phenom 100 and tionary Satellite (SGDC, in Portuguese), was launched which included the use of night vision equipment. support services. This synergy between the Defense & in May and successfully completed the orbital testing The aircraft reached Initial Operational Capability (IOC). Security and Executive Aviation units highlights Emperiod. The SGDC will provide internet coverage for There are sales campaigns in progress with several braer’s commitment and focus in meeting the needs the entire Brazilian territory, in addition to a safe encountries, and there are advanced negotiations on a of its various clients. vironment for Brazilian Government communications. deal for five aircraft (with an option for a sixth) and the During the first year of activities of the Project and DevelVisiona, a joint venture between Embraer and Telebras, logistics support package in Portugal. Serial production opment Center for the Gripen fighter jet (Gripen Design was responsible for integrating the SGDC Program. The is moving forward with assembly of aircraft 003, 004 and Development Network, GDDN) in Gavião Peixoto, São satellite’s control was transferred to Telebras, and as005, and the company has also started manufacturing Paulo, more than 100 Embraer engineers underwent fullsisted operations have already begun. In addition, the parts for aircraft 006, 007 and 008.The first deliveries time training for the development and maintenance of the companies entered into a Specialized Technical Assiswill take place in 2018, when the KC-390 will achieve Gripen NG aircraft, in cooperation with Saab engineers. tance agreement for flight planning of the equipment. Final Operational Clearance (FOC) certification. And at Saab facilities in Linköping, Sweden, the Gripen E, As for the A-29 Super Tucano program, Embraer Defense a new generation model, made its inaugural flight in 2017. & Security has partnered with U.S.-based Sierra NeThe contract with the Brazilian Air Force calls for the acquivada Corporation, and participated in the U.S. Air Force sition of 36 fighter jets, whose deliveries will start in 2019. TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE DEFENSE & SECURITY light attack platform capability assessment in August With a focus on diversifying its portfolio, the segment FIRMS, GO TO www.embraerds.com 2017. The A-29 Super Tucano met all desired mission also invests in air traffic control products and interequirements of the assessment and was approved for grated border protection systems. Developed by Savis the second phase of testing. and Bradar, the Brazilian border monitoring project known as SISFRON, advanced in accordance with the agreemeent with the Brazilian Army. AGRICULTURAL AVIATION In continuous production for over 50 years, the Ipanema is the leading aircraft in the Brazilian agricultural aviation industry, with a 75% share. The model was the first worldwide to be certified to operate exclusively with ethanol. In 2017, Embraer introduced the Ipanema 203, an evolved version of the product that was showcased at Agrishow 2017, Brazil’s largest agribusiness event. The aircraft has already earned the Sustainable Aero-Agricultural Certification (CAS, in Portuguese). Customers of the new model have recorded an increase in productivity of up to 50% compared to the previous version, which demonstrates the benefits of the incremental changes made. Click here for more information. 17 Contents previous next Services & Support The creation of Embraer Services & Support reinforces the company’s commitment to its customers throughout the product lifecycle. THE NEW Along with the new business unit, Embraer also launched TechCare, a platform that expands the portfolio of solutions geared towards SERVICE & SUPPORT operational efficiency and increasing the useful life of aircraft. These innovations result from more than 20 years of experience UNIT REINFORCES dedicated to building and enhancing high-quality service networks. In 2017, Embraer expanded its global support network by choosing EMBRAER’S the SIA Engineering Corporation (SIAEP) in the Philippines – a subsidiary of SIA Engineering Company Limited (SIAEC) – as an auCOMMITMENT thorized service center for the E-Jets family of commercial jets. |102-10| The company announced that the Embraer Training Center in TOWARDS Johannesburg, South Africa, will open in 2018. The facility will be the first of its kind in the African continent to provide a wide range CONTINUOUSLY of training programs to qualified pilots, maintenance technicians and crew members on a single site. Once it is fully operational, the IMPROVING center will be capable of training approximately 2,000 aerospace professionals per year. |102-10| ITS PORTFOLIO For Executive Aviation customers, Embraer named JF Services as authorized service centers for the Legacy 450 and 500 in Russia; in Argentina, it introduced Aero Baires, its first authorized service center for business jets in the country. With facilities located at the airfield in San Fernando, Buenos Aires, the center has been certified by the local Administración Nacional de Aviación Civil, Argentina’s local aviation authority, for maintenance of the Phenom 100 and Phenom 300 aircraft. The company also announced the opening of Embraer Executive Jet Services, a repair station at Le Bourget Airport, outside Paris. For the second consecutive year, the customer support provided by the Executive Aviation unit ranked first in the satisfaction survey conducted by Aviation International News (AIN). The company earned a score of 8.4 points (out of ten) for new and semi-new business jets. The achievement reflects the unit’s continuous commitment to offering better services and experiences to its customers. LEARN MORE AT http://services.embraer.com/br/pt Contents previous next THEMATIC SCOPE Melbourne, Florida (USA), in order to drive innovaIn 2017, the company adopted 6,200 ideas, resulting in Industry, innovation tion in a comprehensive way. The unit is connected a return of more than US$40 million for the company. and works in cooperation with all of the company’s In the field of disruptive innovation, another highlight and infrastructure engineering teams worldwide. |102-10| is the Innova Program and its showcase initiative is Some of the EBICs first projects include a preliminary Green Light, which provides financial support and offers agreement with Uber Technologies for the exploration employees as much as 100% of scheduled work hours of a new urban mobility concept. The vehicles will be to work on projects. The company received 78 proposals TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION small, electrically powered, with vertical takeoff and over the year, and approved 37 of them. Embraer invests systematically in research, developlanding capability, with zero pollutant emissions and Embraer also develops connected actions with startups, ment, innovation and facility enhancement. To ensure silent enough to operate in urban areas. Experimental seeking innovations that can solve the challenges of competitiveness, intellectual property is protected flights are expected to start in 2020, while commerits operation and add value to its clients. The company via patents for inventions and designs. In 2017, 66 cial operation is scheduled for 2023. In addition, the is one of the ten companies chosen for the Startup applications were filed, of which 46 were granted. agreement includes the planning for support structures, Industry Connection Program of the Brazilian Industrial Embraer’s patent portfolio reached 669 applications such as passenger loading and alighting platforms, air Development Agency (ABDI, in Portuguese). Embraer and 360 patents granted. traffic control systems, and more. encourages the strengthening of the Brazilian startups In addition to product engineering and development Together with the German Aerospace Center (Deutsche ecosystem by promoting mentoring in programs such teams at the manufacturing plants, the company opZentrum für Luftund Raumfahrt – DLR), the company as Inovativa Brasil (Federal Government), the Edital erates Engineering and Technology Centers (ETCs) in signed an agreement to expand its contribution to aerde Inovação para a Indústria (Senai-Sesi-IEL) and Portugal, the United States and Brazil (see map). In onautical research. The focus of activities will be the Acelera Fies, as well as sponsoring entrepreneur2017, the list was expanded with the opening of an search for solutions to reduce noise and emissions, ship programs such as promoted by the University of ETC in Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, which reinforcimprove performance of aircraft, development of new Campinas (UNICAMP). es the partnership between Embraer and the CERTI structural material for aviation, among others. Foundation, established in 2015, and seeks to develop Embraer also conducts research projects in cooperpre-competitive technology in aeronautical electronic ation with leading universities and research centers systems. The project is part of the partnership with in Brazil and around the world, and has celebrated the CERTI Foundation, which began in 2015, and is 22 new cooperations for technological development supported by the Brazilian Agency for Industrial Rethroughout 2017. search and Innovation (EMBRAPII, in Portuguese), and In Brazil, Embraer highlights its participation in initiathe Research Foundation of State of Santa Catarina tives such as the Aerospace Private Equity Fund, which (FAPESC, in Portuguese). |102-10| Another highlight was the start of activities for the allocated R$ 3 million to four companies with the objective of strengthening the domestic production chain Nearly half of Embraer’s revenues today comes from innovation teams in Silicon Valley (California, USA) of the aerospace, and defense and security segments. and in Boston (USA), whose goal is to identify opporEvery year, the Embraer Technology and Innovation tunities for the air transport business and establish Seminar (SETI, in Portuguese), gathers employees from innovations implemented partnerships with startups, investors, universities and several fields and regions to share the main technoother companies. logical advances developed internally by the company. The company began operating the Embraer Business This audience is also encouraged by programs such over the past five years Inovation Center (EBIC), its global business hub in as Good Idea, aimed at enhancing routine activities. 19 Contents previous next SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Contents previous next |102-44, 102-47| In order to obtain a clear picture of the Natural Ethics, The respondents – customers, partners most relevant sustainability issues to resources transparency and shareholders – were selected from the company and its stakeholders, Emand waste and compliance the Embraer Enterprise System (EES). braer engages shareholders, clients, Industry and regulatory organizations, suppliers, social associations, labor aviation specialists and civic associaunions and trade associations, as well tions were also involved in the process, as the executives themselves, in threewhich included consultations with 46 year consultation cycles. This process representatives from the stakeholder results in the company’s materiality. The Health, Economic categories: six shareholders; 11 cuscurrent cycle started in 2017 and reflects safety and and financial tomers from the Commercial Aviation, the previous year’s work. At first, the well-being sustainability Executive Aviation, and Defense & company listed 21 topics in the consultaSecurity business units; six vendors; 11 tion process: biofuels; biodiversity; local civil society representatives (considercommunity development; people develing nonprofits, trade associations and opment; socio-economic development subject matter experts), plus 12 employM ATERIAL ITY MATERIALITY in the local supply chain; dematerializaees from various company functions. In tion; human and labor rights; availability order to ensure that the topics were of raw materials; diversity and inclusion; aligned with the company’s business, air emissions; ethics, transparency and Vice-Presidents and the CEO were also compliance; product lifecycle manageconsulted. In addition, the materiality ment; natural resources and waste manAtmospheric Product assessment was later validated by the agement; risk and crisis management; emissions safety Sustainability Committee, the Board of chemicals management; research, deExecutive Officers and the CEO. velopment and innovation; noise; health, The topics identified are listed below, safety and well-being; product safety; based on the consolidated score, considinformation security; and economic and ering their relevance both to the compafinancial sustainability. ny’s strategic plans and to stakeholders. Research, These topics guide the new sustaindevelopment Personal ability plan, which will be deployed in and innovation development 2018 and have specific goals set by December 2020. The year was also marked by the completion of the 2017 Master OTHER TOPICS ASSESSED Sustainability Plan, available here. • Biofuels • Diversity and inclusion • Biodiversity • Availability of raw materials • Local community development • Product lifecycle • Socio-economic development • Risk and crisis management in the local supply chain • Chemicals • Dematerialization • Noise • Human and labor rights • Information security 21 Contents previous next Sustainability 2020 Indicator Item Target (%) Plan baseline 2016 Water 172 m /US$ MM 3 -2 Energy (electricity) 28.5 MWh/US$ MM -5 Hazardous waste 0.81 tones/US$ MM -3 Non-hazardous 3.36 tones/US$ MM -2 waste ISO 14001 Certification Employee engagement in Ethics Survey TARGET: 100% certification of TARGET: 90% manufacturing PLANTS and service (Base year 2017: 70%) centers with more than 100 people Ethics, transparency Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for (including third-party employees) and compliance employees and third-parties Natural TARGET: LTIFR less than or equal to 1 resources Return on Equity and waste (ROE) OHSAS Certification Net income (adjusted) TARGET: 100% certification of Economic Shareholders’ equity manufacturing plants and service centers and financial with more than 100 people Health, safety TARGET: ROE> cost of equity sustainability (including third-party employees) and well being tCO2e (Scope 1*) Atmospheric Product Risk analysis within net revenue emissions safety the target period Total reporting TARGET: -3% (Base year 2016: 2.44 tCO2e/US$ million) TARGET: 100% Research, * Fuel consumption from development Personal development flights and new product certification are development not considered. and innovation Diversity Pre-competitive* investment on research and TARGET: 2% increase technology development in gender and afrodescendant TARGET: 1% of the annual revenue (Base year 2017: women represented 16% and afrodescendant 8% of the workforce) Percentage of annual net revenue invested in Volunteering total research, development and innovation TARGET: 5% of the annual net revenue TARGET: leverage the number of volunteer positions to equivalent 12% of Embraer employees (Base year 2017: ~4%) 22 Contents previous next ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Contents previous next THEMATIC SCOPE Decent work and economic growth In 2017, Embraer met its annual targets for deliveries, net revenues, adjusted free cash flow (FCF) and investments. The result and the adjusted operating margin (EBIT), EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin* were below targets. Estimates vs. Actual in 2017 (US$ million) Estimate Actual Deliveries Commercial Aviation 97-102 101 Executive Aviation 105-125 109 Defense & Security 7 Net revenues Commercial Aviation 3,250-3,400 3,372 Executive Aviation 1,600-1,750 1,485 Defense & Security 800-900 951 Others 50 31 EBIT 450-550 397 EBIT margin (%) 8.0-9.0 6.8 Adjusted EBITDA 770-890 713 EBITDA margin (%) 13.5-14.5 12.2 Free cash flow >(150) 405 Research 50 49 Investments Development 400 385 Capex 200 176 *In order to maintain a comparative basis between the years, the results identified with the word “Adjusted” exclude non-recurrent items from its calculation (impacts arising from the end of the FCPA investigation, the Voluntary Dismissal Program (PDV, in Portuguese) and the bankruptcy of Republic Airways, among others). Contents previous next Combined with the appreciation of the real, the decline in deliveries from 2016 to 2017 resulted in a net revenue of R$18,713.0 million, a 13% drop (R$21,435.7 in 2016); and a gross margin of 18.3%, down from 19.9% in 2016. Aircraft delivered per unit Commercial aviation 2015 101 2016 108 2017 101 217 AIRCRAFT Executive aviation Defense & Security 120 20 117 15 109 7 DELIVERED TOTAL 241 240 217 Net revenue by segment (%) Net revenue (R$ billions) 2015 20.3 2016 21.4 2017 18.7 R$5,546.2 MILLION Commercial aviation Executive aviation 56 29 57 28 58 26 ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTED Defense & Security 14 15 16 Others 1 The North American market accounted for 57% of net revenues. The European market Adjusted EBITDA came in at R$2,289.60 million (US$712.5 million) in 2017, 26% R$18,713.0 MILLION rebounded to reach a 12% share of the company’s revenues. Brazil also increased its less than in 2016. Meanwhile, the adjusted EBITDA margin reached 12.2%. IN NET REVENUE share and came in at 13%. All other regions The 57% drop in 2016 regarding net opera(Latin America, China, Asia-Pacific, Africa ting revenues from non-recurring items had and Middle East) remained stable compaa positive impact on Embraer’s net profits red with 2016, with a share of 18%. in 2017, which came in at R$795.8 million In 2017, net income and adjusted operating margin (EBIT) stood at R$1,280.9 million (a 36% increase from 2016). Profit per share was R$1.0838. R$795.8 MILLION (US$397.1 million) and 6.8%, impacted by the increased costs in the Defense & Security The total added value to be distributed was R$5,546.2 million, and accounted for 27% IN NET PROFIT segment, which were related to the developof net revenues in 2017. ment of the KC-390. 25 Contents previous next SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Contents previous next which help define the Individual Development PARTNER RELATIONSHIP THEMATIC SCOPE Program and salary progressions for production MANAGEMENT |102-9, 103-2, 103-3, Procurement Health and well-being employees starting their career who achieve Practices, Supplier Environmental Assessment, non Discrimination, Quality education positive results. Embraer also has the Embraer Freedom of Association And Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Leadership Program, where leaders undergo Forced or Compulsory Labor, Supplier Social Assessment| Gender equality a 360° assessment, Performance Map and Embraer maintains a commercial relationship Decent work and economic growth Calibration Committee. |404-3| with 1,200 vendors for product manufacturing. Reduction of inequalities In 2017, the company invested R$6,391,015 and This group is evaluated via monthly monitoring offered 604,525 total training and education of performance indicators, on-site audits and hours (for an average of 61 hours per employee). periodic environmental impact questionnaires. More details are available here. |404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 412-2| The Aeronautical Supply Chain Development PEOPLE MANAGEMENT |103-2, 103-3 guese), and offers technical education and Program (PDCA, in Portuguese), aimed at reDiversity and equal opportunities, Non discrimination, Freedom of internships with the company. Meanwhile, the Health and safety ducing costs and improving quality, is promotassociation and collective bargaining| latter offers a professional Master’s degree in The Environmental, Health and Safety Policy ed in partnership with the Brazilian Agency of At the end of 2017, Embraer had 18,433 emAeronautical Engineering, with a certificate guides actions for the prevention of accidents Industrial Development (ABDI, in Portuguese) ployees: 15,710 in Brazil and 2,723 abroad. issued by the Aeronautical Institute of Techand diseases, which are put into practice by the to improve the contracted companies. More details on the company’s workforce nology (ITA, in Portuguese), which provides Behavioral Program, the Tensional Reeducation The company also relies on support from 3,000 can be found here. most of the students the opportunity of being Training Program (PERTO, in Portuguese), the partners that perform technical and adminishired at Embraer. In 2017, 68 people graduated ergonomic risk management, the application of trative activities, who attend courses on lean Attraction from both initiatives. prevention through design and in the actions management and guidelines for kaizen practicAmid a highly dynamic and ever-changing enAimed at fostering inclusion, Embraer also of the Well-Being programs. All the employees es under the Management Excellence Program vironment, Embraer looks to attract young prohas a program called Embraer On The Path undergo annual medical examinations that al(PEG, in Portuguese). Participants are chosen fessionals who welcome change, are aligned to Diversity, which since 2012 offers profeslow the epidemiological mapping of each area. after risks and cost reduction opportunities with the new global trends, and capable of sional education to persons with disabilities. In compliance with the legislation, the company are identified. facing a wide range of challenges within the So far, 80 people have been trained through maintains the Internal Commission for AcciApproximately 80% of purchases are made company and industry. College students can this program. Click here to learn more about dent Prevention (CIPA, in Portuguese), which from international vendors from North Amerjoin Embraer through its Internship Program, all of these initiatives. represents 85.1% of the workforce. It also negoica (55%), Europe (20%) and the rest of the while recent graduates can opt for the Trainee tiates formal agreements with trade unions and world (5%). Transactions with national venProgram, which drew interest from over 11,000 Development clauses to be included in collective bargaining dors account for 20% of the total purchasing young candidates for the 23 positions opened The company encourages career advancement agreements that contemplate all employees amount. |204-1| in Brazil during its first edition. Embraer also and changes in functions through its Internal across Brazil. In its units abroad, the company All contracts contemplate clauses concerning offers opportunities for young people aged 14 Hire Program, in which new job openings are, strictly follows the laws and regulations of each human rights, labor and environmental laws. to 24 through a program for young apprentices, at first, disclosed exclusively to an internal country in which it operates. |102-41| |308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-3, 414-1, 414-2| in partnership with the Federal Government. audience. In 2017, there were 67 vacancies In 2017, the number of accidents that resulted Embraer invests in specialized education filled due to this initiative. in medical leave was 33, and the rate of occuthrough initiatives such as the Embraer ProjEmployees’ technical and behavioral skills are pational disease was 0.03%. These data are 4,200 ect Program and the Engineering Specializastimulated through the education programs. monitored and analyzed on a monthly basis by tion Program. The first is carried out through During the year, more than 7,000 courses and the Board of Executive Officers and the Board a partnership with the College of Technology trainings were provided. The professionals of Directors, and reduction targets are conof the State of São Paulo (FATEC, in Portuundergo periodic assessments, the results of templated under the Sustainability Plan 2020. vendors and business partners 27 Contents previous next SOCIAL INVESTMENT 20 |103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, Direct economic impact, refund the program after entering the job market. 2017 Local communities| Social investment in Brazil is coordinated by the Embraer Institute for Education and Research, The Embraer Institute also provides financial support to nonprofit social organizations, R$ million highlights which for more than 15 years promotes educathrough the Social Partnership Program (PPS, tion-related projects, engagement with civil sociin Portuguese). The initiative is aimed at supinvested, ety and the historic preservation of the country’s porting projects aligned with the United Nations approximately aeronautical industry. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In 2017, The main initiatives include the Juarez Wanit supported 12 organizations by investing up to derley (São José dos Campos, São Paulo) and R$40,000 per project. 3,160 23 Casimiro Montenegro Filho (Botucatu, São The entity also operates the Embraer Historic Paulo) schools, which offer free, full-time high Center, whose purpose is to preserve and proschool education to students coming from public mote the history of the Brazilian aviation industry. schools and whose household income is lower It currently has exhibition spaces at Embraer than 9x the minimum monthly wage. Students units, organizes virtual exhibits and monthly graduates from both organizations also receive uniforms, textbooks, meals and guided tours to the São José dos Campos manhigh schools since supported transportation for the entire school year. ufacturing plant to community members. 2002, with more than by Embraer 90% being admitted In 2017, both schools were among the top-ranked Some of the highlights of 2017 include the “DeInstitute to public and private institutions in the National High School Exam sign in Brazilian aviation” exhibit, which was atand Embraer universities (ENEM, in Portuguese), and Juarez Wanderley tended by more than 40,000 visitors to the Museu Foundation was ranked 8th in the state of São Paulo. da Casa Brasileira (MCB), in São Paulo. 244 700 In addition, more than 80% of their alumni were The Embraer Institute also earned the 2017 Aberje admitted to public universities across Brazil. ConAward, the country’s leading corporate commusidering those admitted in private universities nications award. The Institute was recognized by + with full scholarships, the rate of graduates who the Brazilian Association of Corporate Communiattend a college-level institution exceeds 90%. cations (ABERJE, in Portuguese), in the Historical university volunteers Some of these students receive financial supResponsibility and Business Memory category, students received engaged support from the worldwide port from the Scholarship Fund, an initiative for its efforts to preserve aeronautical memory Scholarship Fund supported by contributions from businesses and over the course of the year. individuals as well as from former grantees, who In 2017, the company created the Embraer Foundation, which consolidates all of the company’s social initiatives in the United States. As is the case with the Institute in Brazil, the Foundation establishes social partnerships, engages employees in volunteering programs and promotes an entrepreneurial culture among members of the communities served. FOR MORE INFORMATION, GO TO LEARN MORE AT http://institutoembraer.org.br E http://embraerfoundation.org www.centrohistoricoembraer.com.br 28 Contents previous next ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Contents previous next THEMATIC SCOPE Industry, innovation and infrastructure Responsible consumption and production Action against global climate change Environmental preservation, eco-efficiency Embraer also has strict procedures for waste PRODUCT LIFECYCLE and product lifecycle management are guimanagement in its units, which are carried out in Embraer funds a project titled Integrated ded by the Environmental, Health and Safety accordance with the applicable legislation in each Development of Environmentally Sustainable Policy (MASS, in Portuguese). locality where the industrial plants are present. Products (DIPAS, in Portuguese), which aims Dedicated programs continually seek the use of to advance sustainable design, seek alternaENERGY AND WATER less harmful materials as well as the optimizatives to materials whose use is restricted by In 2017, Embraer consumed 179,237 MWh, an intion of processes. All work is done in line with environmental legislation, and develop stucrease of 1.33% compared to 2016 (176,889 MWh) the selective collection program, based on the dies on the lifecycle of products. It also stridue to the inclusion of the Jacksonville unit in following order of priority: non-generation, reves to make new products more operationally the United States. To reduce consumption, the duction, reuse, recycling, treatment and environefficient, emit less CO2 and noise, and concompany promotes the improvement of procesmentally appropriate final disposal. Information sume less fuel. Fuel costs are responsible for ses, facilities and equipment encouraging energy regarding total weight of waste generated and most expenses incurred with operating an airefficiency. |302-1, 302-4| destinations are available here. |306-2| craft, whose lifecycle is longer than 15 years. In the year, Embraer consumed 982,826 m3 of The reduction of this consumption, paired water, of which 6% is related to recycled water. GREENHOUSE GASES with that of energy, meets both environmental The volume of water in 2017 was considerably Embraer discloses an annual inventory of and market needs. |302-5| lower than in 2016 due to improvements made greenhouse gases (GHG), which is ISO 14064 in the OGMA unit and the implementation of a certified and audited by Lloyd’s Register Qualwater reuse project in Évora. ity Assurance (LRQA). Detailed information for Click here for more information. |303-1, 303-3| 2017 is available here. |305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7| EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Committed to the reduction of GHG emissions The effluents are destined to the public network, except for the units of Taubaté (São Paulo) and by the industry, the company is a signatory to the aviation industry sustainability commitTo reduce consumption, Gavião Peixoto (São Paulo), which dispense them in the Boçoroca and Mulada streams, respectiment, which seeks carbon-neutral growth by 2020 and a 50% reduction of net carbon dioxide the company promotes the improvement of processes, vely. In order to be able to do this, this units have (CO2) emissions in aviation by 2050, compared their own sewer treatment stations. The volume to 2005 levels. discarded is less than the carrying capacity of the water bodies and both are outside environmental protected areas. Click here to see the facilities and equipment, water disposal data of the units broken down by treatment and destination. |306-1| pursuing energy efficiency 30 Contents previous next GRI ATTACHMENT Contents previous next EMBRAER GRI STANDARDS INDICATORS 2017 102-3 – LOCATION OF THE ORGANIZATION'S HEADQUARTER Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2,170 – Putim, São José dos Campos (SP). 102-8 – INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS 2015 2016 2017 20152 20162 20172 By functional level Number of employees by country Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Board of Executive Officers1 73 9 82 9 85 7 Brazil 14,488 2,519 13,540 2,467 13,260 2,450 Manager 235 40 269 45 254 43 China 48 26 46 21 41 25 Supervisor 678 75 638 82 618 91 United States 1,406 262 1,479 284 1,629 321 Pilot 102 0 93 0 95 0 France 89 19 93 19 54 13 Engineer 3,783 586 3,603 547 3,620 589 Netherlands 56 10 75 19 110 26 Professional 1,300 965 1,487 1,036 1,607 1,078 Ireland 0 1 0 0 0 0 Technical 3,168 300 2,912 332 2,937 329 Portugal 294 97 324 83 351 96 Administrative 480 377 435 319 429 316 Singapore 41 17 39 17 41 16 Operational 6,603 599 6,077 540 5,841 494 Total by gender 16,422 2,951 15,596 2,910 15,486 2,947 Total by gender 16,422 2,951 15,596 2,910 15,486 2,947 TOTAL 19,373 18,506 18,433 TOTAL 19,373 18,506 18,433 2015 2016 2017 By workforce 2015 2016 2017 Men Women Men Women Men Women By type of contract Men Women Men Women Men Women Direct employees 14,488 2,519 13,540 2,467 15,486 2,947 Determined time 217 89 306 70 366 90 TOTAL 17,007 16,007 18,433 1. Includes director-president, vice-presidents and executive officers. Undetermined time 16,205 2,862 15,290 2,840 15,120 2,857 2. In previous years, the count for Brazil was notated by region in the country. Starting in 2015, the counts came to be notated by country. Total by gender 16,422 2,951 15,596 2,910 15,486 2,947 TOTAL 19,373 18,506 18,433 2015 2016 2017 By work day Men Women Men Women Men Women Full work day 16,403 2,945 15,580 2,905 15,469 2,941 Part-time 19 6 16 5 17 6 Total by gender 16,422 2,951 15,596 2,910 15,486 2,947 TOTAL 19,373 18,506 18,433 32 Contents previous next 102-12 – EXTERNAL INITIATIVES All the initiatives mentioned below are voluntary. Name Date of adoption Scope Involved stakeholders UN Global Compact 2008 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation com­panies and organizations from different sectors Initiative Towards sustAinable Kerosene for Aviation (ITAKA) 2012 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation companies and other organizations from the aerospace sector Friends of Rio+20 2012 Global Organizations from other sectors Commitment to reducing GHG emissions in aviation (ICAO/ATAG) 2014 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation companies and other organizations from the aerospace sector Call to Action 2014 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation com­panies and organizations from different sectors Bio-fuel research center 2015 Brazil (with potential global impact) Partnership with Boeing EcoDemonstrator 2016 Tests of technologies for products' Partnership with Boeing performance improvement Urban mobility 2017 VTOLs development Partnership with Uber (electric vertical takeoff and landing vehicles for urban centres) 33 Contents previous next 102-13 – MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Organization/association Seat on the Participation Strategic Organization/association Seat on the Participation Strategic Board of in projects/ participation Board of in projects/ participation Governance commissions Governance commissions National Agenda International Agenda Brazilian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) Yes Yes Yes Brazilian Association of Industries for Defense and Security Yes Yes Yes Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) Yes Yes Yes Materials (Abimde, in Portuguese) Aviation Working Group (AWG) Yes Yes Yes Brazilian Association of General Aviation (Abag, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Brazil Industries Coalition (BIC) Yes Yes Yes Brazilian Association of Mechanical Sciences (ABCM, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham) Yes Yes Yes Aerospace Industries Association of Brazil (AIAB, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Portuguese Chamber of Commerce in Brazil (CPCB, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Foreign Trade Association of Brazil (AEB, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Brazilian Center for International Relations (CEBRI, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Technology Park of São José dos Campos Association Yes Yes Yes Brazil-China Corporate Council (CEBC, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes National Association for Research and Development Yes Yes Yes Brazil-United States Corporate Council (CEBEU, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes of Innovative Companies (Anpei, in Portuguese) European Policy Center (EPC) No Yes Yes National Confederation of Industry (CNI, in Portuguese)* No Yes Yes Global Compact Foundation No Yes Yes Federation of Industries of the State of São Paulo (Fiesp, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Foreign Trade Study Center Foundation (Funcex, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC, in Portuguese) No Yes Yes General Aviation Manufacturers Association (Gama) No Yes Yes Industrial Enterprise Development Institute (IEDI, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) No Yes Yes Brazilian National Confederation of Industry (MEI, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes National Aeronautic Association (NAA) Yes Yes Yes U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber) No Yes Yes World Economic Forum (WEF) No Yes Yes * Associative participation through the Fiesp system. The list does not present the totality of associations in which Embraer participates. The most meaningful associations were listed. 102-20 – EXECUTIVE-LEVEL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SOCIAL TOPICS Responsible Level Topics Carlos Alberto Griner* Vice President of People Human Resources and Sustainability and Sustainability José Antonio de Almeida Filippo Executive Vice President Financial and Investors relations Fabiana Klajner Leschziner Legal Executive Vice President Legal and Compliance * Responsible for the annual report elaboration. 34 Contents previous next Master Sustainability Plan 2017 |102-15| Aspect Indicator Goal (December 2017) 20151 2016 2017 Managers: 100%* Managers: 96%* Managers: 94%* Non managers: 98.98%* Non managers: 98%* Non managers: 99%* Percentage of adherence to compliEthics 100% * Considering the trainings held on *Considering the trainings held on *Considering the trainings held on ance policy and procedure2 Anti-Corruption Code of Ethics Anti-Corruption – Code of Ethics Anti-Corruption – Code of Ethics and Conduct and Conduct and Conduct There was no survey in 2016; the Attraction, development and Favorability percentage in the company opted for a bi-annual 80% 89% There was no survey in 2017 retention of human resources climate survey engagement survey. Engagement survey will take place in May 2017 Attraction, development and Number of staff training 500,000 hours per year 557,077 hours 625,416 hours 604,525 hours retention of human resources hours per year Maintenance of type-approval certifiProduct safety cates (CHT, in Portuguese) for commer100% of type certificates valid 100% 100% 100% cial and executive aviation planes Maintenance of company-approval certificates (CHE, in Portuguese) in all 100% of all sites of Product safety 100% 100% 100% Embraer sites of interest as defined in interest certified conjunction with the business units Finalized: the first phase of the modification of the registration of Phase I – definitions and hazardous substances in SAP. In Development of the new chemical structuring: until February 2015 Finished the structuring and progress: training of employees who substance management system to Phase II – platform availability and definitions phases. Carried out New registration system register substances in the system. Management of ensure an adequate level of knowledge data input: until December 2016 training for all those involved in the for hazardous substances Start of data input into the system, chemical substances of the product’s chemical composition registration of chemical substances implemented. Continuous action Phase III – full operation of the aiming to comply with environmenfor compliance with current and future in the SAP system. All inputs in order to adjust past liability system: until December 2017 tal legislation. As of December 2015, environmental legislation comply with current legislation all registrations already incorporate the modifications made to the modified system Percentage of suppliers clasManagement of sified as “high environmental 0% 0% 0% 0% supply chain risk” in risk evaluations Percentage of adherence to export 100% adherence to the compliance Export control 77% 97% 94% policy and procedure evaluation survey Partnership with Boeing in the Eco Number of new business, products Annually launch project that Partnership with Uber for the Sustainable new business, Non-chrome leather available from demonstrator program. Technology and services incorporating demonstrates the inclusion development of electric air vehicles products and services tannery for use in aircraft interiors. tests aimed at reducing fuel conprinciples of sustainability of sustainability for urban mobility sumption, CO2 emissions and noise Reduce by 3% consumption by Management of natural Consumption of energy (MWh) per equivalent plane, in relation to the 551.96 MWh/aircraft equivalent 499.79 MWh/equivalent aircraft 598,21 MWh/equivalent aircraft resources and waste equivalent plane base year 2014 (603.78 MWh/equiv(reduction of 9%) (reduction of 17%) (reduction of 1%) alent aircraft) 35 Contents previous next |102-15| Aspect Indicator Goal (December 2017) 20151 2016 2017 46.12 m3/per capita (increase of 3%). Reduce by 4% per capita consumption Management of natural 41.78 m3/per capita 42.49 m3/per capita There was a significant reduction of Consumption of water (m ) per capita 3 of water, in relation to the base year resources and waste (reduction of 6%) (reduction of 5%) employees because of the 2014 (44.66 m3/per capita) Voluntary Dismiss­al Program Reduce by 3% the total generation of Management of natural waste per million dollars of revenue, 3.21 ton/million dollars 2.95 ton/million dollars 2.80 ton/million dollars Generation of solid waste/net revenue resources and waste in relation to the base year 2013 (increase of 16%) (increase of 7%) (increase of 1%) (2.76 ton/million dollars) Reduce by 3% the total generation of Management of natural Generation of dangerous solid waste/ dangerous waste per million dollars 0.57 ton/million dollars 0.5 ton/million dollars 0.54 ton/million dollars resources and waste net revenue of revenue, in relation to the base (increase of 14%) (maintenance) (increase of 8%) year 2013 (0.5 ton/million dollars) Percentage of manufacturing plants 100% of manufacturing plants and Management of natural and Embraer service centers with service centers that existed in 2014 47.05% 47.05% 47.05% resources and waste ISO 14001 certification with ISO 14001 certification 100% of manufacturing plants and service centers that existed in 2014 with relation to environmental liabilities (and their respective treatment plans) Percentage of manufacturing plants Management of natural New acquisitions of buildings, and Embraer service centers with 76.47% (13 of 17 units) 76.47% (13 of 17 units) 76.47% (13 of 17 units) resources and waste installations or businesses, must be relation to environmental liabilities preceded by evaluation of environmental liabilities (environmental due diligence), aiming to ensure access to necessary information for the company to make decisions Reduce by 3% the emission of Emission of greenhouse gases greenhouse gases (scope 1+2) per 5.48 ton/million dollars 4.09 ton/million dollars 4.46 ton/million dollars Atmospheric emissions (scope 1+2)/net revenue4 million dollars of revenue, in rela(increase of 8%) (reduction of 19%) (reduction of 12%) tion to the base year 2013 Reduce by 3% the emission of VOC per million dollars of revenue, in rela0.0034 ton/million dollars 0.0011 ton/million dollars 0.0022 ton/million dollars Atmospheric emissions Emission of VOC/net revenue tion to the base year 2013 (0.0063 (reduction of 46%) (reduction of 82%) (reduction of 65%) ton/million dollars) Standard of excellence (to be a reference in the market), remaining Percentage of individual below the national average 0.391%* Human and labor rights suits and labor complaint 0.306% 0.466% for companies in the same * Corrected number procedures per employee sector, in accordance with each country’s regulating To reduce the frequency rates of Employee health lost time accidents by 30%, 2014 rate: 1.74 1.19 0.99 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) and safety in relation to 2014’s accident fre2015 rate: 2.25 (reduction of 31.6%) (reduction of 44%) quency rate Percentage of manufacturing plants 100% of manufacturing plants and Employee health 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, and Embraer service centers with service centers that existed in 2014 47.05% and safety GPX, TTE and EVO) GPX, TTE and EVO) OHSAS 18,001 certification3 with OHSAS 18,001 certification 36 Contents previous next |102-15| Aspect Indicator Goal (December 2017) 20151 2016 2017 Percentage of indicators responded Transparency and Annual GRI Report to in the company’s Global Reporting 89.65% 89.65% 71.52%5 communication Core option Initiative (GRI) report The incorporation of the product’s The incorporation of the product’s The incorporation of the product’s environmental requirements was environmental requirements was environmental requirements was implemented in the E2 program. implemented in the E2 program. implemented in the E2 program. The The verification of satisfaction of The verification of satisfaction of verification of satisfaction of these Incorporate environmental requirethese environmental requirements, these environmental requirements, environmental requirements, in the Management of the product’s Environmental requirements for ments, in addition to those for in the E2 program, is in progress in the E2 program, is in progress E2 program, is in progress environmental life cycle developing products sound and emissions, for 100% of For the next aircraft program to For the next aircraft program to For the next aircraft program to products launched be launched by the company, be launched by the company, be launched by the company, all all environmental requirements all environmental requirements environmental requirements will be will be incorporated, using will be incorporated, using incorporated, using the Integrated the Integrated Development of the Integrated Development of Development of Products (DIP) Products (DIP) process Products (DIP) process New products in 2015: Legacy 450, Use DfE Matrix to evaluate 100% of There were no product launches in There were no product launchs in which was evaluated using the new products launched; for already 2016. Total portfolio: E-jets, Phen2017. Total portfolio: E-jets, Phenoms Management of the product’s Use of the simplified evaluation of the DfE Matrix. Total portfolio: E-jets, existing products, evaluate the oms and Legacy 500/450 already and Legacy 500/450 already environmental life cycle product life cycle (DfE Matrix) Phenoms and Legacy 500/450 equivalent for at a minimum of 50% evaluated, accounting for 84.6 % of evaluated, accounting for 82.9% of already evaluated, accounting Embraer revenue Embraer revenue Embraer’s revenue for 86% of Embraer revenue Concluded: the technical guide conThe technical guide containing Concluded: the technical guide containing operational guidelines for operational guidelines for customers Define document containing Management of the product’s Customer orientation regarding the taining operational guidelines for customers for the proper disposal for the correct disposal of end-of-life Embraer product strategic guidelines environmental life cycle end of the product’s life customers for the proper disposal of of products at the end of their life. products has been completed. Conwith relation to its end of life products at the end of their life Started: the forming of Corporate struction of the Corporate End-of-Life Policy for Products’ End of Life Policy of the product in progress Evaluation average (Balance Score Local socio-economic Card) for the results of annually Grade 4, in an evaluation 2.45 3.44 4.03 development supported projects in the scope of the of 0 to 5 points Social Partnership Program Number of Embraer volunteers engaged in Entrepreneurship Local socio-economic Increase 20% the number programs, Social Partnership Program +12% (565 volunteers) +56.72% (793 volunteers) +43.87% (728 volunteers) development of volunteers and other social projects recognized by the Embraer Institute Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School: Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School: Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School: Maintain the rate of approval above 84% of public university approval 86% of public university approval 84% of public university approval Local socio-economic Approval of Embraer High School 80% for Embraer High School stuEmbraer Casimiro Montenegro Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Filho development students in entrance exams dents for their entrance exams Filho High School: 83% of Filho High School: 87% of High School: 75% of public public university approval public university approval university approval Continual increase of the percentage of annual investment in technologiPercentage of annual investment in Research, development cal development applied to projects technological development applied to 78% 80% 77% and innovation with environmental gains, up to the projects with environmental gains minimum of 50% for the base year 2017 (resource to be applied in 2018) 1. Due to fall of revenue in 2015, some indicators have been significantly altered. 2. Considering the training carried out on Anti-corruption – Code of Ethics and Conduct. 3. This goal has been revisited and to ensure its achievement its deadline has been extended to the next 2018-2020 cycle. 4. Considering Scope 1 emissions related to: fugitive emissions; fuel consumption other than kerosene (jet fuel); and jet fuel consumption from production flights (the current portfolio aircraft). Fuel consumption from development flights, new product certification, as well as the Defence and Security UN aircrafts, are not considered. 5. The Annual Report 2017 follows the recently released GRI Standards. In comparison to the old format (GRI G4), the new standard presents substantial changes, including topics revision and reformulation of indicators. 37 Contents previous next 102-21 – CONSULTING STAKEHOLDERS ON ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SOCIAL TOPICS | 102-43 – APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The main engagement mechanisms adopted by Embraer are represented in the table below and are part of the exercise of interaction between leadership and stakeholders. Every three years, the Materiality Matrix is revisited based on a formal consultation with stakeholders, with the objective of prioritizing the legal attendance of environmental, social and economic issues. SH Event Objective Responsible/ SH Event Objective Responsible/ Frequency Frequency Customers Embraer Operators Conferences, dedicated meetings and workshops with Customer Support/ Shareholders Meeting of Follow-up of company performance and approval of Legal VP/in accordance Conference – EOC operators are intended to sustain and enhance the relaannual the Board of the Strategic Plan (SP) and Action Plan (AP). with the calendar and Embraer tionship and discuss issues related to the aircraft (mainDirectors Executive Operators tenance, operations and field issues). It is a means for customers to regularly and frequently share their needs, Strategy Committee Advising on establishing SP and AP policies and Legal VP/in accordance Conference – EEOC wishes, satisfaction, technical items, and experiences (CEST, in Portuguidelines, follow-up of management and results. with the calendar with the products. The Customer Support areas collect, guese) analyze, prioritize, and develop action plans for impleAssistance in electing and dismissing Company direcLegal VP/in People and menting improvements in the products and processes. tors, establishing their respective functions, accordance Governance This is a process of continuous improvement. setting remuneration and human resource policies etc. with the calendar Committee Kaizens Assist with implementing improvements in its Customer Support/ Audit and Risks Risks and statutory audit management. People and with customers products and processes, while improving the depending on Committee (CAR, in sustainability VP/in customer-Embraer interface. demands Portuguese) accordance with Studies to develop The technical knowledge of some customers for Market Intelligence, the calendar or improve products operating airplanes are used in the product Customer Support Investor Relations Mantain a communications channel between the Department of improvement projects. Therefore, they are contacted and Engineering/ Portal company and its investors/shareholders, in order to Investor Relations/ by Embraer to hold meetings and give studies. depending on transmit information transparency and fairness, continuous demands watching over corporate governance. Customer satisfacKnowledge of the level of satisfaction of Customer Support/ Annual Report Communication and transparency tool to stakeholdManagement of tion surveys Embraer's customers. annual ers about sustainable practices of the company. Corporate SustainAeronautical fairs The primary objective is to announce and present Sales/in accordance ability/annual products to potential customers and to sell aircraft. with calendar Create a moment of interaction of the company with Department of Embraer Day Suppliers Embraer Strategic alignment, presentation of future scenarios, CEO, VPs of its main analysts and investors, with a focus on the Investor Relations/ Suppliers alignment of suppliers and Embraer's expectation as business units and main company information in the period. biannual Conference (ESC) well as awarding the best suppliers of the year. Executives/annual Relationship with regulatory agencies, routine inspecManagement of Society Meetings: MinisSupply Chain Strategic and operational alignment, presentation of Program Managers, try of Labor and tions, and compliance with the law. Labor Safety, OccuAlignment (SCA) scenarios and challenges of the year, alignment of Directors and deEmployment (MTE, pational Health and supplier and Embraer´s expectations, working and partment of Supplier in Portuguese) the Environment/ action plans. Quality/annual bimonthly Executive Meeting Follow-up of indicators and action plans, alignment of CEO, VPs of busiMeetings with Relationship with regulatory agencies, routine inspecManagement of Embraer's expectations and suppliers. ness units and ExecCETESB, Sanitation tions, and compliance with the law. Meetings for surCorporate Sustainutives/quarterly Surveillance, Federal/ veying the needs and expectations of the municipality ability/throughout State Police/Ministry related to education and social development. the current year Customer Support Meeting dedicated to aftermarket issues for the CEO, VPs of busiDiscuss sector strategies and policies, and promote of the Army, Mayors, Meeting (CSM) purpose of closely following, with the executives of ness units and Execgreater integration and learning with various sectors. Municipal Secretaries our suppliers, the subjecs that have an impact on utives/quarterly of Education, profesthe fleet and on our operators. In these executive sional associations meetings, action plans are discussed and presented and Brazilian busifor technical and commercial issues for the fleet and ness associations for individual operators. Technical/operational follow-up of the development Program Directors Participation in Contribute to the debate, proposing strategies, best Departments of Program Review of programs, series, and after-market. Follow-up of and Managers/biforums and interpractices, and solutions for global issues, besides Foreign Relations Meeting (PRM) the action plan and route corrections. annual national organizasupporting the public-private dialogue. and Management of tions(WEF, ATAG, Corporate SustainIATA, ICAO, UNDP, ability/throughout GlobalCompact, the current year OMC, AWG, etc.) 38 Contents previous next 102-21 – CONSULTING STAKEHOLDERS ON ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, 102-27 – COLLECTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY AND SOCIAL TOPICS | 102-43 – APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Measurements taken to develop Governance body Economic Environmental Social and improve knowledge SH Event Objective Responsible/ Training of corporate governance Board of Directors x Frequency Presentation on environmental Board of Directors x matters at company sites Society Meetings with fedEnsure full understanding of Embraer's actions and Departments of eral, state and muprojects; prepare mechanisms for strengthening Foreign Relations Presentation from the Embraer InBoard of Directors x nicipal governments private society and government relations; and conand Management of stitute of Education and Research and government tribute to making public policies of interest to the Corporate Sustain(IEEP, in Portuguese) agencies aerospace industry. ability/ Throughout Annual compliance training Board of Directors x the current year People Blog of the CEO Direct communication channel of the President with President/continPresentation from the Committee Board of Executive Officers x all employees. uous of Financial Management Follow-up meetings Meetings for accompanying the evolution of the AP Leaders/at least Presentation of work from the Board of Executive Officers x of the AP/PMS and and the PMS, where the leader gives instructions quarterly Committee of Control and Semester Alignment and takes correcting actions for achieving the goals Environmental Risks (CCRA, in agreed upon. Portuguese) Helpline Confidential tool so that employees and stakeholders Compliance Departx Presentation of work from Board of Executive Officers x can informar or seek support regarding ethical and ment/continuous Committee of Sustainability behavioral issues related to possible violations of Embraer's policies, or of laws and regulations. Presentation from the Committee Board of Executive Officers x Messages to Communication instrument for all leaders, seeking Departments of of Ethics Leaders to support leaders in guiding employees regarding Brand Managespecific subjects. ment and Internal Communications/ 102-29 – IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, continuous AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Additionally to the strategic planning with a 15-year horizon, Embraer's strategic plan is reviewed 102-23 – CHAIR OF THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY annually with the participation of all business, operating and corporate areas; it is approved by The Chairman of the highest governance body does not hold the position of Executive Officer the Board of Directors (CA). The objective is to ensure that the management of impacts, risks and according to the veto contained in the Company's By-laws, paragraph 4th of article 27: ...It is foropportunities arising from economic, environmental and social issues is aligned to performance bidden for any member of the Board of Directors to hold simultaneously the Company's Executive expectations and stakeholder interests. Critical due diligence processes, as well as their results, officer position. are expected to be forwarded to the CA for review and follow-up. In addition, the involvement of stakeholders in economic, environmental and social issues is perceived and analyzed through the company's Materiality Matrix, which is reviewed every three years in a deep and comprehensive internal and external research process. The materiality was last revised in 2016 and has given rise to new goals and action plans associated to each priority theme, targeting 2020. 39 Contents previous next 102-31 – REVIEW OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SOCIAL TOPICS 102-37 – STAKEHOLDERS’ INVOLVEMENT IN REMUNERATION The Board of Directors holds regular meetings eight times a year and extraordinarily whenever as Embraer respects and understands the importance of the role played by the unions with whom necessary, following its Internal Policies statement. At those meetings, the representatives from the the company relates and maintains a relationship with, in accordance with current legislation. In advisory committees report their activities and discussions to define guidelines. In turn, the Board the Brazilian units, 5.6% of the employees are unionized, nevertheless, all of employees, unionof Executive officers reports the activities progress and requests approvals from the Council. ized or not, are contemplated by salary adjustments and social clauses, which are negotiated In 2017 the Board of Directors held 13 meetings in total. At all of them, the representatives of the in the collective labor conventions signed with the representative union of the employees. The Committees were present. The Board of Executive officers reported different matters, such as: company negotiates collective labor agreements directly with these entities, covering 100% of the visibility of the Company's Plan of Action, which occurred in all meetings; visibility segmented by represented employees. Collective labor conventions contain social clauses that guarantee the business area (executive, defense and commercial aviation); monitoring of the work of Internal right of unions to carry out unionization campaigns in the company's premises. Audit and Compliance and visibility of the Committees who advise the Board: Sustainability, Financial Management, Environmental Risks, Ethics and Negotiation and Disclosure. 102-42 – IDENTIFYING AND SELECTING STAKEHOLDERS The Board of Directors maintains a list of recurring matters, which supports organizing the meetEmbraer, in its value stream management, identifies the following stakeholders: people (employings' agenda. Several subjects are defined as relevant and frequently reported by the directors. ees), company, clients, shareholders and partners (suppliers). They are engaged through a CorpoOther relevant topics (or those in need of prior analysis) are added and arranged in the agenda. rate Procedure that contains the guidelines for each group. Learn more at: https://embraer.com/ Both the agenda and the materials that will be presented at the meeting are disclosed to the global/en/sustainability. counselors at least one week in advance through a governance portal. GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 102-32 – HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING The Annual Report is reviewed by the entire Board of Executive Officers and, ultimately, by the 103-1 – EXPLANATION OF THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY | Chief Executive Officer. 102-46 DEFINING REPORT CONTENT AND MATERIAL TOPICS BOUNDARIES In order to clearly define the sustainability issues of greatest relevance to the company and its 102-33 – COMMUNICATING CRITICAL CONCERNS stakeholders, Embraer engages shareholders, customers, suppliers, representatives of social orThe Board of Executive Officers and the Advisory Committees of the Board communicate the ganizations and class entities, in addition to its own executives. The engagement is made through company's critical concerns at regular meetings of the Board of Executive Officers or, if necesconsultation cycles every three years. This process results in the company's Materiality. The cursary, demand extraordinary meetings. rent one came into force in 2017 and gave rise to the 2020 Sustainability Plan, with indicators and targets for each material topic. 102-35 – REMUNERATION POLICIES | 102-36 – PROCESS FOR DETERMINING REMUNERATION Material Issue Stakeholder Scope Impacts The Executive Compensation Policy (PRE, in Portuguese) states that part of the compensation of Ethics, transparenAll Inside and Unethical behavior may damage reputation of a compacy and compliance stakeholders of outside of the ny: causing negative effects on customers, employees its executives is granted as a Long-Term Incentive (ILP, in Portuguese) aiming at maintaining and the company organization and investors; causing financial penalties and, as a attracting qualified personnel that contribute effectively to the best performance of the company. result, affecting profits. The commitment to achieve the business goals with social responsibility is crucial, conDetails about the compensation processes are available on the Embraer Reference Form. Learn sidering the relationship with shareholders, employees more at item 13.1 – Description of remuneration policy or practice, including the non-statutory and suppliers, protecting the environment and contribboard until item 13.16 – Other relevant information. uting to community development. Economic and All stakeholdInside and The poor economic performance of a company directly financial ers of the comoutside of the impact its shareholders, as it may reduce the compensustainability pany, specially organization sation and often damages investors. Also, in a long term, shareholders this can lead to direct impacts on employees and the and employees community in which the company is inserted. Impacts may be extended to the whole value chain reaching suppliers and customers. 40 Contents previous next 103-1 – EXPLANATION OF THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY | 103-2 – THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS | 102-46 – DEFINING REPORT CONTENT AND MATERIAL TOPICS BOUNDARIES 103-3 – EVALUATION OF THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH The management and policies associated to each identified material issue are explained in the Material Issue Stakeholder Scope Impacts table below: Product safety Employees Inside and There are laws, regulations, and certifications that and customers outside of the require high standards for aviation safety. Besides, there Material Issue Responsible Indicators 2020 target Management organization is a need of monitoring risks to ensure the perfect operarea ation of aircraft, in order to prevent malfunctioning and Ethics, transVice-Presidency Employee 90% In addition to the climate research, Helpline potential accidents that may affect customers (airline parency and for Legal Affairs engagement reports are also monitored, as well as the recompanies) and employees of Embraer itself. compliance in Ethics and sponses to the Ethics and Compliance research, Research, Shareholders Inside and Staying on the edge of technology is a fundamental Compliance which generate action plans specifically to each development and customers outside of the condition to Embraer. Innovation enables the developsurvey case. This theme is governed by the Anti-Corand innovation organization ment of highly competitive products with permeability in ruption Policy and by the Code of Ethics and international markets. The absence of it, both in products Conduct, applicable to all Embraer units in Brazil and in company services, may lead to losses of the and abroad, as well as companies controlled by Marketplace value. the holding company. Economic and Vice-Presidency Return on ROE > cost The company's economic and financial perforAtmospheric Society and Inside and Aviation produces around 2% of the global emissions financial susfor Financial Equity (ROE) of equity mance is accompanied by responsible areas, emissions customers outside of the of CO2. Thus, the sector has responsibility in the fight tainability and Investors with routine visibility to the Board of Directors organization against climate change and its impacts on society. On the Relations and quarterly market reports. Reports are subother hand, less polluting aircraft may be preferential for mitted to CVM and SEC. customers, especially in a scenario of new regulations for emissions that have been rising around the world. Product safety Vice-Presidency Risk analisys 100% Embraer has the safety of its products as a for Engineering within fundamental pillar for its business excellence and Health, safety Employees Inside of the The human cost relative to health and accident problems the target sustainability. Aiming at achieving higher levels of and well-being organization is the main negative consequence of not preventing risks. period/total safety performance and sustaining the perception Other costs involved (loss of time due to accidents and reportings of comfort and safety of the company's aircraft illnesses, production interruption, employees replacethe area has users, Embraer promotes a proactive approach ment, payment of overtime, recovery of employee health, received to the life cycle of its products. This includes the wages paid to employees on leave, etc.) can also affect commitment to develop, implement, maintain the profitability of the company. Employee well-being is and constantly improve strategies to ensure also directly related to talent retention and engagement, that Embraer continues to build safe products which may directly impacts the company's performance. that meet and exceed national and international Natural resources Shareholders Inside and The management of natural resources and waste is certification standards. For an efficient security and waste and society outside of the essential for the company's efficiency, as well as for enmanagement strategy, it is necessary encouraging organization suring the minimization and mitigation of impacts on the reporting of observed risk situations, analyzenvironment and the community in which it is inserted. ing these within appropriate time frames and In addition, the poor management of disposal and raw of constructing indicators. The indicator defined waste can lead to fines and loss of reputation regarding for Product Safety (percentage of product safety to the organization's brand value. Also, it can potentially related reports analyzed within the term excelaffect the community, as it impacts the environment lence references) reflects the essence of these quality and, consequently, the people's health. actions, which allows us to measure and monitor the efficiency of the safety process. 41 Contents previous next 103-2 – THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS | 103-3 – EVALUATION OF THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH Material Issue Responsible Indicators 2020 target Management Material Issue Responsible Indicators 2020 target Management People Vice-Presidency Diversity and 2% increase in women and afrodescendant Health, safety Vice-Presidency Lost Time InZero. The targets are deployed for each Embraer unit development for People and Volunteering employees. and well-being for People and jury Frequency and monitored through the integrated quality Sustainability Leverage the number of volunteer positions to Sustainability Rate (LTIFR) for management system. equivalent 12% of Embraer employees. employees and Those are supervised by the Environment, Health Research, deVice-Presidency Pre-com1% of the Embraer created in 2017 the Embraer Business third-parties and Safety Area, as well as monitored by the velopment and for Engineering petitive revenue. Innovation Center (EBIC) in Melbourne, Florida Sustainability Area. innovation investment on (USA). The theme is governed by the Environment, research and Health and Safety Policy, applicable to all compatechnology ny units and also to its controlled subsidiaries. development OHSAS Certi100% Atmospheric Vice-Presidency tCO2e/net -3% in comfication certification emissions for People and revenue parison to of manufacSustainability the base turing plants year 2016. and service centers with more than 100 people (including third-party employees). Natural Vice-presidency Water con-2% in comThe targets are deployed for each Embraer unit resources for People and sumption (m3/ parison to and monitored through the integrated quality and waste Sustainability net revenue) the base management system. year 2016. Those are supervised by the Environment, Health Energy con-5% in comand Safety Area, as well as monitored by the sumption parison to Sustainability Area. the base The theme is governed by the Environment, year 2016. Health and Safety Policy, applicable to all company units and also to its controlled subsidiaries. Hazardous -3% in comwaste generparison to ation (ton/net the base revenue) year 2016. Non-hazard-2% in comous waste parison to generation the base (ton/net year 2016. revenue) ISO 14001 100% certiCertification fication of manufacturing plants and service centers with more than 100 people (including third-party employees). 42 Contents previous next Controls Department, which reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee (CAR). The ManECONOMIC STANDARDS agement advises the main executives by mapping, identifying, classifying and monitoring business risks in all units. The results of this process have not indicated vulnerability to the compaGRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ny on its substantial operational changes, revenues or expenses which involve risks relative to changes in legislation, physical climate parameters or another aspect related to climate change. 201-1 – DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED The analysis carried out had considered, within a five year period, topics such as environmental In 2017, the total added value to be distributed was R$5,546.2 million, equivalent to 27% of net revlegislation in Brazil and other countries where Embraer operates, the European Union Emisenue. R$207.0 million were distributed to shareholders in interests on own capital and dividends; sions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and discussions on carbon taxation. The Brazilian environmenR$3,342.8 million to employees; and R$559.6 million to the Federal and Municipal Governments tal legislation does not impose strong demands through the theme (currently, the only requireas taxes and contributions. ment is the elaboration of a Greenhouse Gas inventory), and EU ETS determinations have low impact to Embraer as part of the global aviation industry. No real threats to carbon taxation ADDED VALUE STATEMENT (AVS) have been identified. The AVS demonstrates the wealth generated by Embraer and its distribution to society segments, In reference to the operations, the main manufacturing units are located in Brazil, which is a which are represented by shareholders, employees, financial institutions and Government (mucountry not susceptible to extreme natural phenomena, settled in regions with very low risks of nicipal, state and federal). The added value to be distributed totaled R$5,546.2 million and repreflooding or frost. The units overseas also present very low possibilities of risks and impacts. All sented 27% of net revenue in 2017. units follow Crisis Management guidelines to minimize the effects of contingencies. Consolidate (R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 201-3 – DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER RETIREMENT PLANS Revenue 22,360.1 23,416.0 20,405.0 Inputs acquired from third parties (16,364.1) (17,157.2) (14,337.2) SCOPE OF THE RETIREMENT PLAN Gross added value 5,996.0 6,258.8 6,067.8 The company offers the Embraer Prev – a private complementary retirement plan – to all employDepreciation and amortization (1,073.3) (1,265.5) (1,085.6) ees in Brazil and some of its controlled subsidiaries. The participation is voluntary, as required by Net added value produced by company 4,922.7 4,993.3 4,982.2 national legislation. There is no restriction for employees to participate, however its time of service in the company is considered for the purpose of redeeming the benefit. Similar benefits are Added value received in transfer 605.2 739.9 564.0 offered at Embraer's overseas units, according to the applicable conditions and market realities. Total added value distributable 5,527.9 5,733.2 5,546.2 As sponsors, Embraer or its controlled subsidiaries deposit the same amount of monthly conAdded value distribution 5,527.9 5,733.2 5,546.2 tribution chosen by the participant – with a ceiling up to 8% of the wage. There is no charge on Personnel 3,342.5 3,557.0 3,342.8 monthly contributions to participants; they are funded entirely by the sponsors. Government (tax. fee and contributions) 1,251.6 592.7 559.6 The Embraer Prev is a non-profit entity with independent management, board of directors and its Interest and rental 652.2 991.7 796.4 own fiscal and deliberative councils. In adition, this is exclusively directed to the administration of the participants patrimony. Interests on equity and dividends 92.3 174.0 207.0 Retained profits and losses for the financial year 149.3 411.4 588.8 Retirement plan documentation: Participation of non-controllers 40.0 6.4 51.6 • Embraer's Statutes Prev • Regulation of the Embraer Complementary Retirement Plan Prev 201-2 – FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES DUE TO • Participant Manual CLIMATE CHANGE Embraer's corporate governance includes a structured process of risk and opportunity manhttps://embraerprev.com.br/ agement based on best market practices and methodologies applied by leading global consulting companies. Corporate risk management is under the responsibility of the Risk and Internal 43 Contents previous next GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 202-1 – RATIOS OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL 203-1 – INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES SUPPORTED MINIMUM WAGE Embraer invested about R$20 million in the Embraer Institute and the Embraer Foundation, in 2017. In Brazil, the minimum wage is established by the minimum from union category. The initiatives are conducted aligned with public authority, local partners and committed volunteer employees. There is also an increasing participation of local communities in the definition of Country Gender Reference Ratio strategic priorities through public consultations and opinion polls. 2015 2016 2017 Local minimum relation The Embraer Institute and the Embraer Foundation are governed by formal documentation acwage (%) cording to the country in which they operate. The documents are submitted to the public auBrazil (R$) Men 1,339.80 1,502.80 1,504.80 937.001 161 thority and provide transparency and accountability for the organizations activities, as well as regulation of the attributions of its Deliberative/Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board Women 1,470.55 1,470.55 1,504.80 161 United Men 1,733.33 2,142.40 2,185.21 1,430.00 2 153 States (US$) Women 2,080.00 2,102.53 2,426.62 170 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION Portugal (€) Men 700.00 700.00 728.20 649.83 3 112 Women 700.00 700.00 784.19 121 205-1 – OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION The analysis of risks related to corruption is carried out through the due diligence process, France (€) Men 1,891.99 1,851.39 1,800.00 1,480.27 4 122 introduced in 2014 with the publication of Due Diligence Procedure. Since then, both new and Women 1,513.59 1,556.80 1,513.59 102 existing service providers attend to a reputational assessment undertaken by the Compliance (1) Minimum wage in Brazil. team, which includes searches in official databases and media about corruption involvement, (2) Minimum wage in the state of Florida, United States. (3) Minimum wage in Portugal. tax evasion, fraud, terrorism, etc. If no restrictions are found, the Compliance team issues a (4) Minimum wage in France. Important operating units are those where Embraer is present and which have a significant amount of cash. The offices of Singapore, certificate. There is a systemic lockout for payments from any suppliers that are not certified China and the Netherlands were not considered. by due diligence. Regarding the number of certified suppliers between the end of 2013 and May 2014 – when the re202-2 – PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY quests for analysis were still made by e-mail –, there were 608 suppliers approved; between May and December 2014 – when requests were made via the portal –, there were 1,107 more; in 2015, Governance body Total Work in the country of origin (%) Does not work in the country 2,704; in 2016, 5,164; and in 2017, 3,099 providers. In total, by 2016, there were 12,682 suppliers of origin (%) and third parties certified. Board of Executive 11 82 18 Officers Operation Total number of operations Percentage of operations submitted to risk assessments submitted to risk assessments related to corruption related to corruption Due dilligence of suppliers 3,099 100 Due dilligence of sponsorships 118 100 Due dilligence of donations 9 100 Due dilligence of class entities 38 100 44 Contents previous next 205-2 – COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ABOUT ANTI-CORRUPTION Risks Risk Actions for risks mitigation POLICIES AND PROCEDURES related to assessment type corruption In 2017, Embraer provided training and conveyed information about anti-corruption policies Conflicts of interQualitative Inclusion of the subject of conflicts of interest in training that is related and procedures to all 36 professionals, members of its governance bodies – mostly located est (improper or into anti-corruption and to the Code of Ethics, analysis of suppliers in the Southeast Region. correct payments through the due diligence process, in addition to responses to periodic in order to obtain consultations held with the Compliance team. Additionally, continuous Regarding to employees and other groups, the training and communication were carried out favors) surveillance was implemented for payments considered critical and as follows: specific tests were included for the departments analyzed by the Internal Audit. Control tests were also performed for SOx certification, by the Internal Controls department. Functional Number of Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of categories employees in employees who employees who trained trained Improper accountQualitative Continuous surveillance was implemented for payments considered ing (incorrect critical and specific tests were included for the departments analyzed each functional were notified of were notified employees employees records and/orproby the Internal Audit. Additionally, control tests were also performed for category the anti-corrupof the regarding anregarding anvisioning) SOx certification, by the Internal Controls department. tion procedures anti-corruption ti-corruption ti-corruption Improper commerQualitative Inclusion of specific tests in the departments analyzed by the cial discounts (abInternal Audit. and policies procedures sence of approval and policies or alteration of prices) Leaders 1.052 985 94 985 94 Failure to observe Qualitative The Compliance team's carrying out of the due diligence analyses, Non-leaders 16,714 16,546 99 16,546 99 proper anti-corrupin addition to carrying out training on anti-corruption matters. tion procedures in Additionally, specific tests for verifying due diligence in Mergers and the M&A process Acquisitions (M&A) processes were included in the Internal Audit's work plan. Types of Number of each type of Number of suppliers trading trading partner which werenotified of the Improper or Qualitative Inclusion of the subject of conflicts of interest in training that is related partners duplicated to anti-corruption and to the Code of Ethics, analysis of suppliers anti-corruptionprocedures payment (to through the due diligence process, in addition to responses to periodic and policies publicauthorities consultations held with the Compliance team. Additionally, continuous and certifying surveillance was implemented for payments considered critical and Suppliers 3,003 3,003 entities) specific tests were included for the departments analyzed by the Internal Audit. Control tests were also performed for SOx certification, Third parties 96 96 by the Internal Controls department. (commercialrepresentatives, Bribery or impropQualitative Continuous surveillance was implemented for payments considered law firms and er benefits (imcritical and specific tests were included for the departments analyzed logisticsagents) properlyreceiving by the Internal Audit. Additionally, control tests are made for SOX or paying supplicertification, executed by Internal Controls and training actions and ers, commercialresponses to periodic consultations made to the Compliance team. 205-3 – CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN representatives, customers, public In 2017, the company recorded no cases of corruption. authoritiesand external entities) 45 Contents previous next ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS In 2017, the unit in Jacksonville, U.S., was included. GRI 302: ENERGY Total consumption (MWh) 2015 2016 2017 Non-renewable Diesel/Brazil 734 736 625 fuels 302-1 – ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Gasoline/Brazil 209 319 411 Embraer manages the environmental indicators through the Integrated Occupational Health, Aviation gasoline 21 0 1 Safety and Environment System, with the Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Policy as Liquefied Petroleum Gas (GLP) 12,693 12,087 1,536 its main document. Its environmental guidelines related to this indicator are: Natural gas 35,313 31,805 39,576 • To promote and enhance the development of technologies so that its products, processes Aviation kerosene 70,448 102,113 118,579 and equipment have less impact on the environment and people, in a sustainable manner. TOTAL 119,418 147,060 160,727 • To promote the improvement of processes, facilities and equipment by encouraging energy efficiency, ultimately mitigating risks and hazards, environmental aspects and impacts, and consumption of natural resources. 2015 2016 2017 • Consider the adoption of new energy sources, investing in the use of renewable energy. Renewable Hydrous ethanol 172 83 72 fuels The consumed non-renewable fuels include consumption at the units certified in ISO 14064 – Electricity consumption 2015 2016 2017 per unit (MWh) Part I concerning Scope 1 (SKJ, EGM, TTE, EDE – ELEB, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO). Therefore, the consumption related to Embraer’s units abroad was not taken into account. Faria Lima 65,864 62,472 56,518 Botucatu 17,291 15,683 15.01 302-2 – ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION Évora 14,218 16,021 16.28 The reported amounts relate to the quantity of fuel consumed upstream, for the purchased goods Eugênio de Melo 13,707 15,32 15,866 and services, transport and distribution, business trips and employee commuting categories. Gavião Peixoto 13,443 15,601 16,186 OGMA 12,929 13,326 15,338 Total consumption (MWh) EDE (ELEB) 10,959 10,987 10,346 2015 2016 2017 Melbourne 8,147 13,299 17,306 Non-renewable Diesel/Brazil 31,188 30,581 27,646 fuels Taubaté 4,031 4,264 3,921 Gasoline/Brazil 4,174 5,821 5,093 Nashville 3,626 4,853 5,367 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 24 25 24 Fort Lauderdele 2.18 3,232 4,436 Natural gas 34 24 Sorocaba 900 925 841 Aviation kerosene 81,042 65,404 48,953 Harbin* 830 0 0 TOTAL 116,462 101,855 81,716 Belo Horizonte 636 612 629 Beijing 179 183 171 Consumo total (MWh) São Paulo – 111 351 Precursor group Precursor 2015 2016 2017 Jacksonville – – 671 Renewable fuels Hydrous ethanol 1,840 2,233 2,084 Brazil (Master Plan Units) 125,295 124,327 117,847 Brazil (ISO 14064 Certified Units) 126,831 125,975 119,668 TOTAL 168.94 176,889 179,237 *E mbraer Divisão Equipamentos (EDE, then ELEB). 46 In 2017, the unit in Jacksonville, U.S., was included. Contents previous next The consumed renewable fuels includes consumption at the units certified in ISO 14064 – Part I 302-4 – REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION concerning Scope 3 (SKJ, EGM, TTE, EDE – ELEB –, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO). Therefore, the consumption related to Embraer's units abroad was not taken into account. Project Unit Annual savings (MWh) Improvements in lighting EDE 31 302-3 – ENERGY INTENSITY EGM 10 In 2017, a total of 197 equivalent aircraft were produced – 20% less than in 2016. Therefore, there was a significant increase when comparing the 2016 (500 MWh/equivalent aircraft) and 2017 SJK 580 indicators (598 MWh/equivalent aircraft). TTE 229 Nevertheless, compared to the base year of 2014, the end result remained stable (1% decrease). Reduction in the consumption of compressed air BOT 535 Despite the production decline, the development of new programs demanded higher level of enExchange of compressors EDE 300 ergy consumption in 2017. Installation of photovoltaic panels SJK 12 The analysis of energy consumption based on the company's net revenue was constant over the Replacement of vacuum pumps SJK 1,896 past four years. TOTAL 3,593 302-4 – REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION All energy reduction projects are cataloged in an information sharing virtual environment. The Corporate Environment, Health and Safety Policy foresees investment in the improvement of The gains of projects involving the improvement in lighting, exchange of compressors and processes, facilities and equipment with incentive to reduce hazards and risks, aspects, environreplacement of engines and vacuum pumps were estimated considering the power of the new mental impacts and consumption of natural resources. and old equipment. For the project regarding economy of compressed gas in Botucatu, the estimated electricity saving was calculated considering the electricity used before and after its implementation, when changes in habits were encouraged, and a compressed air consumption manager was installed. The savings due to the installation of photovoltaic panels was directly measured, representing the amount of energy generated in December 2017, when the project was completed. 302-5 – REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The development of the new E-Jets family focuses on improving efficiency. Besides the exchange of engines, there was a structural redesign of the aircraft, especially the wings, specially designed for each model. As for fuel consumption, the E190-E2 (first to receive certification from regulatory agencies) was 1.3% better than originally expected, representing an advance of 17.3% over the first generation E190. The E190-E2 thus becomes the most environmentally friendly aircraft in the category, with the lowest external noise level and emissions. Data from the other E2 family jets will be available after the certification process for each. 47 Contents previous next GRI 303: WATER 303-1 – TOTAL WATER COLLECTED BY SOURCE Total water collected by source The SJK, EGM, EDE (ELEB) and GPX units are supplied by groundwater collected at the compaWater sources Quantity (m3) ny’s area. The Taubaté, Botucatu, Belo Horizonte and Sorocaba units in Brazil, and Évora, OGMA, 2015 2016 2017 Fort Lauderdale, Nashville, Melbourne and Beijing abroad, use municipal water supply or water Surface waters, including wetlands, supplied by other companies. In 2017, it was started to report the water consumption of the Jackrivers, lakes and oceans sonville unit, in the United States. The reported values were based on direct measurements. Groundwater 616,545 563,845 571,415 303-2 – WATER SOURCES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE COLLECTION OF WATER Rainwater directly collected and stored by the organization The company does not use any water source that is significantly affected. Wastewater from another organization 60,315 91,237 Municipal water supply or other 344,268 503,066 320,174 303-3 – RECYCLED AND REUSED WATER water supply companies Total water collected 960,813 1,127,226 982,826 2015 2016 2017 Site Total water Total recycled and Percentage of Total water Total recycled and Percentage of Total water Total recycled and Percentage of used reused water recycled water used reused water recycled water used reused water recycled water SJK 362,813 5,280 1 359,162 5,280 1 EGM 143,113 0 0 128,862 0 0 TTE 26,464 7,454 28 27,557 8,422 31 EDE (ELEB) 56,106 29,952 53 54,963 29,952 54 GPX 69,000 5,801 8 69,800 6,140 9 BOT 89,316 0 0 77,708 0 0 EVO 82,617 1,800 2 60,726 3,800 6 FLL 29,560 0 0 28,891 0 0 BNA 960,152 20,906 2 1,980 0 0 2,011 0 0 MLB 71,283 0 0 7,317 0 0 BJS 2,213 0 0 2,190 0 0 BHZ 4,760 0 0 4,236 0 0 OGMA 239,078 2,840 1 122,887 3,564 3 SOD 2,050 0 0 2,168 0 0 JAX 269 0 0 Embraer Brazil 753,622 48,487 6 724,456 49,794 7 Embraer S.A. 1,180,353 53,127 5 948,747 57,158 6 The amounts related to recycled and reused water were estimated according to the consumption of equipment using recycled and reused water, and also according to the volume of the reservoir in which it is stored. The total amount of water used is sum of the consumed water (GRI 303-1) and the recycled and reused water. In 2017, the Jacksonville unit, in the United States, started collecting information. In 2017, the installation of the water reuse system was completed at the Steel Structures unit in Évora. 48 Contents previous next 305-1 – DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS – SCOPE 1 305-2 – INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS – SCOPE 2 The reported amounts refer to the mobile combustion, stationary combustion, and fugitive emission categories. Scope 2 (tCO2e) Gas GWP 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 CO2 1 15,699.16 10,217.33 11,130.72 Gas family Gas 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL 15,699.16 10,217.33 11,130.72 CH4 CH4 11.68 10.79 10.36 Scope 2 emissions were calculated considering the operational control, and exclusively repreCO2 CO2 28,164.26 35,704.63 39,104.41 sent the purchase of electricity. Despite the reduction in the electricity consumption the Scope HFC HFC 3,053.97 2,105.83 3,138.49 2 emissions increased due to the emission factor of the National Interconnected System, which N2O N2O 171.43 239.76 271.08 presented an increase of more than 10% between 2016 and 2017. PFC PFC-218 0 0 18.99 The methodology for calculating Scope 2 emissions based on the market in Brazil is under TOTAL 31,401.34 38,061.01 42,543.33 development, and therefore, the same calculation methodology is adopted for the market and location approaches. Biogenic emissions (tCO2e) The values reported for Scope 2 emissions include units certified in ISO 14064 – Part I (SKJ, EGM, TTE, EDE – ELEB –, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO), that is, they disregard the con2015 2016 2017 sumption relating to overseas units. 64.81 48.11 49.2 GWP: Global Warming Potencial. 305-3 – OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS – SCOPE 3 The values reported for Scope 1 emissions include units certified in ISO 14064 – Part I (SKJ, EGM, The reported amounts relate to the emissions generated upstream for the purchased goods TTE, EDE – ELEB –, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO), that is, they disregard the consumption reand services, transport and distribution, business trips, employee commuting and residues lating to overseas units. generated in operation categories. The observed increase is mainly due to the consumption of aviation kerosene, which increased GEE (tCO2e) Gas 2015 2016 2017 due to the development and certification flights of the E2 and KC390 programs. CO2 1 31,979.47 26,185.27 20,736.68 Management form: company’s policies and guidelines that assist in the management of CH4 25 1,862.90 1,250.07 1,169.86 the indicator. N2O 298 278.61 381.18 322,93 TOTAL 34,121 27,817 22,229 The company carries out its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Inventory, which is annually inspected and validated by a third party at ISO 14064 Part I. This and all correlated procedures are defined and detailed in the corporate standard doc.emb 6968. Biogenic emissions (tCO2e) Embraer manages the environmental indicators by means of the Integrated Occupational Health, 2015 2016 2017 Safety and Environment System, with the Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Policy as 1,086.24 1,348.55 1,284.33 its main document, which establishes the following guidelines: The values include the consumption at the units certified in ISO 14064 – Part I related to Scope 2 •P  revention and response to pollution, respect to biodiversity, and the concern with (SKJ, EGM, TTE, EDE – ELEB –, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO), that is, they do not consider the climate changes. consumption relating to overseas units. • Cooperate towards the development of sustainable products, processes, equipment, and alThe reduction in CO2 emissions is mainly due to the Business trips category, which was 23.6% ternative fuels with lower emission of Greenhouse Gases. lower in comparison to 2016, and also the Purchased goods and services categories, which presented a decrease of 18.3% on the same bases. 49 Contents previous next 305-4 – INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 305-7 – EMISSIONS OF NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS Embraer calculates the intensity indicator of GHG emissions by adding the emissions from Scopes For all production processes involving stationary sources of atmospheric pollutants, Embraer 1 and 2 against its net income. The target is to reduce 3% until 2017, using 2013 as a reference. adopts effective emission control systems, considering the best technology available on the market. The indicator considers the emissions in Scope 1 regarding fugitive emissions, burning of fuels Embraer manages the indicators through the Integrated Occupational Health, Safety and Environother than aviation kerosene (QAV) and burning of QAV in production flights (airplanes in the curment System, whose primary document is the Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Policy. rent portfolio). It does not consider the emissions of development flights and certification of new Its environmental guidelines related to energy consumption are: products, nor aircraft in the Defense and Security business unit. In this way, the 2017 indicator presented 12% reduction when compared to 2013. • To promote and enhance the development of technologies so that its products, processes All gases listed in Scopes 1 and 2 were considered in the calculation of the indicator. and equipment have less impact on the environment and people, in a sustainable manner. 305-5 – REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Embraer continuously invests in eco-efficiency projects, seeking the reduction of the consumpEmissions in tons tion of resources and the increase of the efficiency in its processes. In 2017, several projects have Categories 2015 2016 2017 been implemented that contributed to reducing GHG emissions, especially related to Scope 2, NOx 97 91 68 due to the decrease in the consumption of electricity. SOx 2 2 0.5 Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0 0 0 Reductions 2015 (tCO2e) 2016 (tCO2e) 2017 (tCO2e) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 20 7 13 Process redesign – Scope 1 98 0 263 Particulate Matter (PM) 26 19 20 Equipment modernization 239 185 306 conversion – Scope 2 The reported amounts refer to the SJK, EGM, EDE (ELEB), GPX and BOT productive units. The Equipment modernization 0 0 0 technical standards of the Environmental Company of the State of São Paulo (Cetesb) and the conversion – Scope 1 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are adopted for the calculations. At the facilities, the Changes in employee behavior 0 19 28 atmospheric emissions originating from stationary sources are monitored on an annual basis or as requested from the local environmental agency, according to internal procedure doc.emb 305-6 – EMISSIONS OF SUBSTANCES THAT DEPLETE THE OZONE 2314 and the Atmospheric Emission Monitoring Plan (PMEA). The PMEAs identify all stationary Embraer has a program to replace the ozone layer-depleting refrigerant gases by others with lower sources installed, the analyzed parameters and the pollution control systems. The following environmental impact, such as HCFC-407a and HCFC-404a. emissions are monitored: Particulate Matter, Volatile Organic Compounds, Nitrogen Oxides, The data reported in the following table is related to the amount of imported ozone layer-depletSulfur Oxides and Carbon Monoxide. The emissions, measured in mg/Nm3, are converted to ing substances. ton/year to verify if they have not exceeded the thresholds set forth in the legislation. The results are filed at the local environmental agency and have not exceeded the threshold, and Precursor ODP (tCFC-11E/ton 2015 (ton) 2016 (ton) 2017 (ton) therefore, no compensation project is required. gas) The emissions of volatile organic compounds were significantly reduced in recent years due to the HCFC-22 0.055 0.08 0.04 0.07 installation of robots on the main paint booths, which decreased the amount of paint used on the HCFC-141b 0.11 0.03 0.02 0.02 aircraft. In addition, the improvements on the control procedures for calculating the emissions. TOTAL 0.11 0.06 0.08 Emissions in tons of CFC-11 equivalent calculated through the Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP), as adopted by the Montreal Protocol. Values obtained from http://www.epa.gov/ozone/science/ods/index.html. 50 Contents previous next GRI 306: WASTEWATER AND SOLID WASTE 306-2 – TOTAL RESIDUAL WEIGHT, BROKEN DOWN BY DISPOSAL TYPE AND METHOD 306-1 – TOTAL DISPOSAL OF WATER, BROKEN DOWN BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION 2015 2016 2017 The company establishes robust internal procedures for the management of the topic, available Disposal method Not Dangerous Total Not Dangerous Total Not Dangerous Total dangerous (ton) (ton) dangerous (ton) (ton) dangerous (ton) (ton) in its internal system (doc.emb), among which, Procedure 1805 – Treatment of Domestic and In(ton) (ton) (ton) dustrial Wastewater, which establishes procedures for the management of services relating to the Sanitary landfill 1,408 0 1,408 2,009 0 2,009 2,147 0 2,147 domestic and industrial wastewater treatment stations. Incineration 374 12 386 394 28 422 42 21 63 The indicators are managed through the Integrated Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Composting 1,008 0 1,008 867 0 867 690 0 690 System, supported mainly by the Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Policy. The enviCoprocessing 9 1,091 1,100 12 977 989 695 923 1,618 ronmental guidelines related to the generation of wastewater are: Decontamination 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 • Compliance with legal, environmental, health, safety, fire prevention and emergency requireSterilization 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 ments applicable to the company’s business. Recycling 12,284 113 12,397 12,454 97 12,551 11,476 41 11,517 • Prevention and response to pollution, respect to biodiversity, and the concern with cliRecovery 2,490 2,217 4,707 846 2,080 2,926 0 2,132 2,132 mate changes. Sewage treatment 695 758 1,453 679 1,479 2,158 316 0 316 • Promotion and enhancement of the development of technologies, so that its products, proPhysical-chemical 29 128 157 23 118 141 0 0 0 cesses and equipment cause an impact on the environment and people. treatment Industrial landfill 0 30 30 0 27 27 0 0 0 Total water disposal, broken down by quality and destination Total 18,297 4,349 22,646 17,284 4,808 22,092 15,366 3,119 18,484 Total volume 2015 2016 2017 Treatment Destination of water disposal (m3) The data reported in the table represent the waste generated in the Brazilian production units Domestic 373,299 291,422 265,938 (Faria Lima, Eugênio de Melo, Taubaté, Embraer Equipment Division, Botucatu and Gavião SJK 164,318 153,752 148,434 Primary treatment – Public sewage Peixoto) and the United States units (Melbourne, Nashville and Fort Lauderdale), and methscreening collection network ods of disposal given to them is directly confirmed by the organization. EGM 56,970 48,270 35,545 Primary treatment – Public sewage screening collection network GPX 34,465 34,319 35,380 Anaerobic treatment Local stream With regard to waste generated in the units of Portugal (Évora and OGMA), the information is provided by the company contracted for the management of waste, of which, for hazardTTE 13,311 12,440 11,852 Aerobic treatment Local stream ous waste, 2,900 tons are subject to disposal processes and to 133 recovery processes. For OGMA 104,165 42,641 34,727 Biological treatment Public sewage collection network non-hazardous waste, 498 tonnes are subject to disposal and 2,881 tonnes are recovered. Industrial 116,129 108,047 100,040 306-3 – SIGNIFICANT LEAKS SJK 25,690 24,619 20,622 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network In 2017, the company had no registered cases of significant leaks. BOT 37,670 28,918 30,179 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network EGM 4,200 3,540 2,760 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network GPX 827 577 555 Physical-chemical Local stream treatment EDE (ELEB) 4,714 3,699 2,840 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network OGMA 19,562 19,530 19,388 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network EVO 23,466 27,164 23,696 Physical-chemical Public sewage treatment collection network 51 Contents previous next 308-2 – SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ON THE SUPPLIER CHAIN Total number of employees and turnover by 2017 age group, gender and region AND MEASURES ADOPTED Country Age group Men Women Grand total Most of the supplier base has undergone some type of assessment related to the Risk Assessment or Due Diligence (REACH) processes. Total % Total % Total % Brazil Under 30 108 0.59 35 0.19 143 0.78 Between 30 and 50 452 2.45 110 0.60 562 3.05 SOCIAL STANDARDS Over 50 239 1.30 25 0.14 264 1.43 TOTAL 799 4.33 170 0.92 969 5.26 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT China Under 30 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Between 30 and 50 6 0.03 3 0.02 9 0.05 401-1 – HIRING OF NEW EMPLOYEES AND TURNOVER The hiring and retaining of people at the company must be based on equity regarding color, genOver 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 der, race, nationality, social position, religion, marital status and physical characteristics, respectTOTAL 6 0.03 3 0.02 9 0.05 ing the exceptions set forth in the current legislation or the specific requirements of the jobs. France Under 30 9 0.05 2 0.01 11 0.06 Between 30 and 50 6 0.03 1 0.01 7 0.04 Over 50 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 TOTAL 16 0.09 3 0.02 19 0.10 Portugal Under 30 26 0.14 2 0.01 28 0.15 Between 30 and 50 26 0.14 14 0.08 40 0.22 Over 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 TOTAL 52 0.28 16 0.09 68 0.37 Netherlands Under 30 1 0.01 2 0.01 3 0.02 Between 30 and 50 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 Over 50 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 TOTAL 5 0.03 2 0.01 7 0.04 Singapore Under 30 0 0.00 1 0.01 1 0.01 Between 30 and 50 3 0.02 2 0.01 5 0.03 Over 50 2 0.01 0 0.00 2 0.01 TOTAL 5 0.03 3 0.02 8 0.04 USA Under 30 133 0.72 27 0.15 160 0.87 Between 30 and 50 98 0.53 17 0.09 115 0.62 Over 50 41 0.22 9 0.05 50 0.27 TOTAL 272 1.48 53 0.29 325 1.76 GRAND TOTAL 1,155 6.27 250 1.36 1,405 7.62 52 Contents previous next 401-1 – HIRING OF NEW EMPLOYEES AND TURNOVER 401-2 – BENEFITS GRANTED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT EXTENDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES Total number of employees and turnover by 2017 All full-time employees have benefits that include life insurance, health insurance, disability and age group, gender and region incapacity allowance, maternity/paternity leave, and pension fund. Country Age group Men Women Grand total Total % Total % Total % Brazil Under 30 369 2.00 126 0.68 495 2.69 401-3 – MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE Between 30 and 50 209 1.13 69 0.37 278 1.51 Eligible – leave Paternity Maternity Total Geral Over 50 9 0.05 0 0.00 9 0.05 Total eligible 15,486 2,947 18,433 TOTAL 587 3.18 195 1.06 782 4.24 Took the leave 581 132 713 China Under 30 1 0.01 4 0.02 5 0.03 Returned to work 576 118 694 Between 30 and 50 2 0.01 3 0.02 5 0.03 Returned to work (+12 months) 576 118 694 Over 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Percentage of return 99 89 97 TOTAL 3 0.02 7 0.04 10 0.05 USA Under 30 129 0.70 27 0.15 156 0.85 Between 30 and 50 220 1.19 40 0.22 260 1.41 GRI 403: OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Over 50 67 0.36 22 0.12 89 0.48 Since 1971, all Embraer’s industrial units in Brazil have Internal Accident Prevention Commissions TOTAL 416 2.26 89 0.48 505 2.74 (Cipa), with the number of members established by NR-05 – regulatory standard from the OrdiFrance Under 30 0 0.00 1 0.01 1 0.01 nance No. 3,124/78 from the Ministry of Labor (MTE, in Portuguese). Cipa is composed of employee representatives elected in a secret voting session once a year, along with the representatives Between 30 and 50 1 0.01 2 0.01 3 0.02 appointed by the employer, in the same proportion. The coordination is the responsibility of its Over 50 0 0.00 1 0.01 1 0.01 President, who is appointed by the company. The Vice-President is chosen by the elected and TOTAL 1 0.01 4 0.02 5 0.03 assigned employees. The Commission meets at least once a month to discuss issues related to Netherlands Under 30 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 the health and safety of employees, recording the meeting in minutes which are then sent to the Between 30 and 50 4 0.02 1 0.01 5 0.03 unions. Once a year, the Cipa organizes a week dedicated to the prevention of accidents, during Over 50 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 which several activities are carried out, involving all the employees. TOTAL 5 0.03 1 0.01 6 0.03 Embraer seeks excellence in its occupational health and safety performance, a topic considered Portugal Under 30 41 0.22 11 0.06 52 0.28 essential internally. Therefore, it holds continuous educational and preventive actions guided by the MASS (Occupational Health, Safety and Environment) Policy, with a global reach. This is a Between 30 and 50 29 0.16 12 0.07 41 0.22 guidance to set targets connected to the company’s business excellence criteria. Over 50 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 In order to establish the accident reduction targets, it adopts the best and most recognized global TOTAL 70 0.38 23 0.12 93 0.50 parameters as a reference, using for this end the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), which is Singapura Under 30 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 listed for the eighth consecutive year. Between 30 and 50 4 0.02 1 0.01 5 0.03 The largest manufacturing units have the OHSAS 18001 international certification for 16 years, Over 50 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 having implemented all tools provided in this requirement. Through the five Health and Safety TOTAL 8 0.04 1 0.01 9 0.05 Golden Rules, the company establishes ongoing communication with all employees, visitors and GRAND TOTAL 1,090 5.91 320 1.74 1.410 7.65 contractors, guiding them on preventive attitudes both inside and outside the organization. 53 Contents previous next Embraer maintains and develops programs focused on reducing accidents and improving the 403-2 – TYPES AND RATES OF INJURIES, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, work environment conditions. They include continuous and preventive actions, such as EduABSENTEEISM, AND NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED DEATHS cational and Communication Action Plan, Behavioral Program, Embraer Occupational Tension Rebalancing Program (Perto) and Ergonomic Risk Management, in addition to holding accident Lost-time accidents to the total number of workers (own employees) prevention methodology (Prevention Through Design). Region Women Men Total South America (Brazil) 2 21 23 403-1 – REPRESENTATIVENESS OF WORKERS IN FORMAL HEALTH AND North America (United States) 0 8 8 SAFETY COMMITTEES EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 2 0 2 Asia 0 0 0 Name of the formal health and safety committee made Level at which it operates within the organization up of employees from different hierarchical levels GRAND TOTAL 4 29 33 Internal Accident Prevention Commission (Cipa) Brazil – at all hierarchical levels in the organization Lost-time accidents to the total number of workers (outsourced employees) Region Women Men Total South America (Brazil) 0 15 15 Total workforce Workforce represented in formal Percentage of the workforce health and safety committees represented in formal health and North America (United States) 0 0 0 consisting of employees from safety committees consisting EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 1 2 3 different hierarchical levels in the of employees from different organization hierarchical levels in the Asia 0 0 0 organization GRAND TOTAL* 1 17 18 18,290* 15,568 85.12 * The amount of lost-time accidents includes death. *G  lobal workforce in 2017 – headquarters and branches. The data has a global scope, as described in the workforce representation, and does not include the affiliates. Rate of lost-time accident to the total number of workers (own employees) Women + men Region Total Number Percentage employees of injuries of injuries South America (Brazil) 15,568 23 0.82 North America (United States) 1,942 8 2.29 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 655 2 1.69 Asia 125 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 18,290 33 0.99 Rate of lost-time accidents to the total number of workers (outsourced employees) Women + men Region Total Number Percentage employees of injuries of injuries South America (Brazil) 5,175 15 1.16 North America (United States) 0 0 0 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 127 3 13.54 Asia 11 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 5,313 18 1.37 54 Contents previous next Rate of occupational diseases to the total number of workers (own employees) Rate of lost days (accidents + diseases) to the total workers (outsourced employees) Women + men Women + men Region Region Total Number Percentage Total Number of Rate of employees of injuries of injuries employees lost days lost days South America (Brazil) 15,568 1 0.03 South America (Brazil) 5,175 165 12.79 North America (United States) 1,942 0 0 North America (United States) 0 0 0 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 655 0 0 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 127 136 613.66 Asia 125 0 0 Asia 11 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 18,290 1 0.03 GRAND TOTAL 5,313 301 22.91 Absenteeism rate to the total number of workers (own employees): not available. Rate of occupational diseases to the total number of workers (outsourced employees) Women + men Absenteeism rate to the total number of workers (outsourced employees): not provided by Region Total Number Percentage the companies employees of injuries of injuries Total workforce deaths Deaths of outsourced South America (Brazil) 5,175 Not available Not available Region (permanent employees) parties working on site North America (United States) 0 Not available Not available (outsourced) EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 127 Not available Not available Women + men Women + men Asia 11 Not available Not available South America (Brazil) 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 5,313 Not available Not available North America (United States) 0 0 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 0 0 Asia 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 0 0 Rate of lost days (accidents + diseases) to the total workers (own employees) Women + men Note: 1. Data for self-employed personnel is not applicable. Region 2. For tables that require separation by gender, the information was only possible for those presenting absolute values. This separation was Total Number of Rate of not possible for tables using rates since our system does not segregate the man-hour worked information by gender in some countries. employees lost days lost days 3. The data has a global scope, and does not include the affiliates. South America (Brazil) 15,568 638 22.67 North America (United States) 1,942 119 34.00 EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) 655 20 16.93 Asia 125 0 0 GRAND TOTAL 18,290 777 23.49 55 Contents previous next 403-3 – EMPLOYEES WITH HIGH INCIDENCE OR HIGH RISK OF DISEASES RELATED TO THEIR OCCUPATION • Care to employees with cardiovascular diseases: provision of guidance and monitoring for There are no employees involved in occupational activities presenting high incidence or high risk cardiac rehabilitation through follow-up with cardiologist on a one-to-one basis, seeking reof specific diseases. integration to routine activities. Based on its health and safety policy, the company holds preventive and treatment actions focusing on occupational health, quality of life and the well-being of its employees, family Estar de Bem com a Atividade Física (Being Well with Physical Activity): provides stimulating members and trainees. They are developed from the epidemiological profile, arising from the actions and facilitating means to the practice of physical activities and sports, in partnership with regular medical check-up. Among the actions, the Estar de Bem Program is worth emphasizing, Associação Desportiva Embraer (ADCE), where several physical activity modes are developed, which aims to contribute to improvements in the quality of life and well-being through the encoursuch as Academia 30’, which aims at general fitness, simultaneously developing aerobic capacity agement and the provision of conditions that lead to healthy habits. The following initiatives are and muscular resistance, and street running. part of the program: Cycle of Lectures: promotes the dissemination of topics such as quality of life, prevention and Estar de Bem sem o Cigarro (Being Well Without Smoking): has the purpose of providing spepromotion of health in an ideal environment for raising awareness, providing guidance and recialized treatment to those who wish to quit smoking, combining medication and psychological flecting on the attitudes. support. The company pays 100% of the treatment. Minuto Estar de Bem (Being Well Minute): weekly newsletter sent by email and published on Estar de Bem sem Drogas (Being Well without Drugs): encompasses prevention and support the intranet with quick and objective texts, providing guidance and tips to encourage healthy actions in the outpatient or of hospitalization, of chemical dependence. Comprises specialized habits and the search for quality of life. treatment for drug addicts and their family (codependence), as well as support and guidance to the manager. It also includes drug testing, early diagnosis for drug addiction to recover the addict Vaccination Program: focusing on prevention, Embraer’s Vaccination Program is extended to all and his reinsertion in the work and social environment. employees and their direct family members. The company participates with 80% on the costs of the vaccines not provided by the Government and referred to by the Federal Council of Medicine. Estar de Bem com a Maternidade (Being Well with Motherhood): action to support mothers and There are also collective vaccination campaigns, such as against influenza, where Embraer sponfathers through the possibility of extending the maternity leave from 120 to 180 days; extension of sors 100% of the cost to the employees and 80% of the costs to direct family members. paternity leave from five to 20 days; on-site or online pregnant women courses; pregnant women booklet; psychological support to the mother for better adaptation to work upon return from materPERTO (Embraer’s Occupational Tension Rebalance Program): preventive program for muscunity leave; absence allowance once a month for mothers with children with disabilities aged up to lar conditioning in the spiking, sanding, laminating, machining and painting activities. This pro12-years’ old; absence allowance for up to two days for fathers who wish to accompany the medical gram generates physical, psychosocial and productive benefits to the company. PERTO has been appointments and complementary examinations during the pregnancy term of their companions; distinguished by being a pioneer in using occupational biomechanics concepts, including the absence allowance once a year for parents to accompany children aged up to 6-years’ old in medianalysis of human movement in the work station, and allowing to assess the biomechanical risks cal appointments; absence allowance once a year in the case of hospitalization of child or spouse; in the productive process. daycare assistance for 18 months after the mother returns to work; vaccine benefit. Assistance for family members with disabilities: health plan to disabled direct family memEstar de Bem com Você (Being Well with Yourself): includes several actions aiming to improve bers, including: coverage even after reaching 21 years old, and differentiated participation in treatthe health of employees with obesity, overweight and/or chronic diseases such as hypertension, ments such as speech therapy, occupational therapy and psychotherapy. cholesterol, dyslipidemia, diabetes and heart diseases. The actions include, among others: 403-4 – TOPICS RELATED TO HEALTH AND SAFETY COVERED BY FORMAL • Since 2013, employees are seen by a multidisciplinary team (physician, dietitian and psyUNION AGREEMENTS chologist). After the medical or nursing screening, the employees are referred to nutritional In 2017, 12 agreements were signed with unions that cover safety and health issues, such care within the company. For better adhesion to the therapeutic proposal, if re-quired, the as personal protective equipment; leadership and employee health and safety committees; employee may also be referred to in-company psychological care with the duration of six to participation of workers' representatives in safety and health surveys and accident audits; 12 months, depending on each case. training and education; and system of complaints and periodic surveys. All agreements contemplated the themes mentioned above. 56 Contents previous next GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Employee Category Men Women 404-1 – AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE Board Total workload 1,041 330 Total employees in the category 85 7 Employee category Total Total employees – Total employees – Hours per employee in the category 12 47 employees (unit) women (unit) men (unit) Manager Total workload 7,942 738 Board 92 7 85 Total employees in the category 254 43 Manager 297 43 254 Hours per employee in the category 31 17 Supervisor 709 91 618 Supervisor Total workload 17,843 2,149 Pilot 95 0 95 Total employees in the category 618 91 Engineer 4,209 589 3,620 Hours per employee in the category 29 24 Professional* 2,685 1,078 1,607 Pilot Total workload 985 0 Technician 3,266 329 2,937 Total employees in the category 95 0 Administrative 745 316 429 Hours per employee in the category 10 0 Operational 6,335 494 5,841 Engineer Total workload 126,639 19,070 TOTAL 18,433 2,947 15,486 Total employees in the category 3,620 589 *P  rofessional: develops analysis, development and technical application activities in treating information, specific interpretations requiring the holder to have higher education degree. Hours per employee in the category 35 32 Professional Total workload 27,516 22,759 Total employees in the category 1,607 1,078 Hours per employee in the category 17 21 Technician Total workload 103,337 13,520 Total employees in the category 2,937 329 Hours per employee in the category 35 41 Administrative Total workload 8,239 4,488 Total employees in the category 429 316 Hours per employee in the category 19 14 Operational Total workload 231,421 16,509 Total employees in the category 5,841 494 Hours per employee in the category 40 33 TOTAL Total workload 524,962 79,563 Total de colaboradores 15,486 2,947 Horas por colaboradores 34 27 57 Contents previous next 404-2 – EMPLOYEE KNOWLEDGE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS AND CAREER TRANSIEmployee category Total employees – Number of women who Percentage of women TION PROGRAMS women (unit) receive regular career who receive regular In 2017, the Voluntary Dismissal Program started in 2016 was closed. In order to support the prodevelopment and career development and fessionals who have joined the program, Embraer offered the Career Transition Support Program, performance assessment performance assessment which aims to guide the employee who left the company in the planning of the new stage in his life. Board 7 0 0 Under the initiative, two lectures (SJC and GPX) were held. Each of them with four hours, providManager 43 0 0 ing support and guidance from the Social Security (INSS, in Portuguese) to employees who are Supervisor 91 72 79 about to retire. Pilot 0 0 0 Engineer 589 500 85 404-3 – PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO REGULARLY RECEIVE CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSES Professional 1,078 756 70 Technician 329 212 64 Assessment Administrative 316 192 61 The employee skill assessment process took place between April and July 2017. The supervisors’ Operational 494 300 61 assessment took place in May 2017. TOTAL 2,947 2,032 69 Leadership Aims to establish development actions, promote a high performance culture, generate support for career development and succession planning. In order to do so, a 360° assessment is used, as well as Performance Map and Calibration Committee. All leadership levels at the Company are assessed, including the CEO. The leadership assessment process (Managers and Directors) was Employee category Total employees – Number of women who Percentage of women postponed to the first quarter of 2018. men (unit) receive regular career who receive regular development and career development and performance assessment performance assessment Board 85 0 0 Manager 254 0 0 Supervisor 618 600 97 Pilot 95 73 77 Engineer 3,620 3,237 89 Professional 1,607 982 61 Technician 2,937 1,868 64 Administrative 429 303 71 Operational 5,841 4,131 71 TOTAL 15,486 11,194 72 58 Contents previous next GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 405-1 – DIVERSITY OF GROUPS RESPONSIBLE FOR GOVERNANCE AND AMONG EMPLOYEES Governance Entity Total Women (%) Men (%) Board of Directors 11 18 82 Board 11 9 91 Governance Entity Total Under 30 (%) Between 30 and Older than 50 (%) 50 (%) Board of Directors 11 0 0 100 Board 11 0 27 73 Employees by Total Under 30 (%) Between 30 and Older than functional category 50 (%) 50 (%) Board 92 0 46 54 Manager 297 0 68 32 Supervisor 709 1 81 18 Pilot 95 1 42 57 Engineer 4,209 17 73 10 Professional 2,685 18 71 12 Technician 3,266 21 63 15 Administrative 745 30 58 12 Operational 6,335 17 78 5 GRAND TOTAL 18,433 17 72 11 Employees by Total Women (%) Men (%) functional category Board 92 8 92 Manager 297 14 86 Supervisor 709 13 87 Pilot 95 0 100 Engineer 4,209 14 86 Professional 2,685 40 60 Technician 3,266 10 90 Administrative 745 42 58 Operational 6,335 8 92 GRAND TOTAL 18,433 16 84 59 Contents previous next 405-2 – CORRELATION BETWEEN MINIMUM WAGE AND COMPENSATION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN Correlation between minimum wage and compensation Average salary paid (local currency) Correlation between minimum wage and compensation Average salary paid (local currency) between women and men by category and location between women and men by category and location Brazil Administrative 0.87 3,677 4,243 Country Category Ratio Women Men Engineer 0.88 10,499 11,868 Netherlands Administrative 0.73 3,611 4,966 Leader 0.91 16,093 17,732 Engineer 0.87 4,929 5,685 Operational 0.86 4,143 4,827 Leader 0.98 10,500 10,762 Pilot 26,930 Operational 6,564 Professional 0.87 7,725 8,846 Pilot 0.76 5,035 6,619 Technician 0.70 4,353 6,210 TOTAL 0.67 4,639 6,961 TOTAL 0.91 7,332 8,041 Portugal Administrative 1,179 China Administrative 20,542 Engineer 0.87 1,951 2,252 Engineer 28,530 Leader 0.45 2,789 6,258 Leader 0.32 34,903 109,043 Operational 0.97 857 880 Pilot 107,192 Professional 0.93 2,127 2,297 Professional 0.55 19,620 35,702 Technician 0.41 1,044 2,569 TOTAL 0.42 24,010 57,162 TOTAL 0.89 1,330 1,501 USA Administrative 1.06 3,678 3,473 Singapore Administrative 1.06 3,746 3,537 Engineer 0.90 6,257 6,958 Leader 0.72 11,119 15,354 Leader 0.92 9,939 10,816 Professional 0.82 7,043 8,587 Operational 1.04 3,572 3,428 Technician 0.50 3,710 7,440 Pilot 9,070 TOTAL 0.65 6,520 9,967 Professional 0.79 5,823 7,379 Technician 0.88 3,997 4,541 GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION TOTAL 0.93 5,251 5,660 406-1 – DISCRIMINATION INCIDENTS AND CORRECTIVE MEASURES ADOPTED France Administrative 0.89 3,212 3,596 The Helpline received no reports of incidents connected to discrimination during the assessed period. Engineer 3,376 Leader 6,316 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Operational 1.07 2,654 2,481 Professional 0.95 3,537 3,719 412-2 – EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON POLICIES AND PROCEDURES RELATED Technician 1.09 2,755 2,518 TO HUMAN RIGHTS TOTAL 1.01 3,254 3,221 In 2008, Embraer formally joined the United Nations Global Compact, which aims to mobilize the international business community to adopt basic human rights and anti-corruption values in business practices, labor relations and environmental protection matters. The company also collaborates with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), from the United Nations. Embraer believes and puts into action the principles for multinational corporations and social policies (established by the International Labor Organization), as well as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, which may be noted in business practices, corporate values and company's management transparency. 60 Contents previous next 412-2 – EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON POLICIES AND PROCEDURES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS 412-3 – AGREEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT CONTRACTS THAT INCLUDE HUMAN RIGHTS CLAUSES OR THAT WERE SUBMITTED TO HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENTS Country Number of hours Total number of hours Percentage of hours The Code of Ethics and Conduct is applicable to all Embraer employees, suppliers and other dedicated to training dedicated to training in dedicated to training in partners, as provided in the agreements. The document provides penalties for breaches: “The employees (unit) policies or procedures policies or procedures Board members, directors, employees and all individual or companies who develop activities on related to human rights related to human rights behalf of or in the name of Embraer are subject to administrative or legal disciplinary measures in (unit) case of violation of the principles and values established by this Code, including the termination South Africa 10 0 0.0 of employment or the contractual business relationship, as appropriate.” Brazil 547,816 582 0.1 Before establishing any business relationship, Embraer requires the business partners and China 409 69 16.9 third-party intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive due diligence analysis. Thus, the company United States 51,015 178 0.3 holds important prior information in order to meet the ethics, integrity and compliance standards throughout the chain. Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct features among the various docuUnited Arab Emirates 4 0 0.0 ments considered in the due diligence process. This document is based on corporate values, on France 65 2 3.3 the principles set forth in the United Nations Global Compact and OECD, as well as on the best Netherlands 1,214 2 0.2 corporate governance and accounting practices. Portugal 3,519 20 0.6 Mexico 25 0 0.0 GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY United Kingdom 97 1 0.5 Singapore 349 3 0.9 416-1 – ASSESSMENT OF THE HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCT AND TOTAL 604,515 856 0.1 SERVICE CATEGORIES 416-2 – NON-COMPLIANCE CASES REGARDING HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AT THE CLIENTS Country Total number of Number of employees Percentage of employees Manufacturers of any aircraft must demonstrate the compliance of their product with requirements employees (unit) trained in policies trained in policies such as structure, engines, control systems, electric systems and performance during flight. or procedures related or procedures related This demonstration of compliance is done through analysis during soil tests (such as structure to human rights (unit) to human rights tests to support bird attacks, fatigue tests and simulator tests), as well as through in-flight testing. Brazil 15,710 988 6.3 In order to be approved for use, the aircraft must meet all requirements. China 66 67 101.2 United States 1,950 355 18.2 United Arab Emirates 0 0 0.0 France 67 4 6.3 Netherlands 135 4 3.1 Portugal 447 32 7.1 Mexico 0 0 0.0 United Kingdom 1 1 106.1 Singapore 57 6 11.2 TOTAL 18,433 1,458 7.9 61 Contents previous next GRI CONTENT INDEX Contents previous next STANDARDS CORE OPTION |102-54, 102-55| GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 General disclosures Item Page Omissions SDG ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1: Name of the organization 4 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 9 102-3: Location of headquarters 32 102-4: Location of operations 10 102-5: Ownership and legal form 4 and 11 102-6: Markets served 9 and 10 GRI 102: General 102-7: Scale of the organization 9 disclosure 2016 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 32 8 102-9: Supply chain 27 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 9, 18 and 19 102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 12 102-12: External initiatives 33 102-13: Membership of associations 34 STRATEGY GRI 102: General 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 5 to 7 disclosure 2016 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 12 and 35 to 37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102: General 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9 and 13 16 disclosure 2016 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 14 16 GOVERNANCE 102-18: Governance structure 11 102-19: Delegating authority 11 GRI 102: General 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 34 disclosure 2016 102-21: Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 38 and 39 16 102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 11 5, 16 102-23: Chair of the highest governance body 11 and 39 16 63 Contents previous next General disclosures Item Page Omissions SDG 102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 11 5, 16 102-25: Conflicts of interest 11 16 102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 11 102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body 39 4 102-28: Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 11 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 39 16 GRI 102: General 102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 12 disclosure 2016 102-31: Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 40 102-32: Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 40 102-33: Communicating critical concerns 40 102-35: Remuneration policies 40 102-36: Process for determining remuneration 40 102-37: Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 40 16 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 4 and 12 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 27 8 GRI 102: General 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 40 disclosure 2016 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 38 and 39 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 21 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 4, 40 and 41 102-47: List of material topics 21 102-48: Restatements of information 4 102-49: Changes in reporting 4 GRI 102: General 102-50: Reporting period 4 disclosure 2016 102-51: Date of most recent report April 2017, as of 2016 102-52: Reporting cycle Annual 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 4 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 4, 63 102-55: GRI content index 63 102-56: External assurance 4 64 Contents previous next Material topic Disclosure Pages Omissions Global Compact ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 41 and 42 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 43 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 GRI 201: Economic 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 43 13 performance 2016 201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 43 MARKET PRESENCE 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 41 and 42 GRI 202: Market 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 44 1, 5, 8 presence 2016 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 44 8 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28, 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 28, 41 and 42 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported 28 and 44 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 economic impact 2016 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 28 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27, 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27, 41 and 42 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 27 12 practices 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 13, 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 13, 41 and 42 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 13 and 44 16 GRI 205: Anti205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 13 and 45 16 corruption 2016 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 45 16 65 Contents previous next Material topic Disclosure Pages Omissions Global Compact ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS ENERGY 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 42 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 30 and 46 7, 8 , 12 ,13 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 46 7, 8 , 12 ,13 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3: Energy intensity 47 7, 8 , 12 ,13 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 30 and 47 7, 8 , 12 ,13 302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 30 and 47 7, 8 , 12 ,13 WATER 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 42 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 30 and 48 6 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-2: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 48 6 303-3: Water recycled and reused 30 and 48 6, 8, 12 EMISSIONS 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 41 and 42 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 30 and 49 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30 and 49 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 30 and 49 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 30 and 50 13, 14, 15 2016 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 30 and 50 13, 14, 15 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 30 and 50 3, 12, 13 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 30 and 50 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 66 Contents previous next Material topic Disclosure Pages Omissions Global Compact EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 42 1, 5, 8, 16 Approach 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 42 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination 30 and 51 3, 6, 12, 15 GRI 306 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 30 and 51 3, 6, 12 306-3: Significant spills 51 3, 6, 12, 15 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 1, 5, 8, 16 Approach 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 27 GRI 308 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 27 and 52 Specific topics Item Pages Omissions Global Compact Social standards EMPLOYMENT 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 42 1, 5, 8, 16 Approach 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 42 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 52 and 53 5, 8 GRI 401 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 53 8 401-3: Parental leave 53 5, 8 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 Approach 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 and 42 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 54 8 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 54 3, 8 GRI 403 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 56 3, 8 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 56 8 67 Contents previous next Specific topic Item Pages Omissions Global Compact SOCIAL STANDARDS TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 and 42 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 27 and 57 4, 5, 8 GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 27 and 58 8 education 2016 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 27 and 58 5, 8 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPORTUNITY 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27, 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27, 41 and 42 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 59 5, 8 equal oportunity 2016 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 60 5, 8, 10 NON DISCRIMINATION 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27, 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27, 41 and 42 GRI 406: Non 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 60 5, 8, 16 discrimination 2016 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 407: Freedom of association and 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 27 8 collective bargaining 2016 CHILD LABOR 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 408: Child labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 27 8, 16 2016 68 Contents previous next Specific topic Item Pages Omissions Global Compact FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 27 8 compulsory labor 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 41 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 41 GRI 412: Human rights 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 27, 60 and 61 assessment 2016 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 27 and 61 LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 28 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 28 GRI 413: Local 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 28 communities 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 27 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 414: Supplier 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 27 6, 8, 16 social assessment 2016 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 27 6, 8, 16 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 and 41 GRI 103: Management 103-2: The management approach and its components 41 and 42 1, 5, 8, 16 approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach 41 and 42 GRI 416: Customer 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 61 health and safety 2016 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 61 16 69 Contents previous CREDITS General coordination Vice-President of People and Sustainability, Corporate Sustainability Department Consultancy for indicators, publishing coordination, design and editing TheMediaGroup Written by KMZ Conteúdo (coordination: TheMediaGroup) Translation (English version) Bureau Translations Photos Embraer collection
